Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
leport No. 7941
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1916-TU)
JUNE 30, 1989
Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BOTAS     Fetroleum Pipeline Corporation
BPD       Barrels Per Day
DIT-AS    Tan1ar and Marine Operations Corporation
EIE       Energy Conservation Agency
GDPA      General Directorate of Petroleum Administration
GOT       Government of Turkey
IPRAGAS   LPG Distribution Corporation
MMCFD     Million Standard Cubic Feet Per Day
POAS      Petroleum Marketing Corporation
TPAO      Turkish Petroleum Corporation
TUPRAS    Turkish Petroleum Refineries Corporation
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATE
Name of Currency                    Turkish Lira (1L)
Appraisal Year Average              USS1.00 =  76.04 TL
Intervening Year Average            US$1.00 = 343.73 TL
Completioni Year Average (1987)     US$1.00 = 853.00 Tl,
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 to December 31



FM OmICIAL  uu ONLY
TO* WOl  SANK
Waihonton.  DC 20413
Ole of DloVCGUhi
opsudmu E,.hauamn
June 30, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND TRE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completion Repor        Turkey
Petroleum Exploration Project (Loan 1916-TU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Turkey Petroleum Exploration Project (Loan 1916-TU)"
prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office.  No
audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment
This document has v restricted distribution and macy be used by recipients only in the performance
ot(their olcitl dutics.Its contents maynot otherwisebe disclosedwithout WorldB&nkt utE.orizstion.



71 (JWUClLS USgE ONLY
TURKEY
PETROLEUM RXPLORATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1916-TU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface ........................ .. .................                                  J
Basic Data Sheet ....... I ....................................                       i
Highlights           .............................................                  iv
I. INTRODUCTION .
II.    PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL .................
Project Origin ........................... .........
Appraisal, Negotiations and Effectiveness .........
Project Objectives ...........................
Project Description .
Changes in Prcoject Scope. .......  ,..
Major Covenant s ................,......                                  4
III.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..................... ....... J
Initial Delay, ..................  .....
Project Ma-.agement ......       ........ .. .......
Project Execution ..................................
Project Cost ...............................                   .
Procur e:ent .8
Disbursements.                                                            9
Achievement of Project Objectives ........ .             ........ 5
IV.    INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE ..........................                      10
A. TPAO .......................                                          10
B. GDPA ....... .                   .          . . ....  11
C. EIE                ............. ....  12
Performance of Consultants .;.. ...1
Financial Performance .........................                          12
Sustainability of TPAO .             . ...........................       14
V. BAN-K'S PRFORMANCE.                                                          14
VI. CONCLUSIONS .16
Lessons to be Learned ...... ........... ---.                            17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance 
of their officiL,l duties. Its conents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authori7ation.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd.)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.   Extent of Compliance with Covenants ..............    .    18
2.   Project Coso....................                            22
3.   Schedule of Disbursements.........                          23
4.   Well Testing Rsult ... ......                               24
5.   New Field Discovscois .............           .....         26
6.   Summary Balance Sheets of TPAO (as of
December 31, 1984, 1985 and 1986.                        27
7.   Suimmary Sources and Applications of Funds of
TPAO for 1984-1986        .........28
8.  Summary of TPAO Subsidiaries .29
9. Borrower and GOT Coments .30
MAP       IBRD 15046R



TURKEY
P1'TROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
(LOAA1 1916-TU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This project, supported by Loan 1916-TU for llS$25 million, consisted
of: (a) geological studies of southeastern Turkey; (b) technical assistance
to, and trainirg of, the staff of the Ministry of Energy and the Turkish
Petroleum Corporation (TPAO); (c) seismic surveys by two seismic crews each.
for two years; (d) drilling of fourteen wells based on the studies and, seismic
surveys, four appraisal wel'.s in the Thrace basin in southwestern TurKey and
ten exploration wells in southeastern Turkey; and (e) a program of energy
audits in the power and selected industrial subsectors with a view to
improving the efficiency of energy use and promoting energy co:jservation. The
loan was closed on December 31, 1935, after an extension of the Clcsing Date
by one year from the original date of December 31, 1984. The total
disbursements were JS$24.867 million, leaving US$133,000 undisburs3ed, which
was cancelled on May 12, 1986.
The loan was the first bank loan for the Turkish p,troleum subsector
and amongst the Bank's earliest involvements with the petroleumn subsector
anywhere. It contributed to the strengthening of TPAO's capabilities,
particularly in the areas of exploration geophysics and geology. It also
influenced the modification of conditions under which foreign companies took
concessions in Turkey, whicA resulted in a new wave of exploration in the
country by the international oil companies.
This Project Completion Report (PCR) was prepared by the Energy
Division of the Europe, Middle East and North Arrica Regional Office based on
the Bank's appraisal report, supervision reports and other documents in the
Bank's files and on the findings of a pro4ect completion mission which visited
Turkey in January-February 1967.
This PCR was read by the Operations Fvaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower (TE'AO) and GOT for comments and they
are attached to the report (Annex 9).



- ii -
PETROLVJM CXPLORATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1916fTU)
PROJECT COMPL1ETION REPORT
ASIC DATA SHIET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Aporais I
ltee                                          Expectation            Actuial
Totil Project Cost (US$ flillion(                          45                64.5
Overrun 1)                                            -                 30.0
Loan Agount (UC Million)                                   25                 25.0
Dsburse                                               25                24.87
Cancelled                                              -                 0.13
Date Ptysical CoaDonents Clopletec                     06164                12/85 (Althouqh the Pnerov audit
cosponent was coopleted by
sid-1984j
Proportion Co8eleted By Above DAte (1!                     60                  100
Fropotjor Df Tite Overrun lX)                               -                   JvJ
Ecnotsic Rate of Return 04.                         Nct Applcable       Not Acplicable
F:naicial Rate ot Returt (I)                        Not Applicatle    Not Applicable
inst;tutional Perforear:e                           Satisfactorv         Satisfactory
lusulative Esti'pted and Actual Disbursenents
(USS sillion
Ff3.      FY8.      FY83       FY84      FYS9       Ft68      FY67
Appraisal                                  4        17        24         25      -
!II  Ac'ual                                  0.OO      0.6i       2-21     10.13     13.34    24.79       24.87
(11i  Actual as % of Apnr 'sal                OQO.       4.06      9.63    401.2       53.6    91          99.48
(i0v  Actual as ' of Net Loan Amount         (V00      2.77       9.29    40.73      : 164    qq.66   100I 00
PROJECT DATES
ODlginal                        Actual
Date                           Date
First Wentior in Files                                  02180                           0211(
6overnoent s Appl:caticr                                Oo/S'J 
Reqc:liti3ps                                            0s'8
Eoard Approval                                       11/16/90                        1V16ISO
Loar Aqreeeent Date                                  11/24/90                        1iV24(10
Effe:tveress Date                                    03/24/81                       06ktie:
:2osinq Date                                         12/31'84                        1231 8P



- lii -
STAFF INPUT
FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  Total
Preappraisal                      19.0                                                                               19.0
Appraisal                0.7   5.3                                                                                     6.0
Negotiation                       17.1                                                                               17.1
Supervision                         0.3                 0.3  13.5  20.9   7.2   9.0   2.1   53.4
Total                    0.7  41.7                      0.3  13.5  20.9   7.2   9.0   2.1   95.5
Zonth                No. of                  Staff                Date of
Year                 Persons      Weeks    Weeks                  Report
Identification / Preparation              !!/79                      4        1.0        4.0                12/15179
Appraisa1                                  02/680                    7        3.0       21 0                10/17/80
Supervision I                              01!81                     3        1.7        5.1                02/04/81
Supervision 11                             U1. I                     i        2.0        6.0                02116/82
Superv:s"on !i                             04i6.                     3        1.0        3.0                05/27/82
Sueervisior  I V                          098,                       2        1.0        2.0                12/70/82
Supervision V                             028 E                      4        2.q       11.6                08/23/83
Supervisior  v                             O5 8'                    4        0.2        0.8                01/30/84
Supervision YII                            iO:84                     3        0.4        1.2                12/1/384
Supervisior  V1i7                          fc.85                     4         M.I       2.0                0,/20/85
Su;ervis5rn 1%                             11/85                     ,        1.4          rE               12/16/8!
Snervision  X                             0218                       2        1.4        2.2                04i25/86
o*Dl etionr                            .-!'r                         2 PA                2 .                n 4;P1/i
Tota' Supervision                                                                 4',3
OTHER PROJECT DATA
: E-   -      _Ee                                         r '    oP- an



- iv -
TURKEY
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1916-TU)
PROJECT CO4PLETIOR REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS
(1)      The purpose of the project was to:  (i) strengthen TPAO's exploration
activities :hrough the introduction of modern geological studies and
geophysical data acquisition, processing and interpretation techniques; (ii)
promote additional exploration activities by helping the General Directorate
of Petroleum Affairs (GDPA) to attract foreign oil compani2s to Turkey; and
(iii) improve energy efficiency usage in industry through technical assistance
for an energy audit program.
(ii)     The project was a qualified success.  It succeeded in adding to
TPAO's established recoverable reserves about 14 million barrels of oil but
the exploration bffort has not been a commercial success mainly because of the
steep drop in the price of crude oil. No major discoveries were made in
southeastern Turkey, the original project area, as the exploration effort
under the project led to the finding of only three small fields. TPAO's
technical skills have been significantly upgraded through the training of many
of its engineers and technicians, especially in the areas of geophysics and
geology. Organizationally, TPAO has been strengthened by the separation of
oil importing and refinery activities from those of domestic exploration. The
other two institutions involved in the project, namely 'JDPA and the General
Directorate of Electric Power Resources, Survey and Development Administration
(EIE), have also been strengthened. The energy audit component was
successfully carried out and improvements in the efficiency of energy usage in
selected industries are under way.
(iii)    Except for increasing the number of wells to be drilled fr-m "four to
six" to fourteen, the project was implemented as envisaged at appraisal. The
actual project cost was about 30% more than what was estimated at appraisal
mainly because of an increase in local cost associated with the extension of
the exploration area and local inflation which exceeded the appraisal
projections. The project was also completed a year late because of delays in
procurement and in the appointment of consultants. The project was almost
fully disbursed by the extended closing date of December 31, 1985 and
undisbursed funds of US$133,000 were cancelled on May 12, 1986.
(iv)     A parttcularly disappointing outcome of the project was that the
expected reefal development of the carbonate reservoirs with prolific oil
accumulations was not found.  Also, the economic gains of the small
discoveries made did not materialize as expected because of the steep drop in
the price of crude oil.



TUMMY
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1916-TU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     Although Turkey wan producing approximately 3 million tons of crude
oil per year, the rapid industrial expansion of the economy since the
mid-1970s resulted in an increased dependence on imported oil and petroleum
products, which in 1979 amounted to 17 million tons. Very few discoveries
were made during this period and overall production slowly declined. While
petroleum imports of $1.4 billion in 1978 absorbed 60% of merchandise export
earnings, they were about $2.4 billion 'n 1979, consuming all of the
merchandise earnings. Turkey tried to reduce the growth of oil consumption by
replacing oil with lignite and hydropower for electric generation, and with
coal for process heat in industries, but with the increase in envir,nmental
pollution, thn opportunities for substitution of energy sources could not be
fully utilized.
1.02     To increase indigenous oil production, the Government of Turkey (GOT)
encouraged oil exploration in the sedimentary basins which cover a large
portion of the Turkish land area, and instituted several institutional changes
to finance the expansion of Turkish oil exploration. It is in this setting
that the Petroleum Exploration Project was conceived. The Project waa the
Bank's first involvewent in the exploration for hydrocarbons in Turkey.
II. PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Proiect Oriain
2.01     Recognizing the heavy burden of cil imports on the Turkish balance of
payments, GOT's energy policy focused on the development of indigenous energy
resources suich as coal, lignite and hydropower, and on the search for new
hydrocarbon resources. Exploration for oil was being carried out by TPAO and
also to a small ectent by foreign oil companies. In November 1978, an
engineering loan of US$2.5 million was given b; the Bank to help TPAO evaluate
a'ternative enhanced oil recovery techniques that would help increase Turkey's
oil production in the medium-term. While implemeiiting this loan, the subject
project was proposed by GOT and TPAO to the Bank. It was thereafter prepared
by TPAO.
ADDraisal, Negotiations and Effectiveness
2.02     The project was appraised in February 1980, and negotiations were
held in September 1980. During .he negotiations, no substantive changes were
made except for the following:
(a) the loan amount was raised from US$19.5 million to US$25 million
in view of the increase in the fnreign exchange ccsts;



- 2 -
(b)  the loan terms were changed to standard terms, namely, for
seventeen years including four years of grace;
(c)  GOT presented, and the Bank accepted, a plan for eliminating the
foreign exchange losses of TPAO ov its outstanding foreign debt
associated with the imports of crude and petroleum products.
TPAO also concluded satisfactory arrangements with the Turkish
Elect,lcity Authority (TEK) for obtaining timely electricity
supply at Dodan gas field. These had been proposed as loan
effectiveness conditions and were deleted since they were no
longer necessary; and
(d)  TPAO made satisfactory arrangements for design of the gas
oiReline by its conisultants, instead of by its subsidiary as
earlier indicated, and it also furnished logging and coring data
for three wells from the Thrace gas field. These had been
earlier proposed by the Bank as disbursement conditions and were
now accepted as fulfilled.
2.03     The loan was signed on llovember 24, 1980, and was made effective on
June 16, 1981, about three months later than estimated at appraisal, to allow
GOT and TPAO sufficient time to complete action on two matters, without which
they would have been in technical default. These were:
(a)  GOT'  obligation to carry out a plan of action acceptable to the
Bank co offset or eliminate the foreign exchange losses
occurring after January 1, 1981, on account of its foreign debts
incurred in connection with the imported petroleum and petroleum
products; and
.b)  GOT's agreement to transfer from TPAO to a subsidiary by January
1, 1981 all responsibility with regard to import-related
activities and to formulate a time-bound plan to transfer
TPAO's residual responsibilities in respect of refining imported
oil by December 31, 1981.
Prolect Objectives
2.04     The project had four major objectives:
(i)    to increase Turkey's petroleum production potential through
the introduction of modern geological and geophysical
studies, reflection seismic surveys, data processing and
interpretation;
(ii)    to implement a limited exploration drilling program to help
determine whether the prospects developed by the studies
and surveys can lead to nLew oil discoveries;
(4ii)    to promote additional exploration activities by helping
GDPA to attract foreign oil companies to Turkey; and



-3-
(Iv)    to identify the prospects of, and method. for, proviling
energy conservation programs by encouraging efficient
energy usage in industry through technical assistance for
an energy audit program.
Proiect DescriDtion
2.05     The project consisted of the following components:
(a)  Geolouical Studies and TechnicalX  si4tance.  Geological support
would comprise new regional basin studies, and integration of their results
with the existing geological, geophysical, and well data into an overall
geological picture of the southeastern part of Turkey. Studies of the
geology of adjacent countries, Syria, Iraq and Iran, would be carried out and
incorporated into the regional studies, as well as laboratory studies in the
fields of sedimentology, petrography and stratigraphy. The results would be
used to locate the areas in which reefal development in the carbonate sectior,
which is the main reservoir in this area, was most likely and which should
subsequently be suiveyed by reflection seismic methods;
(b) Seismic Surveys. This component of the project would involve
reflection seismic surveys, data processing and interpretation in an attempt
to detect possible stratigraphic reef traps, and deep oil bearing structures.
The seismic surveys were to be concentrated in the southeastern  part of the
country where prospects for the discovery of good oil reservoirs were
considered to be the best. The surveys were also to include the
topographically difficult Hakkari area where there had been no seismic
surveys. The locations for seismic surveys were to be determined on the basis
of stratigraphic and geological studies . Seismic surveys were also to cover
the areas adjacent to the Raman and Garzan fields in an attempt to better
delineate these fields. Reprocessing and reinterpretatior of some of the
existing seismic data were also ircluded. The appraisal estimate was based on
shooting approximately 2200 km of seismic lines over the life of the project;
(c) Exploratory Drilling. Subject to the satisfactory outcome of
geophysical and geological studies in locating potential hydrocarbon bearing
prospects, this component would finance the drilling of four to six
medium-depth wells, about 3,000 meters deep, in southeastern Turkey. The
funds were to ensure that TPAO would have sufficient drilling materials to
follow-up on its seismic program. However, the selection of locations to be
chosen was to comply with internationally acceptable star.iards and TPAO was
required to submit a complete technical justification, acceptable to the Bank,
for its choice of well locations prior to drilling;
(d)  Promoting Foreian Interest in ExDloration.  This component was
to provide financing for professional services to increase GDPA's capabilities
in carrying out the following activities: (a) collating, evaluating and
packaging available drilling and geological data on open concessions to make
them easily available to interested foreign oil companies; (b) advertising
Turkey's petroleum potential by establishing and maintaining contacts with the
international oil industry; and (c) providing the expert legal and technical
advice needed to negotiate, and enter into, exploration and production
contracts; and



*- 4 -
(e)  Industrial Energy Efficiency Audits.  This component was
dasigned to identify the potential for energy savings in major energy
consuming industries and to evaluate ways in which GOT could encourage energy
savings activities. Basically, the program was to encompass consulting
services which would concentrate prtmarily on thermal power plants and gl8ss
and textile plants in both public and private sectors.
Chanies in Proiect ScoDe
2.06     The project originally included drilling of four to six exploration
wells in the southeastern part of Turkey. However, initial exploration work
financed under the project turned out to be more difficult than expected due
to the rugged terrain in that part of Turkey and interpretation of seismic
studies became difficult. The initial seismic studies did not locate suitable
drilling locations in this area, and it was decided to defer drilling under
the Bank project while further seismic work was carried out. In April 1983,
GOT proposed, and the Bank agreed, to expand the proje't area to include the
Thrace basin in northwestern Turkey which was thought to have greater
potential for investments in hydrocarbon exploration. Four shallow appraisal
wells in the Thrace area were thus financed out of this loan. Also, to permit
achieving higher quality seismic data processing needed for the Thrace
program, a sum of US$1.5 million was allocated out of the unallocated amount,
for the purchase of computers to establish TPAO's own seismic processing
center. It was also decided that in Hakkari in the thrust belt, one of the
originally identified areas, very deep wells were required to investigate
poor structural indications and the Bank decided not to support the well
drilled by TPAO, which proved unsuccessful.
2.07     Meanwhile, TPAO also identified a series of prospective features in
another area of southeastern Turkey in the zone of Cretaceous imbricate
structures which have proved oil-bearing.  Based on the new seismic results,
TPAO developed a ten-well drilling program for this area to be financed under
the loan.  The Bank supported the expanded drilling program with a foreign
cost of US$9 million equivalent. These ten wells together with the four
already drilled in Thrace raised the total number of wells under the project
from "four to six" to fourteen.
2.08     To permit completion of the above additional drilling, the Closing
Date of the loan was extended from December 31, 1984 to December 31, 1985.
Maior Covenants
2.09     Annex 1 sets forth the major covenants )i the Loan and Project
Agreements. Compliance by both GOT and TPAO with these covenants, though
occasionally late, was generally satisfactory. Three covenants need special
mention.
2.10     One covenant concerned exchange of views with the Bank on how to
retain qualified technical personnel which was a problem at appraisal and
during the initial phases of project implementation. This has been complied
with by TPAO and, at the present time, the morale of TPAO staff is



satisfactory. TPAO revised the salary structure, introduced incentives and
provided training facilities for the technical staff, which resulted in
motPiating the technical staff to remain with the organization. This has been
helped to some extent by the general depression in the world oil industry as
well as by t%e improvement of economic conditions in Turkey.
2.11     Another covenant required TPAO to establish and maintain separate
financial statements to reflect activities with regard to imported oil and
those related to domestic exploration and production. TPAO has complied with
this covenant since January 1984, following the enactment of the law
restructuring TPAO in May 1983.
2.12     A third covenant concerned audit by independent groups acceptable to
the Bank and submission of the audited statements. Here, the Bank and TPAO
accepted the government auditors as an independent group. There were delays,
however, in auditing the accounts within six months, as required under the
loan covenants. The 1981 accounts were received about a year late, but the
delays were largely overcome in the succeeding years.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Initial Delays
3.01     The project was delayed initially by about three months due to the
delay in loan effectiveness (para 2.03). The project was further delayed by
serious management and staffing problems within TPAO in the latter part of
1981 which resulted In the resignation of many professionals and frequent
changes in TPAO's technical management. This endangered the timely
implementation of the basin studies which, in turn, delayed the implementation
of the seismic program.
3.02     Similarly, the recruitment of consultants to assist in training
TPAO's staff, and to participate in the various geological and geophysical
studies was also delayed by approximately nine months due to lengthy
negotiations. Delays were also experienced in discussions with the Ministry
of Energy concerning the utilization of funds provided in the loa.k for
strengtlhening of GDPA and the training of its perscnnel.
3.03     The only progress made in 1981 was in defining the scope of the
energy audit studies, which were started in the spring of 1982. In 1982, a
new general manager of TPAO was appointed and the pace of project
implementation began to accelerate.
Prolect Management
3.04     The day-to-day management of the project was entrusted to TPAO's
Exploration Department. However, conditions ior the disbursement of funds
were agreed between the Bark and TPAO at appraisal to ensure close cooperation
in the selection of areas for exploration. TPAO was required to se2k the
Bank's concurrence for justification of expenditures to finance drilling in
specific locations and to consult w'th the Bank on the overall exploration
strategy. A committee was set up in Ankara composed of exploration staff and
selected Bank consultants in order to establish priorities for seismic studies
and selection of drilling locations.



-6-
Prglect Execution
3.05. The implementation of the various project components in described in
the following paragraphs:
a. Studies
3.06     The basis for the commencement of the geological studies as vell as
the initial sa*isic program was a report prepared by the Bank consultants
during appraisa]. This indicated that the highest priority should be accorded
to the Hazro-Ravan area in southeastern Turkey, adjacent to the site of
existing oil production where hitherto undiscovered carbonate reef reservoirs
could possibly have developed.  However, geological, geophysical and basinal
studies subsequently carried out by the consultants and TPAO indicated that
contrary to expectations, the postulated structural and stratigraphic traps
were not found in that area. The failure to find guod prospects in the prime
target area led TPAO to switch its activities to the Mardin Limestone group in
the overthrust st-uctures of the imbricate zone.
b. Seismic Proaram
3.07     The priorities of the seismic program were subject to change, based
on the results of seismic and drilling programs carried out by TPAO. The
actual seismic coverage under the project (4,309 km.) vis-a-vis the original
estimate (2,200 km.) is given below:
Original       Actual            Change
(km)          (km)             (km)
Dincer-Camurlu                    400             630          (+)  230
Hakkari                           570             639          (+)   69
Raman Hazro                       800          1,862           (+)1,062
Cezre Silopi                     450                -          (-)  450
Thrace                              -             655          (+)  655
Other Areas in SE Turkey            -             523          L+)  523
2,220          4,309            (+)2,089
Because of the failure of seismic studies to locate suitable drilling
locations in the original target area in southeastern Turkey, a decision was
taken by the Bank and TPAO to initiate seismic work in the Thrace basin (para
2.06).  This required two seismic crews which were procured under LIB
procedures and were financed from the lcan proceeds (paras. 2.06 & 2.07).
Some 655 km of seismic was accordingly shot in the Thrace basin under the
project (para 3.07). Another 1,862 km was shot in the Hazro area which
contained Paleozoic clastic and Mesozoic carbonate prospects, but an intended
500 km of seismic was dropped on account of the absence of source rocks and
the general difficulty of the terrain. The third location selected for the
seismic program was the Hakkari area, again characterized by difficult
terrain. Here, six to seven structures were lointly identified by TPAO and



-7-
Amoco after 950 km ot seismic lines tiere acquired, of which 800 km8 was
financed by the Bank loan. About 523 km of seismic was shot in areas of
southeastern Turkey, not originally targeted, by the time the project was
completed in 1985.
c. KiDloratorv and ADoraisal Drilling
3.08     The seismic work in the Thrace basin (par& 3.07) was to be followed
by the drilling of a suitable number of strategically placed key exploration
wells to test the potential hydrocarbon-bearing structures in the area. Four
shallow appraisal wells were accordingly drilled in the Umurca gas field in
Thrace and financed from the subject loan. The drilling of these wells helped
delineate the Umurca gas field and expedited the Thrace Gas Exploration
Project (Loan 2327-TU of June 1983).
3.09     By early 1984, new seismic structures were identified in the original
project area where ten wells were drilled compared to the appraisal estimate
of 4-6 wells. The remaining funds under the subject loan were used to
refurbish equipment and procure mater:als which were consumed in drilling
these ten wells. Three of the wells financed under the project and one well
outside the project turned out to be producers, leading to the discovery of
four small oil fields with present recoverable reserves of approximately 14
million barrels. TPAO is in the process of developing these fields.
d. Technical Assistance to TPAO
3.10     During the course of the project, 58 of TPAO's geologists and
geophysicists were trained at various locations in the USA, UK and France for
periods of two weeks to four months, in reservoir engineoring, geochemist:y,
seismic field techniqves, seismic data processing, applied sedimentology,
explorator. mana;ement, development geology, petrography, reservoir geology,
and seismic software. Fifteen foreign consultants in various disciplines were
employed by TPAO to work on various aspects of the basin studies as well as on
the evaluation of seismic data. Most of the consultants came from established
consulting firms and their duration of stay varied from two months to three
years.
e. Strengthening of GDPA
3.11     During the project, TPAO continued to handle the exploration data and
discuss possible concessions with the international oil companies with the
result that little activity took place until 1984 concerning the
strengthening, reorganization and modernization of GDPA. At that time, the
Bank took the initiative of appointing a consultant to diagnose the needs of
GDPA and to develop a plan of action, and forwarded the plan of action to
GDPA. The plan proposed training for geologists, engineers and other
professionals at the offices of the Energy Resources Conservation Board in
Calgary, Canada. The training was in structural geology, data processing,
data management, computerization of the geological exploration program, the
management and drilling of production wells and field inspection of existing
drilling facilities, as well as heavy oil drilling and production. Other
trainirg subjects included legal status, obligations to provide notices to
licensors, as well as the analysis of conflicts concerning license holders.



f.  Industrial Enerav Efficiency Audij
3.12     After considerable start-up delays, EIE, the agency responsible for
the energy conservation component of the project, commissioned audits by
expatriate consulting firms in the following five industries:
(a) thermal power plant at Ambarli;
(b) iron and steel plants;
(c) the pulp and paper sector;
(d) glass factories; and
(e) the textile sector.
The audits were completed by September 1984 and improvements based on the
audits are under way.
Project Cost
3.13     The final project cost as compared to the appraisal estimate is shown
in Annex 2. As indicated therein, the actual cost was approximately US$20
mi lion equivalent (30%) more than the appraisal estimate, entirely because of
an increase in the local costs due partly to the effects of high inflation and
partly to the extension of the project area. The cost of seismic surveys,
which was originally estimated at $12.4 million excluding contingencies, rose
to $40.2 million mainly due to a doubling of the amount of seismic coverage
under the project (4,309 line-km) as compared to the original estimate of
2,200 line-km. The cost of exploration drilling, which is another major item,
increased by approximately $5 million due to the ir:reased number of weils
(from 4-6 to 14) drilled as compared to the appraisal estimate. The above two
major components accounted for 92% of the project cost. The technical
assistance cost of training TPAO personnel was actually less by approximately
$2 million due entirely to the lower cost of consultant services than
origir,elly estimated at appraisal. The cost of other project components was
1ovwt, partly because technical assistance to GDPA was provided free of charge
ty the Alberta Energy Conservation Board with the exception of travel and
living expenses. The higher local costs of the project have been met from
TPAO's resources. A sum of $133,000 of the Bank loan was unspent by the loan
closing date and was cancelled.
Procurement
3.14     In the initial stages of project implementation, there were
significant delays in procurement due mainly to the unfamiliarity of TPAO (a
first time borrower) with the Bank's procurement procedures. Towards the end
of the project period, a Standard Bid Document for International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) was cleared by the Bank, which minimized the difficulties
encountered earlier. Other procurement of a specialized nature was done under
limited international bidding. Consultants were selected on the basis of
short lists approved by the Bank and an evaluation of the technical merits of



- 9 -
the proposals received from those invited to participate. The Bank approved
each of the appointments. Overall, the Bank and the borrower had no
slgnificant disagreements over procurement matters.
Disbursements
3.15     The project was completed by the end of 1985.  Annex 3 gives the
actual disbursements as compared to the appraisal estimate. By September 30,
1984, the date by which it was originally estimated that the loan would be
fully disbursed, the actual disbursements were only 11% of the loan amount.
However, there was a dramatic improvement since then and the remaining 89% of
the loan was disbursed in the following two years. Because of the delays in
the early stages of the project implementation, it was necessary to extend the
loan closing date from December 1984 to December 1985; approximately
US$133,000 left unutilized was cancelled from the loan in May 1986 (para 3.13).
Achievement of Prolect Oblectives
3.16     A major objective of the project was to support TPAO's efforts in
intensive exploration for hydrocarbons by providing sufficient foreign
exchange to conduct these activities in the overthrust belt and carbonate
platform area in southeastern Turkey. This objective has been partially
achieved, although not in the form originally envisaged as can be seen from
the following paragraphs.
3.17     The project was designed to start with studies of the geology of
southeastern Turkey to be followed up by selections of areas for seismic
coverage which would ultimately lead to the identification of sufficient
drilling locations. The drilling locations as selected at appraisal did not
show sufficient potential for conducting intensive coverage and so, other
locations were chosen with the Bank's approval. The search for suitable
structures to be tested ultimately moved to South Dincer, West Kozluca,
overthrust zones in southeast Turkey and the Thrace basin.
3.18     The list of wells drilled in southeastern Turkey as well as in the
Thrace basin is shown in Annex 4; it also indicates which wells were financed
from the project. Out of the ten wells in southeastern Turkey financed from
the Bank loan, five haai oil and gas shows, and three were producers and are
being developed as small fields. As a result of the project, TPAO has been
able to add approximately 14 million barrels of oil to its established
recoverable reserves. However, the "finding cost" of the discovered oil is
about 200% higher than what would be financially acceptable at the present
crude oil prices, and therefore, the exploration effort has not been a
commercial success.
3.19     Annex 5 shows the new field discoveries in southeastern  Turkey as
well as current production in the Cukurtas, Akpinar, Bati Kozluca and Bati
Firat fields. Plans to develop these fields are presently under way.
3.20     Apart from its physical objectives, the institutional objectives of
the project were also mostly achieved. TPAO has been strengthened as an
institution, and is now better organized and managed, with staff considerably



- 10 -
more skilled than before (para 6.01). GDPA has also been strengthened, with
better capabilities of carrying out i'  activities (para 6.05). Finally,
GOT's efforts to reduce fuel consumption in the country also received a fillip
through the energy audits arranged by EIE.
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
A. TPAO
4.01     TPAO, 93.3% owned by GOT at appraisal, has been the predominant
organization in the Turkish petroleum sector, and at the time of preparation
of the project, was responsible for practically all aspects of the oil
business. Its activities included exploration, production, and refining of
oil as well as transportation, purchase of imported crude and products to meet
domestic requirements, and some wholesale marketing.
4.02     At appraisal, GOT, TPAO and the Bank felt that the unwieldy  nature
of the TPAO operations and its extensive activities in petroleum -efining and
importation of foreign crude placed undue demands on the finances and
management of TPAO, and tended to disperse the efficient use of management
resources. Accordingly, it was agreed to:
(a)  separate domestic oil and imported oil related activities;
(b) relieve TPAO of the responsibility for importation of crude oil
and products; and
(c) makc TPAO solely responsible for exploration, exploitation and
processing of domestic petroleum resources.
GOT also agreed to t e separation and transfer of the refining related
activities to a subsidiary of TPAO by July 1, 1981.
4.03     There were initially difficulties in carrying out the reorganization
of TPAO into a domestic exploration and production company since this required
legislatioi ^n the part of the Turkish Parliament, as well as the support of
the Ministry; these were not forthcoming. The necessary changes were not
promulgated until May 1983 when a holding company (PETKUR) was created to
oversee all activities in the petroleum sector including TPAO's domestic
exploration activities. However, in June 1984, a Government Decree reversed
the formation of PETKUR, and TPAO reverted back to a somewhat modified
original Etatus. In retrospect, this was a financially astute decision as is
clear from the following paragraphs.



- 11 -
4.04     The structure of the public petroleum sector that came into effect
vas as followv:
TPAO (direct responsibility for domestic
exploration and production)
aubsidiariat
BOTAS                 _       Pipeline transportation
DITAS                 -      Marine transportation
TUPRAS                -       Refining
POAS                  -      Marketing
Associated Companies
IPRAGAS               -      LPG distribution
TUMAS                 -       Engineering
LIBYA-TURK            -       Engineering
4.05     TPAO functions as an operational company with direct responsibility
for exploration and production of domestic oil. Its shares are all held by
GOT. In its dual capacity, TPAO is also a holding company, holding 100% of
the equity capital of each of BOTAS, DITAS, TUPRAS and POAS. TPAO's interest
in the subsidiaries is limited to its investment therein, representation on
the Board of Directors and the receipt of dividends.
4.06     In the process vf reorganization, separate accounting has been
established for each of the! operating subsidiary companies, so that, now, this
arrangement allows TPAO to receive dividends from the profits of its
subsidiaries and make them available for exploration or other purposes without
the imposition of another level of management control which would be the case
if TPAO were subject to control by the holding company (PETIUR). With the
present deterioration of crude prices, and their effect on TPAO's exploration
and production profitability, the new status allows TPAO to finance the
exploration activities from the profits made in other areas of the petroleum
sector.  A sul-ary table of TPAO's subsidiaries is shown in Annex 8.
B. GDPA
4.07     After initial delays and the appointment of a new General Director of
GDPA, a program was developed for the institutional strengthening of GDPA.
Training of GDPA personnel was accelerated by sending selected individuals to
Canada to become acquainted with the activitiea of the Alberta Energy
Conservation Board, dealing with the licensing of leases for exploration and
production activities, and dissemination of the results within GDPA. Since
that time, GDPA has been reorganized, functionally, with more space given to
the archives, the microfilming of field relinquishment reports and well
data. GDPA also developed an arrangement with Petroconsultants of Geneva,
Switzerland, to exchange information on licensing of new areas. From 1983 to
1986, GDeA initiated proposals for changes in the petroleum law in favor of
the petroleum companies operating in Turkey. Effective January 1, 1985,
exemptions from payment of sales taxes for materials used in petroleum
exploration were introduced. Changes in the income tax laws were introduced



- 12 -
in December 1985 as a re&ult of GDPA'a initiati7es to reduce the ta_ burden of
foreign companies active in Turkey. Certain impediments to bringing foreign
expatriate personnel hired by petroleum companies into Turkey were eliminated
in M4arch 1986.
C. KU
4.08     The final report on energy conservation was submitted by the
consultants to EIE in September 1984. Some of the recomnendations of the
*iergy conservation studies are being implemented or vill be implemented
jortly; projects identified for the Ambarli power plant were included in the
986 investment program and are being implemented. The foreign currency
requirements for the other industries, pulp and paper, ceramics and textiles,
where energy savings have been identified, are being financed by the Bank
under a subsequent loan.
Performance of Consultants
4.09     One of the project components involved the appointment of consultants
in order to conduct various basin studies within TPAO. Altogether 15
consultants from international consulting groups in Europe and North America
were engaged by TPAO. These consultants comprised: geochemists, chemists,
seismic interpreters, non-seismic interpreters, explorationists, carbonate
petrographers, seismic processors, hardware engineers, and structural
geologists. Some of the consultants performed assignments to the satisfaction
of TPAO and their work resulted in meaningful contribution to the project,
while others did not. The percentage of unsatisfactory consultants was
relatively small, approximately 15%, and the remaining 85% performed their
work satisfactorily.
4.10     Fiftyeight technical staff have undergone training from two weeks to
four months in tne USA and Europe with consulting and operating firms in
various aspects of petroleum sciences related to petroleum exploration,
geology, seismic data processing, geophysics, petrochemIstry, petrophysics,
reservoir engineering, sedimentology and seismic interpretations. There is no
doubt that the training provided for tsii TPAO participants has resulted in
establishing a stronger technical background within the TPAO organization and
has helped the exploration department in building up a better understanding of
the complicated geology of the country.
Financial Performance
4.11     TPAO was required by the loan covenants to separate its financial
activities with regard to imported oil from those relating to domestic oil
because at appraisal, the importing activities were not profitable, while
those relating to the production of domestic oil were. The rationale was that
TPAO's financial requirements should be linked to the success of the
exploration program, which would be based on the profits from development of
oil fields discovered during earlier exploration activities. After the
separation, however, the situation reversed itself. The price regime for
petroleum products established subsequently by GOT yielded good profits to the



- 13 -
refineries and the marketing companies while TPAO's production of domestic oil
did not show any appreciable increase. TPAO, however, did enjoy the benefits
of Increasing crude oil prices until the end of 1985, b.t during 1986 crude
oil prices fell and TPAO's financial performance deteriorated.
4.12     TPAO's financial statements starting from 1984 and reflecting the
financial position of the reorganized company cannot be readily compared with
those of the earlier years. The subsidiary companies for transportation,
refining and marketing function autonomously with their own Boards of
Directors and their own balance sheets. The link between TPAO and these
companies is only fiduciary and the balance sheet of the reorganized TPAO
shows only the value of investment in subsidiaries as determined by the
government auditors.
4.13     The summary income statements of TPAO for 1984, 1985, and 1986 are as
follows:
(TL Billions)
1984      18        18
Sales (crude oil and gas)                     36.9       70.8     90.6
Net Operating Income
(Production activities)                     25.3       56.3     61.0
Interest Income (Net)                         40.6      104.0    130.8
Ir.come Taxes                                 10.2       35.2     41.5
Net Profits after Taxes                       48.4      134.5    200.1
Return on Capital Employed                      24%        39%       38%
(Based on r !alued assets)
In 1984, TPAO produced 947,223 tons of crude cil and 31,000 TOE of natural
gas. In 1985, the crude oil production increased by 9% to 1,030,288 tons and
the production of natural gas by 71% to 53,000 TOE. The sales revenue,
however, increased by 92% between the two years due to the effects of the
pricing system, which allows international parity prices for "new oil", as
distinct from a much lower fixed price for "old oil", namely, oil produced
from wells which went into production prior to 1979. In 1986, TPAO had an
output of 1.245.178 tons of crude oil and 279.002 TOE of natural gas.
4.14     TPAO's balance sheets as of December 31, 1984, 1985, and 1986 (Annex
6) show that it is in a satisfactory financial condition. Its current and
debt-equity ratios have been satisfactory. The increase in long term debt at
the end of 1985 is primarily due to the drawdown of Bank loans.



- 14 -
4.15     TPAO's summary funds statements for the three years 1984, 1985 and
1986 are given in Annex 7. It is seen that during these years, TPAO had a
high self-financing ratio, higher than the 45X which was considered sufficient
at the time of appraisal.
4.16     TPAO also fulfilled the financial covenants, which in brief were that
the current ratio would exceed 1, the debt-equity ratio would not be greater
than 50:50 and the liquid working capital would exceed two months' operating
expences.
Sustainability of TPUO
4.17     TPAO functions both as a company responsible for exploration,
production and drilling, and as a holding company for other petroleum
operations. TPAO receives its share of dividends from its subsidiaries. It
then plows back a portion of the ai ii.ends to its subsidiaries as loans,
credits or equity capital increase.
4.18     Since TPAO's own income from domestic production in 1985, a year in
which oil prices had not fallen drastically, did not corer its exploration
expenses, it used its income from dividends for its exploration, production,
drilling and other activities. With the combined access to Bank funds and
dividends from the subsidiaries, TPAO was generating funds in excess of those
required for the exploration and other capital investment programs, and thus
was not inhibited by financial constraints. From 1986, huwever, in view of
the lower crude oil prices, TPAO's direct income has shown a reduction. On
the other hand, the profitability of the subsidiaries was not expected to
fall, since the refinery and selling margins are protected by the GOT's
pricing policy. Therefore, TPAO's planned capital expenditure program -as not
affected in 1986 also.
4.19     If one looks, however, into the future, at least until 1990, it
appears that the magnitude of the dividends received from the subsidiaries
will have a pronounced effect on the financial performance of TPAO. In order
for TPAO to maintain its present momentum of exploration and development, it
will need to supplement its net income froL. the direct activities of
production of domestic oil with the dividends from the subsidiaries. This
will enable GOT as the owner, and TPAO as the operator, to focus attention on
the cost of exploration in Turkey and then weigh the results. To justify its
continued funding, TPAO's exploration program will have to be continuously
reviewed for tangible results keeping in view the changing prospects,
expectations and costs incurred.
V. BANK'S PERFORMANCE
5.01     In hindsight, the Bank's overall performance should be considered as
somewhat mixed. The Bank participated fully in the initial structuring of the
project and selection of areas for basin studies, seismic coverage, and
exploratory drilling. When the detailed studies carried out by TPAO With the
help of consultants showed no prospects in the areas originally selected, the
Bank showed flexibility and, jointly with TPAO, agreed to consider other areas
for further studies. However, in the early stages of development of the
overall exploration program, when frequent consultations between the Bank



- 15 -
staff and TPAO vere necessary, relatively fev contacts took place, resulting
in the eatabliahment of practically two exploration programs: one financed
from TPAO's own resources, and the other from the proceeds of the Bank loan.
More frequent contacts between TPAO and the Bank to coordinate the two
activities more closely would have been more advantageous.
5.02     The Bank's insistence on being a full participant in the exploration
strategy placed heavy demands on TPAO's ulanning cycle for the exploration
activities and prevented financing of certain parts of TPAO's overall
exploration budget. The use of loan funds for specific components of the
exploration program was considered by the Bank on a case-by-case basis and
TPAO could not stop its exploration activities in other areas to coordinate
vith the Bank on Bank-financed locations. This resulted in delay in the
disbursement of funds.
5.03     Towards the end of the project, coordination between the Bank staff
and TPAO regarding the overall exploration strategy improved considerably. In
order to complete the exploration program, rapid decisions had to be made ir.
locating suitable drilling locations in southeastern Turkey which resulted in
small oil discoveries.
5.04     Regarding the separation of refining and crude purchasing activities
and making TPAO solely responsible for domestic exploration and production, in
retrospect it is evident that this component of the project received an unduly
large share of the Bank's attertion. Looking at it from the present
perspective, if GOT had not disbanded PETKUR and returned the subsidiaries in
a financially sound state to TPAO, TPAO would have found it difficult to
finance its activities in the future with the reduced cash flow arisin.g from
the low prices of crude oil. The company is in a position to maintain its
activities of prospecting for oil and gas in a difficult geological
environment only because it receives profits from its subsidiaries.
5.05     On the other hand, the Bank's contribution to the professional
training of TPAO's staff and specifically to the exploration department's
policies was substantial and is much appreciated by TPAO's management. In the
various meetings between the TPAO group and the Bank's technicai staff, the
exploration department of TPAO learned to prepare and present exploration
concepts in an internationally acceptable manner. They acquired knowledge in
planning and programming and developing exploration strategies, casing design,
well completion and development planning. TPAO has also avoided a costly and
very risky exploration phase in the Hakkari area because of Bank advice. On
the strength of Bank advice, TPAO participated in joint ventures with private
foreign oil companies, especially during the latter part of project
implementation.
5.06     The funds provided under the project enabled TPAO to purchase goods
and materials for drilling, well completion, and field development which were
essential to carrying out a rational exploration policy in Turkey at a time
when oil prices were increasing rapidly and when the only reasonable
alternative to reduce an undesirable dependence on foreign supplies was to
continue exploration in the Turkish sedimentary basins.



- 16 -
VI. CONCLUSIONS
6.01     Although a year late in implementation, the subject project has been
a qualified success. As a result of the project, TPAO has been able to add co
its established recoverable reserves approximately 14 million barrels of oil,
although the exploration effort has not been a commercial success (para
3.17). TPAO has been considerably strengthened as an institution. Its staff
has been trained and many of its technicians and engineers have been given an
opportunity to improve their technical skills by attending courses and
seminars in varioiis disciplines of petroleta sciences, especially in the areas
of geophysics and geology. TPAO's management is stronger and more outward
looking than before and is able to focus on closer cooperation with private
companies in exploration ventures, even forming joint ventures with foreign
oil companies. At this time there are more foreign companies operating in
Turkey ir. exploration and development than at any time prior to the launching
of this project. TPAO's oil importing and refinery activities have been
separat-d from its exploration activities although the outcome of tie
restructuring is different from that originally envisaged at appraisal. The
net result, however, is such that now all the activities of TPAO are closely
defined, properly identified financially and the performance of each petroleum
activity is known. TPAO is still the holding company for all the state
petroleum enterprises in Turkey and receives dividends from its subsidiaries
which, with the approval of its Board, and the Minister of Petroleum, can be
directed to any activities in the petroleum sector. This arrangement allows
TPAO to carry out petroleum exploration programs even in the event of a fall
in crude oil prices and a resultant diminution of its direct income. At the
same time, in order to carry out a meaningful exploration policy, it is
considered essential for TPAO to determine, more thoroughly than in the past,
the financial implicat'-as of its exploration programs in addition to the
geological chances of succ?ss.
6.02     Despite the institutional advances made by TPAO, there were some
shortcomings in project implementation. The overall exploration program and
strategy, particularly in the early phases of the project, should have been
better coordinated; if this were carried out, and if there were more frequent
contacts between the Bank staff and TPAO, some of the expenditures that were
incurred separately by TPAO and tlose under this project could have been
reduced. In retrospect, it also appears that the venture into financing of
the four appraisal wells in Thrace and the considerable amount of seismic
coverage under this project could have been avoided, and a more concentrated
effort could have been made to interest private oil companies in the venture,
rather than letting TPAO 'go it alone'. In spite of substantial efforts to
analyze the geology and testing seismographically areas in southeastern
Turkey, it has still not been possible to effect any major discoveries in that
area. The geology is complex and exploration effort is quite expensive. The
area has been explored extensively, and all the 'easy oil' has been found.
There remains the difficult prospects where the cost and the risks are higher.
6.03     Turkey's low level of discoveries raises a question whether TPAO
should be pursuing its exploration effort, on its own or whether it should be
considering other means, such as joint ventures both onshore and offshore in
Turkey, and possibly joint ventures overseas, perhaps in less geologically
difficult areas, to obtain access to additional sources of crude oil.



- 17 -
6.04     On balance, it is clear that the funds provided undet thls lhan came
at a time when there was no alternative for TPAO but to continue with its
exploration program, and since crude oil prices were rising, it wa.s i
justifiable expense at the time, where every country was seeking relief from
tbe high cost of oil imports. As in every exploration project, the t1:,al form
of the program and the outcome could not be predicted at the outset.
6.05     Two other aspects of project implementation need tc be mentioned.
GDPA, the government agency responsible for granting licenses to foreign and
domestic oil companies, has b'een strengthened. From its relatively obscure
origin, GDPA has become a full-fledged agency with a well organizeu archives,
much more easily available to potential licensors than was the case prior to
the launching of this project. GDPA staff has also received training in
essential disciplines for carrying out GDPA's activities.
6.06     Likewise, EIE has been able to conduct studies in energy conservation
directed towards reducing the overal'l fuel consumption in Turkey.
Improvements based on these studies are now under way.
Lessons to be Learned
6.07     Although the Bank assigned experienced staff to handle the project,
the outcome o' the project points to the need for much closer supervision by
the Bank and more frequent consultations between TPAO and the Ban- staff than
was actually the case. Since the subject project was among the earliest
lending operations for petroleum, perhaps the Bank should have foreseen the
need for closer super ision in the initial stages.
6.08     From the institution-building point of view, the lendi.ig operation
was indeed a success but not from a commercial point of view. The project
reises the question whether the Bank should finance exploration programs.
This matter has subsequently been addressed by the Bank and an appropriate OMS
has been issued in November 1984 s3tting out inter alia the criteria for Bank
support of exploration programs.



- is -
ANNX 1
Page 1 of 4
PZTROLE W EXPLORATION PROJECT
(LOAM 1916=TU)
PROJECT COMFLETION REPOlT
ETEMT OF COMPLIANC  VITE COVENANTS
S5ctioO t4 rm t                   Ubstece of Covuat                              Extat of C liamce
TMO wold:
PA Section 3.02               (a) Establish and maintain until project           Though the unit was set up late, it was saintained
completion a project implmentation            satisfactorily  through the completion ot the project.
unit adequately staffed with experi-
enced staff.
PA Section 3.03(i)            (b) Transfer to IPRAS by January 1, 1991           Cosplied with, though late by a tfe  sonths.
responsibilities for importing and
mrketing of imported petroleum.
PA Section 3.03(ii)           (c) Transfer to IPRAS operational con-             Operational control was transtered after the enac-
trol of facilities for refinirg               tment, in May 1993, of the law restructu    l TPAO.
imported oil by July 1, 1991.
PA Section 3.03(iii)          (d) Separate by 12-31-81 all the acti-             Separation of activities was delayed. Separation
vities with respect to exploring,             of activities was completed after the enactment
producing, refining and distributing          in, May 1993, of the law restructuring TPAO.
domestic oil from ttose with respect
to the importing of foreign petroleue
and petroleum products.
PA Section 3.04               (el Furnish to the Bank by Decenber 31,            TPAO's staffing problns continued through mid-1993.
1911 recomndations to attract and             Mid-1913, a consultant firm, was hired to do a
retain qualified technical personnel          study, and by the end of 1994 the implementation
and to improve the operational etti-          of recmendations was discussed. In addition,
ciencey ot its staff, and thereatter          although lite by about 9 months, the training of
taku appropriate steps to isplemn t           TPAO's staff progressed satisfactorily. The train-
such recommendations.                         ing component assisted TPAO staff in interpreting
seismic data, and carrying out geologocal and
geophysical studies. Fiftyeight of TPAO's staff
were trained inthe USA, UK and France. TPAO revised
the salary structure, introduced incentives, provi-
ded training facilities for the technical staff,
which hasresulted in motivating technical staff to
remain with the organization. Thus, though late,
the covenant has been complied with and, at present,
the morale of TPAO staff is satisfactory.



- 19 -
ANNMX 1
Page 2 of 4
Sectiom  of Agruuea" t            Sebstameo of Coveneat                         IItent of CouliacC
................~~~~~....  .. . . . . .......                          ....... ............ .
PA Section 3.05(a)             (Uf Ik  later tha  4pril 30, 1961, tPAO         MPAO forud the couittee is the f1ll of 1981.
shall establish 35 exploratios com-
mittee to evaluate the exploration
drilling progras.
PI Section 3 05(b)             (g) At least one montb before movint a           Cooplied witb.
drilliag rig to as uticipated
drilling location, the exploration
comittee shall furaish to the Bank
for approval the committees aissess-
meat of the location.
PA Section 3 06                (h) TPAO shall make arrangevnts for              Complied *ith, though late by a few months.
obtaining helicopter services as
and *tea Deeded.
PA Section 4 02                (i) TPAO thall, by April 1, 1981,                Accounts sere separated after the enactsent, in
establisb as of JaDUarY 1, 1981,           Say 1983, of the las restructurinS ?PAO.
and thereafter maintain separate
accounts and financial statements
with respect to internal and external
activities.
PA Section 4103                (j) Provide the Bank a copy of its               TPAO submitted its 1981 and 1982 audited accounts
audited accounts within 6 months           only by mid-1983. Audited accounts were also rece-
of the eqd of the fiscal year.              ived for 1983-1986.
tA Sectioa 4.06(a)             (k) [sure that by July 1981, TPAO shall          By 02/81, the D/S ratio was less then 1.0.  It sas
attain a ratio of its long-tere debt    brought dotn to 38/62 by early 1983.  thus the coy-
to its equity not greater than 1.0.        easnt was complied vith.
Pi Section 4.06(b)             (1) lImure that by July !, 1981 TPAO's          the current ratio was not less than 1.0 by 07/S1.
aggregate current liabilities do not    During the first six months of 1963, the current
exceed its aggregate current assets,    ratio improved from 0.9 to 0.995. for 1984/86, the
and maintain the position thereafter    the curreAt ratios vere satisfactory.
PA Section 4.06ic)             (a) Oa the first day of each month after    Cash and lines of credit exceeded two months of
July 1, 1981, have liquid working          operating expenses in 7/81. Coeplied with also
capital, marketable securities and          for the following years.
guaranted lines of credit of at
least two months estimated operating
expenses.



- 20 -
ANNEX 1
Pape I of 4
lecti. of Agrmmemt                  M tanee of Cemmmt                              ixteat of Cw    lian
A Setiot 4.67                   (AD Icur long-ters debt osly if proj-            Complied witb.
ectd et r"mme ir  at least two
time the aggregte proJected debt
service reqirbests.
PI  Sectiom  4.63                (o) kSinsig Jeuaary 1,1161 TPnO  bhall    Complied *iti. Is the process of reorgiantlom
refrais from  *oiy isternally gei-           separate accolnto "ere established  for eheb of
srated fuds for its subsidiaries,            the operating sobeidiary coepaies.
Pi Sctio  4. 10                 (p) htil completion of the project,              lavestnet program  suboited anueally.
tPAO shall furnish to the hak
ausnully by October 31 of each year
its proposed investment program for
the folloving year.
1A Sctioe 4. 11                 (q) legising   ith fiscal year 1981, TnO    A cnit was established by 04/81 to complete  revals-
shall annually revalue its assets            ation of assets by 09/S1. lowever, TPO revalued its
aid subeit to tit heak proforwa acc-         fixed assets during the first six ooths of 1913 in
ounts uad finsacial statements based    accordance with the fixed Assets levaluation law tkat
on Buch revaluation,                         was enacted in the begining of 1983, which allows for
only a one-tine revaluation, not an annual revaluation.
GOt auesred that:
LA Section 3.01(d)              (a) If funds are inadeqate to meet the            There wes no shortage of local funds necessitating
local expenditures required .or carr-   GOT's belp.
Tieg out the project, GOT would pro-
vide luch funds Al an equity contri-
btioo  to TPO.
L  Section 3.02                 (b) If TPAO's accousts receivable                 There is no record of GOT ever being called upon
exceed its sale for the previous             to provide the difference.
two mouths, GOT would provide much
difference.



- 21 -
A=1
Par 4 of 4
Section olf Agreemt                Substuee of Covnaut                          ltent of Compliuce
....................               .............................. .......................................... ..........
U  Sectiee 3.13                (c) The  empuibility for t?tO                   Coplied ui;a, thoyth late
ezehuge looses from the petroltu
isported fom  January 1, 1911, mld
be trusferred from TPIO to IPUS.
Li Sectioe 3.05                (d) It   ld  islpiemt a plu  to streul-    Thre vore delays Is the pmeste tioe of a piu  of
this GMP  ie order to retais qual-         actios by G6? to strength., CHI. for a long tine
ified satiosal  Wecialist  in pet-         GO? did aot take say action oc the cousultutc
roleu  esploration, production aid         recomeadatioos. At the end of 1314, the  ak  took
legislation,                               the initiative of hiring a coaueltut to diao
the eeds of OD?A, ud to develop a pleu  of aetioa.
The plan proposed a trainin period for geologists,
engiseers and other professional at the offiese of
lEergy Resources Coservatios Board in Calgary,
Canada. GDPA personnel received traiaing is well data
storage and analysis.



- 22 -
ANNEX 2
TURKEY
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1916-TU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PROJECT COSTS
(US$ Millions)
ADDraisal Estimate           Actual           X Project
Local  Foreign  Total         Local Foreign Total   Cost
Seismic Surveys,
Data Processing and
Reprocessing         3.0     9.4    12.4             30.2   10.0   40.2   62
Technical Assistance
to TPAO               0.9     2.8      3.7             0.2    1.5    1.7    3
Training
a) TPAO             --       0.2      0.2             0.2    0.2    0.4    1
b) MOE (GDPA)       --       0.1      0.1            --      0.1    0.1
Exploration Drilling 10.0       4.0    14.0             7.9   11.5   19.4   30
Technical Assistance
to GDPA               0.5     1.0      1.6             0.5   --       0.5    1
Energy Efficiency
Audits                0.6      2.0     2.6             0.6    1.6    2.2    3
Subtotal              15.0    19.5    34.5             39.6   24.9   64.5  100
Physical Contingency  2.6       2.7     5.3    15      --     --      --
Price Contingency      2.4      2.8     5.2    15      --     --      --
TOTAL                 20.0    25.0    45.0   130       39.6   24.9   64.5  100



- 23 -
ANNEX 3
PZTROLDU ZXPLORATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1916-TU)
PROJECT COSPLNTION UEPORT
SCEEDULE Of DISIURSDIZNTS
MS$ Killioss)
Actual *
IBRD Fiscal Year      Appraisal Eotimte            Actual           S of Appraisal
an4 Ouarter               Culative               Cuwlative          Estimete
iii
March 31                1.0                    0.0               0.0
June 30                 4.0                    0.0               0.0
1921
September 30            7.0                    0.00              0.0
December 31            11.0                    0.01              0.1
March 31               14.0                    0.36              2.6
June 30                17.0                    0.69              4.1
1983
September 30           20.0                    1.29              6.5
December 31            22.0                    1.91              8.7
March 31               23.0                    1.99              8.7
June 30                24.0                    2.31              9.6
198L4
September 30           25.0                    2.7?';           10.8
December 31            --                      4.45             17.8
March 31               --                      6.92             27.7
June 30                --                     10.13             40.5
September 30           --                     11.51             46.0
December 31            --                     12.41             49.6
March 31               --                     13.05             52.2
June 30                --                     13.34             '3.4
121h
September 30           --                     15.17             60.7
December 31            --                    20.06              80.2
March 31               --                     21.94             87.8
June 30                --                     24.79             99.2
1987
September 30           --                    24.87              99.5
LaU Closint                 12/S2                 12/45



- 24 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1916-TU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WELL TESTING RESULTS
Unur a.Shallo  Wells (Osmancik Formatiqn)
Wells            Flow Rate              -WHFP-       Choke        Observation
(gas:  MMCFD)           (psi)       (inch)
(liquid: BBL/D)
U-01             gas:  0.04                90        1/8
U-02             gas:  0.65               400        1/4
U-03             Dry well
U-04             gas:  0.50               470        1/4
U-05             gas:  0.35               230        1/4       Project well
U-06             gas:  1.00               170        1/2
U-07             gas:  0.27               100        1/4       Project well
U-08             Dry well                                      Project well
U-09             Dry well
U-10             gas:  0.08                40        1/4
Umurca Deep Wells (Cevlan and Hamitabad Formations)
U-1              gas:  1.25               200        1/2
H-1              gas:  0.20               120        1/4       Project well
C-1             gas:  1.04                100        1/8
C-2             Dry well



- 25 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 4
Southeast Turkey Wells
Well         Characteristics                                         Observation
Cukurtas-l   Initial flow of oil:  400 BPD; Gravity 350 API          Project Well
water: 70 BPD
Cukurtas-2   Dry well (off structure)
Cukurtas-3   Dry well (off structure)
Cukurtas-4   oil:  16 BPD
water: 65 BPD
Cukurt'w-5   (being tested)
Bati-Kozluca-l                                                       Initial
flow of oil: 80 BPD;
Gravity:  130 API (pumping unit); water:  0.6           Project Well
Bati Kozluca Initial flow of oil: 80 BPD;
2, 3 & 5     Gravity:  130 (pumping unit);water 0.6
Akpinar -1    Strong oil shows                                       Project well
Akpinar-2    Initial flow of oil:  232 BPD;
Gravity: 290 API (pumping unit)
Buyuk Pirin-l                                                        Oil shows
Project well
Kucuk Pirin-l                                                        Dry well
Project well
Kinik-l      Dry well                                                Project well
Mutlu-l      Dry well                                                Project well
K. Suvarli-l Dry well                                                Project well
Karabag-l    Dry well                                                ProJect well
G. Kinik-l   Dry well
Tumay-1      Dry well                                                Project well
Bati Firat-2 Initial flow of oil: 300 BPD; Gravity: 320 API



- 26 -
ANNEX 5
TURKEY
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1916-TU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEW FIELD DISCOVERIES
Cukurtas    Akpinar      Bati Kozluca  Bati Firat
Length - km                      1.8         5.4             4.5          2.1
Width - km                       0.7         0.7             1.1           1.6
Closure - km2                    0.84        2.65            3.88         2.4
Pay Zone                      Mardin      Mardin         Alt Sinan      Mardin
Carbonates Carbonates      Carbonates    Carbonates
Depth - m                     2,820       3,120           1,514        2,360
Thickness - m                    60          30              23           65
Porosity - X                      2           5              25            5
Saturation - X                   80          77              77           70
Estimated Oil in Place
(volumetrically -                 8        10.6            100            35
million barrels)
Estimated Recovery                 20          20               2           25
Factor - %
Estimated Recoverable
Reserves -                      1.6         2.1             2.0          8.7
million ba-rels)
Gravity of Oil OAPI                34          34              13            36
Number of Wells Drilled              6          4               5             9
Number of Wells Producing            2          2               4             5
Production per Well - BPD          40         125              65          336
Total Field Production - BPD       81         247             260        1,680



- 27 -
ANNEX 6
TURKEY
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1916-TU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUMMARY BALANCE SHEETS OF TPAO AS OF
DECEMBER 31, 1984, 1985, 1986
(TL Billion)
As of              As of             As of
Dec. 31, 1984      Dec. 31. 1985    Dec. 31, 1986
ASSETS
Current Assets                         134.6               201.1             280.4
Cash and Deposits           35.8              106.6              191.4
Accounts Receivable         95.2               87.5               73.1
Other Current Assets         3.6                7.0               15.9
Less
Current Liabilities:                    94.3               104.2              89.0
Accounts Payable            59.0               12.2               23.1
Short-term Loans             3.3               14.9               20.0
Other Current Liabilities
(mainly taxes)          32.0               77.1                45.9
Net Working Capital                        40.3               96.9             191.4
Investment in Subsidiaries                 51.0              110.8             151.0
Fixed Assets, at cost
less depreciation                    155.4              205.3              290.3
Net Assets                             246.7               413.0             632.7
Financed by
Long Term Debt                             45.5               79.0              99.1
Stockholders' Equity                      201.2              334.0             533.6
Total Capitalization                      246.7              413.0             632.7
Current Ratio                               1.43               1.93              3.2
Debt-Equity                                18:82              19:81            16:84



- 28 -
ANNEX 7
TURKEY
PETROLEUK EXPLORATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1916-TU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUMMARY SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS OF
TPAO FOR 1984-1986
(TL Billions)
1294      i1 2i8
Sources
Net Income                                  48.4       134.5      200.1
Depreciation and Depletion                  13.9        21.0       29.8
Loan Drawals                                13.5        12.4        17.5
Equity Capital Increase                     50.5         -         -
126.3      167.2       247.4
Applications
Increase in Assets (net)                    58.0       96.9       151.9
Taxes                                       16.7         9.3         0.0
Dividends                                    7.0         0.0        0.0
Statutory Funds                              2.2         1.4        6.6
Capital Expenditures                        42.4        60.        88.9
126.3      167.9       247.4



- 29 -
ANNEX 8
TURKEY
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
(LOACi 1916-TU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUMMARY OF TPAO SUBSIDIARIES
The following sumary of the subsidiaries, listed by year of incorporation,
give. the percentage of TPAn ownership, the field of activity and the size of
the operation:
(1)  IPRAS (1960, 100 percent interest) is Turkey's largest refinery
(7,140,000 tons in 1978). The refinery was originally
established by TPAO and Caltex. The Caltex portion was
purchased by TPAO in 1972 to make IPRAS wholly owned.
(2)  PETKIM (1965, 33 percent interest) operates a petrochemicil
complex at Kocaeli-Yarimca which produces fourteen petrochemical
products and feedstocks (292,000 tons in 1978) and imports
eleve14 petrochemicals (80,000 tons). PETKIM itself owns three
subsidiaries, PETLAS Rubber Industrial and Commercial
Corporation, Cyprus-Turkish Industrial Administration Holding
Corporation, and PETETER Chemical Industry and Commercial
Corporation.
(3)  IPRAGAS (1922, 49 percent interest) bottles and markets LPG gas
for household consumptior (196,000 tons of LPG in 1978). It
also has an interest in two subsidiaries which market gas
household appliances and manufacture gas bottles.
(4)  TUMAS (1966, 19 percent interest) offers engineering, consulting
and contracting services domestically.
(5)  IGSAS (1970, 100 percent interest) manufactures urea fertilizer
(512,000 tons annual capacity) at a plant near the IPRAS
refinery.
(6)  DITAS (197X, 45 percent interest) is responsible for marine
transport of crude and products (6 million tons per year) with
31 leased vessels.
(7)  BOTAS (1974, 100 percent interest) runs the Turkish portion of a
981 km. 40 inch pipeline connecting Iraqi oilfields with the
Turkish Mediterranean port of Yumurtalik. Completed in 1977,
only 38 percent of its 35 million ton capacity was utilized in
1978.
(8)  ADAS (1974, 45 percent interest) wholesales petroleum products
(1.8 million tons in 1978) both domestically and internationally.
(9)  Cyprus-Turkish Petroleum Company (1974, 34 percent interest)
distributes petroleum products in the Turkish sector of Cyprus.
(10) ISILITAS (1975, 60 percent interest) markets fuel oil (375,000
tons in 1978).



- 30 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
BOUOWR COMIUIS
ZCZC OERP0193 JUS0432
OEDD2
REF : TCP1 MET
* OEDD2 *
JUS0432 JG0046 IN 08/09:09 OUT 08/09:13
42626 TPGM TR
TPAO- ANKARA                  8.6.1988                     00-SK
(AR) 13.02
ATTN: MR. ALEXANDER NOUICKI. CHIEF
OPERATIONS EVALUATION DEPT.
REF: YOUR LETTER DATED MAY 18,1988
REFERRING TO LOAN 1916-TU, UE HAVE NO OBJECTION
FOR THE PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT PREPARED BY EMENA OFFICE.
KID REGARDS.
BUMIN GURSES         OZAN SUNGURLU
MSGNO : 2587
42626 TPGM TR
42626 TP6M TR
=06081130



-31-                          ANNX 9
Page 2 of 2
GOT COMMENTS
1S-   -iS    13151   DIS EKOI K ILS. ON. MD.                90 4 :322       P.O1
IC.
AUIN we MI TAMT M01UALU
1S JUN u
hyu   :   DZt-IV-1-A                           CJ                          911   Nnr S 
FAM  MESAJI
Mr. NOWICK! t
Chief, Policy-Based Lending                                  MES           oae
Industry, Publi.c Utilities                       oradCOtt oteav
and Urban lector uO tase itt*trdnCtnte 'as necessa"
Operations Evaluation Department              Into
Re;,-Your letter dated May 18.1988 concerning Project
Completion Report of Turkey Petroleum Exploration Project (Credit
1916-TU).
Dear Mr. Nowicki,
We would lika to inform you that we do not have any comente
on the above-mentiuned repor, since it reflects the present status of the
project properly.
We will appreciate your sending us a coVy of the final version
of the report.
Regards.
T w cay/ALTA
DepuLy Diroefr General of
External Economic Arrlar.



BULGAR I A,r--"~_ '_._
--_ _---i   _,  *                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U   S   S    R_
GREECE  f                                                                                                                                                                   _--S 
o-                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Komlen.z 
a  .                                                                                                                                          k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
i_                       Eslu#hfO                    ~~~~~~ANKARA    Q, 
'   t                                O~~~~~~~~~~Afyon
(  Ogfjlzmir                                                      .,,      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                             ~      ~       ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~oKroysmri  _     .) 
cAyPed.shesn Yu                                                                                                                                                                        urS</  . / I   j   
TURKISH PETROLEUM SECTOR t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Awi*non                                                   ol. 6- i_o 
Gos tlelds         IlIOAtf If tS O  ,    10D    ,    xoo    ,    A           LEBANON             (       r u R KeE f    I    'rd.k                              IR AQ
___-  TP^O  X __  _ _ _ / ' SPi { . H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-to o 
_ - Irey-Turiey,cruzteoll _____~~ ___d w _ \ sus ^sP s . ._->. _--Rc0                      o   _
s --   .   _.       30     ~~ S-~              w __ol                         Z;So        _vi      IltA IA@|ee  s t}   sA                                         + - Iskendeouno



