Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY             FILE  COPY
Rept No. P-2887-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
October 30, 1980
This dUmean hs arestrkice dibutio and may abe _ed by redpien ony in tbe performace Of
tbelircil dtiwes. Its contents my  n  otherwise be dislsezd withot Wocld Dhk authorztIon.



TURKEY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      Calendar 1978      July 1979      Jan. 1980 /1    October 1980
US Dollar 1    -      TL 24.28        TL 47.10 /2    TL 70.0 /3       TL 83.50 /3
TL 1           -     US$ 0.04         US$ 0.02        US$ 0.01        US$ 0.01
/1  Since January 1980 the rate is being adjusted for the differential
inflation between Turkey and its major trading partners. TL 70/$l was
used for this report.
/2  Except for imports of crude oil, petroleum products and fertilizer raw
materials, and exports of agricultural products benefitting from official
price supports, for which it was TL 35 = US$1.00.
/3  Except for imports of fertilizers and insecticides/pesticides, as well as
raw materials and inputs for their manufacture, for which the rate was
TL 55 !- US$1.00, and is TL 70.0 - US$1.00 as from October 1980.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Barrel (Bbl)                 =  0.159 cubic meters (i3)
1 Cubic foot (CF)              =  0.028 m3
1 British Thermal Unit (BTU)  =  0.252 kilocalories (Kcal)
1 Kilowatt hour (Kwh)          =  2.978 Kcal
1 Metric ton (mT) of oil,
350 API                    =  7.3 Bbl
1 Kilometer (km)               =  0.621 miles
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Turkey          : March 1 to February 28
Turkiye Petrolleri
Anonim Ortakligi (TPAO)  : January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Bbls    -   Barrels
BOTAS   -   Boru Hatilari ile Petrol Tasima A.S. (Petroleum Pipeline
Corporation)
CO2     -   Carbon dioxide
EOR     -   Enhanced Oil Recovery
GDPA    -   General Directorate of Petroleum Affairs
GOT     -   Government of Turkey
GWh     -   Gegawatt (1,000,000 kilowatts)
IPRAS   -   Istanbul Petrol Rafinerisi Anonim Sirketi
MCF/d   -   Thousand cubic feet per day
MENR    -   Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources
MMCF/d  -   Million cubic feet per day
MW      -   Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
SPO     -   State Planning Organization
TEK     -   Turkiye Elektrik Kuruma (Turkish Electricity Authority)
TKI     -   Turkiye Komur Isletmeleri Kurumu (Turkish Coal
Enterprises)
TOE     -   Metric tons of oil equivalent in heating value
TPAO    -   Turkiye Petrolleri Anonim Ortakligi (Turkish Petroleum
Corporation)
TPY     -   Tons per year
TSKB    -   Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi (Industrial Development
Bank of Turkey)
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Republic of Turkey
Beneficiaries:         Turkiye Petrolleri Anonim Ortakligi (TPAO), and the
Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources and its General
Directorate of Petroleum Affairs (GDPA).
Amount:                US$25.0 million
Terms.                 Seventeen years including four years of grace, at 9.25
percent interest per annum.
Relending Terms;       $21.7 million would be re-lent to TPAO for 17 years
including four years grace at 11.10 percent. TPAO would
bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:  The proposed project will;  (a) contribute to Turkey's
efforts to accelerate the exploration and development of
its petroleum potential; (b) to strengthen TPAO's
exploration activities through the introduction of
modern geophysical, data processing and interpretation
techniques; (c) assist GDPA in its efforts to attract
foreign oil companies to explore in Turkey and to get
needed expert advice for negotiating exploration/
production contracts; and (d) help promote effective
energy conservation by identifying energy savings
through energy audits.
The project includes: (i) geological studies; regional
and basin studies integrating existing geological, geo-
physical and well data in southeastern Turkey, and a
parallel study of petroleum geochemistry; (ii) technical
assistance and training; provision of experts to help
TPAO in specialized areas of carbonate geology, reser-
voir geology, geophysical data control and interpre-
tation and training of TPAO and Ministry of Energy
staff, in the fields of geology, geochemistry and geo-
physics and provision of experts to help GDPA play an
effective role in attracting foreign participation in
exploration; (iii) seismic geophysical surveys including
data interpretation in southeastern Turkey, by two
seismic crews each for two years; (iv) exploratory
drilling of four to six medium-depth wells about 3000
meters deep, based on the results of geophysical and
geological studies and seismic surveys; (v) a program of
' This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 1.1 -
energy audits in the power generating sub-sector and a
group of selected industrial sub-sectors, with a view to
improve energy efficiency and promote energy
conservation.
Except for the exploratory drilling component, which has
the normal risks inherent in oil exploration, the other
parts of the project are in the nature of studies and
technical assistance designed to develop a sound
exploration program and reduce exploration risks.
Project Cost Estimates;
Local    Foreign    Total
…--   (US$ million)------
Seismic surveys and data processing           3.0        9.4       12.4
Technical assistance to TPAO                  0.9        2.8        3.7
Training                                       -         0.3        0.3
Exploratory drilling                         10.0        4.0       14.0
Technical assistance to GDPA                  0.5        1.0        1.5
Energy efficiency audits                      0.6        2.0        2.6
15.0      19.5       34.5
Physical contingency                     2.6        2.7        5.3
Price contingency                        2.4        2.8        5.2
Total                                   20.0       25.0      45.0
Financing Plan;
Local    Fori        Total
------(US$ million)------
Bank                                      -        25.0       25.0
TPAO                                    18.6         -        18.6
Government                               1.4         -         1.4
Total                                   20.0       25.0       45.0
Estimated Disbursements;
FY          81     82      83     84
…---U-S  million)------
Annual                                   4.0   13.0    7.0    1.0
Cumulative                               4.0   17.0   24.0   25.0
Rate of Return:            Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report;  Report No. 3092-TU dated October 17, 1980



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Turkey for the equivalent of US$25.0 million to help
finance foreign exchange costs of a petroleum exploration project. The loan
would have a term of 17 years including 4 years of grace, with interest at
9.25 percent per annum. An equivalent of $21.7 million will be relent to
Turkiye Petrolleri Anonim Ortakligi (TPAO) for the same period at an interest
rate of 11.10 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A Special Economic Mission visited Turkey in April/May 1979 to
evaluate the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1979-1983). Its report entitled "Turkey;
Policies and Prospects for Growth" (No. 2657a-TU dated December 12, 1979) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on December 26, 1979 and its Postscript
on March 24, 1980. A small mission visited Turkey in May 1980 to update
information and Bank analysis of the country's economic prospects. Its
findings are reflected below. Annex I contains the Basic Country Data.
Development Trends and Policies
3. As the result of a strong commitment to rapid growth and modernization,
GDP increased at an average annual rate of 6.4 percent, 6.7 percent and 7.2
percent respectively, during the First Plan (1963-67), Second Plan (1968-
1972), and Third Plan (1973-1977) periods. This compares favorably with the
experience of 55 "middle income" developing countries, whose GDP growth
averaged a little under 6.0 percent per annum between 1960-1978. Moreover,
the relatively high growth rate in Turkey was achieved without significant
deposits of oil or other important natural resources.
4.       Growth was accompanied by significant social changes.  Although
population grew annually at 2.5 percent, rapid GDP growth allowed substantial
advances in per capita income. However, rising income levels were not accom-
panied by better income distribution. Although basic needs have been met,
significant sectoral and regional inequalities in income continue.
5.       The public sector has played a key role in Turkey's development.
Between 1963-1977, its share in total fixed investment fluctuated around 50
1/ This Part is identical to Part I of the President's Reports on the
Structural Adjustment Loan (Supplement) (P-2888-TU) expected to be
considered by the Executive Directors in late November and the Bati Raman
Enhanced Oil Recovery Field Demonstration Project (P-2886-TU) dated
October 30, 1980.



percent, and its share of fixed investment in manufacturing increased from 21
to nearly 49 percent. The public sector dominates basic industries. Never-
theless, the private sector has emerged as an increasingly important and
dynamic element in the economy and is beginning to shift its orientation from
consumer goods to intermediate and investment goods, and from the domestic
market to exports. Private sector investment increased at nearly 11.5 percent
per year in real terms during 1967-1977 compared to an average annual increase
of only 4.8 percent between 1963 and 1967.
6.       Turkish development between 1963-1977, however, exhibited a number of
structural characteristics which are of considerable relevance for future
development policy. First, for a country of Turkey's size and per capita
income, it has a very low level of exports relative to GDP--about 4 percent in
1977--as against a more or less "normal" import level of around 20 percent for
middle income countries; this highlights the vulnerability of the balance of
payments and the importance of export development to sustain the needed inflow
of foreign exchange resources. Second, while the level of investment relative
to GDP increased rapidly and compares favorably with other developing
countries, mobilization of domestic savings has lagged; the ratio of domestic
savings to GDP, is well below the average for middle income countries; the
growing gap between domestic savings and investment led in the mid-1970s to a
relatively high level of external borrowing, and domestic inflationary
pressures emanating from excess demand and deficit financing. Third, a
relatively high proportion of the labor force is still in agriculture, reflec-
ting significant disguised unemployment and the need for accelerated job
creation in non-agricultural activities; that in industry is low compared to
other large middle income countries; furthermore, the relatively inadequate
generation of additional employment has become more serious following the near
cessation of workers' migration to Europe since 1974. Fourth, despite the
growing dynamism of the private sector, the industrial scene is dominated by
inefficient State Economic Enterprises (SEEs) which have not been exposed to
market forces and serve not only economic but social goals; their growing
deficits have imposed an inflationary burden on the budget, while their
ambitious investment programs were financed through Central Bank borrowings,
since their controlled prices have, until recently not enabled most of them to
generate sufficient cash to cover costs or investment expenditures. Fifth,
due to the successes achieved since the early sixties through economic
planning, there has been an increasing tendency to plan to a micro-level and
seek to achieve changes through administrative fiat; however, the economy has
reached a stage where such excessive reliance on this becomes counter produc-
tive; planning needs to be increasingly geared towards setting a framework in
which market forces could secure the desired economic results in both the
public and private sectors.
The Economic Crisis and Stabilization Efforts
7. These institutional and structural characteristics of the economy made it
particularly vulnerable to the sharp increase in import prices (including oil)
in 1974 and the simultaneous occurence of recession, inflation and rising
unemployment in the industrial countries. These factors played a key part in
the deterioration of the economy. However, the politically weak governments,



their policies in response to these factors and their efforts to pursue a high
growth policy despite the worsening international environment through
increasing reliance on short-term external financing, together created forces
that brought about the economic crisis in mid-1977 which is still continuing.
The detailed analysis of this crisis, and of Turkey's attempts to stabilize
the economy in the short-run up to late 1979, is provided in the above-
mentioned Special Economic Report and Postscript, as well as in paras. 8 to 15
of the President's Report (dated February 29, 1980) for the Structural Adjust-
ment Loan approved by the Board on March 25, 1980.
8.        Despite domestic and international efforts, 1979 was another diffi-
cult year for the economy: production stagnated, unemployment increased,
inflation accelerated, the balance of payments position remained tight, export
performance was poor, severe import rationing continued and the external debt
position remained precarious. Policy initiatives taken till then proved
inadequate to reverse the tide, as political and economic uncertainties con-
tinued to erode the impact of the measures taken.
9.        Compared to a growth of 3 percent in 1978, GDP stagnated in 1979.
Value added in agriculture increased by 2.5 percent, and in services by about
I percent, but in industry value added declined by about 2 percent. In agri-
culture, further growth was held back by a sizeable decline in production of
industrial crops, mainly cotton, and a bad olive crop; the area cultivated
declined, due to shortages of fuel and fertilizers. In industry, worsening
shortages of imported raw materials and energy, especially oil, led to a
decline in production of about 3.5 percent. Production of manufacturing SEEs
declined by about 2 percent, and was manifested by decreases of 28 percent in
cement production, 9 percent in steel production and 51 percent in certain
petroleum production and processing operations. In contrast, the construction
and transport sectors grew modestly, but insufficiently to overcome the
decline in other sectors. This stagnation was accompanied by unprecedented
inflation of about 65 percent in 1979.
10.      The overall public sector deficit increased from TL 80 billion in
1978 to TL 132 billion in 1979. It was financed mainly by borrowing from the
Central Bank (TL 70 billion). The consolidated budget and the operations of
the SEEs were almost equally responsible for the enlarged deficit. The
deterioration in the consolidated budget was caused mainly by a sharp increase
in transfers to the SEEs, which in 1979 amounted to TL 89 billion.
11.      On the external account, there was a marginal decline in the value of
recorded exports of goods to $2.3 billion, although in volume terms, exports
actually declined by an estimated 17 percent. The value of merchandise
imports was about 10 percent higher than the previous year at $5.1 billion;
but due to substantial price increases, the volume is estimated to have
declined by 19 percent. The current account deficit in 1979 was the same as
in 1978, i.e. around $1.7 billion.
12.       Turkey achieved some success in diversifying the sources, and
increasing the level, of M&LT commitments, including $250 million in project
credits from the Saudi Fund. Perhaps the most important arrangement arrived



at was the May 1979 OECD sponsored pledging of $1.45 billion in special assis-
tance, including about $900 million in M&LT bilateral credits and export
credits, besides $407 million of medium-term credits from commercial banks
(finalized in September 1979). However, actual capital inflows were about the
same as the previous year.
13.      Also, throughout 1979, Turkey made a major effort to alleviate the
critical burden of external debt through: (a) slowing the growth of shortterm
liabilities; (b) debt relief arrangements; and (c) efforts to pursue new
sources of credits, especially M&LT credits. The first debt relief operation,
arranged through the OECD Consortium for Turkey in May 1978, involved consoli-
dation of $1.14 billion in arrears on guaranteed short-term and bilateral M&LT
debt, as well as amounts due over the thirteen month period May 21, 1978 to
June 30, 1979. A second major rescheduling took place in July 1979, involving
payments of about $1.02 billion on official bilateral and private guaranteed
credits due between July 1, 1979 and June 30, 1980. A third major arrange-
ment, finalized in July and August 1979 with commercial banks, rescheduled
convertible lira deposits ($2.3 billion), banker's credits ($429 million) and
third party reimbursement credits ($300 million). About $317 million in oil
debt was also rescheduled. The total amount thus rescheduled was about $5.5
billion. This was perhaps the largest debt rescheduling operation anywhere.
Even so, net arrears of about $500 million emerged given the remaining high
debt service burden in 1979.
January 1980 Structural Adjustment Program and Policy Objectives
14.      Against this background, it was quite clear that drastic and painful
stabilization measures were not enough to reverse the adverse economic tide.
What was needed, was a major program of long-term structural adjustments, if
the economy was first to be nursed back to normalcy and then to resume viable
growth. Such a bold and far-reaching program of policies to effect structural
adjustments in the economy over the medium term was announced on January 25,
1980, accompanied by initial measures to implement adjustments in certain
critical areas. These were described and discussed in detail in the
President's Report (No. P-2725-TU dated February 29, 1980) for the Structural
Adjustment Loan. The policy objectives underlying, the program, and the
measures it initiated, represent a basic departure from past planning
objectives. Turkey has undertaken, through it, the essential first steps to
foster major structural and institutional changes in the key economic areas.
15.      The program's stated goal of "bringing about a major reorientation of
the economy" calls for; (i) greater reliance on market mechanisms and forces,
by both the public and private sectors; (ii) reduction in the rate of infla-
tion; (iii) improved management of the balance of payments and external debts;
(iv) policies to encourage the public and private sectors to be efficient and
internationally competitive; (v) the implementation of rational exchange rate
policies and of measures encouraging exports; (vi) domestic resource mobiliza-
tion efforts to be substantially augmented through increased tax efforts,
realistic SEE pricing, and increased private savings via the banking system
and the development of financial markets; (vii) an investment policy aimed at



- 5 -
fuller utilization of existing productive capacity and completion of ongoing
projects requiring modest inputs, and tailored to scarce resources; and (viii)
conditions to stimulate foreign investments in oil, industry and agriculture.
16.      Successful implementation of this program over the medium-term, will
require persistence and courageous action on the part of the Government. It
will also call for substantial support from the international community, with-
out which it is unlikely to succeed. However, if Turkey implements it
vigorously, and periodically makes critical in-depth reviews as to the impact
of the measures and what further modifications and adjustments are needed to
achieve the program's economic goals, it will strengthen the basis for
Turkey's creditworthiness and re-establish a path of stable economic growth.
17.      Following the announcement of this program, the IMF approved a modi-
fication of the terms of the July 1979 Standby Arrangement and the release of
larger second and third tranches on February 21 and March 24, 1980. In addi-
tion, SDR 71.6 million ($93 million) in compensatory financing for export
shortfalls was provided on February 21, 1980, together with the modification
of the Standby. Together, this resulted in the provision of $301 million (SDR
231.6 million), with the remaining $26 million (SDR 20 million) to be provided
in June. However, on June 18, this Standby was cancelled. Instead, the IMF
Board approved a new three-year Standby Arrangement involving SDR 1.25 billion
($1.63 billion), with SDR 460 million ($600 million) in the first year, SDR
400 million ($522 million) in the second year and SDR 390 million ($509
million) in the third year. The key conditions of the new Standby are that;
(i) exchange rate policy is to be kept more flexible; (ii) the financial
position of the public sector is to be improved, mainly as a result of the
restructuring of the operational policies of the SEEs; (iii) monetary condi-
tions are to be kept extremely tight, as a result of the observance of limits
on Central Bank lending; and (iv) interest rates are to be adjusted to reflect
market conditions.
18.      In addition, Germany took the lead in organizing the provision of
sizeable external assistance, as well as a further debt relief operation. In
meetings under OECD auspices in March and April, $1.16 billion of bilateral
aid was pledged, with much more rapid disbursements than in 1979. The Bank
also supported OECD's and IMF's efforts through a $200 million Structural
Adjustment Loan in March 1980. Furthermore, about $2.5 billion in service
payments to OECD countries on public and publicly-guaranteed debts falling due
prior to June 1983 were rescheduled, again under OECD auspices, in July 1980.
This included all arrears up to June 30, 1980, payments due prior to June 1983
on debt not previously rescheduled, and payments due up to June 1981 on debt
already rescheduled in 1978 or 1979. Ninety percent of these sums were
rescheduled over 8 to 10 years, including 4 to 5 years of grace. With these
developments, Turkey secured debt relief estimated at $1.1 billion in 1980 and
another $0.8 billion in 1981, with smaller amounts thereafter. The only
sizeable new commitment in recent months has been a $250 million cash loan on
15 year low-interest terms from Saudi Arabia, of which $100 million has been
disbursed, with another $100 million scheduled for December and the balance
for March 1981. Turkey has approached leading commercial banks to secure a



- 6 -
softening of the terms of the August 1979 rescheduling agreement. After con-
siderable delay due to wariness on the part of banks both of a new resche-
duling and, to some extent, of extending new credit to Turkey, a modest syndi-
cated loan is under discussion. The Government will try to reduce to the
extent possible the current and prospective large net outflow of funds to the
commercial banks.
Economic Developments in 1980 and Outlook for 1981
19.      As expected, the initial impact of the January 1980 package has been
to exacerbate many of the economic pressures. Uncertainty about the course of
future policies and about the timing and pace of economic recovery, as well as
tight monetary conditions aimed at reducing aggregate demand, have slowed
investments and economic growth. Devaluation and the removal of price
controls on both private business and SEEs, while necessary to alleviate
allocative distortions in the economy, contributed to a large initial upsurge
in the rate of inflation. Also as expected, the financial rehabilitation of
the SEEs and their reorientation to market conditions has only begun, and will
require more fundamental changes than price liberalization alone over the
medium term. Budgetary transfers to the SEEs to cover remaining operating
subsidies and investment expenditures have continued to rise. The budget
position as a whole continues to be weak. It is still too early to say
whether the initial adjustment phase is over. However, preliminary data
suggest that the worst may be past. Inflation has come down sharply, and
indeed more rapidly than expected (next paragraph); the impact of higher
import prices (especially for oil) has been alleviated (though so far only for
1980) by a commensurate increase in capital inflows; and recent production
figures suggest that 1980 may see a very modest resumption of economic growth.
20.      For the full year, GDP growth is likely to be between zero and 2
percent, with growth in agriculture of about 2.5 percent, but stagnation in
industry. Public investment has continued to fall in real terms for lack of
financial resources, and private investment remains depressed. Unemployment
is still rising, and real disposable incomes are falling. As mentioned above,
inflation--which averaged over 100 percent on an annual basis in early
1980--has since slowed considerably, and expectations are that over the
remainder of this year it will be about 2 percent per month. The fiscal and
monetary situation remains difficult. There has been a substantial increase
in Government expenditures over previous forecasts, in line with inflation.
However, there is evidence of tax revenues lagging behind inflation, and sub-
stantial arrears have built up in tax collection. SEE operations will show a
small profit this year after several years of mounting deficits. However, to
finance their investments and debt repayments, budgetary transfers to SEEs
will rise again to TL 138 billion. As a result, the budget deficit is likely
to be TL 155 billion in spite of a further accumulation of Government arrears
vis-a-vis the private sector. Pressures have therefore built up to expand
Central Bank credit, which is strictly limited under the IMF Standby Arrange-
ment. Nevertheless, the first discussions under the Standby were satisfac-
torily concluded at the end of August, and the second drawing was made avail-
able on schedule on September 29. However, a request is being made to the IMF
Board shortly for a small increase in the ceilings on Central Bank net



- 7 -
domestic assets and credit to the public sector to accommodate crop purchases
by the Soil Products Office (particularly of wheat) without impinging on the
availability of financing for the private sector, especially for exports.
21.      The balance of payments position remains quite tight.  Over the first
eight months of 1980, the value of merchandise exports was only 6 percent
higher than in the corresponding period of 1979.  However, taking into account
the seasonal rise in agricultural exports, the end of various labor disputes
in industry, and the rising trend in production, and provided markets recently
established in the Middle East are not long disrupted by the Iran-Iraq war,
the Government projects exports of $2.8 billion for the year as a whole, com-
pared to $2.3 billion last year. While the value of merchandise imports is
expected to be considerably higher than in 1979--$6.7 billion (including $3.2
billion for oil) as against t5.1 billion, the volume increase will be negli-
gible due to increases in import prices, especially for oil. As a result,
fairly severe import rationing continues. Workers' remittances have increased
strongly this summer and should reach $1.8 billion for the year as a whole.
Even so, it is estimated that the current account deficit will increase from
$1.7 billion in 1978 and 1979 to $3.1 billion in 1980. Capital inflows will
also be higher than last year, with gross public M&LT disbursements expected
to be about $2.2 billion, given the Government's concerted effort to disburse
the pipeline of OECD sponsored external assistance pledged in May 1979 and
April 1980. Moreover, the massive July rescheduling (para. 18) has eased the
external debt position considerably.
22.      The outlook for 1981 is slightly more promising, although the balance
of payments position is likely to remain extremely difficult. It is too early
to predict the impact the Iran-Iraq war may have, given that these two
countries normally provide nearly 55 percent of Turkey's oil imports on favor-
able terms. Assuming the impact can be mitigated, the growth rate of real GDP
is projected to be about 3 percent, with value added in agriculture and
industry growing on the order of 3 and 4 percent respectively. Investment is
likely to grow only by about 1 percent, after real falls in recent years. The
Government hopes to reduce the rate of inflation substantially again. The
external position is expected to remain tight. Exports should grow by about
20 percent to $3.4 billion, and imports by about 16 percent to $7.8 billion,
in nominal terms. As in 1980, the volume increase in imports is likely to be
negligible due to increases in import prices, especially for oil, and hence
import rationing will have to continue. With only a modest rise in service
receipts and workers' remittances, the current account deficit in 1981 is
expected to be $3.6 billion, or $500 million more than in 1980. Turkey has
already begun to make preparations to meet the very large financing gap in
1981, and hopes to secure considerably higher capital inflows than in 1980,
particularly gross public M&LT disbursements which need to be around $3.5
billion. Apart from the Bank, IMF and commercial bank loans arranged or being
processed, the Government intends to seek further special aid from OECD
members in 1981.
Turkey's Medium-Term Economic Prospects
23.      The international oil situation, following the substantial end-1979
price increases, has a major impact on future prospects. Even if Turkey



- 8 -
allows only a marginal increase in oil imports during 1980-1985 to sustain a
gradual resumption of growth, the oil import bill is estimated to increase
from $3.2 billion in 1980 to $6.1 billion by 1985; as a percentage of merchan-
dise exports and non-factor services, this is equivalent to about 83 percent
in 1980 and is likely to remain at about 70 percent until 1985. The pressure
this will exert on Turkey's already difficult balance of payments position is
obvious.    , projected current account deficit as a percent of GNP in current
dollars increased from 3 percent in 1979 to about 8 percent in 1980 and is
projected to remain at or above 5 percent until 1984. Considering the limita-
tion on available external assistance and given the need for continued sound
external debt management, Turkey can sustain the projected annual current
account deficits of the order of $3-3.5 billion annually in the short run,
given further quick-disbursing assistance in 1981; the deficits are projected
to decline to a sustainable $2.5 billion annually in the next few years.
24.      Taking into account international inflation and the substantial obli-
gations for debt amortization, despite the July 80 debt rescheduling, this
situation necessitates a large and sharply increasing annual average gross
inflow of foreign capital, rising to $4 to 5 billion during the next five
years.   Such major inflows of foreign capital can only be sustained on the
basis of prudent external debt management. In any case, debt service obliga-
tions are likely to remain high over the coming 5 years. In 1979, total debt
service payments were 26 percent of exports of goods, non-factor services and
workers' remittances after rescheduling payments. The ratio is projected to
rise to around 45 percent in 1984, taking account of the July 1980 debt
rescheduling. This, however, should represent the culmination of the finan-
cial consequences of the present crisis and the debt burden should remain
manageable, provided the structural adjustment policies are successfully
implemented and the export drive is sustained.
25.      Given the accumulation of economic problems of the last three years,
the political difficulties, the significantly increased cost of oil imports,
and the difficulty of significantly increasing the net inflow of capital, Bank
projections suggest that GDP growth in real terms may average around 4 percent
p.a. with a real growth of exports about 19 percent p.a. during 1980-1985.
These growth rates appear attainable, assuming continuation of appropriate
economic measures (including those announced in January 1980), and taking into
account the low export base and present underutilization of capacity.
26.      The recent political changes do not change these expectations
regarding economic developments. The military government which assumed power
on September 12 is determined to pursue the program of structural adjustments
announced in January 1980, as well as economic policies and commitments agreed
with the Bank, IMF and members of the OECD Consortium for Turkey. Indeed, two
days after the takeover, both the Bank and the IMF were officially informed of
this decision. A civilian Cabinet, responsible to the military's new National
Security Council, has been named, with the principal architect of the recent
economic policy reforms, Mr. Ozal, assuming the position of Deputy Prime
Minister for economic affairs. Its program confirms the commitment to



continue implementing the January 1980 program, and the intention to introduce
those portions of it which have been blocked hitherto by deadlock in
Parliament.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY 1/
27.      A large lending program for Turkey began following the introduction
of its 1970 Stabilization Program. To date, the Bank/IDA have lent $2,573
million, through 60 projects. Agriculture accounts for 23 percent of funds
lent, industry and DFCs for 37 percent, power for 13 percent and urban
development, transportation, education and tourism for the rest. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as
of September 30, 1980, with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
28.      Since mid-1975 the implementation of private sector projects has been
satisfactory. Political uncertainty, limited coordination amongst ministries
and staffing problems resulted in uneven and delayed project implementation in
the public sector. Therefore, a system of joint project reviews between
Turkey and the Bank was instituted in June 1975. This resulted in distinct,
but modest, improvements up to end 1977. The situation was again reviewed
with the Government in March 1978, and further discussed with the then Prime
Minister in April 1978. Subsequently, Turkey established a new high-level
coordination team. This team set up procedures for monitoring and achieving
realistic implementation and disbursement targets. As of June 1980, disburse-
ments increased to 70 percent of appraisal estimates against 51 percent in
June 1975. The encouraging progress allows cautious optimism that performance
can be gradually improved further, provided it is not eroded by the new
factors including shortages of resources.
29.      Bank lending is aimed at supporting the economic policies initiated
in January 1980, especially; (a) the pursuit of an export oriented develop-
ment strategy; and (b) domestic economic policies aimed at establishing
macro-economic balance, increasing domestic savings, restraining public
investment and reorienting it to reflect the priorities implicit in the
present situation--especially completion of ongoing projects, emphasis on
quick-yielding new investments, and balance of payments impact. The Bank has
discussed with the Government how its overall lending can best contribute to
the latter's medium-term objectives, without projects being handicapped by
past policy and institutional obstacles. A series of proposed structural
adjustment loans are envisaged, at the Government's request, to support its
program of structural adjustments to be implemented in the medium-term,
1/ This part is identical to Part II of the President's Report for the
Structural Adjustment Loan (Supplement) (P-2888-TU) expected to be
considered by the Executive Directors in late November and the Bati Raman
Enhanced Oil Recovery Field Demonstration Project (P-2886-TU) dated
October 30, 1980.



- 10 -
through specific detailed measures and policy actions under the period that
may be covered by each such loan. Agriculture, industry and energy will be
the key sectors for project lending. In agriculture, projects emphasize
livestock, exports, and rural development; in industry (including DFCs), the
emphasis is on promotion of exports and employment, as also the gradual
strengthening of the SEEs. Energy projects underway are in power generation
based on domestic hydro and lignite resources; future projects will emphasize
the oil/gas sub-sector. Projects for urban development and public utilities
supplement these efforts. We propose to maintain a close macroeconomic and
sector dialogue with Turkey. The economic and sector work planned over the
next several months includes special studies of the public investment program
and of industrialization and foreign trade strategy, and completion of sector
memoranda on agriculture and industry. In addition, the progress made in
fostering structural adjustment will be monitored in the context of each
future structural adjustment loan.
30.      A supplement to the Structural Adjustment Loan is expected to be
considered by the Executive Directors in November 1980. Besides this, and the
Bati Raman project being concurrently presented to the Executive Directors,
other projects likely to be presented this fiscal year include loans for a
second fruits and vegetables project, urban employment generation in selected
cities, industrial finance, fertilizer industry rehabilitation, besides a
second structural adjustment loan. Projects being processed for later consi-
deration include; rural development, seed production, sewerage development in
Istanbul, paper or cement modernization and promotion of export oriented
industries.
31.      The Bank Group's share of the estimated total external debt (inclu-
ding short-term obligations) was 8.0 percent in 1979, and is expected to grow
to 10.0 percent by 1981 and 12.5 percent by 1985. Its share of service pay-
ments is projected to fall slightly from 8.8 percent in 1979 to 6.4 percent in
1981, thereafter increasing to 7.6 percent by 1985.
32.      IFC has invested in synthetic yarns, pulp and paper, glass, aluminum,
iron and steel products, motor bicycle engines, piston rings and cylinder
liners, and tourism. It has also invested in TSKB. As of September 30, 1980,
gross IFC commitments totalled about $212 million, of which $94 million were
still held by IFC. New investment opportunities are being pursued.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND OIL SUB-SECTOR I/
Background
33.      Petroleum supply has become the focal point of the economic problems
that Turkey faces today. Indeed, it would be difficult to overemphasize the
critical nature of the problem. The share of crude oil in Turkey's overall
1/ This part is identical to Part III of the President's Report for the Bati
Raman Enhanced Oil Recovery Field Demonstration Project (P-2886-TU) dated
October 30, 1980.



energy requirements has increased sharply o'pr the last two decades, from 20
percent in 1960 to 54 percent in 197P.  Domee'ic oil production, which
declined slowly through most of the 1970's in the absence of significant new
oil discoveries, currently accounts for only about 17 percent of Turkey's
overall oil requirements of about 17 million tons per annum. While petroleum
imports of $1.4 billion in 1978 absorbed 60 percent of merc jidise exports
earnings, they were about $2.4 billion in 1979, consuming all merchandise
export earnings, and are likely to total about $3.2 billion in 1980.
Energy Resources
34.      Although coal was Turkey's most important energy source in the
immediate post-war period, its production has been decreasing for the past 20
years. In 1978, estimated recoverable reserves of hard coal were about 120
million tons of oil equivalent (TOE), while production was about 2.7 million
TOE, i.e., 16 percent of total energy production. L,roite reserves are
extensive, with proven reserves estimated at 1.1 billion TOE; however lignite
is by and large of poor quality and its production in 1978 was about 4.6
million TOE.
35.      Hydro potential is estimated at 145,000 GWh (35 million TOE), of
which about half was considered to be economically usable in 1976. Consi-
dering the increase in energy prices since, the proportion would be even
higher today. In 1978, the generation of 9,400 GWh (2.3 million TOE) of hydro
electricity accounted for 14 percent of all energy produced, but only 7
percent of total consumption. Installed capacity is planned to grow from
2,100 MW in 1979 to 8,100 MW in 1986. Animal and vegetable wastes and wood
continue to be important fuel sources. However, their production has not
grown significantly in the past two decades and their contribution to total
energy consumption has declined from over 50 percent in 1960 to less than 20
percent in 1978.
36.      The most recent estimates put Turkey's proven petroleum reserves
recoverable by primary techniques at about 17 million tons. This represents
barely one year's consumption. Potential reserves from known oil reservoirs
using new enhanced oil recovery methods could, if proven successful, multiply
this by more than five. There are also a few pocentially economical small gas
fields. Petroleum production reached a peak of 3.6 million tons in 1969 and
then declined slowly to about 2.7 million tons in 1978. Domestic petroleum
production is principally in the hands of three companies: two foreign oil
companies, Shell and Mobil, which together account for about 65 percent, and
the Turkish Petroleum Corporation (TPAO) which accounts for a third.
Patterns of Energy Consumption
37.      Per capita energy consumption in Turkey increased during 1960-77 at
an average annual rate of 6.7 percent (12.8 percent in 1974-76), compared to
an average annual growth rate of GNP per capita of 4.1 percent. However, per
capita consumption of 495 kg of oil equivalent in 1976 remained below the
average of 611 kg for 55 middle income countries. Energy consumption per



- 12 -
dollar of GDP rose from 0.3 kg in 1960 to 0.5 kg in 1976, but again was below
average for middle income countries.
38.      The most important trends in the energy use pattern since 1960 have
been the increasing share of petroleum, which now accounts for over half of
total energy consumption, and the decreasing share of hard coal and non-
commercial fuels. With a high GNP growth and domestic petroleum prices con-
trolled at levels well below international levels until late 1977, the volume
of petroleum imports grew rapidly; from 1973 to 1977 the average increase was
13 percent per annum, well above real growth rate of GDP of 7.2 percent per
annum.  Sharp increases in petroleum product prices since late 1977 and a
scarcity of foreign exchange resulted in the containment of oil imports to
around 14 million tons in 1978 through 1980. The financial crises of late
1979 and early 1980 caused the Government to end its policy of large scale
subsidies for petroleum and petroleum products. Consumer prices in Turkey, up
to mid 1980, are shown below.
CONSUMER PRICES FOR PETROLEUM PRODUCTS
(in dollars per gallon)
Turkey                 France    USA
1971     1974      1977    1980      1980    1980
July     Feb.      Sept.   June      June    June
Premium gasoline                 0.49     0.90      1.44    2.45      3.12      1.29
Regular gasoline                 0.38     0.72      1.22    2.19      2.93      1.21
Kerosene                         0.38     0.63      0.76    1.33       NA       1.25
Diesel fuel                      0.32     0.64      0.89    1.33      2.19      1.17
Residual heating fuel No. 6       NA       NA       0.46    0.94      1.45      0.71
It should be noted that since mid 1980, in line with its policy of raising
these prices to levels in Europe, the Government further raised consumer
prices at the end of September 1980, on an average by about 20 cents/gallon.
Energy Policy and Planning
39.      The Fourth Five Year Plan 1978-83 anticipated a 9.6 percent growth in
energy consumption, based on an 8 percent annual GDP growth. However, given
Turkey's current severe economic difficulties, the Government is reviewing the
Fourth Plan targets and priorities. Its GDP growth prospects are much more
modest; correspondingly, the growth in energy consumption will be lower.
40.      Recognizing the heavy burden oil imports impose on its balance of
payments, the Government's energy policy is to develop indigenous alternative
energy resources of coal/lignite and hydropower, as well as to intensify
exploration for and production of oil. The Government is also trying to
restrain oil demand through the price mechanism, and is reviewing measures to
substitute lignite for oil in residential and industrial heating uses.



- 13 -
41.      While energy investments are being given high priority within limited
financial resources now available, the Government has yet to est4bliuh proper
priorities amongst the various ongoing and proposed investments in the power
and coal sub-sectors. However, it is beginning to address power sub-sector
planning, coordination, financing and pricing issues, in the context of the
Bank-assistfd Karakaya Hydropower Project. Moreover, TKI, the SEE responsible
for coal/lignite development, will have to substantially increase its produc-
tivity, if the increased coal and lignite needs are to be met. Given the high
capital costs and long implementation periods required for these large-scale
projects, even a limited level of substitution will take place only gradu-
ally. As a result, unless major new discoveries of petroleum are made, Turkey
will remain heavily dependent on imported oil in the foreseeable future. The
Government is basically adopting two approaches to augment domestic oil
production; (i) introduction of enhanced oil recovery (EOR) technology for
existing oil fields and (ii) intensification of exploration and development of
new fields by the Turkish Petroleum Corporation and by foreign oil companies.
The heavy oil technology being tested in the proposed Bati Raman EOR project
could, according to consultants, triple current overall recoverable reserves.
Petroleum Exploration
42.      Petroleum exploration activity in recent years has been undertaken
almost exclusively by TPAO. While seventy foreign companies had taken explor-
ation concessions and 512 exploration wells were drilled through 1978, the
late 1960's and early 1970's saw a sharp drop in foreign interest as only a
few relatively small discoveries were made. The foreign oil companies were
further discouraged by the Government fixing the wellhead price in March 1974,
substantially below import parity at the December 31, 1973 level of $5.21 per
barrel plus verifiable production cost increases. However, recognizing the
need to attract foreign capital and technology to supplement its domestic
efforts, the Government modified its policy to make petroleum exploration and
production more attractive to foreign companies. Under this new policy,
announced as one of the measures accompanying the Government's far-reaching
Tanuary 1980 program of structural adjustments, new oil discoveries and
production from enhanced oil recovery projects will now receive a wellhead
price about equal to the CIF price of imported oil; in addition, the companies
can export up to 35 percent of their newly discovered oil to cover foreign
currency costs and repatriation of profits. The Government has fturther
announced the principle that if foreign exchange costs were above the 35
percent level, as they most probably would be for offshore projects, it would
be prepared to negotiate higher repatriation allowances on a case by case
basis. These new initiatives have elicited a favorable response, and between
February and May 1980, eight foreign oil companies visited Turkey to reassess
the possibility of initiating exploration activities once again in that
country. Following discussions with the Bank, the Government has recently
taken a major initiative to establish a new Exploration Fund to mobilize
domestic resources needed for an expanded exploration program. This Fund will
be financed by a tax on the sale of petroleum products at the rate of one lira



- 14 -
per liter of gasoline and one half lira per liter of other petroleum
products. Since this is expected to generate about US$80 million equivalent
annually, the Exploration Fund is an important institutional development to
finance the expansion of Turkish oil exploration activities.
Organization of the Petroleum Sub-Sector
43.      The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources was established in 1964
to coordinate all energy-related agencies; the most important of these for the
petroleum sector, are TPAO (para. 44), the General Directorate of Petroleum
Affairs (GDPA) and Petrol Offisi. The main responsibilities of the GDPA are
to approve and register petroleum concessions, to collect information on
concessions that are returned to the State, to ensure that operating companies
conform to good petroleum industry practices, to set crude oil prices, help
set refinery margins and ex-refinery prices, and in general, to implement the
articles of the Petroleum Law. Petrol Offisi is the SEE that distributes and
retails most of the products refined and imported by TPAO. The Petroleum Law
of 1954, modelled closely after the then prevailing United States petroleum
legislation, provides the basic legal framework for all petroleum-related
activities. Under this law, the wellhead price of domestically produced crude
and the price of refined products were regulated on the basis of import parity.
TPAO - The Beneficiary
44.      Established in 1954 by the Government under the Commercial Law, TPAO
is involved in all aspects of the oil business; exploration, production,
refining and, through its ten subsidiaries, refining, transportation, distri-
bution and marketing of liquid petroleum products, petrochemicals, and ferti-
lizers. However, the financial accounts of TPAO's subsidiaries are never con-
solidated with TPAO's. Even TPAO's wholly-owned subsidiaries manage their
affairs almost entirely independently of TPAO's management. Structured as a
private joint stock company, TPAO is 93 percent owned by Government; its oper-
ations are subject to close regulation by the Government under the Petroleum
Law. The Council of Ministers controls the majority of appointments to its
Board. Although its investment program has to be approved by the State
Planning Organization, TPAO has autonomy in its day-to-day operations.
45.      TPAO directly employs approximately 7,000 people, almost 60 percent
of whom are located in the Batman district, the principal oil producing area
in Turkey. In general, its professional staff is experienced and capable,
having extensive experience in all aspects of the oil industry. Though it can
set its own personnel regulations, and its salaries are higher than for the
SEEs, in recent years salary differentials have been eroded as a result of the
collective bargaining agreements reached with the Oil Workers' Union which
includes all but the top 190 managerial positions in TPAO. As a result, with
petroleum-related skills in large demand internationally, TPAO has also had
difficulty retaining its middle management personnel. While well-qualified
senior staff still remain, about half of the technical staff has less than
five years experience. TPAO's Board of Directors is currently reviewing
possible solutions to improve this situation. TPAO will furnish to the Bank
by December 31, 1981 its recommendations to enable it to attract and retain
qualified technical personnel and to improve the operational efficiency of its



- 15 -
staff. After exchanging views with the Bank on such recommendations, it will
take steps within its power to implement these recommendations (Project
Agreement, Section 3.04 (a)). Meanwhile, adequate precautions are being built
in to ensure that project implementation will not suffer due to staffing
difficulties (para. 57).
46.      TPAO produced about 21,500 barrels per day of crudc ril in 1979 (1.1
million tons) from its operations in the southeastern region of Turkey near
the Syrian border and processed it in the local refinery in Batman which was
designed to handle the heavy oil found in the region. It is also directly
responsible for the operation of the Izmir refinery with a current capacity of
3.3 million tons and an expansion program for doubling that in the next few
years. This refinery processes imported crude. TPAO's other important
activities are a pipeline operation that transports crude produced in the
southeast to the coast for processing in other refineries. Its marketing
department is responsible for coordinating the purchase, import, and distri-
bution of all of Turkey's petroleum and petro-products imports. In 1978 it
imported 10 million tons of crude oil and 2.7 million tons of products.
47.      TPAO is currently responsible for arranging for the import of, and
the payment for, all of Turkey's petroleum products and crude oil require-
ments, for refining a third of the imported crude, and for implementing a
$1,300 million refinery expansion program to increase its annual refining
capacity from about 5 million tons to about 15 million tons by 1984. In
addition, it is responsible for a rapidly expanding exploration and domestic
oil production program, aimed at decreasing the country's dependence on
petroleum imports. The rapid growth of these two distinct activities within
the same management control system has tended to reduce the efficient utili-
zation of the management resources available to the company.
48.      Recognizing the advantages of separation of the domestic oil and
import-related activities, the Government plans to have TPAO transfer its
Izmir refinery and its mid-Anatolia refinery under construction to Istanbul
Petrol Refinerisi Anonim Sirketi (IPRAS). This is a wholly-owned subsidiary
of TPAO, that itself runs another refinery with a 5 million ton per annum
capacity. TPAO will also transfer its current responsibilities for importing
of crude and products to IPRAS, to be carried out on IPRAS's account. This
reorganization is an important step for increasing management efficiency and
rationalizing Government policy towards the sector. It will; (i) permit
greater clarity in the formulation of objectives for each activity; (ii)
facilitate the adoption of more rational financial and pricing policies for
each activity; (iii) focus more clearly on the separate results of each
activity; and (iv) help avoid cross-subsidization of one activity by the
other. When its marketing department and refinery operations based on
imported crude are transferred to IPRAS, TPAO would remain solely responsible
for exploration, exploitation and processing of domestic petroleum resources.
49.      Therefore, with a view to initiating the proposed reorganization,
TPAO has agreed to; (a) transfer all responsibility for importing and
marketing petroleum and imported petroleum products to IPRAS from January 1,
1981, (b) transfer its facilities for refining imported oil by July 1, 1981 to



- 16 -
IPRAS, and (c) take all necessary actions to completely separate its domestic
oil operations from its import-related operations by December 31, 1981
(Project Agreement, Section 3.03). The Government and TPAO have provided a
timetable for the actions necessary to fully implement the separation before
the end of 1981. The proposed timetable should allow adequate time to value
the assets to be transferred and to negotiate the necessary financial, legal
and personnel action that will be required. To facilitate the eventual separ-
ation, including the division of its assets and liabilities, TPAO will by
April 1, 1981, maintain separate accounts and financial statements as of
January 1, 1981 with respect to the importing of petroleum and petroleum
products and activities for refining and distributing imported oil on the one
hand, and exploring, producing, refining and distributing of domestic oil on
the other (Project Agreement, Section 4.02).
Beneficiary's Financial Performance and Prospects
50.      After several years of profitable operations, TPAO's earnings deteri-
orated in the mid-1970s. In 1976, profits disappeared. In the following two
years, increasingly large losses were incurred. The two principal reasons for
its deteriorated performance were: (i) lower refinery margins, and (ii) sub-
stantial foreign exchange losses from frequent devaluations on its short-term
and medium-term debts secured to finance crude imports. Despite heavy
exchange losses and higher interest charges, profitability returned in 1979,
partly due to the higher profits on the production and refining of domestic
oil as a result of the change in Government's pricing policy and partly due to
improved results from its imported oil refining activities. With a view to
relieving TPAO of the burden of exchange losses, the Government has agreed to
carry out a plan of action for offsetting, or eliminating foreign exchange
losses of TPAO incurred from January 1, 1981, due to its outstanding foreign
debts from its importing and petroleum products (Loan Agreement, Section
3.03). The Government plans to transfer to IPRAS the responsibility for
servicing of TPAO's outstanding foreign debts for importing petroleum and its
products. The Government plans to review IPRAS's financial situation and to
take measures to ensure that IPRAS remains a financially sound enterprise.
TPAO had a high debt equity ratio (70:30) at the end of 1979, partly because
its assets, valued at historical cost, understated the real value of the
equity component. To reflect its financial position on a realistic basis, and
as Turkish law does not provide a mechanism for revaluing its assets,
beginning with its fiscal year 1981, TPAO will revalue its assets annually for
a memorandum account in accordance with principles satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish pro-forma accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year
on such a basis (Project Agreement, Section 4.11).
51.      The abovementioned restructuring of TPAO is expected to have a far-
reaching beneficial impact on TPAO's financial situation and performance. It
will eliminate the major source of TPAO's financial problems, particularly the
low refinery margins and the exchange losses that arose from its import
related activities. Second, by eliminating the effects of the changes in
profitability of imported oil refining activities from its financial decision
making, TPAO will be able to link the financial requirements for its explor-
ation and production program more closely to its profits from the development



- 17 -
of oil fields discovered during previous exploration activities. Therefore,
while it may be difficult to foresee the actual financial outcome of the
restructured TPAO pending the division of its assets and liabilities, the
financial conditions outlined below should allow the restructured TPAO to
start on a sound financial basis and ensure that it would be able to maintain
a reasonable balance between its high-risk exploration activities and its
low-risk iioduction investment.
52.      To ensure that TPAO has a sound financial basis, particularly since
it would be primarily concerned with risky exploration activities, TPAO would
be required to have an initial debt equity ratio of one (Project Agreement,
Section 4.06 (a)). As TPAO had negative working capital in the recent past,
it would also be required to have a current ratio of one and adequate liquid
working capital equal to two months cash operating expenses (Project Agree-
ment, Section 4.06 (b) and (c)). Further, to ensure that TPAO does not
encounter new problems of excessive accounts receivables from other Govern-
ment-owned companies, if accounts receivable exceed its sales for the previous
two months, the Government will advance an amount equal to the receivables in
excess of two months sales at an interest rate not greater than the average
rate TPAO receives on its outstanding receivables (Loan Agreement, Section
3.02). To ensure its long-term financial viability, TPAO must maintain a
reasonable balance between its production and exploration investments. Given
the high degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of its exploration invest-
ments and the long gestation period even if its exploration is successful, it
is prudent for TPAO to limit its debt to a level it can service while allowing
it a reasonable latitude to continue its exploration activities with
internally generated funds. To meet this objective, TPAO will not incur any
long-term debt unless its projected net revenues in each year during the terms
of the debt is at least two times the aggregate debt service on all long-term
debt (Project Agreement, Section 4.07). TPAO would also be required to use
its internally generated funds for its own requirements, and not for the
requirements of its subsidiaries and other companies in which it has an
interest, unless its own requirements have been met (Project Agreement,
Section 4.09). TPAO would furnish the Bank for its review annually in October
of each year its proposed investment program and related financing arrange-
ments for the coming year (Project Agreement, Section 4.10).
Bank Lending to the Energy Sector
53.      Bank Group lending in the energy sector had so far been concentrated
on the power sub-sector and related lignite mining development, except for the
engineering loan (No. S-13-TU, dated November 1978) provided to prepare the
proposed project. Since 1952 the Bank has made ten loans and a technical
assistance grant (total US$476.65 million) and IDA has extended three credits
(total US$55.7 million) for the development of the power sub-sector. The said
engineering loan of US$2.5 million, was to help TPAO evaluate alternative
enhanced recovery techniques applicable to the Bati Raman oil field, which
offered the best prospects for increasing Turkey's oil production in the
medium-term. In view of the heavy burden of oil imports on Turkey's balance
of payments, which is expected to continue despite Turkey maintaining the
volume of its imports at close to its present levels, the Bank's future



- 18 -
involvement in the oil and gas sub-sector is intended to help Turkey increase
its domestic oil production from proven fields and to support an exploration
program to find more oil.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background and History
54.      The petroleum geology of Turkey is complex, with a large number of
sedimentary basins many of which have yet to be explored. Exploration in
southeastern Turkey, the only area in which oil has been found in commercially
exploitable volume, however, appears to provide the greatest prospect for
finding additional oil. The project was proposed by the Government and TPAO
to the Bank, during the course of discussions that took place when the above-
mentioned engineering loan was being implemented. It was thereafter prepared
by TPAO. The project was appraised in February 1980 along with the Bati Raman
Enhanced Oil Recovery Field Demonstration Project. Negotiations took place in
Washington in September 1980 with a delegation which was led by the Chief
Economic Counselor of the Turkish Embassy and included representatives of the
Treasury and TPAO. A staff appraisal report entitled "Petroleum Exploration
Project" (No. 3092-TU), dated October 17, 1980, is being distributed separ-
ately to the Executive Directors.
Project Description
55.      The proposed project has two main objectives:  (i) to strengthen
TPAO's exploration activities through the introduction of modern geological
and geophysical, data processing and interpretation techniques; and (ii) to
promote additional exploration activities by helping the General Directorate
of Petroleum Affairs (GDPA) to attract foreign oil companies to Turkey. In
addition, there is a small component for technical assistance aimed at identi-
fying the prospects of and methods for promoting energy conservation programs
by encouraging efficient energy usage in the power generation subsector and
selected industrial sub-sectors.
56.      The proposed project comprises the following components:
(a) Geological studies and Technical Assistance. The geological support
would include regional and basin studies to integrate the existing
geological, geophysical, and well data into an overall picture of the
southeastern part of Turkey. Studies on the geology of countries
adjacent to Turkey (Syria, Iraq, and Iran) would be carried out and
incorporated into the regional studies, as would laboratory studies
in the fields of sedimentology, petrography and stratigraphy. A
parallel study on petroleum geochemistry will determine in which
areas oil source rocks are prevalent. These studies would be con-
ducted to locate the areas in which stratigraphic reefal traps (small
but prolific oil accumulations) might have developed, so as to iden-
tify priority areas for seismic surveys.



- 19 -
(b)  Seismic Surveys.  TPAO would carry out reflection seismic surveys in
the southeast where the prospects for discovering oil are judged
highest, with the help of two seismic crews for two years. One of
the crews will be helicopter-assisted to work in rugged, mountainous
areas. Some processing and reinterpretation of existing seismic data
would also be undertaken, and modern geophysical techniques will be
introduced that can discern sub-surface stratigraphic reefs and can
examine deeper horizons where warranted.
(c)  Exploratory Drilling.  Following geophysical/geological studies and
seismic surveys, the project would then finance exploratory drilling
of four to six medium-deep wells (about 3,000 meters) in promising
locations to determine if they are oil bearing. Should oil be dis-
covered in stratigraphic traps, a major new exploration objective
will have been proven in southern Turkey, one which could lead to
renewed exploration in the area, both by TPAO and by private oil
companies.
(d)  Technical Support to GDPA.  In order to strengthen the capacity of
the GDPA to attract foreign oil companies to explore for oil in
Turkey, the project would assist the GDPA to; (i) assemble available
drilling and geological data into reports which will be made avail-
able to interested and prospective companies; (ii) actively promote
Turkey's petroleum potential by establishing and maintaining communi-
cation with the international oil industry; and (iii) provide the
expert legal and technical support needed to negotiate exploration/
production contracts.
(e)  Energy Conservation.  The potential for energy savings in the power
generation sub-sector and major industrial sub-sectors which are
major oil consumers, will be identified through energy audits, with a
view to strengthening the Government's energy conservation program
and proposing measures for their implementation. These audits will
be designed to identify; (a) the basic housekeeping measures and
operational procedures that can be implemented with little or no
investments by the enterprises and would have an immediate impact;
(b) operational changes requiring relatively minor equipment changes,
such as provision of monitoring equipment and having an impact in the
short-term on the basis of relatively modest expenditures; and (c)
equipment upgrading and retrofitting that would require major invest-
ments and would have a greater impact over the longer run.
Project Implementation
57.      The proposed project will be implemented over a five year period.
TPAO will be responsible for regional and basin geological studies, the
seismic program and exploratory drilling, and will be assisted by consul-
tants. The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources will implement the energy
audit component of the project, with the assistance of consultants. GDPA will
be responsible for collection and evaluation of data and other measures needed
to promote Turkey's petroleum potential. TPAO will create for each project



- 20 -
component a special implementation unit with qualified and experienced staff
(Project Agreement, Section 3.02). If their capabilities fall below accep-
table levels as a result of the loss of qualified technical personnel, TPAO
would secure outside technical assistance to ensure proper implementation.
Consultants employed for the various project components will have qualifica-
tions, e;:perience and terms of employment satisfactory to the Bank and the
implementing agencies.
58.      Seismic surveys will be performed by experienced contractors.  TPAO,
assisted by consultants, will provide control on the quality of data. TPAO
will provide an initial seismic survey program acceptable to the Bank as a
condition of disbursement for this component (para. 64) and will also arrange
for required helicopter services (Project Agreement, Section 3.06). Sub-
sequent modifications of the seismic program, as needed, depending on the
results of the ongoing surveys, studies and drilling, will be made after con-
sultation with the Bank.
59.      It is expected that TPAO can efficiently drill the medium-deep
exploratory wells once the necessary drilling material, spares and logging
services have been provided. TPAO will form, by April 30, 1981, a committee
of exploration experts, including two independent experts acceptable to the
Bank, to review available data on drilling leads and to recommend a well
drilling program acceptable to the Bank before TPAO deploys its drilling rigs
to locations where the drilling will be financed by the Bank (Project Agree-
ment, Section 3.05). TPAO will present a training program for its staff for
the Bank's review, and will implement it after taking into consideration the
Bank's comments thereon, prior to utilizing the funds allocated for this
purpose (Project Agreement, Section 3.07 and Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para.
2 (f)).
Project Costs and Financing Plan
60.      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$45.0
million equivalent; the foreign exchange component is US$25.0 million (56 per-
cent of the project cost) based on mid-1980 prices. Overall contingencies
included in the cost estimate amount to US$10.5 million equivalent (30 percent
of basic project cost). Physical contingencies are estimated at 15 percent;
price contingencies are estimated at 10.5 percent for 1981, 9 percent for 1982
and 8 percent for 1983.  Consultants services of about 200 man-months have
been estimated at an average rate of $15,000 per man-month, including local
travel and subsistence.  These rates are in line with current rates prevailing
in the industry and are reasonable.  The project costs estimates do not
include taxes and duties on imported equipment, material and services, as they
are exempt from such taxes.
61.      The proposed Bank loan will cover the estimated foreign exchange
requirements. The local currency requirement will be funded by TPAO (US$18.6
million) from internally generated resources in respect of its components and
by the Government (US$1.4 million) for the other components. In the unlikely
event that TPAO's own cash flow is inadequate, the Government would make good
the shortfall as an equity contribution (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 (d)).



- 21 -
62.      The Bank loan will be made to Turkey for a period of seventeen years
including a grace period of four years, at the prevailing interest rate of
9.25 percent p.a. Turkey will on-lend to TPAO US$21.7 million equivalent for
seventeen years, including four years of grace, at not less than 11.10 percent
per annum. TPAO will bear the foreign exchange risk. The execution of a Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and TPAO is a condition of loan
effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 (d) and Section 6.01). The
remaining US$3.3 million equivalent would be allocated to the Ministry of
Energy, $1.2 million for GDPA, $2.0 million for energy efficiency audits and
conservation studies and $0.1 million for training.
Disbursement and Procurement
63.      The proposed Bank loan would finance 100 percent of the foreign
expenditures for; (i) the seismic surveys, processing and reprocessing of
seismic data; (ii) the consulting work, laboratory analysis and computer
programs for the geological and geophysical studies; (iii) the imported
drilling materials, tubular goods, equipment and spares and logging services
required for the exploratory wells, and (iv) consultant services for the
energy efficiency audits.
64.      No disbursement will be made for contracting seismic services before
agreement is reached between the Bank and TPAO on the initial seismic program
(Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 2 (c)). Disbursement for the purchase of
drilling material and services for exploratory wells will be made only after a
sufficient number of good leads are identified from the seismic surveys and
geological studies to satisfy the exploration committee that suitable drilling
locations can be selected (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 2 (d)).
65.      As a condition of disbursement for technical assistance to GDPA, the
Government will provide an acceptable plan of action to strengthen GDPA (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 2 (e)). Such a plan is expected to be provided
by March 1981.
66.      Goods and services, including seismic contractor services, financed
under the proposed Bank loan would be procured through international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines except that equipment,
material or services estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and not exceeding
the aggregate of US$1.0 million may be procured in accordance with TPAO's
procedures through limited international tendering which are acceptable to the
Bank. Highly specialized services such a seismic data processing and
reprocessing, geochemistry surveys and well logging, available from a limited
number of sources will be contracted for by TPAO by limited international
tendering.
67.      TPAO has agreed to submit progress reports at regular intervals in a
format acceptable to the Bank, along with the reports and recommendations
presented by the various consultants (Project Agreement, Section 2.05 (b)).



- 22 -
Project Benefits and Risks
68.      Over 75 percent of the Bank loan will finance seismic surveys and
geological studies, which in essence, are engineering studies that have as
their final output information that will enhance the success of a much larger
investment program in exploration drilling and oil field development. The
value of the information that will be obtained is essentially unquantifiable
before oil is found. However, since the studies will concentrate in south-
eastern Turkey, where most of the country's known oil resources are located,
it is quite likely that good prospective locations for discovering additional
oil fields will be identified. Furthermore, the technical assistance provided
to TPAO's exploration department will improve its overall efficiency. The
proposed drilling component will also allow the Bank to follow-up on the tech-
nical assistance provided to ensure that it is fully integrated into TPAO's
overall exploration program.
69.      Finally, Turkey will require a substantial expansion of exploration
activity by foreign companies in order to expand its petroleum sector at the
rate that would be required to eliminate it as a developmental bottleneck.
The technical assistance provided to GDPA under this loan will help Turkey to
attract foreign investment in petroleum exploration.
70.      The risks involved in carrying out the seismic survey and performing
geological studies are somewhat similar to those associated with a project
feasibility study. Seismic data processing will be done by processing
companies with required facilities and would demonstrate the best results on
sample lines. The value of these surveys will be increased by integrating
them with the geological studies and the gravity magnetic models in an overall
exploration plan, so that risk of failing to detect stratigraphic traps or
structures where they actually exist is minimized. However there is always
the possibility that all this work may prove infructuous, in that no struc-
tures or stratigraphic traps may be identified. While exploratory drilling is
the logical follow-up of the proposed seismic and geological studies, it will
be limited under this project to only a few wells. However, the possibility
that these structures and traps may not be hydrocarbon bearing remains the
inherent and unavoidable risk of petroleum exploration in any country.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and TPAO and the report of the
Committee provided for in Article II, Section 4 (iii) of Articles of Agreement
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The special
features of the Loan and Project Agreements are referred to in paragraphs 45,
49-52, 56-59, and 61-65 and listed in Section III of Annex III.
72.      A special condition of loan effectiveness is the execution of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and TPAO (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.01 (e) and 6.01). Special conditions of disbursement
are; (i) TPAO's presentation of an initial seismic program satisfactory to



- 23 -
the Bank (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 2 (c)); (ii) TPAO's furnishing
evidence that satisfactory prospects of finding oil exists (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 1, para. 2 (d)); (iii) TPAO's providing a training program for its
staff acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 2 (f)); and
(iv) GOT's plan of action for strengthening GDPA (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1,
para 2 (e)).
73.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
October 30, 1980
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-24-                                              Page I of 6
TABLE 3A
TURKEY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TURYEY                             RLFEENCE GRO':PS (WEIQiTED AVERACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SC. EN.)                                                           -  MOST RECENT ESTIPATF'IT
TUTAL             75U. b                                HDST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            INDISTRIALIZED
AGRICULTURAL     553.8               1960  L      1970 /  ESTIATE l                EuROPE                 COURTRIES
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  290.0       520.0    1200.0                   2381.1                    8104.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      245.0       479.0      798.0                  1641.4                    7021.1
POPULATION AND VITA:. STATISTICS
POPULATION, hID-YLAR (HILLIONS)      27.5        35.3       43.1
UkBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.7         38.4       45.6                    53.9                      76.0
POPJLATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        65.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILLIONS)                         100.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULIATION 1S REACHED                  2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. M.                         35.0        45.0       55.0                    77.2                     142.8
PER SQ. E2. AGRICULTURAL LAND      51.0        64.0       78.0                   129.5                     523.3
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YXS.                          41.3        41.7      39.1                     30.6                      23.5
15-64 YRS.                          55.2        54.0      56.4                    61.1                       65.1
65 YRS. AND A3OVE                    3.5         4.3        4.5                     8.2                      11.4
POPULATION CR06 Th RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.8         2.5        2.5                     1.6                       0.7
URBAN                               5.l1c       5.1        4.8                     3.3                       1.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      44.0        38.0       32.0                    22.8                      13.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      17.0        12.0       10.0                     S.9                       9.1
GROSS RLEPRODLCTION RATE              2.9         2.6        2.1                     1.5                       0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        65.6       66.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   5.3.         8.2       38.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
ItDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           96.0       100.0      110.0                   113.1                     110.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENt OF
REqUIREMEI,TS)                  110.0       110.0      115.0                   125.3                     131.6
PROTEINS (GRAINS PER DAY)          81.0        80.0       82.0                    91.0                      98.0
OF IWHICH ANIMAL AND PLLSE       24.0        26.0       24.0                    39.6                     62.1
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      24.0        16.0       10.0                     4.3                       0.8
HEALTH
LIFE LEPECCTANCY AT BIRIH (YEARS)    51.0        57.0       61.0                    67.8                      73.5
INFAHT MORTALITY LATE (PER
THOUSA1D)                           187.L      . 153.0O   118.0                     55.9                      13.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPLULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        52.0       75.0
URBAN                                ..        51.0       70.0
RURAL                                ..        53.0       80.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                                *-          *-       19.5
RURAL                                ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           3000.0/e    2250.0    1772.0                   1030.1                     624.8
POPULATION FER NLRSING PERSON          .,      1880.0    1403.0                    929.4                     21B.9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             590         490.0      506.0                   289.7                     121.2
URBAkN                            1901o.      200.0
RULAL                                ..      5890.0.
ADhlISSIUOS PEk HOSPITAL BED           ..        20.0       20.0                    17.0                      17.0
HOUSING
AV0HAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TIJTAL                              5.7         5.9
URBAN                                ..          ..
RuRAL                                ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..         2.2
URBAN                               2.0         1.9
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS TC ELECTRICITY (PERCLNIT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              29.0        40.0       57.0
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                               2.0        18.0



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
-25 -
TAILE 3A
1_ t0Y - 50C;A. '1O1CATOLS DATA SHEET
TUi.C£Y                           UFDER£NCI GROIPFS (/EICHTED AVERA£IS
-  MOST RCE' EST!!-ATE'
MOST UCEDT            IDDLE INCOKE             ZDSTRIAL=ZD
1960  /b    1970 /b E5tATT  lb              £iOt£                  C0121T15
KDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLMENT IlATIOS
PRIMAU:      TOTAL                75.0        109.0      98.0                  105.9                     100.1
lILt                 90.0       124.0      106.0                  109.3                     102.2
FinLE                35.0        94.0      90.0                   103.0                     102.3
SECO0Y:   TOTAL                  14.0        25.0       43.0                   t4.0                      t7.1
NALE                 20.0        39.0       59.0                   71.1                      84.4
F1IALE                S.0        16.0      27.0                    36.9                     84.3
VOCATIONAL EhltOL. 1. o0  SECOKDARY)  15.0       14.0      15.0                   28.8                      19.0
PUPIL-TEACHER ATIO
tDLtY                     *       46.0         3S.0      34.0                   29.4                      21.3
SECONDARY                         19.0        28.0       27.0                   26.1                      16.4
ADULT LITELCY UTX (PUCEENT)         36.0         55.5i   60.0                        ..                     ".9
CONSUMPTION
PASSLNGEi CAS PB THOUSAND
PrfULATION                         2.0         4.0       11.5                   8.8                      339.9
.0o RICLiVERS PnR  NOUSsAD
POPULATION                        49.0        89.0      103.0                  192.2                     932.9
TV ZCUEVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         1.8      43.0                  18.3                      334.8
IWSPA?ER (AILY GENERAL
INTZEST") CIRCULAIOIN PUl
tBOUSARD POPULATION                 51.0           ..        ..                   93.0                     327.4
CI7ES  ANNUAL ATTJZ)A.NCE PE1 CAPITA  1.1         6.7        ..                    5.7                       3.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13782.1     15829.6   18858.8
FEMALE (P£kCEYNT)                 40.2        37.2       36.0                   30.4                      36.1
AGRCDLTUL (PEXCUtT)               78.5        67.7       60.0                   37.0                       7.6
INDUSTRT (PE3CENT)                10.5        12.1       14.0                   29.3                      38.8
PAZTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOAL.                               30.1          4.3      42.8                   40.9                      4.6
mar.                                 58.7        54.9      53.2                   55.9                      58.1
?EALZ                               41.2        33.4       32.1                   26.2                      31.7
XCONIUC DE3D£ENCT RATIO               0.9          1.0       1.0                    1.0                       0.S
DICOiE DISTRBUL'TION
PERCENT OF PLIVATE ENCORE
ECEIVEmD BY
3IGHEST S PZRC£E- OF FOUSENOLDS   33.0LI      32.8/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF LOUSENCLDS  61.0Sj      60.6          .                                               .
WJEST 20 PERCENT OF NOOUSiLOuS    4.2Lj        2.9/h
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSENOLDS   10. 6'        9 .        ....
POVERTY -A.CrT GROUPS .
EST2iATlE ABSGLUIr POVERTY INCORE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URUN                                ..           ..     342.0
UIUL                                ..          ..     270.0
ESTDUAD RELATIVE POVERTY ELCORE
LMEL (USS PER CAPI-A)
URI"                                ..           ..
RURAL                               ..          ..      220.0                  385.8
ISTNATD POPULATION BEDOY ABSOLIOTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENIT)
mA                                  ..           ..        .                       ..
Not available
Not applicable.
/o   The group sveraqe  for esch indicator are populstloo-eighted arttraete eanse.  Coverage of couCtrias
inong the indicators depends oan veallsbllt7 of date end ii not um±1om.
ik   Unles  otherwise note. data for 1960 refer to acy year beeveco 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betwen 1969
*ed 1971; *r4 for Most Recent Esctense. berwen 1971 aed 1978.
.s   1955-60; Ld 1967; /a 1962; /1 Six years end over; .L  1963  /h 1968.
April. 1980



-26-                                                                   ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
kiaa:  altiotI  the. data ars trot.t ire. courts. *cotOraii, laed the  atsteiaisatrlal.i   hud..   hatet fh.,t the.alr s                                                .feI.tbr-
SMAiSedIo  OtP           Pats h..    te l..eek  Cfeaarbo   ciiat    r   ofoauo   ytP..o    eor.   noiet                                        h   ads.   Toe d. . ar,-se..
thelISe. .  .  Iu Co Seaor  ttle   .dr. of ttlta.tdef re.. r  th-zoforite   Wo.t.t  tal, diff-arerr. Pat ....c..t. ....
the  "tfinu..   I-oP. are 1) ft. a_  .teno-  srer.9 thstl.etr    od (2) a   . OOttf  all.p  "'h *50h.t highr  .. .e 50 cI---   t. ,r. th.  -aut,, prop
of the euh*e  etto           fPt re, 'Cefit., Surplus  11 Looo.r    I-tUP Oftof  Nmiti. lets  North Air"..  'Ad Hddle   ae i   9..Iarne
s.tietltr.t%4    tf&,L`tiut,.  1n fth. Wrmfoo. $roup Mit.C. tooosc   o  Pp  aoltien eeterd a'solfltib acne  fo  taLct ceIde  and too-  oni  .6.
.a.. k.1 1 ofth. COvOtOtoc Lb * ur-P h.. dat. for fhst IrdttIo                  ..ir. th. Central. of .-tOtrioscadu S   t fNshlai.00, d.".et  or ft. -vai.WhlLIO  ci
6at et itA UI t unifori, .$.On*Lt  ccct-              at  r. Ilfft uc              at. .1  o.  IrdLceert    another.  Thee.  -..rc5e   M.c onY  ...u  i f   u11IeVerLaS eCh  -o..-
ti O. tedi-at"' at a bite inces toocunr  art  .0. .orr I            C...
(te*taa.ed                                                                   __lnd______...... 0
C",         ZI AtI  1119) - CuP per Capita acetae.attaoceaaAtIroa.tl .r.a..a..m..l.  deito  tt  toi  ",,oac ti   tuo   fIrnia  to
euiatct b. .ca ...... tonree   -tato   .. urnIe taeAic  l7-i  eLi  16.                          aaichl  10 puhite aMt princt. Snr  aid ..i.ictieta  and 00.-
ilOb. cute 1971 tat..                                                   heh~~~~kailiestie 0coreera.  fi.c,ieal. or.  cttiante V-ranrt, sta tc
*, at Ice*& m.. %hyicptlait.  t.ea1r.ZLa,eet  Providino pLeL         -inoCtdila
911iWrCOWitMPlTICS Pti CPTAil - Ac.al co.crafILOt Of ueerel41 .l ralY (fail oIars 0.r  -to  LoCld.d.  tural  lootevit.l iOtoc.  loelad. hoalIh add sedI..l
.5Litito.  pto.         natur.l tao at  hYdro-. NutI..f .Nd liO%hT`IOfa   lo                  eer  rot por.va"cnein 1ctaffed hr a ph-totciar  Nut bo   ted-a .. a Wanete.
fICiY) 10 kilogream  af ...l Iaiuotpar ..Pita  1960. 1970. WAat  1976                           m.r.1 adoif#. ctc.)  htict  W.tc  in-Wai-nI acoottrnad t               ronidc
AcU                                                                    i~~~~~~~~~~~~Utald r-eel  of media   ieiiia  e   tttta    arccI r :a:ptL
falit teeldt  AlOt principal se-eol a;scaiothotia.   o   ua
pOpe T.tltc  &rfp vrr~. smTnt                                                                     h.C.ica     I loca  no rura.l hrocretala ad aeda-a I  o   afrcvenc
Tot$; P.1ultiton.  Ii-er(ulioa  - no a  July 1; 1960. 1970. att 1f7N                          At4.I otcvAt.clht-Tn:emt    fatcito1   0atrr
dt.a.                                                                                        70,iliia7                       heisCM4.  Of ahO
tirbe      I Poalt!in  (1.oor  ,.I" lota) -   ,Ibc   of whanb  to total papolatift
dilrrtdfncer                an o ...ar..  -a  sHore,  omtparability Of date            OT
safte,4 . otofica   1960. 1970,  ofl  19.5 tafa.                                            AHro   iao   ocrl    roao   c   twaod                       tt.  voc,b     at  nnl
Zuh11.9ii±SLJOao         00 -        t Cars 1 Op  tiOn prr~adtin.et aCe haet en 1ogo             _      Lt et artam  _eala.  A bo.rrerefn eat P0 tao f hod b.ituiLiat L
toa   Opacio   ,          Cto   eo  to,P hri  baCaity and   . lcrtlit  rat..            bted bausertid taratitia                  .....a.a
log  llsocpotaovac  turth Leer-alng ecth oehitr    icr9 ICapita I-ntta                tr        ad cootpe   e   .,.1ura,ad ru...  ee...iat ane...er..tnal
Lathe., (nt  ota. lift ..P.,tee -Cy     abiliaufo at 77.3 na:,.  mc  war-                   t-11.&Slli.os,ractyi.    rlis   tld.  tlOt t    t-eOtr.-  aNd
"Catra  . et ireilcel rate ala. tare ncr.. 1-tul  aaamI.ie  ....i. in                       aoeapc  Io
fertility ade-odief to  --on   ISrel Oct  .est  .ai   Planning  tloao.                   Aea          lerce          etcfo   o.ia        ra.vcr   n   ua
left  ceLefy LatAo.  ceLond ar   ft tr  ..t. ne  t.tnaft   of retality           Add...itna           dnlioscth cu Utti    inlanndite.c   Iper.N.g
cat  ertlitytccdc  aO  io7ttiO   Arie gS                                           ot  mecl, -rbb..  Ot   -ra  daicato  -ep-ruvi-,.
bh irtitraeite                  Maef tt   to at h..b. r  au  coan   tnueu    C" -
mlafaaa.Thi. it acira          Iey ctcc    etlt   at  olO   t                    duo    roltrto
eN.rcl.c.obloal  f  IOt otreOrlitio  Of.  Ot,eIt              gbrtidn'             Poiar  dIetch;.  - tCtal. tab"  anta.-iat    ea.tlcadlti
of Metn Lreplae   isiaaly,.!7,to sctIenaro  .  ..paISor .... Oa                                or f.at   oh o   atoc at ens (nann   I-ea            P to ..rcotascc itf ...ap-tire
.e t   Mer t 0.bt.   sL  o  e:'. ta  C%jut    laoceitc  of . nit1.. oaair                 pia~cho-i   ouaae; ..r-aIrI, cea    elro   sd6
ia the Vier 2000. and be. rote of srie            .treilie   Ta. to ropia_a                    Y=.r  huCdotdtotfoae ceh   ipot. c aLb   o
Tear  batinaro   oeultcec is roCh.t - To. roar  h-e  abtitoar, Popultion                ciece  onea P-Pile arc hei, Or aboe cit officil.  Ito  coa
y~L5 peplatue  pr tqarshiioctcrtil  Icoarca   teduatetob roquirb anIcall   lout "   2oaro                 VP .... tOti p .arw Incto  tuio;
t.eoa ceo,.ca PrpooT Ailaentareara u,srW                             f                                  .      i e ol. I..  Iaeo    riioaarrin    r   vi
otly.                                                                  N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OeildotSo.. . tt..  t..K-l-l                t   t    .     ppl
Jahn - Conce-d ..  bVoaioaloroiacthate.  f  ecn.o)farcaioa blandtIo
Poopal.. ......uour    (ront) - Clilitoa  (0- . .....  -frlag-a,.".fib-                 laaeftOol   nutil   nrrrport   Oc   pou    oeo
itfian; 1960. 1971. aed 1tOtct                                                                  aaltatt   ai  - eitredcoecuedrr-  Oci  caeot oroia   t
pir POPaa-tiora  far 191-A,16-1,   aIrti 1910-7f.                                              carve.peo.drt6 Isodac.
Peosicti             ...tt  at          "Drer)-  re  - Aaa  SIMrchti  rate. tI urhasPapep-       Atcltrn    aelccn-                  Liberate  dtules  chit to read at.  -it.)
istira  fe 110-'. 161-7.Sod 167-70.                                                     ata  occnco  te   adult p.Pcalatiof  .$ad 11 ...r  at. Ot.
Cr.dfic  the Uet. leer Chtucn) - ltauel. 1100 birrbc Par tho.ae-d 01tl-o
Iaultiec; 1961, 1971..ac  1979  .. ta.Con.Sb,sT ZON
CreteDeathPate toe  .Ouay... S);Aneui teStho  Per cteoe dc of .14nI-year                            Car. ira-  rh4f.ho   p,ar' or tiaro  P..-.a.ae... .a.. .esrvo  naCor
papule1.tleeP.N 1661 lit7   -tt I96a..Ccr   ootctc  ta   le  ptrofa;..aidteuaco OrO    r
5rtsSertaio oia*aao ucoofaacroatb ii    t   t                                                   farec         tveLtibdi....hca..  n
he   ota   ctuAtVtpr Od    - t rof ..iate.  P0050CC as-l clibee  L.r                        pai   e        MIet(Cr  taae   tplto!      l  yo.o   ceootto
o'hrecoru71LO    norcuioc    aIona.1.011  par of... preort.                           eas  r.1c    aato   aeu  er   oyeet Ioo.parab.el     tt
f       r                  c~~~~~hno,en ontur atlor lo -t cvt.g     ov.ra)-IoraIeaoa.crue
al o rofioc 0!al est L    e.-Al.ttLe.   butCt   nldace   etfe   n                              iairdvte   rsrl   oecrioSnot   e. l   tooie
ZIA.ar ofTEacao)        p gf  pordtoriof o196     .0010   cunr  iC  Caapita  da orsl   "..i-(.   h Ad..  . n   -$-t.ca                                                            .
Isttcc   acedrL Pauc-  roC=ocO   art-   ..  P,as  ItAr Siaointa       .  iaquirr-.          loccir    eauu    oer.   r  000.oaara,o;1961.  ..970    ..eo
IetatchaptClae -i961-t .9617C, ant1919tand.                                             ELshirt ae              h.canc   ofbcL-latot fore;1961,  tq7  cdr 1976 dLta.
Per carlt. evuoN  o  t7~,lroct I  '.... to:or      tcl  creo   of-prOdn                       addtacvherent      LCr  oc  i   ccr,  ooeinec    tolit
9-2.etior. top.rart  lccn...uf.- ocrar                          a.h pd, 9 Oceeta1,   ofi f.-e . ae  haro'     1960.
aitanoo  6   roco   ea,enri  nrtrLr.7  ro  of  annu   cond.                         pai.oaio   Pt   eand-p..t   cta10..otlule-aticiiaio   o
pue   rnI. orcrce10M . .......  ..lcI.. 10 ae   dia Oroeir       S.bo  atarrt        fthtinixoar.       I..C. ..0 oota  CeL toa. NPe,  P..co  ten.. lir-  for.. c
orda arctlono beta , ftote  are Farea- ( -ciilF-roclub arttle.era P.a
itai  rOtef a. of population. toe     : UrI .SppItD Par .. t fo   -th. SCroote-  at4 fCal  talc  fr Oct t tal                      I . pr o  .1altIbnaocie
hel   od  Suvy    6161   90at±6    sa                                                      0 197.at19C0  ate.biotobotIII  p'tlenoin  ocooclacd
rind irONatioa ar  ojlca i. erot en ue; 191-61  l9'  atdIN"     taft ar  In         d rationa  ao.eo.  b7fet;16.95.,IS1't.
agetroT -pet,t  orcltenP 10                  ..ib a  laenodp deo tact       ad.opt 'ra"-      to- tIe total.jaN00..srte
Z1 .atnoa   if   vae   *ooag  oatr  0 rar  a foodf1 P"                                           aroe. retct20'oota,  oO.'P'                  oac.L.an  puo.e   I  .OOO
cc NIonfI; i-.j 16:7 aes 1..I"tca                                                            at for.ochelt ..,anSe                    P" C
to   pr  rO.a utI eaeitv                                                            laOccthrout   reroIroo   eel(tSrr-tlo)-ara  ttrut 
huahtrfpaoo. to tal .arrar.ar  btr  I'         - eiO1r. Oraoa.coceuf                    unnLnli   dnaoCr40O Co ubOta.. be-ro                          laeluOtt  to co
ttretaC ttrIe   otee    oocea.aooa   n   siootu) Cehtiatd j,tv   Prrr   not Itnl(t  non tattea :-  uta   udnro
peoeatlooof  hat  OOpattrtOotulc:oc.  l.rihacreaa rtli               ea "l  C, .t*oo     1 peet   eslvl  t00cit0  arcoc                     :.P:, _arLa
foc.ciror  tedpoo  oab.  er trothr 10  ctrairo  atoco  apNe           peaca    ioaole.tuer.lnnlod I    ci-a I ot  -o.ra                                 ,
We01'd eF."o   re
rua  -oatra!popa ta  l   ror.  o  ot I, e_.L. ftpl CeofInc 
"loroc C   tPef" eacu"         OttirOoaOCfiv  yeueie.V                  ona a9e-   ..to.t..it  aid SIcl.  Dons.  J  Slrod ioo                                             ..
pito  ba  LO I..a.1tvcullabir  ntcoaI   r.,aoLtOtboatn.toeb    auni  OttoceLo   crnt
nhil  (utarccrc   atvaP thcO6.e0t-vnObtbme  rcr   b  0                               J*01..
itt P sreisc  an.tulaiC. Chldec..c.l  M.afLor                                     M--



-27-
1R83Y -  CGDOIKC DIC KLDfPfNT DATA S8OT
P.q 4 of 6
Sh-r of
A It                                                                                                G P-vl.Ion l   o  0 T2    Oooth 0t..  S oIP
1970     1973      1975      19u       17 197    1979       9        1982       193       19 85      990      70-78     79.85     85-90      1978
A. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (TL BiLlion.  1978 PftL..)
1.  bo. dp.tIc produ  t                        720.3    876.1   1034.2    1234.5    1272.7   1269.2    1288.2    1386.6    1449.0    1582.3    1971.9           7.4       3.8       4.5     100.D
2.  loIn fro,  ocr.  of 10.P .                  -6.0      3.8      .0.2      -10.1       3.0   -20.0      .13.9     .20.)    .2i.7    -24.0    -41.7             -         -         -        0.0
3. Groo.  do-ootto Inom                        714.3    879.9    1034.0   1224.4    1272.7  1249.2    1272.3    134.63    1427.3   1U58.3    1930.1             7.5       3.8       4.4    100.0
4.  Epoot. (G  NFS)                             42.7     66.3       50.8      62.0      74.0     71.2      77.0       92.1     100.4     119.2     183.5        7.1       8.9       8.9        5.8
5.  Ipo-t. (C o   7FS)                          60.0     93.9    140.4       167.4     118.8    112.0     117.3     127.6      13.2    141.2       172.3        8.9       3.9       4.1       9.2
6   Inv...,nt                                  130.0    158.1    245.0       273.2     248.4    263.7    263.7      260.2     29.6    326.2    4u.3             8.4       3.5       5.2       19.5
7  Coo.o.ptloo                                 590 4    723.7    846.5    1036.8    1075.9  1053.5         4.9    11U.0    1718.    U7.1            40.4        7.8       3.3       3.8      84.5
8   DoB tlc Sv10g                              129.9   152.4      187.7      197.7    196.8    212.8    207.5       224.4     341.2     248.2      389.8        5.3       4.7       6.8      15.5
9g  N.IoOol *oolo-                             143.3    191.3    214.2      213.0      212.7    23.0      216.2     237.5     26.8      304.0    423.6          5.1       4.3       6.9      16.7
B. SECTOR 0UTPUT                                                                        Sh.  of Total Oty.t 0P-.o..t)
1. 4rioo1tor                                    29.6    27.9       29.5      28.1      27.0       23.4      26.7      26.2      25.9      29.0      24.2
2.  Iodo.t"y                                    27.2     26.5      26.1       26.1      27.7      30.0      27.4      27.8      28.2       25.4      31.0
3.  9ther                                       43.2     45.6      44.4      45.8       45.4      4.4       45.9      44.0      45.9      45.6       44.8
C. PRICES (1978 . 100)
1.  Ropoot p.....                               43.7    63.8       84.0      95.6    100.0    105.6 16 9.8           14 .8     136.6     1.5    254.7
2.  lopoot plo...                               47.7     61.8       84.2      96,0     100.0    125.6    131.1       14.9      200.0    2M.4    319.6
3. T=om  of t0d.                                91.6    103.2      99.7       99.6     10D.0      84.1      79.3      77.8      79.4      79.8      77.2
4. GDP d.fl.to- V                               [0.2     33.7      50.2       73.4     10D.0     160.0    320.0    922.0    1198.0   2025.0   5439.0
S. 40.0.0. c..h..g. -ct  (31.00    TL7)         11.0     14.2      14.4       18.0      24.3      36.4
D. PUBLIC FlhANCE                                               P....nt of GDP
1.  C.otool 400.oo..o[o.o.ooo                   22.6    20.9       23.1      24.2      24.2      22.J
2.  C.no.rl gov.on  nt *op.dit-o                24.9     22.0      23.7      27.9       28.5      25.9
3.  P.blit 0.0t-r defi[it 3                       -       2.1       6.1       9.0        3.7       42
1970.78                                                                           1970     1925     1977     1978
E. SELECTED INDICATORS                                                          E.  LA.80R 70CER
ICOR                                             3.0                             Cioilil lobo- for0  (.illion)                  13.4     15.8     16.0    16.4
I.po-t oloticity                                 2.4                             U-..pl.Yc.n.t .od ..d-r.ploy-nt ()             11.0     12.3     13.1      13.5
40.008. donoatlo .00100 001.                    16.9                              Civilin ..ploym.nt (1Iil10)                  13.1    [4.7      14.7      14.8
000810.e1 d0~o tic .00108 Oct.                  13.6                               of 01i.h 17.)
Ioe...Lt-t/GDP                                  20.2
I.po-t./GDP                                     11.4                             Asro[ult-o.                                    67.1     64.5     61.9     61.3
0d60.1y                                       13.3     14.9     16.3      16.6
9ther                                         19.6     20.6     21.8    22.2
1/ Tot-l. -y not .dd op b oo... of -oondino    tore.
2J Prejootod   ct.. of iofl.tinn coo highly  .p.culoohe cd .8bj3.t to ool.
fJ  oOOOootoo Ocquirnoe   or o.otocl coo.o.f, 00.00 coonC no bf.pot..., *no 0tlhr  .chllc a.0A00t1i0.
4/ Too 1970-77 p-rIod.
Oftot.r 1980
£382DA



-ZS-
OFmY     4465n  PAYJENTS                                                                 AN        I
MIlton. 05 Doilla.).                                                                          P*g. 5 of 6
1970       1973       1975        1977       197          1979       1980        1981       1982        1981       1984        1985       1990
A.  S10It&KY A  BALANICE OF PAYMENTS
1.   aporta of good. and 8F2                              754       1799       2152       2556        3108        3257       3800        4500       5662        6473        7680       9114      19254
2.  laprtt  of good, and NFS                           -6096       -2391      -5219       -6436      -5059        -5699      - 7300     -8400       -9714    -10877    -12162        -15524     -23405
3.  B---orca balance                                   -342        - 592      -3067       -3880      -1953       -2462      -3508       -3980      -4352    -4404    - 4482    - 4410    - 4151
4.  Intnr...t (eat) 1/                                 -   47      -59        -1L24       - 570      - 680         -930      .1350      -1670       -15S0           9    -1749       -1924      -2309
s.  Profit.                                                33      -  35      -  36       - 116      -  60          -50        -          -        - 103      -  h       -  114      -  120     -  150
4:  Worker.'remittance..                                  273       1183        1312        982        983         1694      1la0        20o0        2400       3000        Y.oo       38O        5800
7 N. et faoo    _rnleina                                  193       1089       1152         366        243          714       450         330         797       1273        1531       1756       3341
0-  Tronfor                                                91          18         23         12         -                 -          -                            ----                  --
9.  Corcetocorootbl.Ic...                            58        515       -1892      -3572      -1710        -128       -3050      -35780      37           11      -295        -25             1
Il.   rI-ate fore.ign capItal                               92         77        251         169        147          209        L75        280         220        244         273        299         580
11.  PublIc -edi- 4 Long-term (061T) (gro.). 2/            271        316         386        Sf2        530         1636      2175        3340       3135        3540        3826       4233       4423
12'    nrl- tloo.t    o f public  4641T/2t -t146                    -72          2117      -214       .380          -365     -1240       -1400      -1474      -2176      -2692       -2097    -3729
13.  PublIc 8440 (Nec)                                     125        304         269        289        150         1069       935        2140        1661       1364        1136       1336         694
14.  short-term  ort) 3/                                    66       -235       1159        1807       1097         582        839         220      -172         -179         9         -59         -
15.  CapItal oe  InLodod ola..ehere 4/                  -39            67      -204          742        464        -20        1040        1810       2168        1827       1832       1268         -
16.  Chaoge Ior...r-ea (- -.Inorea.e.)                   -186         728        417         566      -148            74        30          -       -402         -181       -200       -212       -394
B. M6441 LO"M CcWMITMENTS 5/                                  506        541         755       1205        1607        (*96
Public Sector                                              487        491         649       1103       130 7        1796
1 Bak gop40                                                      135        158         144        358          306
2.Other .tlcltaera                                       112         100         40           6         34          123
3.CG.er -ta:  market  onmle1154                                      718        197         282        288         805
4.  Go..r- -   centrally Planned eomI.                    114          3           3        150        2G4           315
5 "'"u'plter                                               47          4         179        260        123          52
6.  Finanial ie-at-Lt ...                                  -          32         1729       263        281          52
7.Othar                                                    -          -          -
Private aat-to                                              19         56         106        100        180          100
C. .V0166G5 TIRMS OF 961T LOAN COWIIYJCNTS 5/
1.  Grant element 11)                                   37.4       349.2       15.6       11.         14.2         16.7
2 Inrermt          7(0)                                3.6         4l         7.2         76         7 2          7.0
3.  Nta-ity        (I.-.                                 18.8       25.7       13.5        11.6       10.8          11.9
4.  Grace            CY .ra                               4.6        7.1        3.8         4.2        3.1           5.0
/Dn,ntinolede 1980 debt reLiaf  &ma amInluded nae   cala    t agm eacmd.The fig.-m  Are:  intaea   relief 1980 7329 *iIo,1981 5259 million,
1982 5173 mLllian aa  1983 $162  4111m;    *d principal  mliaf 1980 $733 mlbm   1981 $518  mullen, 1982 5387 mILLen and 1983 5386 mlin
2/up.tomm  lacImdi  1976 ebme  firma  -. gennant gelmta   elo  are at ...naintent etb Dank MRS data.
3/Minly c--natlblm  STankid. kI  dpmmits, aenptam. no.461. -gng,al and eli arogar,                                ....raordita, r-iburat trdita.  o-edoof to, Oredne  fab achem   depoaite, and IMP.
-.Icldn .err  an  alaciom   mp to 19791 for proJatad y-ao  it told,gapf 11, pri-ota  8964  borrwIg. enant bala and  tota  debt -Ile  (51062 millIon Ln 1980, 5777 millioL
in I961  $50   IlIon I. 1982, an  $52* 64111mm L Ira132.
5/  Pblit  ad 'pmbltly searatad emntrma  debt anly.
Ocinbar 1980
Pe.9



- 29 -
TU - 6X LAT SD~~~~A                                  W  C IXDT"IZS
-           1 6                               Psse~~~~~~~N  6 of 6
Mctul                                      Provisional
1970       1973        1975        1976        1977       1978             19'n
A. OUTSTANDIIG DEBT (Million US Dollars)
1.   Public Mediut _d Long Term CH end LT)(Disbursd)                  1 b56       2$69        3176        3519        4326      6100             10452
2.   Private M and LT (disbursed)                                       42         115         160         253         479       557               650
3.   Shorv  Term a/                                                                279        1398        3441        6600       7469             4423
4.   Total Outstanding Dieburosd Debt                                  i696       3263        4734        7313       11405     14126             15925
S.   Undimbureed Public M and LT  jj                                   840        1101        1641        2393        2804      3500              3775
B.  DENT SERVICI (Million US Dollar.)
1.   Interest on all Debt (net of relief)   /                           47         -I9       -150        -300        -570       -710              -930
2.   Amortication of M and LT Debt (net of relief)                    -146         -72        -117        -119        -214      -360              -365
3.   Total Debt Service Paymnts                                       -193        -131        -267        -419        -784     -1090             -1295
C.  DEBT URDEN
1.   Debt Service Ratio  4/                                           18.8         4.4         7.7        11.2       22.2       26.7              26.2
2.   Total Outstanding Diebursed Debt/GDP  J/                         15.0        15.7        13.1        17.9        23.9      28.3              26.5
D.  EXPOSURE
1.   Bank Group DOD/Total Outstandieg Disbursed Debt                   7.2         7.8         9.1         7.6        6.1        6.0               8.0
2.   Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                        3.2        14.9        12.2        10.8        8.3        7.7               8.8
E.  COMPOSITION OF TOTAL OLTSTANDING DISBURSED DDBT                                                                        1979.6/
(Million US Dollars)                                                                           (Amount)  (As . of Totl)
1. Medium & Long-Term Debt                                                                                        11102          ELIZ
a.     Public Medium and Long-Term                                                                            10452          65.6
(t)  Bank Group                                                                                        1080           6.8
(ii)  Other Multilateral                                                                                 639           4.0
(iii)  Governments                                                                                       4692          29.5
(iv)  Suppliers                                                                                          352           2.2
(v)  Financial Institutions                                                                            3654          22.9
(vi)  Bonds                                                                                               35           0.2
b.     Private Medium and Long-Term (Total)                                                                     650           4.1
2.  Short Term                                                                                                     4823          30.3
(t)  Convertible Turkish Lira Deposits                                                                  642           4.0
(ii)  Suppliers' Credits/Commercial and Oil Arrears                                                     1516           9.5
(iii)  Acceptance Credits                                                                                 634           4.0
(iv)  Bankers Credits. Reimburmemnt Credits ,Overdrafte                                                  244           1.5
(v)  Dresdner bank                                                                                      344           2.2
(vi)  IMF                                                                                                623           3.9
(vii)  Oil CredLts                                                                                        408           2.6
(viii)  Other                                                                                              412            2.6
3.  Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                                                                              15925         100.0
1/  Bank DRS data.
2/  Based on Turkish Central Bank estimates.
3/  Based on Turkish Balane of Payments data, except for 1979.
4/  Total debt service (line B3) divided by exports of goods and non-factor services plus workers' remittances.
5/  At market prices.
6/ leak DRS data, Turkisk Central Sank and Treasury estimetes.
October 1960
EKENA CPIIA



ANNEX II
- 30 -                              Page 1 of 10
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDIT
(As of September 30,1980)
Loan and
Credit                                                                       (Less Cancellations US$M)
Number    Year   Borrower                   Purpose                          Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Twenty-two loans and fourteen credits fully disbursed                        600.5   177.8
748-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey        Education                          13.5               2.6
844-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey         Istanbul Water Supply             37.0                9.3
883-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey         Ceyhan Aslantas                   44.0               18.9
892-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey         Istanbul Power Distribution    14.0                  0.1
893-TU   1973   Turkish State Railway  Railway Project                       46.7                1.7
957-TU   1974   Republic of Turkey        Antalya Forestry                  40.0                0.3
1023-TU   1974   TEK/TKI                   Elbistan Power                    148.0              53.3
1024-TU   1974   DYB                       Industry                          40.0                0.7
1130-TU   1975   Republic of Turkey        Rural Development                  75.0              44.5
1248-TU   1976   Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)          Agriculture Credit                54.3              31.3
1258-TU   1976   State Pulp and Paper
Industry (SEKA)       Newsprint                          70.0              11.2
1265-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey        Livestock III                     21.5               12.0
1194-TU   1976   TEK                       Power Transmission II             56.0               12.8
1310-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey        Tourism                           26.0               23.1
1379-TU   1977   DYB                       Industry                          70.0               35.8
1430-TU   1977   TSKB                      Industry                          74.0               15.7
1585-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey        Northern Forestry                 86.0               67.7
1586-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey        Livestock IV                      24.0               22.6
1606-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey        Erdemir Steel Stage II            95.0               89.8
1741-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey        Ports Rehabilitation              75.0               75.0
1742-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey        Grain Storage                     85.0               85.0
1748-TU   1979   TSKB                      Industry                          60.0               59.3
1754-TU   1979   TSKB                      Private Sector Textiles           65.0               64.9
1755-TU   1979   SYKB                      Private Sector Textiles            15.0              15.0
S-15-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey        Ankara Air Pollution Control    6.0                   5.8
1818-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey        Structural Adjustment            200.0               90.6
1844-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey        Karakaya Hydropower              120.0              120.0
1847-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey        Sumerbank Cotton Textiles /a   83.0                  83.0
1862-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey        Livestock V /a                    51.0               51.0
Total                                                    2395.5   177.8   1103.0
of which has been repaid                                206.0      6.3
Total now outstanding                                    2189.5   171.5
Amount sold                        3.6
of which has been repaid        3.6                     - 0 -   - 0 -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b                        2189.5   171.5
Total undisbursed                                        1103.0      0      1103.0
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 31 -                          ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1980)
Fiscal                                                      Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligor        Type of Business                    Loan   Equity   Total
1964     TSKB           DFC                                   -    0.92      0.92
1966     SIFAS I        Nylon Yarn                          0.90   0.47      1.37
1967     TSKB II        DFC                                   -    0.34      0.34
1969     TSKB III       DFC                                   -    0.41      0.41
1969     SIFAS II      Nylon Yarn                           1.50   0.43      1.93
1970     Viking I       Pulp and Paper                      2.50   0.62      3.12
1970     ACS           Glass                               10.00   1.58    11.58
1971     NASAS          Aluminum                            7.00   1.37      8.37
1971     SIFAS III    Nylon Yarn                            0.75     -       0.75
1971     Viking II    Pulp and Paper                          -    0.05      0.05
1972     SIFAS IV       Nylon Yarn                            -    0.52      0.52
1972     TSKB IV        DFC                                   -    0.43      0.43
1973     TSKB V         DFC                                10.00     -      10.00
1973     Akdeniz       Tourism                              0.33   0.27      0.60
1974     Borusan        Steel Pipes                         3.60   0.44      4.04
1974     AKSA           Textiles                           10.00     -      10.00
1975     Kartaltepe   Textiles                              1.30     -       1.30
1975     Sasa           Nylon Yarn                         15.00     -      15.00
1975     Aslan          Cement                             10.60     -      10.60
1975     DOKTAS         Steel                               7.50   1.37      8.87
1975     TSKB          DFC                                 25.00   1.22    26.22
1976     NASAS          Aluminum                            1.58     -       1.58
1976     TSKB           DFC                                25.00      -     25.00
1976     Asil Celik   Steel                                12.00   2.20    14.20
1977     Borusan        Steel Pipes                           -    0.06      0.06
1978     DOKTAS         Steel                                 -    0.09      0.09
1979     Ege Mosan    Engines for Mopeds                    2.15      -      2.15
1979     ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories         8.62   0.78      9.40
1979     Asil Celik   Steel                                   -    1.80      1.80
1979     Trakya Cam   Glass                                31.51   4.00    35.51
1980     TSKB           DFC                                   -    1.09      1.09
1980     ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories           -    0.50      0.50
1980     MENSA         Textile and Fibers                   4.00     -       4.00
Total Gross Commitments                         190.84  20.96   211.80
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments, Repayments
and Sales                                     113.88   3.49   117.37
Total Commitments now held by IFC                76.96  17.47    94.43
Total Undisbursed                                 4.73   3.54      8.27



- 32 -                          ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 748 Education Project; US$13.5 million loan of June 9, 1971. Effec-
tive Date: September 29, 1971. Closing Date; March 31, 1981.
The project was substantially delayed due mainly to initial diffi-
culties in providing the project unit with adequate qualified staff and
authority commensurate with its responsibilities. Implementation is now
proceeding satisfactorily, with equipment procurement progressing smoothly.
Completion of some training institutions, including the Management Training
Institute, has been delayed by contract disputes. However 90 percent are now
complete or almost complete, and remedial actions are being taken by Govern-
ment to accelerate completion of the remaining schools. The Government is
also considering alternative steps to formally establish the Management Train-
ing Institute without need for parliamentary action. Training of teachers for
technician schools, adult training centers and practical trade schools has
made considerable progress. Sixty-seven local advisory committees for voca-
tional and technical education have been established, one in each province.
Ln. No. 844 Istanbul Water Supply Project; US$37 million loan of June 30,
1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Project construction was delayed about 2-1/2 years due mainly to
problems in the use of ICB procurement procedures and inefficient management.
However, construction moved swiftly in 1977 and the two major water resources
development programs were completed in early 1979. Substantial improvements
to the distribution system required, to enable full utilization to be made of
the new water sources are under implementation. Tariff increases have been
implemented recently, and a reorganization of the management, accounting and
financial systems is under consideration.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project; US$44 million
loan and US'30 million credit of March 22, 1973. Effective Date: March 20,
1974. Closing Date; December 31, 1981.
Following delays due to difficult rock conditions and inappropriate
tunnelling methods, two diversion tunnels have been completed, about two years
behind appraisal estimate. The upstream coffer dam has also been completed.
Progress in 1979 was disappointing because of the difficulties that the
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -                             ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
contractors encountered in obtaining sufficient fuel, construction steel and
cement; the supply situation has eased recently. The construction of the
irrigation system is progressing, with the system now ready to transport
irrigation water to about 40,000 ha, one third of the target. On-farm works
are progres3ing slowly, with about 40 percent of the land leveling, 25 percent
of the surface drainage, and 35 percent of the feeder roads completed. Tile
drainage is being delayed until the main drains are located. Staffing of the
extension service is satisfactory except as regards consultants; the Govern-
ment is taking steps to hire the latter.
Ln. No. 892 Istanbul Power Distribution Project: US$14.0 million loan of
May 25, 1973. Effective Date; September 28, 1973. Closing Date:
October 31, 1980.
The project has been delayed by about four years mainly by slow
procurement action and inefficient management; however, this is now almost
completed. Both local and foreign costs have increased substantially over
appraisal estimates. Consultant studies of the Istanbul power market and of
the proposed reorganization of the company's electricity, transport and gas
services have been completed. IETT's tariffs have been raised substantially
in the recent past, and additional increases as a result of the Government's
January 1980 economic package should help cover the increased project costs
and revitalize the company's finances.
Ln. No. 893 Turkish State Railways; US$47 million loan of May 25, 1973.
Effective Date; August 28, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
After initial delays, physical progress, including track renewals,
rolling stock, an locomotive production, the latter financed by the European
Investment Bank, is satisfactory. over 90 percent of the loan has been
disbursed and procurement action has been completed for use of the remaining
loan funds. Despite several tariff increases since the loan was made, the
Railways have continue to fall short of the financial targets in the revised
Plan of Action agreed with the Bank in mid-1975. However, it is hoped that
further increases in passenger fares and freight tariffs averaging 70 to 170
percent, which became effective in January 1980, will improve the Railways'
financial situation. While the dieselization program is making satisfactory
progress, other measures to improve operational efficiency, such as appro-
priate manpower planning, have not been given sufficient attention.



- 34 -                     ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Ln. No. 957 Antalya/Akdeniz Forest Utilization Project: US$40 million loan of
January 28, 1974. Effective Date: May 26, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,
1982.
Following the approval by the Executive Directors of needed changes
in the agreements arising from relocation of the pulp and paper mill, the loan
was declared effective. Construction at the new site is underway with the
installation of equipment proceeding process satisfactorily, and the project
is expected to be completed by end-1981, two and a half years behind the
revised schedule. Some cases of sub-standard civil works construction have
occurred, but a corrective program and strengthened supervision by SEKA have
produced some improvement. Arrangements have been made to complete the
foreign exchange financing plan, and procurement for the industrial part of
the project is well advanced. Local currency payments for the Akdeniz
establishment are also now being made. Price increases of 127-345 percent in
January 1980 should enable the company to meet part of the local currency
requirements.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project: US$148 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date; June 1, 1976. Closing Date; July 30, 1982.
Project implementation had been delayed by critical problems,
including insufficient staff, inefficient management, inadequate coordination
among various agencies and unsatisfactory performance of civil contractors.
Following continuous Bank and co-lender reviews of the situation with the
Turkish authorities from early 1977, the remedial measures initiated by Turkey
resulted in some improvement of project execution, until mid-1979. However,
continuing and serious shortage of local funds has affected project progress,
which has been aggravated by staff and management deficiencies. The Govern-
ment's expected timely provision of adequate local funds for this high
priority project from the Structural Adjustment Loan Counterpart Funds is
likely to help resume momentum in future. The colenders and the Government
met in October 1980 to discuss a detailed program of action to overcome
remaining implementation problems; this program is expected to be finalized
and implemented before the next construction season.
Ln. No. 1024 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$40 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: September 30, 1974. Closing Date;
December 31, 1980.
The loan was fully committed in February 1977, with eleven sub-
projects approved by the Bank. Project implementation is satisfactory and
disbursements are nearly complete.



- 35 -                           ANNEX IT
Page 6 of 10
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankiri Rural Development; US$75 million loan of June 23,
1975. Effective Date: January 22, 1976. Closing Date; December 31, 1981.
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Corum dam has been
completed and the works to divert run-off from 5 nearby water,3heds have been
completed. Kumbaba pumping station is ready. Diversion tunnels for Alaca and
Guldercek dams are more than 90 percent completed. Designs for the irrigation
systems of the Guldercek and Alaca areas have been completed and bids have
been initiated. The project extension service and credit components are
operating successfully. The Government is taking steps to replace two of the
three extension consultants who resigned for personal reasons. Further con-
struction of village centers is being delayed until agreement is reached on
satisfactory plan for using and maintaining existing centers and plans for
additional centers are revised.
Ln. No. 1194 Second TEK Power Transmission Project: US$56 million loan of
June 14, 1976. Effective Date; April, 21, 1978. Closing Date; December 31,
1980.
Procurement action is complete, somewhat behind schedule, and almost
the entire loan is committed. Some deliveries have also been delayed because
of foreign exchange shortages. Improvements are expected to continue in over-
all project implementation and the rate of disbursement.
Ln. No. 1248 Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries; US$54.2 million loan of
May 5, 1976. Effective Date: May 11, 1977. Closing Date: September 30,
1981.
The ferryship component has been implemented, and the two roll-on and
roll-off ships purchased under this project and the Fruit and Vegetable Export
project are now operating a regularly schedule service between ports in Turkey
and two ports in Italy. Selection of agro-industries and sub-loans has been
delayed, but some have recently been approved. The Agricultural Bank (TCZB)
has introduced improved lending procedures for its ongoing supervised credit
program, and this component is being implemented satisfactorily. After
considerable delay, consultants have begun the study of TCZB's structure and
procedures. At the Borrower's request, a cattle-fattening component of the
Project, and US$7.7 million of the original Loan amount of $63 million
allocated for this purpose, were cancelled on May 5, 1977. Also, as provided
for in the Loan Agreement, $1.04 million for training was cancelled on
December 22, 1977, following approval of UNDP funds for this purpose.



- 36 -                             ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Ln. No. 1258 Balikesir Newsprint; US$70 million loan of May 21, 1976.
Effective Date; October 15, 1976. Closing Date; December 31, 1980.
The project had faced delays in civil works and procurement caused by
insufficient local funds. Recent price increases of 130-345 percent have
helped to correct this situation and the project is expected to start pro-
duction in early 1981, 2 years behind the appraisal schedule. Erection of
machinery and equipment begun in early 1979 is almost complete and trial runs
of the saw mill component have already begun.
Ln. No. 1265 Livestock III; US$21.5 million loan of May 26, 1976. Effective
Date: February 25, 1977. Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
After a slower than anticipated start-up, project implementation
improved but has recently deteriorated due to resource constraints affecting
field staff travel. This has adversely affected the preparation of farm
development plans. Though project area offices have been established, they
are not fully staffed. Government is reviewing possible measures to correct
the situation. A higher than expected proportion of sub-loans has been made
to small farmers.
Ln. No. 1310 South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure; US$26 million loan of
July 9, 1976. Effective Date; March 1, 1978. Closing Date; December 31,
1982.
Implementation of most project components is satisfactory, with
progress being made in preparation of specifications and project design work,
although the pace of overall project implementation is somewhat slower than
expected due to staffing constraints and difficulties in ensuring adequate
inter-ministerial and inter-agency coordination. However, measures to
strengthen the Project Unit and its consultants, the Tourism Bank, are being
taken, and the project is still expected to be completed without major delays.
Ln. No. 1379 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey); US$70 million loan of
March 23, 1977. Effective Date; July 21, 1977. Closing Date: March 31,
1981.
The loan has been fully committed. DYB still has severe staff
constraints, which it has in part overcome by recruitment of additional junior
staff. It hopes improved contract terms will enable it to fill more senior
positions as needed.
Ln. No. 1430 TSKB XII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$74.0
million loan of June 3, 1977. Effective Date; August 29, 1977. Closing
Date; June 30, 1981.
Progress is satisfactory and 93 percent of the loan has been
committed. TSKB has essentially reached its agreed targets for allocation of
its resources to projects in less developed regions and export-oriented



ANNEX II
- 37 -                         Page 8 of 10
industries.  It has so far been unable to raise resources in international
capital markets as expected because of Turkey's economic difficulties, but the
interest of several financing sources is anticipated once conditions permit
renewed efforts.
Ln. No. 1525 Northern Forestry; US$86.0 million loan of June 5, 1978.
Effective Date; October 30, 1978. Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Industrial wood production for 1979 was close to forecasts but there
were significant shortfalls in some other targets, principally as a result of
Government budget cuts. Continuing local resource constraints have adversely
affected all targets during 1980, causing delays in preparation of forest
management plans over about 22 percent of the project area and timely payment
by SEEs' for timber delivery.. Foreign procurement is effectively up to date
but local state enterprises have been unable to supply much of the locally
produced equipment (principally vehicles to replace existing stocks).
Consideration is being given to procuring internationally.
Ln. No. 1586 Livestock IV: US$24.0 million loan of June 5, 1978. Effective
Date; October 31, 1978. Closing Date; June 30, 1985.
The supervised credit program for farm development has not yet been
initiated, mainly because of difficulties being encountered in recruiting
veterinarians and agronomists to serve in eastern Turkey and by resource
constraints adversely affecting field staff travel. Government is reviewing
measures to overcome them. The milk industry study has been satisfactorily
completed. International recruitment of technical specialists, considerably
delayed, is underway.
Ln. No. 1606 Erdemir Stage II Steel: US$95.0 million loan of June 30, 1978.
Effective Date: July 30, 1979. Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Procurement for the phenol treatment plant, the raw material handling
system and the hot rolled shear line are completed. Following technical
review by the company's consultants, the fourth blast stove and the third down
coiler have been deferred until a later date. Product selling prices have
been substantially increased in January 1980. Production from existing
facilities however, have been severely restricted because of the lack of raw
materials due to the limited availability of foreign exchange.
Ln. No. 1741 Ports Rehabilitation; US$75 million of July 2, 1979. Effective
Date; January 22, 1980. Closing Date; June 30, 1983.
The project coordinating committee is in place and functioning
effectively. Preparation of equipment specifications, tender documents and
procurement is making good progress. UNDP has appointed a project manager to
implement the project related training programs. The port sector planning
studies have been delayed by lack of staff, but steps are being taken to
correct this.



- 38 -                        ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Ln. No. 1742 Grain Storage: US$85 million of July 2, 1979. Effective Date:
January 21, 1980. Closing Date; June 30, 1985.
Project implementation has begun. A short list of prequalified
consultants have been invited to submit proposals by end October 1980 for
engineering design and supervision of continuation.
Ln. No. 1748 TSKB XIII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$60 million
of July 12, 1979. Effective Date; October 25, 1979. Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
After initial delays, the progress is now satisfactory with over 30
percent of the loan committed. TSKB and ITC finalized in November the
technical assistance program for training and export development is under
implementation.
Lns. Nos. 1754 TSKB (US$65 million) and 1755 SYKB (US$15 million) Private
Sector Textiles loans of September 17, 1979. Effective Date: February 29,
1980. Closing Date; December 31, 1984.
Consultants have prepared the preliminary program for local
training. The additional consultants for technical services and for the
extension services are being recruited. Revised Action Plans are being
prepared. Approval of sub-projects has begun, and about 15 percent of the
loan has been committed.
Ln. No. S-15 Ankara Air Pollution Engineering: US$6 million loan of
December 12, 1979. Effective Date: April 4, 1980. Closing Date;
December 31, 1983.
Consultants being selected for project studies.
Ln. No. 1818 Structural Adjustment Loan; US$200 million loan of March 26,
1980.  Effective Date:  April 1, 1980.  Closing Date;  September 30, 1981.
The loan is fully committed and disbursements were $128 million as of
October 21, 1980. Progress has been satisfactory, and the second tranche was
released on July 30, 1980 and the final one on October 23, 1980.
Ln. No. 1844 Karakaya Hydropower: US$120 million loan of May 21, 1980.
Effective Date: August 15, 1980. Closing Date: December 31, 1988.
Project implementation is making progress.



ANNEX II
39                         Page 10 of 10
Ln. No. 1847 Sumerbank Textiles Modernization and Rationalization; US$83
million of May 28, 1980. Effective Date; January 1, 1981. Closing Date;
June 30, 1984.
The loan is not yet effective. Project implementation has begun.
Ln. No. 1862 Livestock V; US$51 million of June 6, 1980. Effective Date;
November 6, 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
The loan is not yet effective.



40 -                           ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
TURKEY - PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I; Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by TPAO to prepare Project;   6 months
(b)  Agency which prepared Project:              TPAO assisted by Bank
(c)  First presentation to the Bank;             November 1979
(d)  Departure of pre-appraisal mission;         November 1979
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission;             February 1980
(f)  Negotiations completed;                     September 1980
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness;              March 1981
Section II: Sepcial Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
A.   Special Condition of Effectiveness;
(i) Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and
TPAO (para. 62).
B.   Special Conditions of Disbursement;
(i) TPAO shall present an initial seismic program satisfactory to the
Bank before contracting seismic services (para. 64);
(ii) TPAO will provide the Bank for its review and acceptance the results
of the seismic surveys and the exploration committee's recommen-
dations before purchase of drilling material and services (para. 64);
(iii) TPAO will provide a staff training program satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 59); and
(iv) GOT will present a plan of action to strengthen GDPA (para. 65).



ANNEX III
- 41 -                         Page 2 of 3
C.   Other Main Conditions;
(i)  Government will carry out a plan of action acceptable to the Bank
for offsetting or eliminating foreign exchange losses of TPAO
incurred from January 1, 1981 due to its outstanding foreign debts
from its importing petroleum and petroleum products (para. 50);
(ii)   Government would make available as equity contribution funds for the
local currency cost of the project in the event that sufficient
resources were not available from TPAO's own cash flow (para. 61);
(iii)   Government will provide or cause TPAO to be provided with an amount
equal to the accounts receivable in excess of TPAO's sales for the
previous two months at an interest rate no greater than the average
rate TPAO receives on its outstanding accounts receivables
(para. 52);
(iv)   TPAO will by January 1, 1981, transfer all responsibility for
importing petroleum and petroleum products, and by July 1, 1981,
transfer all its facilities for refining imported oil, and make all
other arrangements by December 1981, to completely separate its
import-related activities from its domestic oil activities
(para. 49);
(v)  TPAO will establish by April 1, 1981, and thereafter maintain
separate accounts as of January 1, 1981 between its two divisions
(para. 49);
(vi)   By July 1, 1981 TPAO would have a long-term debt equity ratio of one
and would thereafter maintain liquid resources equal to at least two
months cash operating expenses, and have a current ratio of one
(para 52);
(vii)   TPAO would furnish annually in October of each year for review by
the Bank its proposed investment program for the following fiscal
year and its related financing arrangements. TPAO shall maintain a
minimum debt service coverage ratio of 2.0 (para. 52);
(viii)   Beginning January 1, 1981 TPAO would not use its internally
generated funds for its subsidiaries unless its own requirements
have been met (para. 52);
(ix)   Beginning with its fiscal year 1981, TPAO would revalue its assets
annually for a memorandum account in accordance with principles
satisfactory to the Bank and furnish the Bank pro-forma accounts on
such basis (para. 50);



- 42 -                         ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
(x)   TPAO will furnish to the Bank by December 31, 1981 recommendations
designed to enable it to attract and retain qualified technical
personnel and to improve the operational efficiency of its staff,
exchange views with the Bank on the recommendations and thereafter
take steps within its power to implement them (para. 45); and
(xi)   TPAO shall establish and maintain until project completion several
units with sufficient qualified and experienced staff whose terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 57).



2S'                                                                                                                                                                                  4`003'-                                                      4'5' 
BULGARIA<r'>\23.                                                              B Z A C K                                        S § A
* ,r*-.-  \,     -7                                                                                                                                                                             I;                   U.  S    S.   R.
GREECE
+ >t -   --    J   /->        *-X_    Isfmbul         Wg  -                                                                                                          Krenz> '* 
__9                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kardeniz                                 /N
wf ' x, X - / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40-
0XS-<    X> OAfV°n                                                              t0<~~~~/;se4                                                    C                    + At yon                                                  RAN
} ~ ~     ~        ~        ~       ~       ~        C   ,9                                                                                                                                             -  L            _ -S   ;L   '
~~~~ _ ,,,,,__                                        Eskisehi  -                     A  N  // VI   R   A  O K    k aI
41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2PH> T U R ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K gEY .s D/Te Ri                                                                                          RAKNE                                                 A                     ivnctko )9eIR bo A NTZOgZ
AydRn         ,'                                                                         -t; -
Ih  v                                                                                                       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f  /-              ~'~
, /__ec   e                                       =     _)                                 H         '            U      SR/                                  q;0ASPenlsn       I R A  Q
Mersin    Y    rC
*      TURKEY    .41Evations,lOOOrnetersand F                     tJ/TAD                                                                                                                        OF  S. .    <_  _;  F  . . T E  OL F
TURKISH PETROLEUM SECTOR                                                                                                                             kT E
<    '   Pfolect acerosu                                                                                                                                           _SRB'.~n
EXitn                                 Planned
U  Refineries   ~~~~~~            Rel fne_riesCYPRUS -
Oil fields:                 ......... .. Crude oil pipelineC Y P R U S                        \                                     'IOMANIA                              I
*       TPAO                                                                                                                           SAi                   ,VABicnBsr
*  ERSAN                        ~~~~~~~Elevotions, IWO meters cand abovej
A       MOtL                                Inlternationol boundaries                                                                           5./..
Ga0s fields                                      oE3f                                                                                              \
Pipelins                                       C KIOMTERS 9           IT             200           3_00
TPAO                                                                                                                                          ohSA       511 I
Iraq -Turkey, crude oil                     rh ,   phn bo.. 6-   nord by Vhe Whoid8-ak -aff cl-Wyl Is,  --i- e,n,n                           t   LOhCfA                 IRAN                                        Prlc  ilfed
Other                                       nIit, eod-e  f the,, reor Sn h i50  1a atahhud. The d-nrnnn-,n Oed. nd the          !";AA IAQSGera                                                                     Proadct oi ied
h5OWnnOs lnena this -oa do not-ple. onth Oar fllo World ennh AndILs ISIMI
Z0 dcptnl of su_h bonaen           o ty t,-05 oway ardreOe or)                         <Ll    -ACOfOtCftI \            'U        S                                   -  ---~- Railroad



