                                      Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR00001026



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IDA-41220)



                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.6 MILLION
                       (US$10.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI

                                         FOR A

                SCHOOL ACCESS AND IMPROVEMENT PROJECT

     IN SUPPORT OF THE SECOND PHASE OF THE SCHOOL ACCESS AND

                           IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM



                                      June 21, 2012




Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region



                                           1
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective April 1, 2012)

                         Currency Unit = Djibouti Francs
                               DF 180 = US$1.00
                              US$1.55 = SDR 1.00

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 – December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AFD      Agence Française de Développement
APL      Adaptable Program Loan
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CFPEN    Personnel Training Center for National Education (Centre de Formation des
         Personnels de l’Enseignement National)
CRIPEN   National Education Research and Information Production Center (Centre de
         Recherche, d’Information, et de Production pour l’Education Nationale)
DEC      District Education Councils
DHU      Department of Habitat and Urbanism
DPI      Directorate of Planning and Computerization (Direction de la Planification et de
         l’Informatisation)
EDAM     Household Living Standards Survey (Enquête Démographique Auprès des Ménages)
EFA      Education for All
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
EPDF     Education Program Development Fund
FM       Financial Management
FMR      Financial Management Report
FTI      Fast Track Initiative
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GER      Gross Enrollment Rate
MDG      Millennium Development Goals
MNEVT    Ministry of National Education and Vocational Training
MNHE     Ministry of National and Higher Education
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MPU      Maintenance and Project Unit (Service de la Maintenance et des Projets)
PAAE     School Access and Improvement Project (Projet d’Amélioration d’accés aux écoles)
PIU      Project Implementation Unit (Bureau d’exécution des projets d’éducation, BEPE)
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
PTA      Parent Teacher Association
UNDP     United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF   United Nations Children’s Fund
USAID    United States Agency for International Development




                                         2
      Vice President: Inger Andersen
    Country Director: A.David Craig
     Sector Manager: Mourad Ezzine
Project Team Leader: Christina Wright
   ICR Team Leader: Christina Wright
          ICR Author Karine Pezzani




                    3
                                    REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
                          School Access and Improvement Project, Phase II
                                  October 2005 – December 2011


                                                      CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph


  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 19
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ………………………………………………..20
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 22
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 32
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 34
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 36
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 37
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 38
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 39
  Annex 9. Achievement of Triggers for PAAE ............................................................. 40
  Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 41
  MAP




                                                               4
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Second School Access
Country:                Djibouti                Project Name:
                                                                          and Improvement
Project ID:             P086994                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-41220
ICR Date:               06/21/2012              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:
                                                                          DJIBOUTI
Original Total
                        XDR 6.60M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 6.42M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 6.60M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Education and TVET
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       05/26/2004     Effectiveness:                              03/26/2006
                                                                                 06/12/2009
Appraisal:            01/07/2005     Restructuring(s):                           12/30/2010
                                                                                 05/09/2011
Approval:             11/08/2005     Mid-term Review:        09/15/2007          11/15/2007
                                     Closing:                06/30/2009          12/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     30                  30
Primary education                                                     35                  35
Secondary education                                                   35                  35


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                     33                  33
Gender                                                                17                  17
Other social protection and risk management                           17                  17
Participation and civic engagement                                    17                  17
Rural services and infrastructure                                     16                  16

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Inger Andersen                       Christiaan J. Poortman
Country Director:          A. David Craig                       Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:            Mourad Ezzine                        Regina Maria Bendokat
Project Team Leader:       Christina D. Wright                  Ousmane Diagana
ICR Team Leader:           Christina D. Wright
ICR Primary Author:        Karine M. Pezzani


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project (Phase II of the APL) will increase access to basic education equitably,
improve the quality of education and increase the efficiency of the education system.




                                                 ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target   Formally       Actual Value
                                               Values (from      Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                  approval       Target       Completion or
                                                documents)       Values        Target Years
                  Total GER in primary to increase from 52% to 67.4%, of which the ratio girls to
Indicator 1 :
                  boys will increase from .55 to .70
Value
                  52%, ratio girls to boys   67.4%, (0.77 ratio               75% (0.88 ratio
quantitative or
                  .55                        girls to boys)                   girls to boys)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/11/2005                 06/30/2009                       12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Indicator targets surpassed.
achievement)
                Percentage of children completing primary schooling without repeating increases
Indicator 2 :
                from 53% to 83%, of which girls from 50% to 83%.
Value                                        83%, of which
                                                                               75.6% (girls:
quantitative or 53% (50% for girls)          girls 83% at end of
                                                                               72.9%)
Qualitative)                                 project.
Date achieved 02/11/2005                     06/30/2009                        12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Indicator targets not achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Primary cycle repetition rates drop from 10.4% to 5.4%.
Value
quantitative or 10.4%                        5.4%                              9.8%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/11/2005                     06/30/2009                        12/31/2011
                Target reached in 2008 but the suppression of the exit exam in primary school
Comments
                resulted in a larger influx of students to middle schools where capacity is
(incl. %
                constrained. Hence, students had to repeat the last year of primary education to
achievement)
                ease the bottleneck.
Indicator 4 : Primary cycle drop-out rates drop from 3.4% to 1.2%.
Value
quantitative or 3.4%                         1.2%                              2.9%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/11/2005                     06/30/2009                        12/31/2011
Comments        Target reached in 2008 but drop-out rates increased again by the end of the
(incl. %        project. This is thought to be a consequence of the increase in repetition rates
achievement) described above which prompt more children to drop out.
                Non-salary recurrent spending rises from 6.6% to 15.0% of total recurrent
Indicator 5 :
                spending on primary education.
Value           6.6%                         15.0%                             13.5%


                                                 iii
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/11/2005                   06/30/2009                            12/31/2011
Comments          Indicator target achieved, although a slight decline was experienced in the last
(incl. %          year, likely due to the the fiscal constraints that all countries experienced in the
achievement)      region during and after the "Arab Spring".
Indicator 6 :     Percentage of teachers receiving continuing training rises from 30% to 90%.
Value
quantitative or   30%                           90%                                95%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/11/2005                    06/30/2009                         12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Indicator target surpassed.
achievement)
                  Percentage of schools with Parent-Teacher Associations (PTAs) rises from 70%
Indicator 7 :
                  to 80%.
Value
quantitative or   70%                           90%                                88%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/11/2005                   06/30/2009                         12/31/2011
Comments          Indicator target achieved, although a slight decline was experienced in the last
(incl. %          year. The MNHE claims that this is due to the increase in the number of new
achievement)      schools and the fact that it takes time to establish active PTAs.
Indicator 8 :     Teacher student ratio in pubic primary school to increase
Value
quantitative or   39.4                          45                                 45
Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/18/2005                 06/16/2009                           12/31/2011
Comments          Indicator target achieved. This indicator was expressed in percentage rather than
(incl. %          a ratio throughout the project but should be interpreted as 1 teacher for 45
achievement)      students.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                           Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                             Values (from                             Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                          Revised
                                               approval                              Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                              documents)                             Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Total GER in primary education is 61.9% (Comp I).
Value
(quantitative   52.0                        67.4%                           75%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/11/2005                    09/15/2009                      12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Indicator target surpassed.
achievement)
                Primary education textbooks in basic education subject matters have a 1:1 ratio
Indicator 2 :
                (French, Arabic, and Mathematics) (Comp II).


                                                      iv
Value                                       1:1 for French,                    1:2 French, 1:2
                1:1 French; 1:2
(quantitative                               Arabic,                            Mathematics, 1:1
                Mathematics; 1:4 Arabic
or Qualitative)                             Mathematics                        Arabic
Date achieved 02/11/2005                    09/15/2009                         12/31/2011
                Indicator target only achieved for Arabic. As for the other subjects, the ratio has
Comments
                declined or stagnated. This is thought to be a consequence of: (i) insufficient
(incl. %
                number of textbooks due to growing population; retention; inefficient
achievement)
                distribution.
Indicator 3 : 90% of teachers have received appropriate in-service training (Comp II).
Value
                less than 50 % at launch
(quantitative                               90%.                               95%
                and 60% in 2005/6
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/11/2005                    09/15/2009                         12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Indicator target surpassed.
achievement)
                80% of the training program planned for the staff of the Ministry are completed
Indicator 4 :
                each year (Comp III).
Value
(quantitative   0 at start of project.      80%                                100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/11/2005                    09/15/2009                         12/31/2011
                Indicator surpassed. However, there is a discrepancy in the PAD regarding this
Comments
                indicator which appears in Annex 3 but not in Table 1 Page 5. The indicator
(incl. %
                measured by MNHE was the percentage of school directors and inspectors who
achievement)
                received training (100%).

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                            IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     12/09/2005            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     10/25/2006            Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               0.78
  3     06/19/2007            Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               1.26
  4     12/25/2007            Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               2.14
                                                           Moderately
  5     05/29/2008      Moderately Satisfactory                                              4.37
                                                         Unsatisfactory
  6     11/08/2008      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory                5.47
  7     06/10/2009      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory                6.79
                                                           Moderately
  8     12/23/2009      Moderately Satisfactory                                              7.14
                                                         Unsatisfactory
                                                           Moderately
  9     04/06/2010      Moderately Satisfactory                                              7.28
                                                         Unsatisfactory
 10     06/30/2010      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory                7.45
 11     12/24/2010      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory                7.73
 12     04/06/2011      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory                8.19



                                                  v
 13    11/04/2011   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory             8.96


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The Closing Date was extended
 06/12/2009               MS    MS            6.79
                                                     a first time.
                                                     The second extension of
                                                     Closing Date required the
 12/30/2010       N       MS    MS            7.73
                                                     project to be restructured, as per
                                                     the new Bank guidelines.
                                                     Reallocation of Credit proceeds
                                                     required the project to be
 05/09/2011               MS    MS            8.19
                                                     restructured, as per the new
                                                     Bank guidelines.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
This project was the second phase of the School Access and Improvement Program
(Second Projet d’Appui et d’Amélioration aux Ecoles, PAAE II), a three-phase Adaptable
Program Lending (APL) which was designed to support the Government of Djibouti’s
education reform strategy known as the Ten-Year Prospective Plan (Schéma Directeur
2000-2010).

With some of the worst enrollment and illiteracy rates in the world (39 percent and 70
percent in 1990, respectively), the Government of Djibouti decided, in 1999, to undertake a
fundamental review of the country’s education system with the objective of addressing the
inefficiencies of the system and achieving universal primary enrollment by 2010. In close
collaboration with the Ministry of National and Higher Education (MNHE), the
Government launched, in December 1999, a broad consultation - the National Education
Forum (Etats généraux de l’éducation) - which involved governmental constituencies at all
levels, development partners and all elements of civil society which had a stake in
education issues. As a result of this Forum, the Government formulated an ambitious
reform strategy, the Ten-Year Prospective Plan (Schéma Directeur 2000-2010), which
aimed at developing an education system that was efficient, financially viable and
responsive to the country’s development needs. The strategy identified six main policy
goals: (i) improving access and equity; (ii) creating a nine-year basic education cycle; (iii)
introducing the skills-based approach in teaching and learning and promoting in-service
teacher training; (iv) improving management and pedagogic support; (v) reviewing the
curriculum in light of the skills-based approach in teaching and learning; and (vi)
strengthening partnerships with the private sector and communities. The strategy was
followed by the Five-Year Medium-Term Plan (Plan d’action à moyen terme 2000-2005)
and the New Education Law (Loi d’Orientation du système éducatif). In 2000, the Bank
endorsed the Government’s reform agenda and designed a ten-year program, the School
Access and Improvement Program (PAAE), to assist the Government in increasing
enrollment at the primary level.

The first phase of the program (PAAE I) was designed to respond to the urgent necessity
of addressing the immediate needs of increasing capacity and quality at the primary level.
PAAE I was successfully implemented and achieved major results in: (i) increasing
enrollment with a primary gross enrollment rate (GER) of 52 percent (46 percent for girls,
58 percent for boys) compared to 39 percent at the start of the project in 2000 (32 percent
for girls, 44 percent for boys); (ii) contributing to a better completion rate overall from 27
percent in 2000-01 to 53 percent by 2003-04; and (iii) decreasing grade repeater rates from
10 percent in 2000/01 to 7 percent in 2003-04. In addition, PAAE I met all the triggers for
the second phase, as detailed in Annex 9.

The second phase of the program (PAAE II, 2005-2011) was designed to support the
reform’s longer term objectives in relation to the expansion of access, equity, quality and
overall efficiency of the education system.

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Country background. Djibouti is a small, low-income country occupying a strategic
geographic location in the Horn of Africa. Endowed with scarce natural resources, the
                                          1
country’s economy is highly contingent on foreign aid and income generated from
activities in its port and services to international military stationed in the country. Out of
an estimated population of 761,000 in 2004, 74 percent were living below the poverty line
and 42.2 percent were living in extreme poverty, making Djibouti one of the poorest
countries in the world (ranked 157th among 174 on the UNDP Human Development Index
in 2004). Illiteracy was a severe problem affecting 70 percent of the population, and 85
percent of those illiterate were women. In addition to these socio-economic issues, Djibouti
faced a considerable social development challenge due to very poor health indicators and
conditions: high infant, child and maternal mortality rates; female genital mutilation of girls
and severe malnutrition among children were common.

Sector background. Although some encouraging progress had been achieved under PAAE
I, Djibouti’s education system continued to face serious challenges that called into question
the country’s ability to achieve the education-related Millennium Development Goals
(MDGs) by 2015. During the appraisal of PAAE II, the following key issues were
identified:

(i) Access and equity: Despite the Government’s effort to expand access, demand still
    outpaced supply. At appraisal, it was estimated that about 50 percent of children
    (mainly girls) were still out of school, more than 20 percent of those enrolled did not
    complete the six years of primary education, and there were large gender and
    geographical disparities. Furthermore, as a result of increases in access to primary
    education and the suppression in 2006 of the exit exam at the end of the primary cycle
    (“examen de passage au collège?), it was anticipated that the student flow would
    increase sharply during 2006-2007 from the primary through the middle school cycle,
    hence putting more pressure to accelerate expansion of middle education schools.
(ii) Quality and relevance: The quality of education continued to face persistent issues such
     as a shortage of qualified teachers, outdated pedagogic modules, and insufficient
     number of textbooks, resulting in high repetition and drop-out rates, and contributing to
     overcrowded classes in the primary and middle levels.
(iii) High cost education system: In spite of the substantial Government budget allocation to
     the education sector (6.3 percent of GDP in 2004), there was little financial margin to
     improve education quality due to the very high portion of recurrent spending allocated
     to high salaries at all levels of the system (representing 86 percent of recurrent
     spending).

In keeping with the Government’s reform strategy, the PAAE II was designed to address
the key areas of: improving access and equity, enhancing quality and reinforcing
management and institutional capacity. The PAAE II was consistent with the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) at the time (31613-DJ March 24, 2005), which devoted one of
its main pillars to human resource development and poverty alleviation. The PAAE II also
directly supported one of the main objectives of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
approved in May 2004 which was to hasten the development of human resources through
the implementation of social programs aimed at reducing poverty and gender disparities.

Bank rationale for intervention. There were at least two principal reasons for IDA to
continue to assist the Government of Djibouti in its education reform: (i) IDA had
supported previous operations in the education sector, including the first phase of the
                                              2
reform program which had been successfully implemented; (ii) IDA had extensive
knowledge of and experience with the country’s policy environment and was in a unique
position to provide sound technical expertise on education expansion and the links with
macroeconomic and public finance issues.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The PDO was to increase access to basic education equitably, improve the quality of
education and increase the efficiency of the education system. PAAE II was an integral
part of the Government of Djibouti’s Schéma directeur and as such was monitored and
evaluated against the same set of indicators. Seven key indicators were selected to measure
the project’s progress towards its quantitative and qualitative objectives against the baseline
data collected for 2003/04 1:

•   Total GER in basic education (disaggregated by gender);
•   Percentage of children completing primary schooling without repeating (disaggregated
    by gender);
•   Primary cycle repetition rates (disaggregated by gender);
•   Primary cycle drop-out rates (disaggregated by gender).
•   Non-salary recurrent spending as a total of recurrent spending on primary education;
•   Percentage of teachers receiving continuing training;
•   Percentage of schools with parent-teacher associations (PTAs).

In addition, the project, which was the second of a three-phase APL, had five performance
triggers to be met in order to move to the third phase as detailed in Annex 9.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The PDO was not revised. However, in 2009, the following key indicators were added as a
result of a Bank-wide exercise which required existing education projects to include core
indicators:
•   GER ratio of girls to boys; and
•   Student/teacher ratio at the primary level.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The primary beneficiaries of this project were: (i) students in primary and middle education
from urban, rural and impoverished areas, in particular, girls and children with special
needs (including “idle? children, working children, children “at-risk?, and children from
nomadic groups); (ii) teachers; (iii) administrative staff at the central and regional levels;
(iv) school directors; (v) inspectors; and (vi) officials from the MNHE and other
departments involved in the provision of education services such as the Personnel Training


1
  It should be noted that there is a slight discrepancy in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) as three
indicators listed in Table 1 “Project Objective, Results and Indicators? do not appear in the Results
Framework and Monitoring in Annex 3. These indicators are: (i) Ratio of girls to total student population
(percent); (ii) total GER for middle school (percent); and (iii) Percent of the MNHE high level staff that have
received in-service training. For the purpose of the ICR, it was decided to use the indicators in Annex 3.
                                                      3
Center for National Education (Centre de formation des personnels de l’enseignement
national, CFPEN) and the National Education Research and Information Production Center
(Centre de recherche, d’information et de production pour l’éducation nationale, CRIPEN).

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The project was divided into three main components with the following objectives:

•   The first component was to increase student enrollment and retention with a special
    focus on girls and children with special needs, and adequate facilities for them to
    complete primary education.
•   The second component sought to improve the quality of education service provision so
    that it would be conducive to quality learning and teaching, and help reduce repetition
    and drop-out rates.
•   The third component’s objective was to improve the management of the education
    system for a more efficient utilization of sector resources.

Component 1: Increase Access to, and Equity of Education (US$4.58 million,
including contingencies). This component’s objective was to increase basic enrollment
rates (to reach the target of 67.4 percent at the end of the project) and the retention of
students, with a focus on girls and children with special needs. In order to achieve this, the
project planned to increase access by building, rehabilitating and equipping 102 2 new
classrooms in rural and urban areas as well as in impoverished or underserved areas. In
addition, the component sought to improve the learning environment and service to
children with special needs (at-risk children, working children and “idle? children) by
promoting the participation of parents and communities in school management and
maintenance. This component had three subcomponents: (i) construction and rehabilitation
of primary and middle schools; (ii) maintenance; and (iii) partnerships and community
intervention.
Component 2: Quality Improvement (US$2.17 million, including contingencies). The
objective of this component was to support the MNHE in developing and implementing
various approaches in order to improve the quality of education in basic quality areas such
as: (i) in-service teacher training; (ii) school supervision; (iii) curriculum content; (iv)
textbooks and learning materials; and (v) student learning assessment. The ultimate goal of
this component was to increase student learning and achievement and to help reduce
repetition and drop-out rates. This component was divided into four subcomponents to: (i)
improve in-service teacher training; (ii) support the ongoing curriculum reform through the
provision and management of textbooks; (iii) improve school administration and
supervision; and (iv) set up a system to assess students learning.
Component 3: Improve Efficiency and Capacity Building (US$4.25 million, including
contingencies). Following the reorganization of the MNHE in 2003 towards a more


2
  A discrepancy was noted in the PAD regarding the number of classrooms to be built/rehabilitated. While
the Detailed Project Description (Annex 4) of the PAD mentions that the project will build/rehabilitate about
133 classrooms, the next paragraph which details the type and number of classrooms to be built/rehabilitated
adds up to 102 classrooms. The final estimated project costs (using the Bank’s Costab program) at
negotiations reflected only estimated costs for 102 classrooms. This number will therefore be used as the
target.
                                                     4
decentralized system, the MNHE faced a number of challenges due to: a shortage of staff
and lack of skills, and unclear mandates of the MNHE departments. The objectives of this
component were to improve the MNHE’s capacity in the organization and administration
of educational activities as well as its efficiency in managing and allocating resources, and
to empower communities. The component had two subcomponents to: (i) improve the
institutional capacity of the system; and (ii) improve efficiency.

1.6 Revised Components
Not applicable.

1.7 Other significant changes
The project was first extended by 18 months (from June 30, 2009 to December 31, 2010) in
June 2009. The rationale for this extension was to complete the construction of the middle
school in Balbala (Collège Hodan 3) which had encountered significant delays during the
architectural and technical studies phase. In 2010, the project was extended for an
additional 12-month period (from December 31, 2011 to December 31, 2011) due to further
delays in the selection process of a qualified construction enterprise for the same middle
school. In addition, the cost of this school appeared to have been underestimated as the
offer received from the only technically qualified enterprise came in at 58 percent higher
than the original envelope. This required a reallocation of funds in April 2011. Given that
the project did not have sufficient funds to cover the full cost of the construction, the
MNHE had to revise the scope of works and removed some activities from the project
which were either canceled or financed by other donors. Annex 2 provides a detailed
account of activities which remained financed by the project and which activities were
canceled.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Preparation and Design: PAAE II was a continuation of PAAE I and as such, benefited
from the lessons learned in the previous phase, as well as from other donor-funded projects.
Given the successful implementation of PAAE I, PAAE II maintained the same
organizational structure and implementation arrangements while adding to its design a
sound plan to reinforce the capacity of the MNHE in the areas of procurement, financial
management, and social and environment safeguards.

A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) was used to prepare PAAE II, taking into account the
lessons learned from PAAE I with regard to the need for improving school construction
(design and costs) and developing a maintenance strategy for school buildings and
equipment. The PPF financed a series of studies on: (i) school mapping; (ii) cost and
financing of education; (iii) development of sectoral training plans; (iv) maintenance
strategy; and (v) inclusion of children with special needs. These studies were then used to
improve the design of the project’s interventions.

PAAE II was developed in consultations with school administrators and staff and
community representatives, and benefited from excellent collaboration with the
Government of Djibouti and the donor community. Through these relationships, IDA was
able to assist the Government of Djibouti in obtaining US$6 million in additional funding
                                            5
from the Education for All – Fast-Track Initiative (EFA-FTI) Catalytic Fund and the IDA-
executed Education Program Development Fund (EPDF) to support further interventions in
the education sector.

While project appraisal was completed in January 2005, the World Bank Board of
Executive Directors only approved the project in November of that year. Due to a
mismatch between remaining commitments under IDA and the expected high volume of
deliverables for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2005, IDA funds became difficult to access.
As a result, the delivery of PAAE II to the Board of Executive Directors was postponed to
the next fiscal year. As for project effectiveness (initially planned for February 2006), it
was postponed by one month due to a mistake found in the document authorizing
ratification by the Parliament; the issue was resolved and effectiveness was declared on
March 31, 2006.

Since PAAE II was the second phase of an APL, a Quality Enhancement Review was not
required. However, a Quality Enhancement Assessment (QEA) was carried out in 2007,
rating the quality at entry as overall “moderately satisfactory.? The QEA stated that some
areas could have received more upfront attention during project design, such as: (i)
implementation support: the low procurement capacity and the financing of the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) staff salaries (discussed under Section 2.2.) could have been
addressed more carefully from the onset; (ii) macroeconomics: given the situation in the
country, it would have been judicious to link the economic/financial analysis to the
Government’s medium-term expenditure framework; (iii) social aspects: no major
consultations took place with ethnic and nomadic groups during project preparation, which
could have increased the likelihood of PAAE II including interventions to further benefit
these groups (at the time, however, the Bank preparation team argued that these
consultations actually took place in meetings with regional and community stakeholders);
and (iv) impact of technical assistance/training activities: the project planned to support
technical and training activities that were relevant to the needs of the MNHE; however, the
objectives of these activities were not specified, making it difficult to establish a clear link
with the overall project development objective.

Risks. Seven risks were identified during project preparation; three were assessed to be
high (H) and four were assessed to be moderate (M):

-   Schools are not constructed according to criteria that promote unit cost reduction (M);
-   Lack of adequate latrines affecting school attendance (M);
-   Lack of capacity and commitment of the MNHE to support the maintenance strategy
    (H);
-   Sufficient numbers of female teachers are not available, especially at the district level
    (H);
-   Community Participation (CP) is not widely recognized as a vital ingredient for
    educational activities (M);
-   Possible low demand for schooling among girls or children with particular needs (M);
-   Macroeconomic and public finance issues are not adequately addressed, exacerbating
    the Government’s difficult fiscal situation and leading to negative impact on sectoral
    allocation and spending (H).


                                               6
Overall, the risks were pertinent and the mitigation measures to address them were
considered adequate. During the Decision Meeting, it was decided to include as risk factors
only those that could not be managed under the program. However, an element that should
have been addressed as a risk upfront concerns the salaries of the PIU staff. During the
preparation of PAAE II, and up until the first year of implementation, the PIU was going
through a transition as staff salaries (previously financed by the PAAE I) were being taken
over by the Government of Djibouti. This transition, which was accompanied by a
significant decrease in staff salaries – there was even a disruption in the payment of these
salaries for several months - affected staff motivation and was cited as one of the main
reasons for delays in the early stages of project implementation.

2.2 Implementation
Following the closing of PAAE I, PAAE II continued to be executed by the MNHE. The
PIU – housed within MNHE - was responsible for facilitating implementation of project
activities, including all fiduciary aspects, while the MNHE’s technical departments, namely
CRIPEN and CFPEN, were responsible for executing their respective components on
curricula and textbooks and teacher training. The slightly more complex nature of this
second phase probably called for stronger coordination and accountability among the
various parties involved in project implementation, especially with regard to the quality-
related subcomponents. The MTR carried out in 2007 highlighted the need for a
clarification of roles and responsibilities in order to coordinate and monitor reform
activities more efficiently. The steering committee in particular (which was headed by the
Higher Education Committee and its secretariat) had to play a more active role in
overseeing project execution and following-up actions agreed during supervision missions.

Most of the project’s planned activities were completed within the revised implementation
period as a result of the two closing date extensions in 2009 and 2010. The decision to
extend the project closing date twice was therefore a positive step to ensure that the project
would achieve its objectives. Another positive factor that affected implementation was the
frequent dialogue with other donors and the participation of the Bank in joint reviews
which were an opportunity to discuss sectoral issues and try to resolve issues collectively.

However, several factors contributed to implementation delays from the project’s start:

•     PIU staff salaries. As described in section 2.1 above, there was a transition of PIU staff
      salaries from being paid under the project to being financed by the MNHE, resulting in
      a salary decrease (although salaries under the project had initially been agreed to with
      the Minister so as to minimize the discrepancy between staff paid by the projects and
      those not paid by the project), and disruption in salary payments.
•     Performance of the Department of Habitat and Urbanism (Département de l’Habitat et
      de l’Urbanisme, DHU) in the supervision of school construction and rehabilitation. The
      supervision of school construction and rehabilitation was assigned to the DHU. An
      audit of its performance conducted in 2009 3 concluded that implementation delays were,
      on average, significant. There were several shortcomings that led to these delays: (i) the
      DHU often took a long time to transmit progress reports to the PIU in addition to not


3
    « Audit du contrat de la DHU », Dupety, 2009.
                                                    7
      responding to the PIU’s enquiries in a timely manner; (ii) many DHU supervision staff
      lacked the skills and experience to properly do their jobs; and (iii) site visits by civil
      engineers were insufficient. Eventually, the PIU contracted consulting firms to carry
      out the supervision of the last construction activity – the middle school in Balbala
      (hereafter called “Collège Hodan 3?).
•     Preparation of technical specifications and selection of firms for the
      construction/rehabilitation of schools by the PIU’s Civil Works Unit: Delays in
      implementing school construction were also attributed to: (i) frequent inaccuracies in
      technical specifications and estimates prepared by the PIU; the quality of technical
      documents affected the quality of bids received and, as a result, many contracts had to
      be amended; and (ii) poor evaluation process of bids for prequalification. Many firms
      selected to execute civil works contracts were in fact under-qualified and had no
      experience in building schools.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

As mentioned earlier, the project indicators were selected among a set of indicators that
were already being used to measure and evaluate the Government’s education reform.
Although the selected PDO indicators were relevant, simple and measureable, some
indicators, in particular those related to quality, may have been too broad given the limited
interventions of the project in this area. The QEA and the MTR both highlighted the need
for better quality indicators. The QEA noted, for example, that the objectives of the
technical assistance and training activities were not specified up-front, making it difficult to
measure their outcomes. The project did not include, in its design, a monitoring and
evaluation system to track technical assistance and training activities and assess whether
beneficiaries (MNHE staff and teachers) effectively applied their new knowledge and skills
to the workplace. This was a critical aspect since training was a major component of
quality. In 2007 the MNHE introduced a new national standardized test (Objectif Terminal
d’Intégration, OTI) to assess students’ learning outcomes in grades 4 and 8. It was decided,
during the MTR, to add the frequency of these assessments as an indicator.
Implementation: Monitoring and evaluation (M&E), both at the strategic and project levels,
was probably the weakest aspect of the project’s implementation, and was consistently
rated as “moderately unsatisfactory? during project implementation. The need for
reinforcing the M&E function, though, was acknowledged from project inception, and the
project included some technical assistance and training activities to reinforce the capacity
of MNHE’s departments in charge of collecting and analyzing data, such as: (i) the
Directorate of Planning and Computerization (Direction de la Planification et de
l’Informatisation, DPI), responsible for evaluating the impact of the reform and publishing
data through the Annual Statistical Report; (ii) the newly established M&E Unit in charge
of assessing students’ learning outcomes; and (iii) the PIU, responsible for M&E at the
project level. In addition, other donors, such as USAID 4 and AFD, provided support to
develop automated tools and applications to improve the collection of statistical data, with
the aim of moving towards an education management information system 5.



4
    Projet AIDE, USAID
5
    Système d’information pour la gestion de l’éducation, SIGE, supported by USAID.
                                                     8
While the quality and reliability of data produced by the DPI somewhat improved over the
years, by the end of PAAE II, the M&E system was still not performing at a level required
to provide accurate information on reform achievements and impacts. Data analysis and
regular reporting, in particular, were recurrent issues throughout the life of the project. The
very few individuals who were able to perform M&E functions left the MNHE or were
assigned to other duties. At the project level, the PIU did not succeed in recruiting an
M&E specialist to regularly assess project progress. As a result, the PIU faced difficulties
in meeting reporting requirements: only three (non-financial) progress reports were
submitted over the project lifetime. The requirement to submit a “report integrating the
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities? by mid-term review (Credit Agreement,
Schedule 4 a. B (1) (b)) was not met.

There are various reasons for shortcomings in M&E: (i) the absence of an M&E vision and
policy in the MNHE as reflected in the lack of clear mandates, roles and responsibilities to
perform M&E functions; (ii) a fragmented data collection system; by the end of the project,
the education management information system was still under development; (iii) the
considerable difficulties in recruiting and retaining skilled M&E staff. Despite the fact that
the M&E Unit in charge of students’ learning assessments had recruited and trained staff,
almost all of them left the unit. It could be argued that the perception that M&E was not
considered as “a priority? may have affected staff motivation to perform this function.

Utilization of data. Given the scope of the education reform that was being implemented,
measuring its various impacts, especially with regard to learning outcomes, was a critical
exercise. The OTI exam introduced in 2007 evolved into regular assessments of students’
learning outcomes in grades 4 and 8, and became a valuable source of information to
identify variations in learning outcomes in and between schools, as well as weaknesses in
teaching and school management. In particular, the OTI reading test results were used to
make important education decisions such as changing reading methods from the “global? to
the “syllabic? method.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguards. PAAE II was rated as a Category B project and the only safeguard policy
triggered was the environmental assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01). The assessment that was
carried out concluded that no major environmental impact was anticipated under the project.
The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) that had been developed under PAAE I was
updated and used for PAAE II and environmental impact evaluations were approved. The
2007 QEA recommended strengthening the EMP to include: (i) screening criteria for
school selection and national environmental guidelines for school design and construction;
(ii) an institutional capacity assessment of the agencies responsible for overseeing
mitigation measures; and (iii) a description of the specific roles of the actors responsible for
environmental management, including frequency of visits and reporting requirements.
There is, though, no evidence in project documentation as to whether these
recommendations were transmitted to - and taken into account by - the Environment
Department within the Ministry of Habitat, Urbanism and Environment in charge of
implementing the EMP. The supervision mission in September 2011 noted, in fact, that no
one from the PIU had been assigned to systematically follow up on environmental issues
with the Environment Department, a point that since then has been addressed by the
MNHE.

                                               9
Social Safeguards. The rapid social assessment undertaken in 2004 did not raise any risks
as no land expropriation or resettlement was anticipated under the project. It did, however,
lead to some recommendations, in particular regarding the need for conducting a
community-based social assessment on the reasons behind the low level of girls’ school
enrollment. Also, the 2007 QEA called into question the failure to trigger the Indigenous
Peoples policy (OP 4.10) given the presence of at least four ethnic groups, including
nomads, in the country and the fact that no regional safeguards review of the project had
taken place to assess the situation. Taking these comments into consideration, the Bank
team, through the EPDF, undertook a broader social assessment in 20106 in order to better
understand the socio-economic framework affecting families and children in accessing
education, staying in school, and benefiting from a better education system.
Financial Management. Overall, Financial Management (FM) can be rated moderately
satisfactory. An FM assessment was conducted during project preparation which concluded
that the PIU’s experience was sound given its past experience in managing IDA-financed
projects. A time-bound action plan was embedded in the project to improve accounting and
reporting procedures, including producing Financial Management Reports (FMRs) and
updating the FM chapter in the Manual of Administrative and Financial Procedures. During
the first two years of PAAE II, FM performance was satisfactory. It declined later with the
departure of the head FM officer and accountant, which left the PIU with a shortage of FM
staff for several months, and no overlap/transition time between the outgoing and incoming
staff. In addition, the 2010 FM supervision mission indicated serious shortcomings in the
FM software, as a result of which most of the accounting reports prior to 2010 could no
longer be generated by the system. Several recommendations from the Bank FM missions
such as the update of the FM chapter in the Manual of Procedures and the recruitment of an
internal auditor were not achieved, which resulted in a downgrading of FM performance to
“moderately unsatisfactory.? The situation eventually improved with the recruitment of a
new FM officer and an accountant in 2010.

Procurement. Procurement is also moderately satisfactory. A procurement assessment was
conducted during project preparation and an action plan was agreed upon to reinforce the
PIU’s capacity during the first year of the project. While no fiduciary problems were
raised during project implementation, delays in submitting procurement plans or
submission of incomplete procurement documentation were occasionally cited as issues. It
is worth noting that some delays during the procurement process were beyond the control
of the PIU and rather the result of lengthy internal procedures practiced in Djibouti in
approving and signing contracts as well as delays due to long postponements of meetings
of the National Tender Board.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The PAAE was initially designed as a three-phase APL, and PAAE II achieved all but one
of the triggers to move to the third phrase. However, as discussions for the preparation of
PAAE III began, the 2009 CAS proposed to focus on the Government’s new priority which
was the expansion of the technical education and vocational education and training (TVET)
sector and secondary education. Furthermore, building on the lessons of PAAE II, it was
clear that the next IDA operation should have a greater focus on the management and


6
    “Evaluation sociale de l’éducation de base, A. Nabaloga
                                                     10
sustainability of the education system through the reinforcement of the MNHE’s
institutional capacity and structure. This became more evident with the formation of a new
government in May 2011 and the re-organization of the education sector: vocational
training, which was under the Ministry of Labor, was moved to the MNHE which became
the Ministry of National Education and Vocational Training (Ministère de l’éducation
nationale et de la formation professionnelle, MENFOP) responsible for TVET. Because
other donors continue to strongly support equitable access in basic education, including
through the multi-donor Fast-Track Initiative, Bank management agreed with the
Government that the next IDA operation should not be a third APL phase, but rather a new
project seeking to: (i) improve management and accountability through better planning,
budgeting, monitoring and evaluation; (ii) establish a governance structure for the new
TVET Directorate; (iii) improve the management and distribution of textbooks; and (iv)
strengthen project management and reinforce the Ministry’s maintenance unit.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The project development objectives were highly relevant as they supported the
Government’s commitment to global priorities such as achieving Universal Primary
Enrollment and education-related MDGs by 2015. The project objectives were also in line
with the Government’s sector strategy (“Schéma Directeur 2000-2010?) to increase
equitable access to schools, build the human capital of the MNHE to respond to the
growing demand for education (especially in terms of teacher training and textbooks) and
increase the role of parents and communities.
The project’s design and objectives were fully consistent with other donors’ interventions
in basic education; this contributed to accelerating progress towards the PDOs, especially
in terms of access and equity. 7 In this regard, the achievement of key outcomes benefitted
from combined interventions 8 in the sector that were the result of a concerted approach of
the Government and the donors during project preparation and implementation.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Project objectives are seen as partially achieved. The access and equity goals were
achieved, thus providing a significant improvement in the education status of many
children, including a larger number of girls and boys with special needs. The project was
less successful in achieving objectives related to quality. The achievements toward
education quality were more along the lines of creating an enabling environment for future
quality improvements, such as: (i) the production of better quality textbooks; (ii) a training
center with adequate capacity to function; (iii) improved school supervision; and (iv) the
introduction of national learning assessments. However, specific targets for reducing


7
  Activities such as the provision of canteens, dormitories and dry food, school kits and technical assistance
for children with special needs supported by UNICEF, USAID, AFD, PAM, and the multi donor FTI
Catalytic Fund.
8
  The MNSHE estimates donor interventions in the basic education sector managed by the MNHE since 2001
to be approximately US$78 million, out of which PAAE I and PAAE II represented a total of US$20 million
(Note: the amount of US$78 million doesn’t include investments managed by donors such as USAID or
JICA).
                                                     11
repetition and drop out were mostly missed. The explanation for this is that the
suppression of the exit exam at the end of primary school resulted in a larger influx of
students to middle schools where the capacity in terms of access remained very limited.
Hence, there is a tendency to retain children in the primary cycle to ease the bottlenecks
experienced in the first year of the middle cycle. The increase in drop-out rates is thought
to be a consequence of the increase in repetition rates as higher repetition rates add more
years to the education of the average child, make schooling less affordable to families and
prompts more children to drop out. This suggests that repetition is no longer a proxy for
the quality of learning acquisition and is no longer a valid indicator of education quality.
The third objective to improve system efficiency was also only partially achieved. Below is
a brief summary of project outputs and outcomes.

The objective of increasing access to basic education equitably has been broadly
achieved. The project substantially expanded school access by adding and equipping 102
classrooms in both urban and rural areas covering 32 percent of the country’s needs at the
time 9 in terms of access to primary schools and benefitting more than 7,000 children. The
“Hodan 3? middle school, one of four middle schools planned by the government to be
built over the same period in the fast-growing area of Balbala, was the first school
completed in 2011, hence responding to the urgent need of the MNHE to accommodate
about 2,800 middle school students (1,000 more students than initially expected who would
not otherwise have had access to middle school education). With regard to equity, PAAE II
supported the development of specialized programs and the training of a pool of
psychologists, teachers-assistants and inspectors to work with children with special needs.
A pedagogical guide on the subject 10 was developed by these groups in collaboration with
the CFPEN and a legal framework was developed. This is the first time that any support
was provided to children with special needs through targeted programs and hence, was an
important achievement.

The capacity of the MNHE to provide in-service training to teachers has been
significantly reinforced. The project contributed to training a pool of 20 qualified trainers
in charge of training teachers at the central and regional levels, as well as a pool of 24
teacher-trainers and pedagogical advisors in skills-based approach in teaching and learning.
By the end of the project, 95 percent of teachers had received continuing training,
exceeding the target of 90 percent, and 100 percent of school directors and pedagogical
inspectors participated in additional training on a regular and annual basis. While the
specific targets were reached it would have been interesting to build into this component an
evaluation process to check to what extent training activities contributed to better teaching.
Furthermore, the lack of an efficient evaluation and reporting mechanism of teachers’
performance by inspectors only allowed, at this point, for ad-hoc, rather than continuous
assessments of teachers.
The provision of logistical material to inspectors contributed to a more frequent
monitoring of teachers’ performance. The project financed the provision of eight vehicles


9
   At the time of project preparation, there was a need to add or rehabilitate 218 classrooms (in addition to the
618 existing classrooms in the country, out of which 216 classrooms had been constructed/rehabilitated under
PAAE I) in the primary cycle. PAAE II created a total of 102 additional classrooms, 69 classrooms in
primary schools and 33 classrooms in the Hodan 3 middle school).
10
   “Enfants en difficultés d’apprentissage – Outils pratiques et pédagogiques » (financed by UNICEF)
                                                       12
for inspectorates. This enabled inspectors to increase the frequency of school visits from
one visit per month to three to four visits per month and conduct a more regular and
frequent monitoring of teacher performance. A notable impact on the ground as a result
was more spontaneous visits to schools and a decrease in teacher absenteeism. In terms of
school management training, all school directors and administrators were trained in various
areas of school management by the CFPEN, based on annual training plans. Again, the
outcome of these training activities is unknown because of the lack of assessment
mechanisms.
Djibouti has the capacity to produce good quality textbooks adapted to the local context.
PAAE II contributed to transforming the CRIPEN into an autonomous entity (Decree No.
2008-0038/PR/MENESUP) that is capable of producing thousands of textbooks adapted to
the local context. The project provided essential support to meet the demand in textbooks
for the 2007 and 2008 academic years. Between 2006 and 2007 CRIPEN produced a total
of 171,000 books and purchased 55,622 books in French, Arabic, Mathematics and Science,
which contributed to a greater availability of books for students. The MNSHE estimates
that 96 percent of children have access to needed textbooks. The 2010 final report on the
Evaluation of Textbooks and Pedagogical Guides 11 concluded that overall, the content of
textbooks produced by the CRIPEN was well adapted to the new curricula, in addition to
being better suited to the local context. These positive results, however, should not disguise
the fact that the MNHE still needs to address a number of challenges as regards: (i) the
poor management, and sometimes retention, of textbooks by schools at the primary level
which results in an insufficient number of textbooks for all students; (ii) the inefficient
distribution of textbooks; and (iii) the need for more in-service teacher training in skills-
based approach in teaching and learning so that teachers can fully use and apply the
contents of textbooks.

Results achieved to improve the efficiency of the education system are very modest but
the MNHE is now on track to move towards an organizational change. The percentage
of non-salary expenditures increased from 6.6 in 2003/04 to 13.5 percent in 2011, nearly
reaching the target of 15 percent. The target was surpassed in 2009 but a slight decline was
experienced in the last year, likely due to the fiscal constraints that all countries
experienced in the region during and after the “Arab Spring?. One cost reduction measure
envisaged under the project was to increase the average class size (pedagogic division) to a
ratio of 1 teacher for 45 students in order to reduce unit costs for primary education. This
target was achieved by the end of the project. However, much remains to be done to
address internal inefficiencies and management at the MNHE. During the early
implementation stage of PAAE II, an institutional audit was planned to diagnose the
situation of the MNHE and produce a set of recommendations to improve managerial
processes. For various reasons, including internal reluctance, this audit was carried out late
in the project, and little time was left to implement recommendations, such as the
development of management tools. However, the MNHE acknowledged that the
institutional audit served as a catalyst to move toward necessary organizational change,
especially as the Ministry has been in a process of decentralization. The next IDA operation
will support the MNHE in making the recommended changes.



11
  Final report on « Evaluation des nouveau manuels scolaires et guides pédagogiques édités par le
CRIPEN », 2010
                                                    13
Achievement of Triggers for Phase III
Finally, five out of the six triggers established for the passage of the project from Phase II
to Phase III of the APL were achieved by 2010 as detailed in Annex 9.

3.3 Efficiency
Quantitative and comparative efficiency of the education system. In 2009, AFD published
a sectoral study on Djibouti’s education system 12. The study provides a quantitative and
comparative assessment of the performance of Djibouti’s education system using two
measurements: the school-life expectancy and efficiency coefficient, 13 and comparing the
country to 21 other countries in the Middle East and North Africa region. The study shows
that with an allocation of 7.2 percent of GDP to the education sector, Djibouti can provide
between 7.4 and 9.6 years of schooling. In terms of efficiency coefficient, Djibouti has a
ratio of 1.02 compared to the average of 1.87 for all 22 countries selected for the study.
These results suggest that Djibouti’s performance remains modest and in spite of a high
percentage of GDP allocated to education, the country provides a lower number of years in
school compared to many other countries (only 3 countries out of the sample of 22
countries show a lower ratio than Djibouti). This said, the study suggests that Djibouti’s
performance has significantly improved since 1999. But considerable effort remains to be
made in the future to meet the demand for education.
School unit cost. In order to provide the MNHE with a tool to control school construction
costs, the PAAE II financed technical assistance to produce a manual for standard norms of
construction and furniture for primary, middle and secondary schools, By the time this
manual was printed and disseminated (in 2009), the PAAE II construction program was
almost completed and, therefore, the new norms and standards had not yet been applied.
The MNHE is now using these norms and standards for all new schools.
Production of textbooks. The CRIPEN assessed that producing 51 titles locally would save
the MNHE about DJF 1 billion over a period of three years. Although more in-depth study
is needed to confirm this information, there is a consensus that producing textbooks locally
may result in considerable savings for the MNHE. In order to ensure its financial
sustainability, the CRIPEN needs to find ways to generate income and find better ways to
collect fees from schools and students. While students pay for textbooks in middle
education and secondary, textbooks are free of charge in primary. However, the policy is
now evolving toward charging a fee for textbooks in primary schools (with the exception of
poor or vulnerable students).
Aspects of design and implementation that contributed to efficiency. PAAE II was
instrumental in leveraging additional resources for the basic education sector such as the
EFA-FTI Catalytic Fund. Both PAAE II and the EFA-FTI Catalytic Fund formed an
integrated approach that enabled scale up of and/or complementary activities in basic
education, and contributed to accelerating progress toward achieving the PDOs. The fact


12
   « Diagnostic sectoriel et perspective pour la politique éducative », AFD, Avril 2009.
13
  The efficiency coefficient is the ratio between school-life expectancy and the public education current
expenditure as a percentage of GDP. This corresponds to an average number of years of schooling for 1% of
the GDP allocated to the running of this sector. The higher the level of this indicator, the more efficient the
country is in its use of public resources for allocation.
                                                     14
that both PAAE II and the EFA-FTI Catalytic Fund were implemented by the same PIU
and supervised by the same Bank team was an efficient way to optimize resources and
maximize results.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Ratings
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Project achievement of key development objectives is deemed to be “moderately
satisfactory?. Overall, the results achieved under PAAE II have contributed to maintaining
the country on track toward achieving the MDGs. The project made a significant
contribution in expanding access through the construction, rehabilitation and equipping of
102 classrooms representing almost a third of the needed number of classrooms at the time.
Secondly, while the quality objectives of the project were ambitious and were not all met,
the project contributed to setting a solid framework for quality improvement in the long
term by reinforcing the capacity of the MNHE’s two major agencies, i.e. CRIPEN and
CFPEN. Solid capacity has been established in: (i) the provision of training to teachers,
inspectors and school directors, (ii) the production and distribution of better quality
textbooks; and (iii) parent participation. In that regard, the project rightly responded to the
Government’s priorities in the “Schéma Directeur 2000-2010?. The project is not fully
satisfactory mainly because the objective of improving system efficiency and management,
representing almost 40 percent of the project cost, was only partly achieved.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

      (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The emergence of new schools in rural areas has had a positive impact on children from
nomadic families. The school environment was improved with the presence of water
sources, latrines and school feeding programs which created an incentive for nomadic
families to settle around the school during the school year. During supervision visits in the
region of Ali Sabieh and Arta 14, the presence of a new “village? was observed near the
primary school of Doudoubalala (Ali Sabieh). When the “Petit Barra? primary school
opened its doors in 2008, 200 families were living in the area; this figure tripled over the
past four years with the arrival of new nomadic families who desire to send their children
to schools. In that particular school, parents were also participating in school life by
preparing food for children and/or being involved in the parent/teacher committees.

The Balbala region sets the example of a town that has developed rapidly because of the
construction of middle schools. The Collège Hodan 3, which is the first and only
functional middle school in that area, has attracted local economic activities with the
presence of small stores and vendors.

As described earlier, major achievements were made with regard to equitable access to
school for girls and children with special needs. The development of school management
committees and the creation of parent-teacher associations have had a positive impact on
school management and environment which provided incentives for children, especially
girls, to enroll. Children with special needs, a group which was not taken into account by


14
     “Doudoubalala? primary school in Ali Sabieh and “Petit Barra" in Arta.
                                                     15
the education system a few years ago, have become the central focus of the MNHE. The
changing behavior of an increasing number of parents who are now willing to enroll their
children attests to the success of awareness campaigns, and training of school and parents’
communities in the area of special needs.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project has achieved major results in building the capacity of the PIU, CRIPEN and
CFPEN. While much remains to be done to improve the institutional capacity and
efficiency of the education system, PAAE II successfully catalyzed a culture for change
and laid the foundation for more institutional reform. As mentioned earlier, the MNHE is
now acutely aware of the necessity to urgently strengthen its institutional capacity and
management of the education system, and to move towards a result-based performance
system in order to successfully achieve its reform objectives.

During project implementation, the MNHE was expected to use its internal resources to
restructure the existing school Maintenance Unit and implement the maintenance strategy
developed under PAAE II. However, this did not materialize. The MNHE’s budget is
managed by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and budget allocation for maintenance has
been suppressed since 1992. Considering the Government’s large investments in school
infrastructure and equipment over the past decades, the need for a strong maintenance
program to manage and preserve school assets has become critical. Maintenance should
become a programmatic activity fully integrated in MNHE and at the school level. For this
to succeed, it is necessary to reintroduce a budget allocation for maintenance and to
regularly train MNHE and school staff in maintenance, budget planning and management.
PAAE II financed a pilot activity to increase awareness about school maintenance. This
activity was conducted in the IDA-financed Collège Hodan 3 in 2011, and was attended by
school administrators and director as well as teachers and parents and other community
representatives. The training was considered a success (as reported by participants and the
MNHE) and the MNHE intends to scale up this activity in other schools around the country.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
The MNHE now fully recognizes teaching as a profession that requires a solid foundation
of knowledge and pedagogical skills through teacher induction and regular in-service
training. The necessity to establish compulsory teacher induction training for all teachers is
now fully acknowledged.
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
The development outcomes achieved by the end of the project are likely to be sustained for
several reasons. Basic education remains one of the Government’s priorities, and the
MNHE is strongly committed to addressing the issues of efficiency as evidenced by the
preparation of the new IDA operation that will focus on strengthening institutional capacity
and management. Moreover, the donor community is highly active in Djibouti and has
recently renewed its pledge to support basic education through the Global Education
Partnership (formerly Fast-Track Initiative, FTI). However, some risks were identified:
                                             16
(i) Expanding access has a heavy impact on MNHE’s budget in terms of recurrent and
    maintenance costs (schools, equipment, etc.), yet the Ministry does not control its
    budget; this is set and managed by the MOF. In order to ensure the sustainability of
    education infrastructure and equipment, it is essential that a budget line for maintenance
    be introduced for the MNHE. So far, schools do not have a maintenance program, but
    the MNHE has recently acquired software to record school assets, and initiated
    preventive maintenance training in schools, which is a move towards setting up a
    system.
(ii) The growing demand for education will continue to require large investments. It is
     assessed that between 2011 and 2015, 293 additional classrooms will be needed to
     reach a 100 percent enrollment rate at the primary level. Furthermore, there is an urgent
     need for increasing access in middle level education to address the issue of rapidly
     growing demand. Several donors currently finance infrastructure projects in Djibouti
     and it is likely that this support will continue in the future.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Bank’s performance in ensuring quality at entry was “moderately satisfactory?. The
project was prepared in strong collaboration with the Government and coordination
between the Bank and other donors was concluded to be “exemplary? in the QEA. As a
result, project activities were highly complementary with other interventions in the sector.
The Bank carried out a number of analytical studies during the preparation stage which
contributed to enhancing the consistency and quality of project design. The project drew
upon lessons from PAAE I and in that regard, maintained a simple design, though PAAE
II’s objectives were a bit more ambitious than those of PAAE I. However, more attention
should have been paid during preparation to: (i) the institutional arrangements for
implementing the project. Although it was logical to use the existing and already
experienced PIU for the execution of project activities, roles and responsibilities of other
MNHE Departments involved in project implementation were not clearly defined and a
time-bound action plan would have assisted to gradually transfer implementation to the
technical departments of the Ministry. This would have allowed for better synergy
between components and clearer roles in monitoring and evaluating the various aspects of
the sector’s reform efforts; (ii) the ongoing issue with the PIU staff salaries which was
conducive to lower performance; (iii) better quality indicators with a stronger linkage to
project activities, especially with regard to technical assistance and training. The ICR rating
is in line with the 2007 QEA which was discussed earlier.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Bank was successful in providing of technical assistance through a wide range of
specialists during supervision missions, and ensuring good coordination with other donors.
Supervision missions were conducted two to three times per year and combined the skills
among team members to respond to issues and needs observed during implementation. The
                                              17
Bank was proactive in undertaking some analytical work, such as a social assessment or
economic analysis of the education sector, as well as to take timely decisions to restructure
the project and ensure its completion. Yet, the quality of supervision was affected by the
fact that supervision missions could not always be coordinated so that Bank fiduciary staff
could participate with the core team; this interfered with the Bank’s ability to resolve
fiduciary issues quickly in the field. Continuity in supervising the project was also affected
due to the frequent changes in Bank staff during the project’s lifespan (four task team
leaders and five procurement specialists over six years). In retrospect, some persistent
issues could have been addressed more effectively. For instance, the lack of regular
progress reporting from the Borrower or the absence of an M&E officer for the PIU
remained recurrent issues throughout the project and could have been raised as a condition.
Because of these factors, the performance in supervising the project is rated “moderately
satisfactory?.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank Performance takes into consideration both the Bank’s role in ensuring quality
at entry and the quality of Bank supervision. During project preparation, the Bank was
successful at ensuring strong coordination with other donors and the Government which
contributed to optimizing project interventions. The project also drew on detailed lessons
learned from PAAE I. During supervision, the Bank responded to the needs of the project
in a flexible manner, initiated analytical work when required, and provided adequate
technical support to overcome implementation issues. However, as described earlier, the
Bank team could have paid greater attention earlier to some aspects of M&E and
implementation arrangements, which would have allowed for better implementation and
monitoring of project activities. On the basis of the justification provided above, the rating
for Overall Bank Performance is “moderately satisfactory.?

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Government was highly committed to the project and made important steps to meet the
triggers for the passage to Phase III of PAAE. Moreover, the Government continued to
allocate a substantial portion of its budget to the education sector (about 19.8 percent of its
national budget in 2010, and 8 percent of its GDP). A few factors, however, contributed to
hindering optimal Government performance: (i) administrative procedures in approving
and signing contracts at the MNHE and MOF contributed to delays in contract signatures
by several months; and (ii) the National Tender Board (NTB) postponed meetings several
times in 2011 due to the mobilization of NTB staff for the national elections and the
absence of a back-up system for NTB members that would allow meetings to take place.
This delayed the procurement of furniture to the Hodan 3 middle school, which could not
be delivered before the project closure. Given that these factors had an impact on project
implementation, the Borrower performance is rated “moderately satisfactory?.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


                                              18
The PIU’s capacity to implement projects improved during the implementation of PAAE II,
but its performance in implementing the project varied over the years. In 2007, a new PIU
Director was assigned to the project by the Government on a sole source basis despite the
recommendation from IDA to go through a competitive selection process, as it was
assessed that the proposed candidate did not have the required managerial skills and
adequate experience for effective project implementation and oversight. As a result, the
project was downgraded to “moderately unsatisfactory? in 2008 and 2010 until the PIU
Director was replaced in 2011, six months before the closing date. Improvement in project
implementation was noted once the new PIU Director came onboard. In addition to
managerial changes in 2010, the PIU’s offices were moved from an independent building
where all staff were physically located together to the MNHE building, where PIU staff
were disbursed and separated into scattered locations throughout the building. This new
setting made communication and coordination more difficult, especially between the PIU
Director and the rest of the staff. The various Bank supervision missions recommended
moving PIU staff into one office, but due to a shortage of space, this could not be done. In
spite of these shortcomings, the PIU succeeded in implementing most of the project’s main
activities and funds were disbursed at 98.53 percent. Based on this, the performance of the
implementing agency is rated “moderately satisfactory.?

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
In spite of the issues described above, most of the project’s activities were completed and
the funds were entirely disbursed. After two extensions, PAAE II objectives were mostly
achieved, although much remained to be done to improve the efficiency and management
of the system. Thus, the Borrower’s performance is overall “moderately satisfactory?.

6. Lessons Learned
 Where the project scope is limited, project development objectives and indicators
  should be specific and measurable. Quality of education is a complex area and it is
  therefore important, during the project design phase, to define objectives within the
  scope of the project as well as to choose PDO indicators that have a direct link with the
  project activities.
 The establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system depends on having
  sufficient capacity within the Borrower’s institutions as well as Borrower ownership.
  Establishment of a sound M&E policy with clear institutional arrangements for
  collecting, analyzing and reporting data is critical to implementing an important reform
  and making evidence-based policy decisions. For this, the Borrower should first be
  convinced of the benefits of M&E to the reform process, and then should build its
  capacity to carry out M&E, including attracting and retaining skilled staff.
 Strong coordination with donors during preparation and implementation is essential
  to identify financing gaps and optimize interventions in the sector, as well as
  increasing efficiency. In organizing regular joint reviews with donors, the MNHE
  succeeded in mobilizing resources to scale-up and adapt donor-financed activities to
  changing needs, as well as to benefit from technical assistance. This regular exercise
  was a way to share information on the sector, provide a structure for reporting and
  increase transparency.

                                            19
 Where the Borrower has limited capacity in Bank procedures, extensive support is
  required. It also justifies the importance of having stable supervision teams and
  conducting joint supervision missions with core and fiduciary teams, who could also
  provide on-going capacity building in FM and procurement.
 The large investments in school infrastructure underline the need for a strong
  maintenance unit to implement the maintenance strategy. This is essential for the
  preservation of school infrastructure and assets, as well as for the planning for
  investments to respond to changing needs.
 It is important to link training with career development. An increasing number of
  teachers expect that in-service training should be taken into account in their career
  development. It is now critical to establish a sound mechanism to evaluate the impact of
  in-service training, teachers’ performance and provide the necessary incentives to
  improve and reward teachers’ performance.
 The growing demand from parents to enroll children with special needs requires a
  longer-term strategy to be put in place to consolidate the efforts achieved so far in
  this area. More specialized teachers need to be trained to sustain the inclusion of
  children with special needs, and awareness campaigns need to be pursued. It is also
  important to formalize the status of these specialists in order to retain them.
 While the MNHE now has the capacity to provide in-service training, more needs to
  be done for teacher induction training. The MNHE recognizes that teacher induction
  training is essential in order to ensure having qualified teachers. However, the local
  capacity to provide such training is still limited and requires the intervention of
  international expertise.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

There were no comments received by the Borrower/implementing agencies.

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                            20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                  Appraisal Estimate Actual Estimate         Percentage of
           Components
                                   (USD millions)     (USD millions)          Appraisal
 Increase Access to and Equity of
                                           4.41              6.34               137%
Basic Education.
 Quality Improvement.                      2.01              1.96               84.5%
 Improve Efficiency and Capacity
                                           4.09              2.10               47.4%
Building

            Total Baseline Cost         10.51               10.30               96.3%
Physical Contingencies
                                         0.31                 0.00
Price Contingencies
                                         0.18                 0.00
             Total Project Costs
      Total Financing Required          11.00               10.30




(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                                      Type of     Estimate       Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                    Cofinancing    (USD           (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)      millions)
Borrower                                            1.00           0.30        30%
International Development
                                                    10.00            10.00         100%
Association (IDA)




                                           21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Component 1: Increase Access to, and Equity of Education (US$4.58 million,
including contingencies). This component’s objective was to increase basic enrollment
rates (to reach the target of 67.4 percent at the end of the project) and the retention of
students, with a focus on girls and children with special needs. In order to achieve this, the
component was to increase access by building and rehabilitating schools in rural and urban
areas as well as in impoverished or underserved areas. In addition, the component sought to
improve the learning environment and service to children with special needs (at-risk
children, working and “idle? children) by promoting the participation of parents and
communities in school management and maintenance. This component had three
subcomponents: (i) construction and rehabilitation of primary and middle schools; (ii)
school maintenance; and (iii) partnerships and community intervention. Planned activities
and actual outputs under each of these subcomponents are detailed below:

Subcomponent 1.1.: Construction and rehabilitation and equipment of primary and middle
schools
Objective: In order to increase basic gross enrollment rates, this subcomponent sought expand
access to education by building, rehabilitating and equipping classrooms.
Planned Activities:           Actual Outputs:                         Impact/Outcomes:

To build, rehabilitate and   69 new classrooms were created         The construction and
equip 69 classrooms in       and equipped in primary schools as     rehabilitation of primary
primary education, more      follows:                               schools and latrines
specifically:                • 45 new classrooms in urban area      contributed significantly to
• 45 new classrooms in 4       (Cité Hodan (15 classrooms),         increasing access, covering 32
  primary schools in the       Barwako 2 (10 cl.), PK12 (10 cl.),   percent of the country’s needs
  urban areas of Balbala,      Ali Sabieh (10 cl.);                 at the time in terms of access
  PK12 and Ali Sabieh;       • 9 new classrooms in rural area       to primary schools and
• 9 new classrooms in 3        (Doudoubalala (Ali Sabieh) (3        benefitting more than 7,000
  primary schools in the       cl.), Petit Barra (Arta) (3 cl.),    children. These interventions
  rural areas of Arta,         Sankal (Dikhil) (3 cl.);             also helped the MNHE achieve
  Dikhil and Ali Sabieh;     • 15 rehabilitated classrooms in       its target to increase the GER
• 15 rehabilitated             Gabode 2 (12 cl.) and Shebelleh      up to 75% by the end of the
  classrooms in 3 primary      (3 cl.)                              project (73% GER for girls).
  schools in the areas of                                           The presence of new schools
  Gabode                                                            which can offer food and water
                                                                    to children has also
                                                                    encouraged more nomad
                                                                    families to settle around
                                                                    schools and enroll their
                                                                    children.
To build and equip and the   A middle school with 33 new            The construction of the middle
construction          and    classrooms and 3 labs was built in     school helped the MNHE meet
equipment of one middle      Balbala (collège Hodan 3) and is       the growing and urgent need
school (Collège Hodan 3)     currently accommodating about          for middle level education.
to    create   33     new    2,800 students. The furniture for      The middle school is currently
classrooms            and    the middle school, however, could      accommodating 1,000 more
accommodate about 1,800      not be delivered before the project    students than initially planned
students.                    closed, due to: (i) several            who would not otherwise be

                                               22
                             postponements of meetings by the         able to attend middle school.
                             National Tender Board after the
                             February 2011 national elections,
                             which considerably delayed the
                             approval of the evaluation report
                             after the national elections; and (ii)
                             the supplier’s failure to meet
                             contractual requirements. This
                             furniture will be acquired in the
                             future. Meanwhile, the middle
                             school benefited from furniture
                             (financed by the National Budget)
                             which was initially planned for
                             other middle schools still under
                             construction.
To build and/or rehabilitate 101 latrines were built as well as 1
100 latrines in programmed administration office (Balbala) and
and existing schools, as     3 housings for school directors (in
well as administration       Doudoubalala, Petit Barra and
offices and housing for      Sankal).
school directors


Subcomponent 1.2.: Maintenance
Objective: A Maintenance Study carried out during project preparation revealed that many schools
in Djibouti which were built in the 1980s were in poor physical shape and critically needed
maintenance. The project was therefore to assist the MNHE in: (i) developing an educational
facilities maintenance manual (through the recruitment of a maintenance specialist); and (ii)
carrying out a maintenance training and sensitization program for MNHE personnel and school
management committees. The desired result was to provide the MNHE with the necessary tools to
develop and implement a preventive maintenance program for each school.
Planned Activities:           Actual Outputs:                     Impact/Outcomes
To develop an educational A comprehensive maintenance             Although this component was
facilities maintenance        guide for school administrators     not fully achieved (schools do
manual (through the           and directors was produced and      not currently have a maintenance
recruitment of a              disseminated to all MNHE            plan), the acquisition of
maintenance specialist)       departments, school directors,      maintenance software to record
                              inspectors and donors.              school assets is a positive move
                                                                  towards setting up a system.
                              In addition, the project financed   The training of school staff and
                              technical assistance to produce a   parents on school management
                              manual for standard norms of        and maintenance had a positive
                              construction and furniture for      impact which encouraged the
                              primary, middle and secondary       MNHE to scale up training in
                              schools. This manual was            other schools throughout the
                              completed and distributed to all    country.
                              relevant entities involved in
                              school construction and
                              equipment (MNHE’s departments
                              as well as the Direction de
                              l’Habitat et de l’Urbanisme
                              (DHU) and donors).
To       carry    out    a About 60 primary schools
                                                  23
maintenance training and     administrators and directors from
sensitization program for    the six inspectorates (Arta, Ali
MNHE personnel and           Sabieh, Dikhil, Tadjourah, Obock
school        management     and Djibouti) benefited from a 3-
committees.                  day training on infrastructure
                             maintenance. The consultant in
                             charge of developing a
                             maintenance guide and training
                             school staff was recruited only
                             after the mid-term review mission
                             which left insufficient time to
                             develop and implement a full
                             maintenance program for each
                             school.

                             A software for maintenance was
                             also developed to create a
                             database that would enable the
                             PIU to record specific information
                             on each school in the country
                             (year of construction, surface,
                             physical shape, etc.), thus
                             enabling the PIU to set up a
                             preventive program for each
                             school, in addition to provide a
                             source of data for school mapping
                             and the DPI. The PIU is currently
                             populating this database which
                             will be provide the MNHE with
                             critical information to manage
                             school assets and start to set up
                             programs for preventive
                             maintenance in each schools.


Subcomponent 1.3.: Support partnerships and community interventions to help in school
management and maintenance
Objective: The Government of Djibouti instituted the creation of a Partnership/Community
Department in order to strengthen ties with the community and teacher-parent/parent-student
associations. The idea of this subcomponent was to sustain this initiative by increasing parents’
awareness and providing them with the skills and resources they need to meaningfully address the
challenges facing their schools.
Planned Activities:           Actual Outputs:                       Impact/Outcomes:
To organize awareness         By the end of the project, about 88 PTAs are active in 88% of
campaigns and build the       percent of schools had an active      schools and their role has been
capacity of parent/teacher PTA. A decree was published in           formalized.
associations (PTAs) and       March 2009 (2009                      The role of PTAs was proved to
NGOs in school                0197/PR/MENESUP) to formalize be very positive for school
management and                the roles and functions of PTAs.      environments and management
maintenance                   In addition to the activities         and has provided an incentive for
                              described under Subcomponent          more girls and children with
                              1.2., a pilot activity to increase    special needs to attend school.
                              awareness on school maintenance
                                                 24
                              was conducted in the college
                              Hodan 3 in 2011, attended by
                              school administrators and director
                              as well as teachers and students’
                              parents and other community
                              representatives. The training was
                              a success and the MNHE intends
                              to scale up this activity in other
                              schools of the country.
To develop of a               A governance guide for PTAs was
Community-Driven              developed by USAID in 2005.
Development Manual
based on the assessment
of ongoing initiatives in
terms of community
participation.
To develop and support        The project financed technical       The capacity of the CFPEN to
demand-side interventions     assistance and training activities   deliver programs to children with
with regard to children       on children with special needs       special needs and train teachers
with special needs            which were delivered by              has been built. Specialized staff
including: (i) remedial/      international consultants through    is now capable of assisting
rehabilitation measures       the MNHE’s training center           schools with children with
for disabled and “at-risk?    (CFPEN). Highly specialized          special needs at the central and
children; and (ii) flexible   training programs on children with   regional levels. As mentioned
school hours (especially      special needs were provided to:      earlier, the success of these
for working children), and     • 6 psychologists-assistants and    programs has encouraged more
the introduction of                6 teachers-assistants. As a     parents to enroll their children.
training on identifying            result of these trainings, a
children with special              pedagogical guide (financed
needs.                             by UNICEF) was also
                                   produced to help identify and
                                   address children with special
                                   needs.
                               • 18 inspectors.

                              In addition, 3 directors from the
                              CFPEN benefited from a study
                              tour in France to learn from the
                              different systems used to finance
                              special needs activities through
                              public institutions and
                              associations. This enabled the
                              CFPEN to obtain funds from
                              other donors to finance training
                              of specialized staff and material.

                              Technical assistance to
                              consolidate actions with regard to
                              special needs was initiated,
                              involving 8 teachers and 4
                              pedagogical advisors from
                              primary and middle level
                              education. This technical
                                                 25
                                assistance was only partially
                                conducted due to termination of
                                contract with the consultant.

Component 2: Quality Improvement (US$2.17 million, including contingencies). The
objective of this component was to support the MNHE in developing and implementing
various approaches in order to improve the quality of education in basic quality areas such
as: in-service teacher training, school supervision, curriculum content, textbooks and
learning materials, and student learning assessment. The ultimate goal of this component
was to increase student learning and achievement and to help reduce repetition and drop-
out rates. The component comprised of three subcomponents to address four aspects of
quality: (i) in-service teacher training; (ii) curriculum and textbooks; (iii) school
administration and supervision; and (iv) learning assessments.

Subcomponent 2.1. In-service Teacher Training
Objective: The subcomponent was to improve the quality of in-service teacher training. In order to
achieve this, the project planned to train qualified trainers for the CFPEN which has the mandate to
provide training to both the primary and middle/secondary education levels. The interventions were
to be closely linked to ongoing and/or planned activities by USAID and the AFD. They would also
be highly contingent on the outcomes of the ongoing curriculum reform.
Planned Activities:             Actual Outputs:                        Impact/Outcomes:
Training of trainers            20 specialists were trained in         The project has succeeded in
                                “ingénierie de formation? (the         building the human capital of the
                                basics of training).                   CFPEN to provide training to
                                                                       thousands of teachers, school and
                                                                       administrative staff at the central
                                                                       and regional levels. As a result of
                                                                       this, 90% of teachers benefitted
                                                                       from regular in-service training;
                                                                       90% of teachers in primary (out
                                                                       of which 95% were female
                                                                       teachers) are pedagogically
                                                                       certified.
In-service teacher training to 24 trainers-teachers and
upgrade and improve skills,     pedagogical advisors from
including modules on how        middle education received
to identify and address         training in skills-based approach
problems of children with       in teaching and learning
learning difficulties and/or    (didactic and textbook writing).
with special needs.             (TA on special needs detailed in
                                subcomponent 1.3)
Training of school directors This activity was taken over by
in school management and        USAID which provided training
administrative skills.          to school directors and
                                administrators in school
                                management based on annual
                                training plans.
Provision of technical and      The material needs for the
logistical support to CFPEN Center were met with the
in carrying out its mandate     provision of 3 copiers, 2 video
(including the provision of     projectors, 2 cameras and 2 retro
documentation, copier and       projectors.
                                                   26
audiovisual equipment and
teaching materials).

Subcomponent 2.2.: Curriculum and Textbooks
Objective: This subcomponent was to continue to support the ongoing curriculum reform to
middle/lower secondary school through: establishing sound linkages between curriculum and local
needs, increasing the relevancy of the curriculum and developing a better match between
curriculum and textbook content. The project also intended to support activities from the CRIPEN
in textbook production, management and distribution.
Planned Activities:           Actual Outputs:                     Impact/Outcomes:
Textbook production:          (i) Staff from the CRIPEN           The capacity of the CRIPEN has
(i) Provision of technical benefited from expertise in            been significantly enhanced with
      and logistical support  desktop publishing and training in the presence of in-house experts
      to CRIPEN to produce printing techniques in France and in textbook writing and
      all textbooks for       Tunisia.                            production. The center has
      primary schools;                                            become an autonomous entity
                              (ii) 6 experts were recruited to
(ii) Purchase of certain                                          capable of producing good
                              assist pedagogical teams in
      textbooks for middle                                        quality textbook in line with the
                              developing and editing textbooks
      schools (including off-                                     curricula and adapted to the local
                              for middle schools in French,
      the-shelf purchase);                                        context. The availability of
                              Science, History and Geography.
(iii) Re-printing of existing                                     textbooks has increased as a
                              In total, 30 writers supervised by
      CRIPEN written                                              larger number of children in
                              one inspector for each subject
      books and teaching                                          primary and secondary now have
                              benefited from training in
      guides                                                      access to textbooks. Given the
                              textbook writing/editing. As a
                                                                  high cost of importing textbooks
                              result of these activities, the
                                                                  to Djibouti, the production of
                              CRIPEN succeeded in producing
                                                                  textbooks in-country is expected
                              all the textbooks and related
                                                                  to bring long-term gains.
                              teaching guides (using skills-
                              based approach in teaching and
                              learning) in French, Arabic and
                              Mathematics for the 2007 to 2008
                              academic years (171,000
                              textbooks were total). The
                              CRIPEN also acquired reference
                              books to set up a documentation
                              center and 5 CRIPEN staff
                              participated in a study tour to
                              strengthen their skills in printing
                              technology.
                             (iii) A total of 55,622 textbooks
                             were purchased for primary and
                             middle schools to cover the needs
                             of the 2007 and 2008 academic
                             years.
                             (iv) The acquisition of some non
                             curriculum textbooks for the
                             middle and primary education
                             (initially planned under this
                             project) were financed instead by
                             the FTI Grant.
Textbook distribution:       The distribution of textbooks took
                                                27
Provision of logistical and    place. But activities to improve
technical support to the       distribution did not materialize as
CRIPEN to improve and          funds were reallocated to cover
monitor the distribution of    the underestimated construction
textbooks to ensure            costs of the Hodan 3 middle
adequacy and accuracy of       school.
delivery to each school.       In terms of textbook preservation,
Textbook management:           however, CRIPEN carried some
Development of a detailed      actions to raise parents and
training module for the        teachers’ awareness regarding the
inspectorate, teachers and     maintenance of books through:
parents on book                the “Journée mondial du Livre?
distribution and tracking,     and the broadcasting of messages
as well as storage,            through the “Radio télévision
maintenance and repair.        scolaire?

Subcomponent 2.3.: School Administration and Supervision
Background and objective: School management and inspection are two major elements of any
strategy to improve the quality of school education. While the responsibility of managing schools –
and the implementation of the ongoing curriculum reform – is that of school directors and teachers,
the monitoring and evaluating the delivery of the curriculum is the responsibility of inspectors.
With a strengthened supervision and evaluation system, the project sought to improve the quality of
teaching and learning which would lead to lower repetition rates and better student test results. The
objective of this subcomponent was therefore to strengthen the education supervision system
through training activities targeting school directors, pedagogical assistants and inspectors, and
logistical support to enable inspectors to conduct effective and regular supervisions in schools.
Planned Activities:             Actual Outputs:                Impact/Outcomes:

Training of school directors    This activity was taken        100% of school directors and
in management (an activity      over by USAID. The             inspectors benefitted from regular in-
that started under Phase I),    training of school directors   service training according to annual
with a focus on                 takes place regularly and is   training plans. Although a mechanism
administrative skills. An       based on annual training       for assessing the impact of this
assessment of the training      plans                          training still needs to be put in place,
was expected to be carried-                                    the fact that school directors and
out to improve training                                        inspectors are regularly trained will
content.                                                       likely have a positive impact on
                                                               quality in the future.
Training of school              See under Subcomponent
inspectors and pedagogical      2.1. above.
advisors to master the new
skills-based approach in
teaching and learning.
Provision of on-site teacher    This activity did not take
training and evaluation and     place as funds were
create/facilitate the           reallocated to cover the
exchange of information         underestimated
between schools and             construction costs of the
teachers.                       Hodan 3 middle school.
Construction of an              An Inspectorate was built
Inspectorate in Ali Sabieh.     in Ali Sabieh; this activity
                                was financed by USAID.
Provision of vehicles to        8 vehicles were purchased      Inspectors can conduct more regular
                                                   28
enable inspectors to             for inspectors’ visits, which   and frequent monitoring of teacher
conduct effective school         contributed to increase         performance. As a result of more
supervisions.                    school visits from 1 to 3-4     spontaneous visits to schools, there
                                 per month.                      has been a decrease in teacher
                                                                 absenteeism.

Subcomponent 2.4.: Learning Assessment.
Background and objective: Improving the quality of education requires a coherent system that can
produce reliable, timely and complete information and data on student learning that would inform
decision-makers about students’ performance and take timely remedial actions to improve test
results, thus lower repeating rates. This subcomponent was to support the establishment of a robust
evaluation system and the development of assessment mechanisms to better evaluate student
achievements, inform the education system on the causes of student under-achievement, creating a
feedback-loop that would contribute to review curriculum, teaching performance and school
administration.

Planned Activities:               Actual Outputs:                   Impact/Outcomes
To restructure and strengthen     The M&E Unit was
the M&E unit of MNHE              established which was first
through technical assistance,     under the authority of the
training, didactic and            Guidance and Examination
resource materials, textbooks     Department (Service de
and guides to reinforce skills    l’Orientation et des
in evaluation;                    Examens), then under the
                                  authority of the DPI. Some
                                  M&E specialists were
                                  recruited but due to the lack
                                  of resources and incentives,
                                  the Unit was, by the end of
                                  PAAE II, dissolved.
To help Djibouti prepare          Djibouti did not participate in
itself for participating in       TIMMS or PIRLS
international/cross national      examinations. However, the
examination of student            country is now seeking to
achievement (TIMMS and            participate in PASEC
PIRLS)                            examinations (covering
                                  African countries).
To develop a sample-based         A national standardized test      Djibouti now has a national
assessment system to provide      Objectif Terminal                 standardized test which takes place
periodic and comparative          d’Intégration, OTI) to assess     annually, and is used as an
evaluation of students’           students’ learning outcomes       indicator to identify variations in
achievement.                      in grades 4 and 8 was             learning outcomes in and between
                                  introduced in 2007 and is         schools, as well as weaknesses in
                                  conducted every year. A           teaching and school management.
                                  more comprehensive                The OTI results are now used to
                                  evaluation system was to be       make important education
                                  put in place, but did happen      decisions.
                                  due to the reallocation of
                                  funds towards Component 1.




                                                   29
Component 3: Improve Efficiency and Capacity Building (US$4.25 million, including
contingencies). Following the reorganization of the MNHE in 2003 towards a more
decentralized system, the MNHE faced a number of challenges due to: shortage of staff and
lack of skills, and unclear mandates of the MNHE departments. The objectives of this
component were to (i) improve the MNHE’s capacity in the organization and
administration of educational activities; (ii) improve the efficiency in management and
resource- allocation with a focus on information flow, data collection and analysis; and (iii)
empower communities.

Subcomponent 3.1.: Institutional Capacity of the System
Objective: In order to improve institutional capacity, this subcomponent’s objective was to finance
an organizational audit and to support capacity building activities for the MNHE staff which would
be recommended by this audit, i.e.: development of management tools, in-service training with a
special focus on financial and human resources management, educational planning, data tools and
collection/analysis methods, and computerized information management:
Planned Activities:                Actual Outputs:                         Impact/Outcomes:
Carrying-out of an                 An organizational audit of the
organizational audit (technical    MNHE was carried out by an
assistance) and implementation international firm in 2009. The
of recommendations                 audit made a number of
                                   recommendations to define roles
                                   and functions within the Ministry
                                   and improve managerial processes
                                   in order to move towards a results-
                                   based management approach.
                                   These recommendations were
                                   presented in a 6-day workshop
                                   attended by about 30 staff from the
                                   relevant MNHE’s departments as
                                   well as school directors and
                                   inspectors. Time was not
                                   sufficient to achieve an
                                   organizational change by the end
                                   of the project or to implement the
                                   audit’s recommendations. Some
                                   working committees were
                                   expected to follow-up on these
                                   recommendations to develop a
                                   procedure manual of the Ministry
                                   (Manuel d’Organisation et de
                                   Procédures Internes (MOPI)).
Establishment of an efficient      This activity did not take place as
communication system               funds were reallocated to cover the
                                   underestimated construction costs
                                   of the Hodan 3 middle school.
Development of two                 This activity was partially
applications for human             achieved under the Project. The
resources and financial            two applications for human
management                         resources and financial
                                   management were acquired by the
                                   Human Resources and Finance
                                   Department, on their own budget.
                                                30
                                  These applications are very basic
                                  and require further development to
                                  meet the needs of the Department.

Development of a procedure        A Manual of Administrative and
manual for PIU                    Financial Procedures for the PIU
                                  was finalized in 2009.

Training of technicians for the   Training of technicians for the TV
TV radio scolaire                 radio scolaire: this activity was
                                  canceled because of lack of funds.


Subcomponent 3.2.: Efficiency Improvement.
Objective: to review and implement cost-cutting measures to sustain the educational system,
elevate its absorptive capacity and enhance coordination
Planned Activities:               Actual Outputs:                      Impact/Outcomes:
Studies and assessments to        Some activities took place under the
identify and/or fine tune         project’s different components such
measures for reducing sector      as: (i) the manual for norms and
unit costs (technical             standards (supposed to propose cost
assistance, training, furniture, effective ways to build and equip
vehicles to improve data          schools); (ii) the provision of
collection, analysis and          vehicles to inspectors (to improve
reporting).                       data collection).
Salary of four key staff at the Key staff was recruited and trained.   The MNHE has a project
PIU (Project coordinator,                                              unit with reasonable
engineer/architect,                                                    experience in donor-
Procurement specialist and                                             funded projects. This unit
Maintenance specialist),                                               continues to be responsible
including equipment, training                                          for the implementation of
and operational costs.                                                 education projects.




                                               31
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


Given the limited availability of accurate data for a comprehensive economic and financial
analysis of the project, this annex describes what is reported by the Borrower to be the
development impact of the project. The Ministry of Education estimates that interventions
in the education sector financed by the World Bank represent approximately 10% of
external funding over the past ten years so the assumption is drawn that this project did
have an important contribution to the positive impacts seen in the sector as a whole.

Developmental impact was positive in some areas. The project has contributed to the
following improvements in the education sector: (i) improved reach and service delivery to
beneficiaries, (ii) improved institutional capacity in teacher training and textbook
production, (iii) greater community and parental involvement in education, (iv) a change in
culture and laying the ground work for improvements in teacher training, student
assessment, maintenance, and collection and use of data.

Service delivery improved. Access - over the lifetime of the project, both primary GER
and completion rates increased, while drop-out rates decreased. The project provided
access to 7,000 children in primary schools that were either built or rehabilitated and 2,800
students in middle school.

Quality - a number of areas that relate to the quality of education were positively impacted
by the project’s interventions. One stand out is teacher training. Prior to the project, in-
service training was minimal. The capacity of the teacher training agency was improved,
particularly in training needs assessment, design and execution, and as a result, 95% of
teachers received training. However, no monitoring system was created to track the impact
of the training. Teachers informally surveyed reported that the training they received was
relevant and of good quality. However, it is difficult to know whether the training actually
changed teaching practices therefore on improved learning for students.

Equity and inclusion efforts had some positive impact and spillover effect. The
emergence of new schools in rural areas brought access to water and school feeding, and
thus offered incentives for nomadic families to enroll their children in schools. The
presence of well-functioning latrines encouraged families to send more girls to school.
PTAs report that more parents of children with disabilities are willing to send their children
– seen as a result of the project’s awareness campaigns run by the Ministry. Small, local
economic activity was also observed in certain villages around the new schools.

Institutional capacity improved in some areas. The project improved the capacity of
two of the Ministry’s main agencies: CRIPEN (research and textbook production) and
CFPEN (teacher training). Prior to the project, many of the textbooks were purchased
outside of the country. Now Djibouti has the capacity to produce textbooks themselves. It
is believed that this is being done at a lower cost than purchasing them from neighboring
countries, but this needs further study. Improved institutional capacity in the Ministry,
outside of these two agencies, was less as apparent, though better data for system
management has begun to be collected.
The project introduced (2007) a new national standardized test (OTI) to begin assessing
students’ learning outcomes in grades 4 and 8. Students from the University of Djibouti
                                             32
were involved in data analysis to assist in reviewing and scoring test and undertaking first
level analyses. In addition, a new unit charged with running student assessments was
established.

System efficiency targets were largely missed. After having made initial progress, in the
end, targets for reducing repetition and drop out were not achieved. Djibouti provides a
lower number of years in school compared to many other countries, though some
improvement had been made. The project financed the production of a School Construction
Manual in an effort to standardize construction and equipment costs. The manual was
disseminated in 2009, so gains have not yet had time to be studied. PTAs were established
at most schools; their main area of focus is on school maintenance. Many PTAs reportedly
managed to solicit in-kind maintenance from community members and local business. This
would seemingly reduce the need for a maintenance budget from the ministry, but this
would need further study to confirm.

Public rationale. All the activities of the project supported goals identified in the
country’s education strategy and aimed to strengthen the capacity of the system that
manages the sector, though many capacity objectives were missed. The project introduced
a culture of more systemic data collection and began using the data to make decisions about
potential policy changes or new areas of focus, e.g. doing more to increase girls’
enrollment and understanding and addressing children with special needs and a school
(facilities) maintenance program.

M&E function improved but still weak. The Ministry’s Department of Planning was able
to collect and produce more reliable statistics. They continue to produce an annual statistics
publication, however, the data analysis component of the report is weak. In addition to
basic school level data on students and teachers, other areas of the education system need
to be included in the M&E function, including: school supervision and “Inspections
System,? school maintenance and inventory tracking, teacher training evaluations and
observed impact, donor contributions – including the follow-up and impact of technical
assistance/studies.

Bank’s added value. The current national budget for education cannot alone finance the
country’s vision for improving education access and quality. However, even the small
amount this project devoted to construction and rehabilitating schools had a positive impact
on improving access and increasing demand for education services, especially in rural areas.
Internal inefficiencies and high unit costs for wages and school construction continue to
exist. There is a continued need to substantially reduce average unit costs across the board
in order to create the financial space for building new schools and hiring additional and
better qualified teachers.

The MOE considers the Bank’s contribution to the sector an important one in terms of
financing as well as ESW and education policy dialogue. The occasion of World Bank
missions was often used as an opportunity to assemble the locally based education donors.
The Bank is an active member of the Education Partners Group, chaired by the Secretary
General of the MOE, which meets to discuss the objectives and progress of the projects and
initiatives the donors fund. This “venue? and practice lends itself to discussions related to
all aspects of the education system and is seen to have an important contribution to
developing policy, recommending reforms, changing standards and regulation and
                                            33
conducting joint reviews of the country’s education strategy, thereby influencing all areas
of managing and improving the education system.

Ground work was laid for continued involvement in the sector. In many ways, the
project activities laid the groundwork for improvements in system management capacity to
be made. Much of the system efficiency efforts that were made did not have the full
positive impact as was designed. In retrospect, the “improved system management?
objectives were over-ambitious, but were successful in beginning to change “business as
usual? and introduced ideas of new ways of doing things. The momentum for new and
improved data and greater collaboration amongst the various departments of the Ministry
led the follow-on IDA project to have a greater focus on improving institutional capacity
and systems management. While the Bank does not co-finance education projects in
Djibouti, the Bank regularly meets with other lead education sector donors, many of whom
continue to focus on access issues.

An institutional/organizational assessment of the Ministry was undertaken near the end of
the project, but the Ministry was re-organized after the presidential elections in April 2011,
so many of the recommendations of the assessment have not yet been put in place. The new
IDA-financed operation will also support the Ministry in adopting the recommendations.

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
            Names                             Title                Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
Abduljabbar Hasan Al Qathab     Senior Procurement Specialist    MNAPR Procurement
                                Country Manager/Task Team
Ousmane Diagana                                                   AFMNE 1st TTL
                                Leader
Ashutosh Dubey                  Consultant                       AFTH3    Economic aspects
Claudine Kader                  Senior Program Assistant         MNSHD    Program Assistant
Eileen Brainne Sullivan         Operations Analyst               MNSHD    Operational support
Hind Shaker Tawfeek             Senior Program Assistant         MNCYE    Program Assistant
Kishor Uprety                   Senior Counsel                   LEGES    Legal Counsel
Souleymane Zerbo                Architect/Consultant             MNSHD    Architect
Supervision/ICR
                               Sr Financial Management
Anas Abou El Mikias                                             MNAFM Financial Management
                               Specialist
Ramiro Ignacio Jauregui-
                               Counsel                          LEGEM Legal Counsel
Zabalaga
                               Senior Financial Management
Soukeyna Kane                                                  MNAFM Financial Management
                               Specialist
                               Lead Human Development
Linda English                                                  AFTED 2nd TTL
                               Specialist
Moukim Temourov                Resident Representative         MNCDZ 3rd TTL
Christina Wright Djemmal       Operations Officer              MNSHD 4th TTL
Wassim Turki                   Financial Specialist/Consultant MNAFM Financial Management
Abduljabbar Hasan Al Qathab    Senior Procurement Specialist MNAPR Procurement
                                             34
Ahmed Chabchoub             Consultant                    AFTH3
Karim Kamil Fahim           Auditor                       IADDR Financial Management
Brigitte S. Franklin        Program Assistant             MNSHD Program Assistant
Claudine Kader              Senior Program Assistant      MNSHD Program Assistant
Luis Guillermo Hakim        Economist/Consultant          MNSHD Economic aspects
Mark Robert Lynd            Consultant                    MNSHD Education
Mohamed Mehdi               Consultant                    MNAFM Financial Management
Surat F. Nsour              Operations Officer            HDNSP Operational Support
Karine M. Pezzani           Operations Analyst            MNSHD Operational Support
                                                                Operational
Dung-Kim Pham               Operations Officer            MNSHD
                                                                Support/Procurement
                                                                Education/Economic
Atou Seck                   Sr Education Econ.            AFTH2
                                                                aspects
Thomas Kwasi Siaw Anang     Procurement Specialist        MNAPR Procurement
                            Procurement
Walid Dhoubi                                              MNAPR Procurement
                            Specialist/Consultant
Andrew Losos                Environmental Specialist      MNSEN Environment
Lina Fares                  Sr Procurement Specialist     MNAPR Procurement
Eileen Brainne Sullivan     Operations Analyst            MNSHD Operational support
Mercy Miyang Tembon         Country Manager               AFMBI Operational support
Hafedh Zaafrane             Economist/Consultant          MNSHD Economic aspects
Souleymane Zerbo            Architect/Consultant          MNSHD Architect

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                                                  35.95
  FY05                                                                 196.55
  FY06                                                                  45.97
                          Total:                                       278.48
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                                                  58.30
  FY07                                                                 117.60
  FY08                                                                 166.97
  FY09                                                                 130.37
  FY10                                                                  61.72
  FY11                                                                  36.58
  FY12                                                                 145.57
                          Total:                                       717.11




                                          35
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
NOT APPLICABLE.




                                      36
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
NOT APPLICABLE.




                                    37
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

No Borrower’s ICR have been received, and no comments were provided by the Borrower
on the Draft ICR.




                                        38
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
NOT APPLICABLE.




                                     39
Annex 9. Achievement of Triggers for PAAE


1. Triggers for passage from Phase I to Phase II:

                               Triggers                                       Status
   1. Classroom teaching time was mandated at 32 weeks (an average           Achieved
        of 27 hours of instruction per week) and was implemented in
        nearly all schools.
   2.   23 percent of Government recurrent expenditures were allocated       Achieved
        to the education sector.
   3.   A Law decree (Décret d’application) was issued on Education          Achieved
        Reform, establishing private schools.
   4.   An action plan to increase school enrollments among girls and        Achieved
        children from poor families and rural areas was issued and its
        recommendations were integrated in the 2006-2008 Education
        Reform Action Plan.
   5.   A Law decree on Education Reform to set up and operationalize        Achieved
        community participation in school management and operations
        and maintenance was issued.
   6.   The competitive examination at the end of the primary cycle was      Achieved
        replaced by a non competitive assessment.

2. Phase II – Triggers for passage from Phase II to Phase III


                      Triggers                                        Status
   1. The new expanded structure of nine-year                Achieved. The nine-year
      compulsory basic education, which                   compulsory basic education is
      encompasses middle schools is operational             generalized in the country.
   2. At least 20 percent of Government recurrent                   Achieved
      expenditure in the previous fiscal year is
      allocated to the education sector, including
      scholarships, housing and other allowances for
      teachers
   3. Primary school enrollment was 40-56 percent                   Achieved
      of 6-10 year-old girls, and 60-64 percent of 6-
      10 year-old boys
   4. Private sector share of school enrollment was      Not achieved. The private sector
      5-8 percent in primary schools and 9-12            share has not increased, mostly
      percent in middle schools                         because the supply is limited to a
                                                        small niche market (composed of
                                                         financially sound households in
                                                        urban areas) which has not grown
                                                             over the past few years.
   5. The action plan aimed at increasing school                     Achieved
      enrollment among girls and children from
                                            40
      disadvantaged families, children from rural
      areas, and children with special needs was
      implemented
   6. The decree on community participation in                        Achieved
      school management to legalize the measures
      developed had been issued

Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents


            Name/Ref. of Document                                    Date
Project Concept Note                                  May 18, 2004
Project Appraisal Document                            October 10, 2005
Quality at Entry Assessment                           June 7, 2007
Mid-Term Review                                       November 2007
Back-to Office Reports and Aide-Memoires              From 2004 to 2011
Implementation Supervision Reports                    From 2004 to 2011
Implementation Supervision Reports and                From 2005 to 2011
Implementation Completion Report for EFA-FTI
Manual of Administrative and Financial                October 2009
Procedures (“Manuel des procédures
administratives et financières du BEPE?)
Environmental Impact Assessment Study (by             October 2007 Manual of
STUDI)                                                Administrative and Financial
                                                      Procedures
Audit of the Services with the Department of          July 20, 2009
Habitat and Urbanism (“Audit du contrat de la
DHU?)
Institutional Audit of the Ministry of National and   June 2009
Higher Educaiton (“Audit organisationnel du
MENESUP?) (by Ideaconsult)
Assessment of the Reform and new Curricula            2006
(“Evaluation de l’organisation de la réforme et de
la mise en place des nouveaux curricula ») (by
Mark Lynd)
Assessment of new textbooks and pedagogical           Mai 2010
guides (“Evaluation des nouveaux manuels
scolaires et guides pédagogiques édités par le
CRIPEN »)
Maintenance Guide (« Guide de la                      2010
Maintenance »)
Norms and Standard Guide (« Guide des normes          2009
et standard ») (for primary and middle education)




                                             41
                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33396R



                                                                                        D JI B O U TI
                                                SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                         MAIN ROADS

                                                REGION CAPITALS                                                                   RAILROADS

                                                NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                  REGION BOUNDARIES

                                                RIVERS                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                                    42°E                                                                                                     43°E
                                                                                                                                         To                                                      REP. OF
                                                                                                                                        Assab
                                                                                        ERIT REA                                                                                                 YEMEN




         DJIBOUTI



                                                                                                                                                                                          Khôr ‘Angar
                                                                                                                  Daddato

                                                                                                                                           O B O C K


                                                                                Dorra
                                                                                                                                                             Sarta
                                                                                                                                                                  i
   E T H IOP IA
                                                                                                Balli




                                                               Malah

12°N                                                                                                                                                                                                         12°N
                                                                               TA D J O U R AH
                                                                                                                                                                                     Obock

                                                                       D
                                                                                                              Randa
                                                                       ou
                                                                         bie




              To
              Bati
                                                                                                                                       Tadjourah
                                                                                                                                                                            Gulf of Aden
                                                                                                        Day    1783 m
                                                                                        Lake
                  Galafi                                                                Assal
                                                                                                                                                urah
                                                                                                                      Sagallou        of   Tadjo
                                                       Plain o f
                                                       Pl ain                                                                    Gulf
                                                       Ga ga de
                                                       Gag ade                                                                              Ambado                    DJIBOUTI
                                                                                                                                           DJIBOUTI
                                                                                                                          Arta                  Ambouli
                               lai n
                             P lain o f             Yoboki
                                                                                                                                           Chebelley
                                                                                                                                           ChEbelley
                              H an
                              Han le                                                                                                                          Damerjog
                                                                                                                                                                              Loyada

                                                                                                                                    Goubetto
                                           Ch




                                                                                            A RTA
                                           eik




                                                                                                                       BAR
                                                                                                              P E TI T B AR A
                                              eti




                                                                                                                                                     Ho
                                      D I K H I L                                                                            Hol Hol                    lH   ol
                                                                                                                                                          e
                                                                                                                                                     Beyad
                                                                           GR A N D           AR
                                                                                            B AR A                           'ALI
       Lake                     Plateau
                                                                                Mouloua
                                                                                                                            SABIEH                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Berbera
       Abbé                    of Dakka
                                                                                                                  'Ali Sabieh       Ali Adda
                                                                               Dikhil
                              P lain o f
                                lai n
                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                       SO MA LIA
                                  b aad
                              Go baad               As Ela                                        Dira Dawa
11°N          Modahtou           Gobaad                                                                                                                                                                      11°N



              0      4       8 12 16 20 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                    This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                    The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                    shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
              0          4      8    12    16       20 Miles                                                                                        Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                    endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                    42°E                                                                                                     43°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                         JUNE 2007
