Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13176-EE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ESTONIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SEPTEMBER 15, 1994
Privatization and Enterprise Development Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region



Currency Equivalents
(August 31, 1994)
Currency Unit =  Estonian Kroon (EEK)
US$1  =  EEK 12.65
EEK I =  US$0.079
DM I =  EEK 8
EEK I =  DM 0.125
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BITS           Sweden Board for Investment and Technical Support
BOE            Bank of Estonia
CAG            Core Advisory Group
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
DAGTl          Danish Agency for Development of Trade and Industry
EBRD           European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EC PHARE       European Commission Assistance Program for Eastern Europe
EEK            Estonian Kroon
EFB            External Financing Board
EU             European Union
FSUB           Former Soviet Union (12) and Baltics
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GOE            Government of Estonia
G24            Group of 24
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IMF            International Monetary Fund
LIB             Limited International Bidding
MIS            Management Information Systems
MOF            Ministry of Finance
NEB            North Estonian Bank
PFI            Participating Financial Institution
PIU             Project Implementation Unit
SA             Special Account
SKr            Swedish Kroner
SOE            Statement of Expenditure
STF            Systemic Transformation Facility
SWIFT          Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications
TA             Technical Assistance
TCB            Tartu Commercial Bank
TOB            Treuhand Osteuropa Beratungsgesellschaft
TOR            Terms of Reference
UBB            Union Baltic Bank
USAID          United States Agency for International Development



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ESTONIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Loan and Project Summary  ............................................  i
I.  BACKGROUND                                 ..1......................... 
A. Country Context ............................................ I
B. Privatization and Private Sector Development  ........................ I
C. Financial Sector Background   ................................... 2
D.  Strategy and Issues in the Financial Sector .......................... 6
II.     THE PROJECT ............................................... 8
A. Project Development and Objectives, and Rationale for Bank Involvement  ... . 8
B. Project Components and Description .............................. 9
C. Project Cost and Financing Plan  ................................  13
III.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ARRANGEMENTS   ...... ..                                        ............ 16
A. Implementation Arrangements .................................. 16
B. Procurement ..............................................  18
C. Disbursements   ............................................ 20
D. Project Accounting, Financial Reporting, Auditing and Supervision   ....                      .... 21
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS                                                   ..                                    23
A. Project Benefits  ........................................... 23
B. Project Risks  ............................................. 23
V. AGREEMENTS AND  RECOMMENDATIONS   .......................... 24






ANNEXES
Annex I     Estonian Commercial Banks
Annex II    The Government of Sweden Capital Fund
Annex III    General Structure of the Credit Line
Annex IV    Eligibility Requirements for the Banks, Sub-Borrowers and the Sub-Projects
Annex V     Documentation and Reporting Requirements for the Financial Institutions
Development Project
Annex VI   Draft Terms of Reference for the Audits of the Commercial Banks
Annex VII   Draft Terms of Reference for Advisors for Participating Banks
Annex VIII  Draft Terms of Reference for the Institutional Development Program for the North
Estonian Bank
Annex IX    Terms of Reference for the Project Implementation Unit
Annex X     Draft Terms of Reference for the Core Advisory Group
Annex XI   Draft Terms of Reference for Environmental Training
Annex XII   Disbursement Tables
Annex XIII  Supervision Plan
MAP
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in May 1994. Members of the
appraisal team included Messrs./Mmes. Lily Chu (mission leader), Stan Bereza (FSD), Samuel
Talley (FSD), John Nellis (PSD), and Esen Ulgenerk (Consultant). Messrs. Andrew Ewing (PSD)
and Vince Polizatto (FSD) are the peer reviewers. Mme. Tracy McTernan provided invaluable
secretarial support. Messrs. Paul Siegelbaum and Basil Kavalsky are the managing Division
Chief and Department Director, respectively, for the operation.






ESTONIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Estonia
Executing Agency:    Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the Ministry of Finance
(MOF).
Beneficiaries:       Participating commercial banks, and recipient enterprises.
Amount:              US$10 million
Terms:               Fifteen years, including five years of grace, at standard IBRD rates.
Onlending Terms:     The World Bank funds will be onlent by the Ministry of Finance to the
commercial banks. The rate to the commercial banks will be World
Bank lending rate plus I percent. Rates to final borrowers will be
market rates determined by negotiation between the commercial banks
and the final borrowers.
Objective:           The principal objective of the project is to strengthen the banking
sector, and increase the availability of investment financing to the
enterprise sector.
Description:         The Project will consist of: (i) a commercial bank development
component, including long-term funding and technical assistance;
(ii) assistance to the North Estonian Bank (NEB), the last 100 percent
state-owned bank; and (iii) technical assistance to assist in project
implementation.  The commercial bank component will provide
resources to the financial sector to make medium and long-term loans
to private and privatized enterprises. This will be supplemented by a
SKr 100 million (approximately US$12 million) Capital Fund provided
by the Government of Sweden that would be dedicated to the
capitalization of the banking sector and to the restructuring of the NEB.
In addition, cofinancing will be provided by the Swedish Board for
Investment and Technical Support (BITS), EC PHARE, the Danish
Agency for the Development of Trade and Industry (DAGTI), the
Government of Norway, and the Government of the Netherlands for
technical assistance for: (i) audits conducted according to international
accounting standards; (ii) training in environmental screening;
(iii) individualized technical assistance to participating banks;
(iv) restructuring assistance for the NEB; and (v) the establishment of



- ii -
a Project Implementation Unit and Core Advisors Group to ensure
successful implementation of the project.
Project Benefits:      The project will: (i) improve efficient allocation of resources by
improving the intermediation capabilities of the banking sector;
(ii) increase the stability of the banking sector, which will lead to
greater mobilization of funds; (iii) increase long-term investment by
providing critically needed long-term funds to the enterprise sector
which will in turn improve the productivity of private enterprises by
providing technology and capital goods; and (iv) provide an incentive
for privatization by targeting investment funding toward private
companies.
Project Risks:         Among the possible risks are changes in the political environment
which might make it difficult for the Government to sustain the
program of macroeconomic stabilization and which might slow down
the progress towards a fully-fledged market-based economy.  In
particular, as a result of inappropriate financial policies, high inflation
could lead to a deterioration in the investment climate with adverse
effects for growth, output and employment; this could cause the
performance of sub-borrowers under the line of credit to deteriorate,
which could then increase defaults. Finally, the ability of the banks to
absorb the long-term funds is limited, unless supported by necessary
technical assistance.
Estimated Costs:                                          Local    Foreign    Total
- (US$ million equivalent) -
Commercial Bank Development        0.20       21.30     21.50
North Estonian Bank Restructuring   6.00       2.50      8.50
Project Implementation             0.40        1.35      1.75
Total                              6.60       25.15     31.75



Financing Plan:                             Local         Foreign       Total
------- (US$ million equivalent) -------
IBRD                   -              10.00       10.00
Govt. of Estonia/
Bank of Estonia       6.30            -           6.30
Govt. of Sweden        -              12.00       12.00
Other Cofinancing      0.10            3.15        3.25
Participating Banks    0.20            -           0.20
Total                  6.60           25.15       31.75
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year    FY 95       FY 96      FY 97      FY 98
-------------- (US$ million equivalent) -------------
Annual                2          3          3          2
Cumulative            2          5          8         10
Economic Rate
of Return:         NA
Closing Date:        June 30, 1998
Map:                 IBRD No. 26135






ESTONIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Country Context
1.1         Since re-establishing its independence in August 1991, Estonia has achieved
considerable progress in transforming its economy into a market oriented system. Its economy
had been severely distorted by a half century of central planning and constrained by heavy trade
dependence on the former Soviet Union and the Baltics (FSUB). Driven in large part by the
decline in its trade and severe terms of trade shock, real GDP declined by over 40 percent since
1990; GDP per capita is estimated to have been US$2,700 in 1993. However, early 1994 figures
indicate GNP to be growing at about 5 percent on an annual basis. Unemployment has increased
as uncompetitive enterprises have been forced to close in the face of falling sales, hard budget
constraints, and increasing or unsustainable levels of inter-enterprise arrears. Those openly
unemployed and receiving unemployment benefits still account for less than 4 percent of the labor
force, although surveys indicate the true unemployment number may be closer to 6 or 7 percent.
1.2         Estonia began its price liberalization program and related economic reforms in
1989 and the pace of reform has accelerated in the last 2 years. Tight fiscal discipline helped
assure the success of the currency board scheme under which Estonia' s own currency, the kroon,
was introduced in June 1992. Inflation averaged only 2-3 percent per month during 1993.
Inflation then rose to an average monthly inflation rate of about 6.5 percent during the first
quarter of 1994, but had fallen to an average of 1.6 percent per month in the second quarter of
1994. The external current account has stayed broadly in balance, substantial foreign exchange
reserves have been accumulated, and significant progress has also been made in other structural
reforms, particularly in the trade and legislation areas.  Additional information on the
macroeconomic situation can be found in the Country Assistance Strategy for Estonia (September
1994).
B. Privatization and Private Sector Development
1.3         One important element in economic growth is the development of the private
sector. Small-scale privatization (defined as enterprises with a book value under 600,000 Estonian
kroons) has been progressing well, with more than 80 percent of the small-scale enterprises
privatized, primarily through public auction. Privatization of medium and large scale enterprises
has been moving at a slower pace, but is greatly improving. Initially, the Estonian Privatization
Agency had been relying on an evaluated bid approach to privatization. This case-by-case
approach is labor intensive and has resulted in 157 purchase contracts as of August 1994, of
which about half were for whole companies. However, since the Estonian Government has



introduced genuine hard-budget constraints for state-owned enterprises, and since banks have been
reluctant to lend to state-owned enterprises until the issue of responsibility for debts held by those
enterprises is resolved, one result of the slow pace of privatization has been to drive cash-starved
enterprises into bankruptcy.' As a result, the Governrment has recognized that the slow pace of
privatization is a serious problem, and has begun taking steps to speed it up. The World Bank
has encouraged the Government to continue with the current privatization processes, but to
supplement these with additional methods. The Government is now pursuing a multi-track
privatization program including: (i) the current method of international tender followed by
negotiation (assisted by Treuhand Osteuropa Beratungsgesellschaft (TOB) and USAID);
(ii) expanded auctions, with no size limitation; (iii) a pilot of five initial public offerings (EC
PHARE technical assistance); (iv) direct trade sales (EBRD technical assistance); (v) turn around
management (EBRD technical assistance), and (vi) joint ventures. The progress made towards
implementing these multiple tasks has been impressive. If all these tracks proceed as realistically
planned, it is highly likely that within I or 2 years, almost all the enterprises held by the Ministry
of Economy will have been partially or completely privatized. This will still leave many large
infrastructure companies (such as telecommunications, railroads, energy, etc.) to be privatized,
but these will likely be done on a case-by-case basis.
1.4          A critical part of these different privatization tracks will be the use of vouchers,
which will allow the general population to participate in the ownership of these larger enterprises.
The Government has already distributed voucher cards to all eligible residents (Estonian residents
who worked in Estonia prior to Independence), and has begun setting up voucher accounts. The
vouchers are freely tradeable, and the Government hopes to have these voucher accounts ready
for use in time to participate in the planned EC-assisted initial public offerings, which are
scheduled for issuance by the end of the year.
1.5          The private sector is also growing through new investment, both foreign and
domestic. By the beginning of 1994, over 50,000 new private companies had been established,
including 4,000 with foreign investment participation. Foreign direct investment for 1994 was
calculated at EEK 2.2 billion, including an estimated EEK 1.2 billion in capital stock.
C. Financial Sector Background
1.6          Before Independence, Estonia's financial sector consisted of the North Estonian
Share Bank (formerly the Estonian Branch of the Vnesheconombank), the Savings Bank, the
Social Bank, the Industry and Construction Bank, and 16 regional banks financing the agricultural
sector. The Bank of Estonia (BOE) was founded in January 1990, and in the following 2 years,
most of the state-owned banks were privatized or had state ownership diluted through share sales
to the public. With the entry of new private banks, the Estonian financial system had 42
operating banks as of mid- 1992.
1.  As of May 1994, it was estimated that more than 300 companies have been placed in bankruptcy, including
some large companies deemed inviable by the Ministry of Economy.



- 3 -
1.7           In late 1992, several banks developed liquidity problems. The Tartu Commercial
Bank (TCB) began having serious loan portfolio problems. Two other banks, the Union Baltic
Bank (UBB) and the North Estonian Share Bank had many assets held with the
Vnesheconombank in Moscow. In January 1992, the Moscow Vnesheconombank froze the
Moscow-held accounts of banks based in other republics. The amount of Russian assets held in
Estonia was much smaller than the Estonian assets held in Moscow. The resulting shortfall in
assets left the UBB and the North Estonian Share Bank with large gaps in their balance sheets.
In November 1992, these three banks, representing 40 percent of the total assets in the banking
system, were placed in moratorium.
1.8           Since the Government and the BOE viewed the problems of the TCB to be due
to poor loan decisions, they proceeded with the liquidation of TCB. The shareholders lost their
investments, and the depositors received partial refunds as the liquidation proceeded. In contrast,
the illiquidity of UBB and the North Estonian Share Bank were perceived to be due to the
problem of frozen assets. The authorities decided to merge the twobanks into a new bank, North
Estonian Bank (NEB). The former shareholders of the UBB and the North Estonian Share Bank
received bonds which are payable only from the proceeds of the frozen assets held in Moscow
(i.e., the former shareholders would receive nothing unless those assets are eventually recovered).
The Government replaced the NEB's frozen assets with EEK 300 million of Government bonds,
and in return took over the ownership of the bank.  The NEB is now the only bank that is
100 percent state-owned.2
1.9           After the banking crisis, the BOE conducted a relicensing survey of the banks and
increased the minimum banking capital requirement to EEK 6 million.3 This screening resulted
in several mergers, liquidations and voluntary closings during 1993. As of August 1994, the
banking sector consisted of the BOE, 20 commercial banks4, a savings bank, and a development
bank (the Estonian Investment Bank). Summary information on the commercial banks can be
found in Annex I.
2.   The Estonian Savings Bank is 67 percent owned by the Bank of Estonia, and 33 percent owned by Hansapank,
a private commercial bank. The Bank of Estonia has been seeking to sell another 33 percent to an outside investor
who could also bring banking expertise.
The Government also owns a share, ranging from 2 to 35 percent, in several of the other former state banks,
including the Industry and Construction bank and the former agriculture banks. These banks issued shares to the
public, and the state share was gradually diluted. It is expected that the state share will continue to be diluted as
new shares are issued. Eventually, the Government plans on liquidating all its holdings in commercial banks.
The BOE is also the majority shareholder (67 percent) of the Estonian Investment Bank, a development bank set
up with assistance from the EBRD and the Nordic Investment Bank. The EBRD owns the other 33 percent of the
Estonian Investment Bank.
3.   The minimum capital has since been raised to EEK 8 million, and is scheduled to increase to EEK 15 million
in 1995, EEK 25 million in 1996, and EEK 35 million in 1997.
4.   The Social Bank was placed into moratorium in August 1994.



- 4 -
1.10          The firm  reaction of the Government to the banking crisis has had a positive
influence on the sector. Banks adopted much more careful lending policies, since the Government
demonstrated that it was willing to allow both shareholders and depositors to suffer losses if a
bank ran into trouble. On the other hand, the rapid and unsupported restructuring in the sector,
together with the introduction of the kroon, initially weakened public confidence in the newly
emerging banking sector. Deposit accumulation was slow, and most of the funds placed with the
banks were of 3-months maturity or less.
1.11          Although now the public's confidence in the banking sector is beginning to return,
the banks still have extremely short-term funding sources; for some banks, more than 90 percent
of their deposits are demand deposits5. Given the maturity of these funds, it is not surprising that
the banks are continuing to lend almost exclusively short-term. Therefore, very little investment
financing has been available; instead the banks are primarily providing trade or working capital
finance. Even in the cases where the banks feel relatively secure about the longer-term credit risk
of loans, the loans are structured as short-term loans which are rolled over, with a renegotiated
interest rate. Some of the "longer term" loans (i.e., 1 year or more) also have rates renegotiated
at regular intervals. The borrowers have not yet objected to this practice of renegotiating loan
rates, since rates have been falling in Estonia (it remains to be seen what borrower reaction will
be during periods of rate increases).
1.12          Interest rates are freely set between lender and borrower. With few exceptions,
the Government plays no role in the direction of loans or the setting of interest rates.6 Interest
rates and lending spreads are falling. Deposit rates range anywhere from 3 to 15 percent
(depending on term of deposits). Lending rates for prime customers are now as low as
16 percent, while trade finance still can command rates of upwards of 50 percent.
1.13          Despite the high rates of return being earned on trade finance, the better banks are
interested in developing traditional long-term lending skills. They recognize that the profitability
of trade finance is based on the resale of Russian commodities and metals which are still priced
below international levels, and that this profitability will gradually disappear as East-West pricing
gaps diminish. The banks are becoming aware of the need to assume project-finance risk for loans
to carefully selected clients in order to maintain market share and profitability. A number of them
have started financing small projects (EEK 200,000-500,000) for up to I year; some banks have
5.   As of December 1993, 85.2 percent of all commercial banks' deposits were demand deposits, 13.2 percent
were time deposits with maturities of I year or less, and only 1.6 percent of deposits were of maturities of over
I year.
6.   The exceptions include a Rural Fund, providing loans to rural areas, under which banks borrow at 5 percent
and relend at a maximum of 15 percent. The amount of the fund was EEK 124 million in 1993 and is budgeted at
EEK 64 million in 1994. In 1993, Rural Fund loans were 100 percent guaranteed by the Government; now, they
are 50 percent guaranteed.
Other exceptions are tied to specific aid programs. These include a I million ECU credit line from the EU for small
and medium size enterprises, with a maximum interest rate of 12 percent per year, and a USAID sponsored farm
program with maximum interest rate of 15 percent.



-5-
set up 2- to 3-year lease finance projects. Some have also started compiling pipelines of medium
to long-term investment projects which they plan to finance if longer-term resources become
available.
1.14        Financial Infrastructure. Legislation. The banking system has been operating
under a Banking Law passed in December 1989. A new Central Bank Law of the Republic of
Estonia was approved in 1993. The Law requires the BOE to authorize and supervise the
activities of the commercial banks and the credit institutions. A draft Credit Institutions Law has
been prepared and presented to the Parliament.
1.15        Other supporting legislation such as laws on mortgages and bankruptcy have also
been passed. The Bankruptcy Law is used and enforced actively. The Law on Mortgages still
needs a supporting administrative framework. Although mortgages are now legal, a land registry
is only now being developed, and only a handful of properties have been registered. Technical
assistance on land registration is being provided by the World Bank. The development of this
land registry is essential to the development of an active mortgage market, and will lead to
increased lending to homebuilders, farmers, and enterprises which have a large part of their asset
value in fixed property.
1.16        The Government is also working on a draft accounting law. This law will bring
enterprise accounting in line with international practices. EC PHARE is also working with the
BOE to bring bank accounting and reporting in line with internationally accepted standards.
1.17        Banking supervision. The Government of Estonia is working with the EU and
the IMF to improve banking supervision. The supervision department is heavily dependent on
data supplied by the banks. Since not all the banks are being audited by independent auditors
according to international standards, and since the supervision department still has limited
capabilities in on-site inspection, it is difficult to verify the validity of bank information. In
addition, the supervision department needs to develop the capability to handle problem banks,
both in pre-identifying and in managing them through various damage control and rehabilitation
measures.
1.18        Payment system. The bank payment system has improved considerably. In late
1992, payments would take as long as several weeks to clear. Since then, a clearing system at
the BOE which is connected to the banks by computer was set up and heavy fines for settlements
of more than 2 days were implemented. The result is that most payments in the country now clear
in less than 1 day.
1.19        Capital Markets. Capital markets are underdeveloped in Estonia. The BOE
began issuing 30-day CD's in 1993. The only Government bonds issued to date have been those
used to recapitalize the NEB. A short-term interbank market is developing.' A few private
placements of bonds and equities have taken place, but there is no active secondary market for
7.  This market has increased from EEK 104 million in October 1993 to EEK 1260 million in August 1994.
Weighted average interest rates have fallen from 6.72 percent in October 1993 to 5.56 percent in August 1994.



-6-
securities. Given the extreme limitations of the capital markets, the banking sector is usually the
only channel for most enterprises to obtain funds.
D. Strategy and Issues in the Financial Sector
1.20         The financial sector is still in a very early stage of development.  The
infrastructure is only now falling into place. At this stage of development, with no functioning
capital markets, no venture capital, and no long-term institutions such as private pension' or
insurance providers,9 the banks will be the primary channel for medium and long-term funding.
1.21         Although the banks are the logical channel, the banking sector itself is still in a
rudimentary phase of development. The sector has already gone through a great deal of
consolidation, decreasing from 42 banks to 22 banks in less than 2 years. However, in a country
of 1.5 million people, with a total land mass of 45,215 square kilometers (the country can be
crossed by car in 4 hours), it is possible that the market could be well-served by a much smaller
number of banks. Furthermore, Estonia has no restrictions on the entry of foreign banks; as the
country's macro-economic situation has improved, the BOE has begun receiving inquiries from
foreign banks on the procedures for opening branches in Estonia. Two Finnish banks have already
announced plans to open branches by the end of 1994. It is quite probable that as foreign banks
enter the market, and as bank competition sharpens, further consolidation of the banking sector
will occur.
1.22         Another issue is the size of the banking sector. Even though future consolidation
of the banks may decrease the number of banks, it will not alter the fact that the absolute size
of the entire sector is still very small. Total capitalization of all the commercial banks was only
EEK 566.7 million as of June 1994.'° Even though large amounts of longer term funding will
be made available through this project and other donor projects, the banks may not have a
sufficient capital base to intermediate the funds, particularly since the number of banks that will
qualify to act as credit line channels will be quite small.
1.23         Demand for Credit. Measuring demand for long-term credit is difficult, since
banks have not encouraged long-term loans. However, many of the banks visited by the World
Bank mission have a pipeline of medium and long-term projects that they would like to finance
if and when they obtain long-term funding resources. The Estonian Investment Bank has
approved approximately EEK 110 million in loans since starting operations in 1993, and has a
8.  The Estonian Innovation Bank is now launching an initiative to start a private pension fund. The Bank's
intention is to place funds received with Estonian commercial banks or overseas investments, not make long-term
domestic investments.
9.   There are a number of insurance companies in Estonia, but except for the state insurance company, they are
primarily providers of various forms of term insurance.
10.  This excludes the Estonian Investment Bank, which is capitalized at 4.5 million ECU, and the Social Bank,
which was placed in moratorium in August 1994.



project pipeline of EEK 270 million (approximately US$20 million). They view their bottleneck
as one of human capital rather than one of limited project availability. So far, they have only
five trained credit officers, and can only process about two projects per month.
1.24        Skills Development.  A review of project documentation prepared by the
commercial banks showed varying degrees of skill and understanding of credit analysis and
project finance. These banks will need to develop skills in project finance structuring and
analysis, risk analysis, credit initiation, credit appraisal and loan monitoring to successfully on-
lend the World Bank credit line.
1.25        The skills development needs of the banks are not only in credit and project
finance, however. To successfully operate as sound commercial banks in accordance with
international standards, the commercial banks need skills building and on-the-job assistance in
diverse areas such as (i) operations, (ii) treasury management, (iii) trade finance products and
services, (iv) bank strategic management, (v) developing MIS systems, and (vi) human resources
development.



- 8 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Development and Objectives, and Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.1          A Bank identification mission took place in September 1993. At that time, the
mission felt that although long-term investment funds were urgently needed by the enterprise
sector, a World Bank credit line could not be justified, since the IMF and G-24 (through the EU)
were planning on providing funds which would be channeled through the banking sector."
2.2          However, in subsequent discussions with the Government of Estonia, the
authorities expressed concern that the banks might not have a sufficient capital base to absorb the
IMF and G-24 funds and that there was also a need for increasing technical capacity to evaluate
and process these funds.
2.3          The World Bank, along with the Government of Sweden, began to work to develop
an integrated approach to financial sector strengthening in Estonia. The following needs were
identified:
(i)    Long-term credit resources to meet enterprise investment needs. (Partially
met through the IMF, EU/G-24 money.)
(ii)   Technical assistance to deliver long-term resources.
(iii) An increase in the capital base of banks, which would allow them to make
full use of available funding.
In addition to credit delivery, sharpening competition in the banking sector dictates that:
(a) commercial banks need to develop all skills, not just credit skills; (b) the Government must
move out of the commercial banking sector; and (c) the BOE must continue to upgrade its bank
supervision capabilities, particularly since the consequences of further banking sector competition
could lead to troubled banks.
2.4          With these needs in mind, an overall program was developed. To meet long-term
credit needs, a package of credit resources (IBRD), capital injections (Government of Sweden),
and technical assistance (BITS, EC PHARE, DAGTI, the Government of Norway, and the
Government of the Netherlands) was structured. The technical assistance was designed to help
with credit assessment and project finance, as well as with bank operations, treasury functions,
MIS needs, etc. The project would also help the Government recapitalize and restructure the
NEB, so as to stabilize the NEB sufficiently to facilitate its privatization. In parallel, EC PHARE
and the IMF will be working to provide technical assistance to improve overall supervision
capabilities, including the capability to deal with troubled banks and to improve bank accounting
and reporting.
I.  The IMF has approved an STF of approximately US$32 million, and started initial allocation of funds to
commercial banks in July 1994. The EU/G-24 has allocated approximately ECU 20 million for assistance to Estonia.
Part or all of these funds may also be channelled through the banking system.



- 9 -
2.5         The World Bank is a strong supporter of the reform process undertaken by the
Republic of Estonia. It views a strong financial sector and new investment in the private sector
to be critical to the long-term development of Estonia. Notwithstanding the recent policy and
institutional advances and the availability of capital, investment is not taking place at the desired
pace. In 1993, fixed capital formation represented about 10 percent of GDP compared to 15-
25 percent in other comparable countries. Only 4.7 percent of government expenditures were
allocated to investment and net domestic credit accounted for 30 percent of the overall assets of
the banking system. The project will help the country overcome these difficulties by:
(i) facilitating intermediation through improving credit analysis capabilities, the lending
environment and the stability of financial institutions; (ii) providing some of the funding required
by enterprises for investments to restructure operations and increase production; and
(iii) providing an incentive to privatize by making much sought after investment funds available
to the private sector. The World Bank's role in this project has been to serve as a catalyst and
coordinator of multinational and bilateral support programs that address pivotal needs in these
sectors. In addition to mobilizing the resources for the program described in this document, part
of the structure of the World Bank program will be integrated with the IMF STF program and
the EU/G-24 assistance program.
B. Project Components and Description
2.6         The project would consist of three components:
(i)    Commercial Bank Development.  A line of credit will be channelled
through the commercial banking system to provide long-term funds for
private enterprises. These funds will be supplemented by cofinancing by
the Government of Sweden (the Swedish Capital Fund), which would be
used to provide additional capital to private banks. In addition, technical
assistance will be provided to (a) conduct audits at international standards,
and (b) develop skills in credit analysis, project finance, and general
operations.
(ii)   Restructuring of the North Estonian Bank  The Bank would assist in the
coordination of financial resources and technical assistance to restructure
and eventually privatize the NEB.
(iii)  Project Implementation. Technical Assistance would be provided to assist
in strengthening project implementation. This would include the project
implementation unit, financial advisors, and environmental training.
2.7         Commercial Bank Development. This component will include an IBRD-financed
credit line of US$10 million. The funds will be channelled through a Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) at the Ministry of Finance and then onlent through participating banks. A spread
would be added to the IBRD lending rate to reflect administrative and guarantee costs. The
interest rate on the sub-loans will be negotiated freely between each participating bank and its



- 10 -
client. Cofinancing from the Swedish Capital Fund (see Annex II for more details on the Swedish
Capital Fund) would be made available to the participating banks on a fixed ratio to World Bank
funds. Hence, under a 1:1 ratio, a qualified bank which was making a qualified subloan and
, i   h:_'ad also reached an agreement with the Swedish Capital Fund on investment conditions,
would receive 50 percent of the funds in the form of a loan from the World Bank Credit line
(through the PIU), and 50 percent of the funds in the form of a capital injection. The on-lending
banks will bear the foreign exchange and credit risks of the sub-loans. More implementation
details are in the section on project implementation (Section III) and Annexes III-V.
2.8         To ensure that banks develop the skills necessary to use these funds wisely,
technical assistance will also be provided. This would include:
(i)    Audits.   The better Estonian banks are already being audited by
internationally recognized accounting firms. However, although the BOE
is working to align Estonian bank accounting with internationally accepted
accounting standards, there are still some important differences in bank
accounting, most notably in loan loss provisioning. Estonian banks are
only allowed to deduct for tax purposes loan-loss provisions up to
5 percent of their loan portfolio. Not surprisingly, almost every Estonian
bank has loan-loss provisions equal to 5 percent of their loan portfolio.
One of the criteria for becoming a participating bank in this proposed
project is to meet minimum financial standards--including adequate loan
loss provisioning--based on audits conducted according to internationally
accepted accounting practices. Since such audits can easily cost upwards
of US$100,000 equivalent, and some of the applicant banks may have
capital of only US$1-2 million, EC PHARE and the Government of the
Netherlands have offered to help finance audits. Some of this work is
being initiated under project preparation. Draft terms of reference for
these audits can be found in Annex VI.
(ii)  Individual Technical Assistance to Participating Banks. Each of the banks
qualifying for the World Bank Credit Line/Swedish Government Capital
Fund, will receive additional technical assistance. If an equity investment
is negotiated, the Swedish Capital Fund, as a shareholder, would place a
director on each bank's Board of Directors. Each director would be an
experienced banker, who would provide advice and assistance to the bank.
In addition, the director would be responsible for identifying and defining
an individualized package of technical assistance for the bank.  It is
expected that this technical assistance will include: (i) credit analysis;
(ii) project finance; (iii) bank operations; (iv) treasury management; and
(v) management information systems. Draft terms of reference can be
found in Annex VII.
2.9         Restructuring of the North Estonian Bank. As described in paragraphs 1.7-1.8,
the NEB was formed in early 1993 by the merger of two banks that had developed liquidity



- 11 -
problems due to the freezing of claims on the Moscow Vnesheconombank. At that time, the
Government of Estonia provided new assets in the form of EEK 300 million in Government
bonds.
2.10        Unfortunately, although this EEK 300 million was sufficient to fill the gap created
by the frozen claims, it was not sufficient to cover losses from the loan portfolios of the two
former banks. A recently completed audit identified over EEK 124 million in loan losses,
representing 36 percent of the total NEB loan portfolio.
2.11        In addition to financial assistance, the NEB needs a great deal of technical
assistance. The current management is facing an extremely difficult task in developing new
banking skills and repositioning itself in a constantly changing and increasingly competitive
market for financial services. At the same time it is trying to conduct a thorough workout of
problem loans in its portfolio, particularly those loans granted under previous management and
much looser credit policies. Although the management has been aggressively pursuing collection
through, among other steps, the filing of bankruptcy petitions to seize and liquidate borrowers'
assets, the value of the assets awarded in bankruptcy court has in general fallen short of the
amount of the loan. Given the difficulty of developing new skills, staff and procedures while
attempting to recover a large amount of bad and overdue loans, the NEB can not continue much
longer without clear changes in its structure.
2.12        The Estonian authorities have already begun taking steps to financially restructure
the NEB. As a one time contribution, the BOE has written off EEK 40 million of its loans to
the NEB, which represents part of the assistance provided by the BOE at the time of the banking
crisis.
2.13        This step has removed a large amount of the bad loans from the NEB's balance
sheet. However, once the remaining bad loans are written off, the remaining capital, at
3.4 percent of outstanding loans, will be insufficient to support the current loan base of the NEB,
let alone provide for future loan growth. The Government of Estonia, with assistance from the
Government of Sweden's Capital Fund, plans to inject new capital into the NEB, which would
help to stabilize the NEB. The Government of Sweden's contribution will be conditional on:
(i)    An agreement on a privatization program.
(ii)   An agreement on an institutional development program, including an
assessment of and the appointment of management committed to its rapid
implementation.
(iii)  A capitalization program for the bank which brings the bank up to a level
which satisfies the prudential norms established by the BOE with the
Swedish component of the capital base representing a minority share of the
capital.



- 12 -
The recapitalization of the NEB would be contingent on the signing of an agreement between the
management of the NEB and the Estonian authorities which would incorporate sanctions for non-
compliance with the program as well as incentives for successful completion. To help the
management implement such a program, technical assistance will be provided, including:
(i) financial restructuring; (ii) development of a privatization plan; and (iii) institutional
development. A more detailed description of the institutional development needs can be found
in Annex VIII. EC PHARE has offered to finance such assistance.
2.14        Project Implementation. Proper project implementation will be critical to the
success of the project. A PIU will be set up in the Ministry of Finance, and will be responsible
for overseeing and coordinating overall project implementation. Section III, Annexes III-V and
Annex IX include more details on the role and responsibilities of the PIU. Technical assistance
will also be provided to assist in project implementation. Such assistance would include:
(i) establishment of a Core Advisers Group (CAG); and (ii) training in environmental screening.
2.15        The Core Advisers Group. The CAG will be a key element in the implementation
of the credit line. The primary purposes of the CAG will be to assist the PIU and the World
Bank in: (i) evaluating the eligibility of the banks under criteria defined by the World Bank;
(ii) monitoring the on-going performance of the participating banks and their loan portfolios
under the credit line; and (iii) reviewing sub-loan projects to be financed through the credit line.
2.16        In addition, the advisors will provide on-going technical assistance to commercial
banks. Such assistance would include: (i) developing credit policies and procedures/credit
manuals; (ii) developing internal operational manuals applicable under internationally acceptable
accounting standards and applications; (iii) structuring and evaluating term-lending;
(iv) developing operational and investment budgets in line with bank strategy; and (v) developing
proper internal management information systems for effective asset and liability management.
The CAG will also serve to support the implementation of the IMF STF program, and the
EU/G24 program. More details can be found in the Terms of Reference for the CAG (Annex X).
The CAG will be financed by EC PHARE, BITS, and DAGTI.
2.17        Training in Environmental Screening. One of the conditions of the World Bank
loan is that the financial institutions processing the loan take into account the environmental
legislation of Estonia and the policy of the World Bank on environmental assessment (Operational
Directive 4.01).  Screening of individual sub-projects by the commercial banks (project
implementing institutions) will be required and those projects which require environmental impact
assessment under Estonian law must receive project approval prior to finalization of lending.
These approvals are issued by either the Environmental Impact Assessment Board of Estonia's
Ministry of Environment or by the Environmental Protection Boards of County Government,
depending on the classification of the proposed project under Estonia's environmental assessment
guidelines.
2.18        World Bank environmental staff have already reviewed current environmental laws
and regulations, and found them to be satisfactory. The main emphasis of this project will be
to build up the institutional capacity to ensure that the World Bank environmental policies and



- 13 -
Estonian environmental laws and regulations are being properly applied. The primary goal of
this technical assistance would be to train the loan departments of the participating commercial
banks to screen proposed sub-projects according to environmental standards. Further institutional
building activities will be carried out in future World Bank projects, including a planned
Environment project. Terms of reference were prepared by the environmental staff and can be
found in Annex XI. Some of this work has already been initiated as project preparation, and has
been funded by the Government of Norway.
C. Project Cost and Financing Plan
2.19        Project costs are estimated at US$31.75 million equivalent. The IBRD loan would
be US$10 million. The Government of Sweden is proposing to establish a Capital Fund of
SKr 100 million (approximately US$12 million). The Government of Estonia and the BOE will
provide approximately US$6 million for the restructuring of the NEB, and will also be
responsible for the cost of the Project Implementation Unit (approximately US$0.3 million).
Participating banks are expected to contribute US$0.2 million toward technical assistance.
Technical assistance is expected to be covered by financing from BITS, EC PHARE, DAGTI,
the Government of Norway, and the Government of Netherlands. Table I shows estimated
project costs and Table 2 shows planned project financing.



- 14 -
Table 1
Detailed Project Costs
US$ million equivalent
Foreign Cost as a  Component Cost
Project Component    Local Costs    Foreign Costs    TOTAL    .% of Total Cost  as a % of Project
Costs
Commercial Bank
Development
Credit Funds                                 10.00           10.00         100.0           31.5
Equity Funds                  --             10.00           10.00         100.0           31.5
Initial Audits                 0.10           0.30            0.40          75.0            1.3
Development TA                 0.10           1.00            1.10          90.9            3.5
North Estonian Bank
Restructuring                                        ___      __  ___        _     __     __
Recapitalization               6.00           2.00            8.00          25.0           25.2
Restructuring TA              --               .50             .50         100.00           1.6
Project
Implementation 
Project                        0.30           --              0.30           0.0            0.9
Implementation Unit
Core Advisor Group             0.10           1.20            1.30          93.3            4.1
Environmental                 --              0.15           0.15          100.0            0.5
Training
Total Project Cost             6.60          25.15          31.75           79.2          100.0



- 15 -
Table 2
Planned Project Financing
US$ million equivalent
Project Component                        Local                                 Foreign                                           Total                        TOTAL       % IBRD
Financing
MOF/   Participating    Cofinancing    IBRD    Govt. of    Other       IBRD    MOF/   Parficipating    Govt. of      Other
BOE        Banks                              Sweden   Coftnancing              BOE          Banks      Sweden    Cofmancing
Commercial Bank
Develpment
Credit Funds                                                        10.00                           10.00                                                       10.00       100.0
Equity Funds                                                                 10.00                                                      10.00                    10.00        0.0
Initial Audits                           0.10                                            0.30                                0.10                     0.30       0.40         0.0
Development TA                           0.10                                             1.00                               0.10                     1.00        1.10        0.0
North Estonian Bank
Recapitalization             6.00'                                            2.00                                                       2.00                     .00         0.0
6.00
Restructuring TA                                                                         0.50                                                         0.50       0.50         0.0
Project Implemenation
Project Implementation Unit   0 30                                                                            0 30                                               0.30         0.0
Core Advisor Group                                      0.10                              1.20                                                        1.30        1.30        0.0
Environmental Training                                                                   0.15                                                         0.15       0.15         0.0
Total Project Costs           6.30       0.20           0.10        10.00    12.00       3.15       10.00    6.30            0.20       12.00         3.25      31.75        31.5
1       The Bank of Estonia's contribution will be limited to the assumton of bad loans removed from the portfolio of the North Estonia Bank.



- 16 -
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. Implementation Arrangements
3.1         A Project Implementation Unit will be set up within the Ministry of Finance, and
will be responsible for overseeing and coordinating overall project implementation. Besides
keeping records and administering the Bank loan, the PIU would monitor the operations of the
participating agencies and facilitate coordination and problem-solving for all the components of
the Bank loan. Also, the PIU would be the liaison office of the Government with the World
Bank. Draft terms of reference for the PIU can be found in Annex IX. Staffing needs were
discussed with the Government during appraisal. It is expected that the PIU will draw upon the
staffing and skills of the PIU established for the Estonia Rehabilitation Loan. As such, the PIU
will have familiarity with Bank procurement, disbursement, and reporting procedures. The
Government has appointed the head of the Project Implementation Unit and this was confirmed
during negotiations. The Government will complete local staffing of the PIU prior to Board
presenation.
3.2         Credit Line. The credit line administration will be managed through the Project
Implementation Unit. In conjunction with the World Bank, it will (i) select banks based on
eligibility criteria defined by the World Bank, (ii) make decisions on accepting new banks into
the program or disqualifying banks which fall out of compliance, (iii) review the first
two projects submitted by each participating bank and each project over US$2 million,
(iv) review other projects on an ex-post basis. In addition, the PIU will be responsible for the
proper accounting, reporting and procedural implementation of the disbursements and repayments
under the credit line. The PIU will also be responsible for ensuring that the procurement of
equipment and services are handled according to World Bank guidelines, and that all subprojects
are in compliance with World Bank environmental guidelines.
3.3         The PIU will be assisted by a Core Advisors Group, consisting of three qualified
and experienced bankers. This CAG will be responsible for: (i) preparing recommendations for
the PIU on the eligibility of the interested banks under the defined criteria; (ii) monitoring the
on-going performance of the banks and their loan portfolios under the credit line; and
(iii) assisting the PIU in reviewing the sub-loan projects. In addition, they would be available
to provide technical assistance to all the commercial banks during their stay in Estonia. Such
assistance would include assisting banks in: (i) developing credit policies and procedures with
proper controls; (ii) adopting internationally acceptable accounting standards and applications with
proper operational procedures matching their automation strategies; and (iii) structuring and
evaluating term-lending, including pre- and post-lending risk assessment and project finance
analysis methodologies and preparing project-finance loan packages.
3.4         Although the official borrower of the credit line will be the Republic of Estonia,
the on-lending commercial banks will assume full responsibility for the credit and exchange rate



- 17 -
risks of projects financed under the proposed credit line. Qualifying banks will sign separate
subsidiary loan arrangements with the Ministry of Finance.
3.5         The subsidiary loan agreements will include provisions to ensure that all
subprojects meet World Bank requirements including World Bank procurement and environmental
policies (para. 3.8). No eligible bank will be allowed to borrow more than its net worth as
defined under internationally acceptable accounting rules and standards after deducting proper
loan loss provisions. Any bank that has increased its net worth can apply up to once each year
to increase the maximum loan amount it can borrow under the credit line.
3.6         Commercial Bank Eligibility. Any commercial bank that would like to apply for
the World Bank Credit Line can ask to be reviewed by the CAG. The CAG will evaluate the
bank, and prepare a recommendation for the PIU/World Bank as to whether the bank meets the
defined eligibility criteria for project participation. In cases of non-eligibility, the banks may ask
for technical assistance and/or a restructuring plan with assistance from the CAG. The CAG may
recommend the eligibility of a bank depending on the progress to the documented
structuring/technical assistance plan. Final approval for eligibility will be made by the PIU in
consultation with the World Bank. Annex IV contains eligibility criteria for the commercial
banks.
3.7         Eligible Sub-borrowers and Subprojects. The proposed credit line is geared to
offer medium and long-term credit support for the widest range possible of private investment
activities in the country.  Specifically, any newly privatized and emerging private sector
enterprises would be able to get subloans to finance projects. Each sub-borrower enterprise will
sign a credit agreement with the on-lending banks. These credit agreements will have a standard
and common framework with a legal opinion as to their acceptability under Estonian law. The
subloan agreements may differ in the amount, interest rate, disbursement and repayment, etc.
However, they will all contain the eligibility criteria for the enterprises and sub-projects as the
minimum representations and warranties for the loans (Annex IV).
3.8         Environmental Requirements. As a category "B" project involving intermediary
lending, an environmental screening mechanism is being set up for projects financed by the credit
line. Since Bank environmental staff have reviewed environmental legislation and regulations
in Estonia, and found them to be adequate, the primary environmental emphasis of this project
will be to ensure that these laws and regulations are properly followed. Environmental staff have
been involved in preparing technical assistance to train commercial bank staff in proper
environmental screening processes, and to strengthen the Ministry of Environment's
Environmental Assistance Board.
3.9         Documentation Requirements.  The Republic of Estonia will sign a Loan
Agreement with the World Bank. The on-lender banks will sign separate Subsidiary Loan
Agreements with the Ministry of Finance. The sub-borrowers will sign standard borrowing
agreements with the commercial banks suitable to the terms and conditions of the credit line. The
documentation and compliance follow-up will be monitored by the PIU based on a series of



- 18 -
reporting requirements as defined under the terms and conditions of the line of credit. The
reporting requirements are listed in Annex V.
3.10        Swedish Capital Fund. The Government of Sweden is now in the process of
legally establishing the Swedish Capital Fund. The exact mechanism for delivery of cofinancing
from the Swedish Capital Fund is being finalized. Currently, it is envisaged that the Capital Fund
will negotiate umbrella investment agreements with each of the participating banks. After a
participating bank has received approval for a subproject under the World Bank line of credit,
the PIU will notify the Swedish Capital Fund. In cases where the bank is eligible for cofinancing
from the Swedish Capital Fund, the World Bank will agree to disburse up to 50 percent of the
externally financed subproject amount according to World Bank disbursement procedures. The
Swedish Capital Fund will make an investment in the participating bank of an amount covering
the remaining 50 percent of the externally-financed subproject amount. The exact form of the
investment is still under discussion, but will in any event qualify as capital under the BOE's
prudential regulations.
3.11        Technical Assistance. Technical Assistance would be financed by multilateral and
bilateral donors. Terms of Reference would be designed in consultation with the Government
of Estonia, the funding donor, and the World Bank. Draft terms of reference can be found in
Annexes VI-XI.
B. Procurement
3.12        Procurement of goods and works would be done in accordance with World Bank
guidelines. For subprojects financed under the World Bank's credit line and executed by sub-
borrowers, procurement of goods and works would comply with those customary for operations
through financial intermediaries. The PIU would assure that all contracts financed under the loan
are procured in accordance with Bank guidelines according to the following thresholds:
(i) contracts valued up to US$50,000 equivalent for goods and up to US$100,000 equivalent for
minor works would be procured by local shopping on the basis of three quotations from qualified
suppliers; (ii) contracts valued at between US$50,000 and US$1 million equivalent for goods
would be procured through International Shopping on the basis of at least three quotations from
three different countries; (iii) contracts between US$100,000 and US$1 million equivalent for
works would be procured through local competitive procedures acceptable to the Bank; (iv) all
contracts above US$1 million equivalent would be procured through International Competitive
Bidding (ICB); however, specialized items available from only a few suppliers may be procured
through Limited International Bidding (LIB). Direct contracting may be used for proprietary
items and those available from a single supplier. For all ICB projects, the Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents for Goods would be used. Prior review by the Bank of procurement
documentation would be carried out for: (i) all contracts above US$500,000 equivalent and
(ii) the first two contracts for goods procured under international shopping or for works procured
under local competitive procedures submitted by each qualified bank. Procurement procedures
and documents under other contracts would be subject to random review by the Bank during
project supervision. Expected aggregate amounts for procurement of goods and works are



- 19 -
US$2 million for local shopping; US$6 million for international shopping; US$500,000 for direct
contracting and US$500,000 for LIB.
3.13         When ICB procedures are used, qualified domestic manufacturers may be allowed
a preferential margin of 15 percent or the existing rate of import duties, whichever is lower, in
the evaluation of bids, in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. A summary of
proposed procurement arrangements is given in Table 3.
Table 3
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Not Bank       Total
Project Element                     ICB            Other          Financed       Costs
1.  Equipment                       2.00            9.00              9.00       20.00
and Materials                  (1.00)1         (9.00)2                      (10.00)
2.  Consultant Services/
Technical Assistance                                             3.75         3.75
3.  Other3                                                            8.00         8.00
TOTALS                          2.00            9.00            20.75        31.25
a(1.0-0)       (92 .0-0)1000
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
2   "Other" procurement arrangements are expected to include goods and minor works procured under local
shopping (US$2 million), International Shopping (US$6 million), direct contracting (US$500,000) and Limited
International Bidding (US$500,000).
3   Includes recapitalization of NEB.
3.14         All subproject appraisals approved for a subloan would include a discussion of
procurement procedures to be used and criteria for selection of suppliers of goods and services
to ensure that these conform with the Bank's Guidelines. Qualifying banks and sub-borrowers
are expected to keep records on quotations requested. Evidence of these quotations would be
required for ex-post review during project supervision. Although all technical assistance under
this project will be financed by other donors, it is expected that agreements on the hiring of



- 20 -
consultants under this project will be carried out in consultation with the World Bank, and would
be confirmed by signed Memoranda of Understanding.
3.15        Like many other Eastern European and FSUB countries, Estonia does not have a
tradition of competitive bidding for the procurement of public goods and services.  The
Government, however, recognizes the importance of establishing public procurement regulations
as part of its comprehensive program to transform its economy from a centrally planned to a
market-oriented system based on the development of a competitive private sector. A commission
in the Ministry of Economic Affairs has been established to prepare a draft law on public
procurement. The Bank is providing technical assistance in this area. Work is progressing well
and a draft law could be ready in early 1995. A World Bank seminar on procurement training
was conducted in August 1994.
3.16        Support to build up the capacity of participating banks will be provided in
two ways. First, as part of the project launch, a procurement expert will be included in the
Project Launch Mission, and would conduct workshops for the participating banks in
procurement.  Second, the banks would receive ongoing procurement support from the
procurement expert located in the PIU. The PIU will monitor adherence to the Procurement
Guidelines and furnish appropriate reports to the Bank.
C. Disbursements
3.17        Disbursements by the Government under the credit line would be made against
specific approved project finance requests of the qualifying banks. The banks would be allowed
to borrow on a first-come, first-serve basis. All the banks would submit their first two project
finance/subloan requests to the World Bank through the PIU with its approval. In addition,
subloan requests over US$2 million equivalent would also need prior World Bank approval. All
other subloans would be subject to ex-post reviews by the World Bank.
3.18        To facilitate the disbursements of the Loan proceeds, a Special Account (SA) may
be established. The SA would be maintained in a commercial bank selected by the Government
and acceptable to the World Bank. The bank would be selected from a number of acceptable
banks, on the basis of competitive bidding. Selection criteria for participation in the bids are:
(i) the bank should be financially sound as demonstrated by its most recent financial statements,
as audited by an internationally recognized firm; (ii) the bank would have a significant foreign
correspondence network covering all major currencies; (iii) the bank would have a reasonable
capacity and experience for issuing letters of credit, for making direct foreign payments and other
international transactions, with appropriate arrangements for the training and development of its
staff; (iv) the bank should be capable of performing a wide range of local banking services,
including cash payments, transfers to other domestic banks, issuance of debit notes, application
of conversion rates from foreign currencies and maintenance of adequate records for the SA;
(v) the bank should be preferably a member of SWIFT and should routinely use or plan to use
this facility to expedite payment transfers; (vi) the bank should be willing to issue a Comfort



- 21 -
Letter to assure that amounts deposited in the Special Account will not be set off or otherwise
seized or attached to satisfy amounts due to the bank by the borrower; (vii) the bank would be
willing to maintain adequate accounts as required by the World Bank, provide monthly bank
statements to the World Bank and the PIU, and any other information considered necessary
(copies of all transactions would be routinely submitted to the PIU); and (viii) the bank would
be willing to charge reasonable rates for its services and provide reasonable interest on balances
held from time to time.
3.19        The initial deposit to the SA would be based on project expenditures expected to
be paid through the SA in the short run, with a maximum amount equal to US$1 million. The
Account will be opened in the name of the Borrower and would be administered by the PIU
which will send requests to the World Bank for replenishment of the SA. These requests would
be accompanied by detailed monthly bank statements of the SA and with all other required
documentation.
3.20        Disbursements will be made against standard Bank documentation. Expenditures
for individual subloans valued at under US$500,000 equivalent for goods and works financed
under this loan would be disbursed against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) certified by the
PIU. The PIU would ensure that all supporting documentation is adequately maintained and that
it is available for review at the bank's request. Disbursements for all subloans valued at or above
US$500,000 equivalent for goods and works, would be made against fully documented
withdrawal applications. Under the credit line, the Bank would finance up to 100 percent of the
amounts disbursed by qualified banks for subloans. In cases where the qualified bank is also
qualified for cofinancing under the Swedish Capital Fund, the Bank would finance up to
50 percent of the amounts of the subloans.
3.21        The loan is expected to take 4 years to disburse and the closing date for the loan
would be June 30, 1998. Disbursement tables can be found in Annex XII.
D. Project Accounting, Financial Reporting, Auditing and Supervision
3.22        Accounting. The Borrower will have the responsibility for the appropriate
accounting of the funds provided by the Bank under the Loan, for reporting on the use of these
funds, and for ensuring that audits of the financial statements or reports are submitted to the
Bank. The PIU, on behalf of the Borrower, will establish an appropriate accounting system to
provide information on the proper receipt and use of funds in accordance with the Loan
Agreement. The system should ensure timely and accrued accounting of all transactions under
the Loan and clear presentation of the financial information.
3.23        Financial Reporting. Financial reporting, to be carried out by the PIU, would
closely reflect the specific requirements of the Loan. It would comprise a statement of receipts
and payments for the reporting period since the beginning of the program. The reporting would
be in accordance with the disbursements classified and reported by the expenditure categories



- 22 -
agreed with the Borrower and spelled out in the legal documents. Quarterly progress reports
would be submitted, including a separate report with respect to the Special Account. A Project
Completion Report will be submitted to the Bank by the PIU promptly after the completion of
the program, not later than 6 months after the loan closing date.
3.24        Auditing. Financial statements and reports on the Loan (including the Special
Account) would be audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank and the audit reports would be
submitted to the Bank within 6 months after the end of the fiscal year. Selected auditors must
be: (i) impartial and independent from the entity to be audited; (ii) well-established and reputable;
(iii) experienced in type of assignment to be undertaken; and (iv) able to fulfill the terms of
reference required within the specific timetable. In addition, participating commercial banks will
be expected to be audited each year by an auditor acceptable to the Bank, and to make these audit
reports available to the Bank.
3.25        Project Supervision. Due to limited human resources in the public sector in
Estonia and the complexities arising from the participation of many donor organizations, there
will need to be a strong emphasis on supervision. The establishment of a PIU will help facilitate
smooth project implementation and supervision. In order to ensure continued understanding of
the project objectives and implementation arrangements as well as effective monitoring of project
implementation by both the participating institutions and Bank staff, detailed supervision will be
needed. A Project Supervision Plan can be found in Annex XIII and was confirmed at
negotiations. An important feature of project supervision will be a mid-term review, which will
include a review of the rate of commitment of funds. If the actual commitment rate of funds
seriously lags planned commitments, the World Bank and the Government of Estonia will
consider the advisability of partial loan cancellation. In addition, the Bank will review progress
in the areas of (i) training activities in the Bank Supervision Department of the Bank of Estonia,
including on- and off-site examinations, identification of problem banks and steps taken to
remedy such problems; (ii) on-site bank supervision being conducted by the Bank Supervision
Department; (iii) restructuring and privatization of the NEB; (iv) establishment of a timetable for
the participating financial institutions to comply with accounting and reporting formats within
guidelines of the Bank for International Settlements; and (v) increasing aggregate loans with
maturities over one year to account for at least 20 percent of total loans held by participating
financial institutions, provided that such lending is consistent with prudential regulations.



- 23 -
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
4.1          The project will: (i) improve efficient allocation of resources by improving the
intermediation capabilities of the banking sector; (ii) increase the stability of the banking sector,
which will lead to greater mobilization of funds; (iii) increase long-term investment by providing
critically needed long-term funds to the enterprise sector which will in turn improve the
productivity of private enterprises by providing technology and capital goods; and (iv) provide
an incentive for privatization by targeting investment funding toward private companies.
B. Project Risks
4.2          The primary risk is that there may be changes in the political environment which
would make it difficult for the Government to sustain its progress in moving to a market-based
system, particularly in the areas of privatization and tight monetary and fiscal policies. Another
risk is that the rate of inflation, which increased slightly in early 1994, could continue to increase,
which would reverse the current trend toward lower interest rates. This, coupled with the risk
of decreasing output, could cause the performance of the sub-borrowers under the line of credit
to deteriorate, which would then increase defaults. Finally, the ability of the banks to absorb the
long-term funds is limited, unless supported by necessary technical assistance.



- 24 -
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1         Discussions were held at negotiation on all aspects of the proposed loan including:
-     Commercial bank, sub-borrower, and subproject eligibility requirements
(paras. 3.6-3.7).
-     Reporting requirements (para. 3.9).
-     Procurement arrangements (para. 3.12-3.16).
-     Disbursement arrangements (para. 3.12-3.21).
-     Project supervision arrangements (para. 3.25).
-     Adequate staffing of the PIU during the lifetime of the project.
5.2         Condition for Loan Effectiveness.
The establishment and staffing of the CAG.
5.3         Recommendation. With the agreements reached above, the proposed Financial
Institutions Development Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$10 million equivalent to the
Republic of Estonia at the standard variable rate for a term of 15 years, including a grace period
of 5 years.



- 25 -                                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
ESTONIA: FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Commercial Banksa, Ranked by 1994 Assets
(EEK millions)
Name of Bank                            Assets                       Capital             Comments
Jan          June            Jan          June
1993          1994           1993          1994
Hansapank                          415.8         1389.5          24.1           88.7     Private bank - target market: medium
and large enterprises
Uhispank (Union Bank)              495.5         1253.3          80.2          109.5     Formed from 10 land banks (former
branches of the former Soviet
agriculture bank); 25 percent
Govemment and municipal owned;
diversifying from agriculture.
Eesti Hoiupank (Savings            497.9         1112.8           4.4           10.0k    67 percent state owned; 33 percent
Bank)                                                                                    owned by Hansabank.
Pohja-Eesti Pank (North           1041.0         1038.5          39.9            9.0b    100 percent state owned; formed from
Estonian Bank)                                                                          two banks placed in moratorium.
Tallinna Bank                       67.7          414.4          10.2           27.9     Private bank; purchased large amount
of portfolios of Tartu Commercial
Bank (liquidated in 1993).
Eesti Toostuspank ja Ehituse       191.6          393.7          18.5           35.5     Former state bank, minority state-
Kommertspanka (Industry and                                                              owned; focusses on industry.
Construction Bank)
Eesti Maapank (Land Bank)          111.4          279.0           7.3           26.6     Formed by merger of 5 land banks
(former branches of former Soviet
agriculture bank); 33 percent owned
by Govemment; 64 percent owned by
farmers' unions, and 3 percent owned
by private individuals.
Virumaa Kommertspank                43.9          234.9           11.7          21.9     Private bank.
(Virumaa Commercial Bank)
ERA Bank                            77.5          155.7          10.7           18.8     Private bank; focusses on loans to
private enterprises.
RAEpank                              -            150.3           --            11.7     Private bank; current focus foreign
exchange, trade finance and retail;
have pioneered use of debit cards in
Estonia operations commenced in
April 1993.



-26-                                                ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
Name of Bank                          Assets                     Capital             Comments
Jan          June          Jan          June
1993         1994          1993      -  1994
Esstex Toostuse Arengupank        40.8         134.4           9.5           5.6     Owned by 29 light manufacturing
(Estonian Investment                                                                 enterprises.
Development Bank)
Evea Bank                         42.4         128.5           9.5          24.9    Private; small business bank.
Nowe                               33.8        109.4           7.7          47.0    Private bank; wants to be major trade
finance and transit trade bank.
Eesti Forekspank                    8.1        107.1           6.2          31.0    50 percent owned by Estonian Stock
(Estonia Forex Bank)                                                                 Exchange; initially established as
clearing and settlement house,
converted to bank; manages weekly
forex auctions among Estonian Banks.
Rahvapank                         36.9          92.9           8.2          14.0    Land bank.
Eesti Kredidipank (Estonian       45.1          91.9          10.2          30.1     Private bank; specializes in
Credit Bank)                                                                         import/export transactions.
Keila Bank                        20.2          81.1           6.6          13.9    Private bank.
Eesti Innovatsioonipank           23.2          58.7           6.4          16.7    Private bank; specializes in
(Innovation Bank)                                                                   intermcdiating transactions between
the FSUB and the West,
Tallinn Business Bank              10.4         35.2           6.2          16.2    Private bank; focusses on local
Russian community.
Ameerika Balti Pank (Baltic        10.6         24.8           5.9           7.7    Private bank; has some foreign
American Bank)                                                                       ownership.
TOTALb                          3,213.8       7286.1         283.4         566.7
'Totals do not include the Estonian Investment Bank, a development bank which has capital of approximately EEK
72 million. It is one-third owned by the EBRD, two-thirds owned by the Bank of Estonia. It has received technical
assistance from the EBRD, Nordic Investment Bank, EC PHARE, Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau, and others.
Totals also exclude Eesti Sotsiaalpank (Social Bank), which was placed into moratorium in August 1994.
b1994 capital figures are not directly comparable across banks. Only the Savings Bank and North Estonian Bank
have had their financial statements audited according to International Standards. This has resulted in extensive loan
loss provisioning. Hence, capital figures for these two banks are much lower than if calculated under Estonian
Standards.  1994 capital figures for the Savings Bank and North Estonian Bank are as of Dec. 1993.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
ESTONIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Government of Sweden Capital Fund
1.          The proposal outlined below has been developed in response to a number of factors
affecting the financial sectors of the three Baltic countries. First, there are new banks with small
capital bases in all three countries, implying a strong need for additional bank capital, as well as
technical assistance to bolster local banking skills. Second, there is a critical shortage of lending
to enterprises--particularly medium- and long-term lending (i.e., longer than 1 year)--because of
a lack of domestic term funding and the fact that commercial banks perceive the credit risks of
such lending to be too high. Third, the G-24 financing operations have made significant volumes
of medium- and long-term funds potentially available to the banking system; the volume of this
funding is far in excess of lending volumes which can be supported by existing bank capital and
banking skills. While these G-24 funds are potentially an extremely valuable resource for both
the financial and enterprise sectors, the governments are concerned that these funds might not be
used in a prudent way. They are particularly concerned that they be used in a manner which does
not expose the Government to excessive risk of nonpayment when the funds are channeled
through the banking system for onlending to the industrial and agricultural sectors.
2.          The Government of Sweden has indicated that it would, in principle, be willing
to make available as much as SKr 300 million (approximately US$35 million) to restructure and
recapitalize the banking sectors in the Baltics. The proposed Government of Sweden project has
therefore been structured to use these funds to create a set of incentives which will encourage the
local banks to undertake institutional strengthening measures, including grant-financed technical
assistance, in exchange for an injection of capital which will expand their lending capacity and
thus their profit opportunities. It assumes the Swedish grant funds are part of a comprehensive
package comprising Swedish capital funding, a World Bank line of credit, and a package of
technical assistance. Although the Capital Fund would be managed under a separate structure to
the World Bank credit line, selected banks eligible to receive additional capital from the Fund
would have to also be eligible at all times for participation in the World Bank credit line. The
qualification criteria and conditions designed for the World Bank credit line would be applied to
disbursements under the Capital Fund, which would cofinance investment projects utilizing the
World Bank credit line. This will ensure that the banks undertake the technical assistance
necessary to develop proper lending practices, and will simplify bank and project screening. Thus
procedures will be in place to ensure that banks will not receive additional capital until their own
banking operations, procedures and skills are developed enough to support the risk of the
additional lending that the new capital will permit.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
3.          Two primary uses of the Swedish capital funds are envisaged. The first would be
to expand the capital base of commercial banks that undergo institutional strengthening (through
technical assistance), and that provide long-term credit for qualified projects. The second would
be to provide equity injections into state-owned banks as part of an overall restructuring plan that
would culminate in the privatization of those banks.
4.           Commercial Banks. The expansion of the capital of private commercial banks:
(a)   The World Bank would establish a Line of Credit (US$10 million in the case of
Estonia) in each of the Baltic countries, which would incorporate the standard
conditions of eligibility for participating financial institutions (e.g., financial
audits, financial ratios, loan loss experience, credit appraisal capacity, adequate
accounting and financial controls, etc.). Those banks that also participate in the
Capitalization Program of the Capital Fund would also be subject to specialized
conditions reflecting the need to protect the interests of the capital provider.
(b)   Technical assistance would be made available in conjunction with the World Bank
project to assist banks which desired to participate in the Line of Credit/Capital
Fund, to meet the eligibility conditions. This technical assistance will be financed
primarily with bilateral or multilateral grants.
(c)   When a commercial bank presents a project that qualifies for financing under the
World Bank's Line of Credit, that bank would also receive a contribution to its
capital from the Capital Fund, in a loan-to-capital ratio of 1:1. The capital would
be provided on strictly commercial terms to avoid any subsidy element in pricing.
This additional capital would increase the ability of the commercial bank to make
loans, from the Line of Credit, from G-24 sources or from other sources, under
the Bank of Estonia's risk capital regulations. This ability to increase its lending--
and thus its revenues--would be the main economic incentive for the commercial
bank to participate in the program.
5.          The Swedish Government is currently working to define the final legal structure
for the fund, and the exact form of capital to be provided to the commercial banks. Since the
Swedish Government is interested in providing financing and technical support to the banking
sector, but does not wish to take managerial control away from the Estonians, selecting the form
and amount of capital is difficult. In any event, the capital will be in a form that will qualify as
Tier I capital. While not becoming actively involved in operational matters, the Swedish Capital
Fund would be represented on the Board of Directors of the bank. The Swedish Capital Fund
would also expect the participating bank to sign an investment agreement, detailing the rights
of the Swedish Capital Fund, and the obligations of management.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
6.         The North Estonian Bank. The North Estonian Bank (NEB) is the only
remaining 100 percent state-owned bank in Estonia. The NEB has had financial problems,
sparked first by the freezing of many of its assets that were held in the Moscow
Vnesheconombank, and now due to bad loans inherited from previous management. The
Estonian Government would like to stabilize the NEB, and subsequently privatize it. Estonian
authorities have already begun taking steps to financially restructure the NEB. The Bank of
Estonia has already assumed EEK 40 million in doubtful loans.
7.          This step has removed some of the bad loans, once the remaining bad loans are
written off, the remaining capital will be insufficient to support the current loan base of the NEB,
let alone provide for future loan growth. The Government of Estonia, with assistance from the
Government of Sweden's Capital Fund, plans to place a new injection of capital into the NEB,
which will stabilize the NEB. The Government of Sweden's contribution will be conditional on:
(i)   An agreement on a privatization program
(ii)   An agreement on an institutional development program, and the appointment of
management committed to its rapid implementation.
(iii)  A capitalization program for the bank brings the bank up to a level which satisfies
the prudential norms established by the central bank with the Swedish component
of the capital base representing a minority share of the capital.
The recapitalization of the NEB would be contingent on the signing of an agreement between the
management of the NEB and the Estonian Authorities which would incorporate sanctions for non-
compliance with the program as well as incentives for successful completion.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page I of 5
ESTONIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Structure of the Credit Line
1.         It is proposed that a loan of US$10 million be made to the Republic of Estonia
(borrower). The funds would be on-lent to qualifying commercial banks after proper screening
and authorizations, to finance medium to long-term productive private sector projects. The loan
to the Government would have final maturity of 15 years with 5 years of grace.
2.         The interest cost to the borrower would be the World Bank onlending rate on a
variable basis. The rate to the commercial banks would be World Bank on-lending rate plus
I percent to cover the administrative costs and guarantee risk for the management of the credit
line by the Government.
3.          The on-lending commercial banks will take the credit and exchange risks of the
projects financed. Qualifying banks would sign separate Subsidiary Financing Agreements with
the Ministry of Finance. The qualifying sub-borrowers would also need to sign sub-loan
agreements with the on-lending banks integrating specific standard terms and conditions.
4.          Credit Line. The credit line administration will be managed through the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). In conjunction with the World Bank, it will: (i) select banks based
on eligibility criteria defined by the World Bank; (ii) make decisions on accepting new banks into
the program or disqualifying banks which fall out of compliance; (iii) review the first
two projects submitted by each participating bank and each project over US$2 million;
(iv) review other projects on an ex-post basis. In addition, the PIU will be responsible for the
proper accounting, reporting and procedural implementation of the disbursements and repayments
under the credit line. The PIU will also be responsible for ensuring that the procurement of
equipment and services are handled according to World Bank guidelines, and that all subprojects
are in compliance with World Bank environmental guidelines. Terms of Reference for the PIU
can be found in Annex IX.
5.          The PIU will be assisted by a Core Advisors Group (CAG), consisting of three
qualified and experienced bankers.  This CAG  will be responsible for:  (i) preparing
recommendations for the PIU on the eligibility of the interested banks under the defined criteria;
(ii) monitoring the on-going performance of the banks and their loan portfolios under the credit
line; and (iii) assisting the PIU in reviewing the sub-loan projects. In addition, they would be
available to provide technical assistance to all interested commercial banks during their stay in
Estonia. Such assistance would include: (i) developing credit policies and procedures with proper
controls; (ii) adopting internationally acceptable accounting standards and applications with proper



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 5
operational procedures matching their automation strategies; and (iii) structuring and evaluating
term-lending, including pre- and post-lending risk assessment and project finance analysis
methodologies and preparing project-finance loan packages. (Terms of Reference for the CAG
can be found in Annex VI.)
6.           Subsidiary Loans to Qualifying Commercial Banks. Each eligible commercial
bank will enter into a general subsidiary loan agreement with the Government. These loan
agreements will govern on-lending conditions. It is expected that no eligible bank can borrow
more that its net worth as defined under internationally acceptable accounting rules and standards
after deducting proper loan loss provisions. Any bank that has increased its net worth can apply
once-a-year for an addendum to the maximum loan amount they can borrow under the credit line.
7.          Any commercial bank that would like to apply for the World Bank Credit Line
will ask to be reviewed under the eligibility criteria specified in Annex IV. In cases of non-
eligibility immediately, the banks may ask for technical assistance and/or a restructuring plan
through the guidance and/or approval of the CAG. Any restructuring plan will need the approval
of the World Bank with a 1-year trial period. Through this time, the CAG will assess and
appraise progress on a quarterly basis. The CAG may recommend the eligibility of a bank
depending on the progress to the documented structuring/technical assistance plan. Final approval
for eligibility will be made by the PIU, in consultation with the World Bank.
8.          Terms and Conditions for the Loans to Banks
Loan Amount:            Not to exceed the net worth of the bank at any period of
time; any loan $US2 million equivalent or more shall be
approved by the Bank.
Terms of the Loan:      Minimum  loan maturity of two years, maximum  loan
maturity of ten years, including grace period.
Currency:               Loans will be made in the same currencies borrowed by the
Government of Estonia from the World Bank.
Interest Rate:          World Bank interest rate plus I percent to cover the
Government's administrative costs and fees.
Interest Period:        Six months
Commitment Fee:         Equal to commitment fee paid by the Government of
Estonia to the World Bank.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 5
Prepayment:             Negotiable with the PIU
Agreements and Commitments:
The PIU will be responsible for ensuring that a representative sample of the
outstanding loans will be subject to an ex-post review of appraisal. The ex-post
review will verify that the subloan criteria has been satisfied. In cases where the
subloan criteria have not been met, the subloan will be deemed to have been made
entirely from the participating bank's own resources where the PIU/CAG has the
right to call the loan to the bank in default together with accrued interest and
principal outstanding.
In cases where a commercial bank fails to adhere to sublending criteria, the PIU
has the right to disqualify the bank from further commitments under the credit line
program.
The on-lender banks agree to continue to be audited under international accounting
standards and applications throughout their borrowing from the credit line. If on-
lender banks no longer meet criteria for qualifications for the program, the bank's
right to further commitments under the project may be suspended.
The on-lender banks agree to provide periodic or on-demand reports as requested
to the CAG, PIU or the World Bank.
The on-lender banks will use their best efforts to ensure that the sub-borrowers
follow procurement and environmental rules acceptable to the World Bank.
9.          The on-lender banks will be monitored for eligibility throughout the time of their
participating under the credit line. The qualification for on-going eligibility will be monitored
by the CAG with the concurrence of the PIU and the World Bank.
10.         Loans to Subborrowers. The projects to be financed under the credit line would
be appraised and approved by the on-lender eligible banks. The onlending banks would then
submit these sub-projects to the PIU for financing under the World Bank/Government of Sweden
Credit Line/Capital Fund. The first two sub-projects from each bank and all projects over
US$2 million will be reviewed by the CAG who will prepare a recommendation for the PIU and
the World Bank. Final approval will be made by the PIU in consultation with the World Bank.
All other projects will be subject to ex-post review.
11.         Each sub-borrower enterprise would sign a credit agreement with the on-lending
banks. These credit agreements would have a standard and common framework with a legal



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 4 of 5
opinion as to their acceptability under Estonian laws. These subloan agreements may differ in
the amount, interest rate, disbursement and repayment, etc'. However, they would all contain the
terms and conditions with regard to eligibility criteria for the enterprises and sub-projects as the
minimum representations and warranties for the loans.
12.          Disbursements. Disbursements by the Government under the credit line will be
made against specific approved project finance requests of the qualifying banks. The banks will
be allowed to borrow on a first-come, first-serve basis.
13.          To facilitate the disbursements of the portion of the Loan proceeds, a Special
Account (SA) will be established. The SA would be maintained in a commercial bank selected
by the Government and acceptable to the World Bank. The bank would be selected from a
number of acceptable banks, on the basis of competitive bidding.  Selection criteria for
participation in the bids are: (i) the bank should be financially sound as to demonstrate by their
last accounts, as audited by an internationally recognized firm; (ii) the bank would have a
significant foreign correspondence network covering all major currencies; (iii) the bank would
have a reasonable capacity and experience for issuing letters of credit, for making direct foreign
payments and other international transactions, with appropriate arrangements for the training and
development of its staff; (iv) the bank should be capable of performing a wide range of local
banking services, including cash payments, transfers to other domestic banks, issuance of debit
notes, application of conversion rates from foreign currencies and maintenance of adequate
records for the SA; (v) the bank should be preferably a member of SWIFT and should routinely
use or plan to use this facility to expedite payment transfers; (vi) the bank should be willing to
issue a Comfort Letter to assure that amounts deposited in the Special Account will not be set
off or otherwise seized or attached to satisfy amounts due to the commercial bank by the
borrower; (vii) the bank would be willing to maintain adequate accounts as required by the World
Bank, provide monthly bank statements to the World Bank and the PIU, and any other
information considered necessary. Copies of all transactions would be routinely submitted to the
PIU; and (viii) the bank should be willing to charge reasonable rates for their services and
provide reasonable interest on balances held from time to time.
14.          The initial deposit to the SA would be based on project expenditures expected to
be paid through the SA in the short run, with a maximum amount equal to US$ I million. The
Account will be opened in the name of the Borrower and would be administered by the PIU
which will send requests to the World
1. As banks in Estonia are free to set market interest rates without Government interference, and there are
free flows of capital, subloans can be made in either foreign or domestic currency, as negotiated between the
onlending bank and the borrower.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 5 of 5
Bank for replenishment of the SA. These requests would be accompanied by detailed monthly
bank statements of the SA and with all other required documentation.
15.         Disbursements will be made against standard Bank documentation. Expenditures
for individual subloans valued at under US$ 100,000 equivalent for goods and works financed
under this project would be disbursed against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) certified by the
PIU. The PIU would ensure that all supporting documentation is adequately maintained and that
it is available for review at the bank's request. Disbursements for all subloans valued at or above
US$ 500,000 equivalent for goods and works, would be made against fully documented
withdrawal applications. Under the credit line, the Bank would finance up to 100 percent of the
amounts disbursed by qualified banks for subloans. In cases where the qualified bank is also
qualified for cofinancing under the Swedish Capital Fund, the Bank would finance up to
50 percent of the amounts disbursed for subloans.



- 35 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
ESTONIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Eligibility Criteria for the Qualifying Banks,
Subborrowers and the Sub-Projects
Eligibility Criteria for the Banks
Compliance with the prudential rules and regulations of the Bank of Estonia.
Complete audit of most recent fiscal year financial statements conducted under
internationally acceptable accounting standards and applications. The would
include a portfolio review and loan-loss provisioning done to international
standards.
-     Minimum EEK 20 million equity and 8 percent capital adequacy, after full loan-
loss provisioning under internationally accepted accounting standards.
-     Minimum I year of operations with a defined corporate strategy.
-     Audit discipline in place under internationally acceptable accounting standards and
applications.
-     The bank's earnings (after proper provisioning for loan losses) are adequate to
allow the bank to meet its future obligations.
-     Defined and documented credit policies and procedures with acceptable controls,
risk asset classification standards and loan loss provisioning practices in place. If
not yet in place, a time-bound action plan approved by the PIU/CAG to implement
the above.
Existence of a unit specialized in structuring and appraising medium and long-term
lending.
Sound internal financial policies and limits/controls in place with regard to credit
administration and asset and liability management.



- 36 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
In order to maintain eligibility, the bank would need to:
Continue to demonstrate its sound financial condition evidenced by the submission
of annual financial statements audited to international standards by independent
auditors satisfactory to the World Bank.
Continue to be in material compliance with the prudential regulations of the Bank
of Estonia.
Maintenance, during each fiscal year, of a minimum collection ratio of principal
and interest of 90 percent, as confirmed by the external auditors of the bank.
II.    Eligibility Criteria for the Sub-Borrowers
TLegal entities that are majority privately-owned and privately managed.
Proven management and at least I year of profitable operations or, in cases of de-
novo enterprises/projects, proven management with extensive experience in
relevant areas and positive credit history verified through proper channels.
An independent audit discipline under Estonian accounting standards and
applications within 6 months of the financing of the project, if not already in
place.
Proven positive value added in total operations based on international market
prices.
III.   Eligibility Criteria for the Sub-projects
-     Loans cannot be given to finance:
refinancing existing obligations of the enterprises (refinancing of bridge
loans will be acceptable)
equity investments
short-term trade finance loans



- 37 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
The onlending rates for loans will be no less than 200 basis points above the
prevailing yield on the corresponding Government bonds of the same currency and
of similar maturity, with 6-month variable interest rates. The minimum 200 basis
points premium would be required to cover the following: (a) credit risk; (b)
cross-currency risk; (c) interest rate risk; and (d) administrative costs.
Minimum maturity 2 years, maximum maturity 10 years.
The minimum equity contribution by the subborrower would be 30 percent.
The debt service coverage ratio for the life of the project must be a minimum of
1.5 for the project alone and for the project incorporated into the cash flow of the
on-going concern.
The project must on a stand-alone basis generate a positive net present value at the
discounted rate of return that is equivalent to the cost of the loan including the
interest, fees, and other charges.



- 38 -
ANNEX V
Page I of 3
ESTONIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documentation and Reporting Requirements
Documentation Requirements
For the Government of Estonia:
- The General Loan Agreement with the World Bank
For the On-Lender Banks:
-  Subsidiary Financing Agreement with the Ministry of Finance
-  Annually audited financial reports under internationally acceptable accounting
standards and applications
-  Disbursement documentation listed below for the disbursement requests under the
credit line
-  Maintenance of the proper credit files
-  Periodic Reporting to the PIU/IBRD
For the Sub-Borrower Enterprises:
-  Project Technical Feasibility Study prepared by an independent technical expert
-  Business Strategic Plan including the integration of the project into the ongoing
operations of the enterprise
-  Audited financials
-  If applicable: license, management, buy-back agreements
For the Banks to submit to the PIU/CAG/World Bank for Loan Request:
- Disbursement and Repayment Schedule for the loan matching with the project



- 39 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 3
- An analysis by the bank covering:
- The application package of the enterprise
- The technical, economic and financial feasibility of the project to be financed
incorporating the projected cash flows, balance sheet projections and other
financial sensitivities as prepared by the medium/long-term project finance
department of the bank
- An analysis of the marketing/selling capability of the proposed end-product of
the project
- An analysis of the risks associated with the project and the enterprise
performance with minimum two sensitivity cash flow projections of its
operations integrating the project
- An evaluation of the borrower's credit worthiness, ownership structure, overall
management and financial position
- Any additional contracts, leases, long-term export agreements, etc. that supports
the economic and financial viability of the project
- Official Request of the bank management accompanied by the decision of the
credit committee of the bank with full supporting details
II.   Reporting Requirements
By the PIU to the World Bank under a reporting agreement:
-  Applications of the first two loan requests of the banks
Applications of the subsequent loan requests of the banks over US$2 million
equivalent
On a semi-annual basis: sub-loan portfolio performance/progress reports and the
post-lending review of the compliance of the sub-loans to the terms and conditions
By the CAG to the World Bank, on a semi-annual basis:
-  Reports on the qualifications of the banks



- 40 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 3
Reports on the financial performance of the eligible and borrowing banks
- Reports on the progress of the restructuring plan/technical assistance program
applications for the banks involved
By the banks to the PIU:
-  Subsidiary loan and subloan portfolio performance reports on a semi-annual basis,
covering:
-   interest and principal repayment performance
-  principal not yet due
-  documentation verifying compliance with World Bank procurement rules
-  progress report on the projects and sub-loans including the performance of
the enterprises
-  Annual audited financials of the borrowing enterprises
By the banks to the CAG:
-  On a semi-annual basis; a comprehensive report on the financial and business
performance of the bank including a detailed analysis of the loan portfolio of the
bank.
By the enterprises to the on-lender banks:
-  Entitlement to access to sub-borrowers' accounting and management information
by commercial banks/CAG and/or PIU and other designated/appointed agents at
the discretion of the commercial banks will be a mandatory requirement of the
sub-loan agreement.



- 41 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 8
ESTONIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Audits of Commercial Banks
I. Introduction
1.       Since independence, Estonia has made impressive progress towards establishing a
market economy. The banking sector has adjusted to these changes after some restructuring. The
banks have a familiarity with operating under international standards but would still need further
skills building to become fully institutionalized under international standards.
2.       The World Bank is planning to provide long-term credit resources to be channelled
through the commercial banking system. In addition, the Government of Sweden may establish
a capital fund that will be used in conjunction with the World Bank line of credit. These funds
will be provided within the framework of an overall program of financial sector reform and
technical assistance.
3.      In order to qualify for this credit line/ capital fund, commercial banks will need to
meet a number of quality standards which will be set by the different institutions, in conjunction
with the Government of Estonia. One basic qualification will be the financial stability of the
commercial banks. In order to assess the financial state of the commercial banks, an external
audit conducted according to international standards by an established auditing firm will be
required for each bank which wishes to participate.
4.       Activities and outputs. A comprehensive financial audit of the bank as detailed in
the following paragraphs will need to be conducted. For efficiency and speediness, it would be
expected that, when an international auditing firm has - at the request of the management, the
shareholders or any other party - already carried out an analysis of a bank, the same firm, upon
request by the participating bank, may prepare a proposal for expanding upon that work to
include the additional work required under these terms of reference. Conduct of this expanded
work will, of course, depend upon successful negotiations with the audit firm and reasonableness
of cost. Otherwise, the audit will be put out for bid according to World Bank standards.
5.       A comprehensive financial and portfolio audit will be performed in accordance with
international auditing guidelines issued by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC)
and will be in accordance with International Accounting Standards. The financial statements to
be audited will be the balance sheet and the income statements. In cases where there are
difference between International Accounting Standards and Estonian Accounting Standards, the
financial statements will be restated according to International Accounting Standards.



- 42 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 8
6.       Scope and detail of the diagnostic study. The required audit services will place
particular emphasis on the assessment of the quality of the Bank's portfolio, and proper loan loss
provisioning according to risk classifications under internationally accepted criteria.
7.       The financial audit shall include a detailed examination of the financial statements of
each bank in order to assess the accuracy and reliability of the accounting data and systems.
8.       In the course of undertaking the audits, items deserving particular attention include:
a. A complete description of the work carried out and of the methodologies applied. For
the portfolio review any discrepancy and/or interpretation of the methodology
described in the international auditing guidelines should be explained in details and
justified.
b. The portfolio review will be undertaken to determine the overall quality of the bank's
loan portfolio, broken down by performance, with categories such as satisfactory, sub-
standard, non performing, etc. An assessment of risky loans irrespective of whether
or not they are overdue, should be performed together with discussions with the
management based on the proper classification of the loans and contingents
outstanding. Rescheduled or rollover loans should be clearly identified and amount
indicated. The review will emphasize loans which were originally made under the
guidance of the former state banking system. For each of these loans/credits,
disclosure should be made on amount that represents a risk exposure for individual
banks.
c. An assessment of the adequacy of the existing level of provisions, and as appropriate,
recommendations for adjustments thereto based on the above requested evaluation of
the riskiness of the loan portfolio, irrespective of the applied classification of the bank
management.
d. An itemization and assessment of the adequacy of various reserves.
e. Analysis of the concentration of credit and other bank exposure risks to determine the
extent to which a few companies or a group of companies account for a large
proportion of the total outstanding loans and/or loans and equity of the bank.
f. Assessment of equity portfolio of the bank and the reasonableness of the values
reported on the balance sheet. In assessing the equity portfolio, particular attention
should be given to the bank's objectives and policies in making equity investments.
The realization of the objective/policy should be assessed, particularly with regard to
investments in non-financial institutions. The relationship (ratio) between total



- 43 -
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 8
equity investments and the bank's own net worth and the reasonableness thereof, must
be assessed. Are the equity investments short or long term? Are they related to
loans? For equity obtained through loan collateral, does the bank have an internal
time limit to sell off such equity? What is the effect one borrower and/or industry
concentration? What screening criteria are used to invest? What exit strategy will the
bank use?
g. Assessment of the reliability and composition of reported earnings of the bank, with
special emphasis on the extent to which the accrued but uncollected interest on non
performing loans is taken into income, and the relative shares of operating and non-
operating income.
h. Breakdown and analysis of operating costs of the bank.
i. Solvency assessment.  Attention should be given to interest rate and maturity
mismatches.
j. Capital structure: A description of the shareholders' structure should be given and the
following questions been answered: Is capital growth funded by internal cash
generation or capital contribution? In case of capital contribution is it cash or real
assets? In case of real assets, has a reliable third party valuation been provided?
k. Composition and structure of the bank's assets, deposits and other direct and indirect
liabilities, both in local and foreign currencies. Fixed assets are to be separately listed
along with their recorded values. Any hidden or recorded reserves from over- and/or
undervaluation of the fixed assets and equity investments should be specifically
indicated and adjustment made as appropriate. Particular attention should be paid to
the foreign exchange direct and indirect assets and liabilities of the banks and their
profit recording especially with regard to off-balance sheet foreign exchange
transactions.  All assets should be classified between income and non-income
generating. All outstanding term borrowing should be identified and broken down on
a loan by loan basis.
Interbank borrowings and placements in local and foreign currency should be listed
while particular attention be given to any maturity and foreign exchange mismatches
together with risks of large dependence or overexposure concentrations to particular
banks or groups of banks.
1. Notes on each item of the balance sheet and income statement, explaining its nature
and any clarifications considered as useful.



- 44 -
ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 8
9.    Accounting policies and valuation criteria used in the preparation of the Financial
Statements and which are departing from International Accounting Standards.
m. Itemization of each adjustment and reclassification considered necessary by the
auditors.  All adjustments and reclassifications found by the auditors, even if
immaterial, should be noted.
n. Itemized exposure to the Members of the Board and other parties connected with the
bank including the parties that are involved in the supervision of the banks.
o. Any significant event affecting the financial statements occurred between the account
date and the date of the audit report.
p. An assessment of the overall collateral provided for loans comprising over 5 percent
of the paid-in capital of the bank, with respect to whether the collateral provides
sufficient coverage for the amount of the direct and /or indirect obligation of the
borrower.
q. Guarantees:
1.   Recipient bank: What is the process on other bank's financial statements
(do they have annual or quarterly financial statements with contingent
liabilities of guaranteeing banks?). What proportion is authorized by the
central bank? What significance does authorization have?
2.   Issuing bank: this should be incorporated in the analysis on leverage.
Who is monitoring this in the bank?
In addition to the above the capacity of the bank to comply with the
following criteria should be assessed:
Capital adequacy
r. Maintaining a total capital risk-adjusted assets ratio of 8 percent.
s. Maintaining minimum equity capital of 20 million EEK equivalent.



- 45 -
ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 8
Profitability
t. Demonstrating financial solvency and profitability as measured by net income (after
proper loan loss provisions) providing a positive return on assets.
Quality of the lending process and loan portfolio (recommended)
u. Limiting maximum  exposure to a single borrower and its connected parties to
50 percent or equity capital in 1994; and subsequently to 35 percent in 1995 and
25 percent in 1996.
v. Limiting maximum aggregate large exposures (defined as any credit and off-balance-
sheet exposures to a single party exceeding 10 percent of bank's equity capital) to
12 times equity capital in 1994; and subsequently to 10 times in 1995 and 8 times in
1996.
w. Maintaining a loan portfolio of which no more than 20 percent has been rescheduled
during the last 6 months of operation of the bank.
x. Maintaining a total collection rate (total amount of current and overdue principal and
interest collected as a percentage of current and overdue amounts due in the year,
calculated before loans reschedulings) greater than 85 percent.
y. Maintaining a minimum  1:1 ratio between loan loss provisions and the sum of
doubtful and loss assets, where "doubtful assets" are defined as those where collection
or liquidation in full is highly improbable and "loss assets" are defined as uncollectible
and lacking any value as financial assets.
z. Demonstrating a satisfactory set of credit policies and procedures with proper
monitoring structures and loan classification criteria
aa.    Demonstrating a capability and properly trained personnel for assessing the risks
and returns of projects it finances for the long term.
ab.    Demonstrating a satisfactory set of policies and practices for assessing the
environmental effects of projects it finances.



- 46 -
ANNEX VI
Page 6 of 8
Managerial Autonomy
ac. Demonstrating substantial managerial autonomy through:
1. source of funds.
2. legal and ownership structure.
3. composition of and locus of authority for appointment of Board of Directors.
4. management and staff selection and promotion policies and practices.
5. loan approval procedures (equal treatment of shareholders and non-shareholders
and the absence of shareholders on the credit committee).
Management Effectiveness
ad.    Demonstrating adequate policies, procedures and performance in the following
areas:
1. market strategy.
2. organizational structure.
3. credit.
4. financial management ( foreign exchange, accounting).
5. planning and budgeting.
6. internal audit.
7. management information systems.
8. training.
9.          Reports to be provided by the auditor(s)
a.    The total package of financial statements.
b.    The evaluation of the quality of the assets.
c.    A statement of loans. An opinion on the adequacy of the provision for loans and
on any valuation reserve.
d.    A statement of the overall asset and liability structure of the bank including the
bank's exposure and maturity risks with regard to its foreign exchange balance
sheet.
e.    An enumeration and quantification of all adjustments necessary to fairly present
the financial statements.



- 47 -
ANNEX VI
Page 7 of 8
f.    The identification and quantification of the risk concentration for the bank's
lending, contingent and treasury activities.
g.    The identification of credit extended to bank managers, members of the board,
shareholders, and other related parties.
h.    As part of the audit of the income statement suggestions on areas and manner in
which efficiencies in costs and expenditures may be improved.
i.    An assessment on internal controls and procedures and specific recommendations
to improve them.
j.    An evaluation of liquidity, assets and liability management risks.
k.    An evaluation on the adequacy of capital.
10.         In addition to the above, the financial report should be prepared in long form and
shall discuss the following:
a.    Summary of efforts made by the auditors to verify the reliability of the accounting
information processed in the computers centers or through manual procedures.
The auditors should mention any inability to obtain sufficient information or verify
any part of work and enter a relevant reservation in judgement.
b.    Summary of steps taken to verify the extent of compliance with legal standards
and regulations of the Bank of Estonia, and with International Accounting
Standards, with details concerning any observed violations as well as actions taken
in relation.
c.    Copies of technical reports by outside consultants (or other auditors), if the
auditors use them to support their opinion.
11.         Confidentiality. This exercise is being carried out exclusively for the purpose of
developing a basis for strengthening the concerned viable banks. Accordingly, the auditors will
neither discuss with, nor distribute to parties outside the Bank of Estonia, the World Bank/donor
organization and the management of the commercial bank, without their explicit authorization,
any aspects or details relating to their findings.



- 48 -
ANNEX VI
Page 8 of 8
12.         Independence and impartiality.  The auditors must be independent of any
member of the board of directors, executive officer or senior manager of the bank. Independence
implies that the senior managing partner, other partner, or staff member who would be involved
in the diagnostic study, is neither serving as a director of the bank nor has any personal financial,
or close business relationship except as an independent professional advisor during the course
of the diagnosis.
13.          Auditor qualification. It is essential that the work be carried out by auditors
with extensive international experience in auditing in the banking sector. In some cases, which
are encouraged, the team may include the auditor of the bank even if it is a local firm not
representing a "big international audit firm." In this latter case, the auditor would be under the
responsibility of the international firm, be a full member of the team and be supervised by the
international audit firm. Given the importance and the complexity of the task to be undertaken,
it is anticipated that the studies would be carried out by a reputable international audit firm
drawing on their best staff worldwide to propose a team with the suitable skill mix.
14.          Curriculum vitae (CVs) of the principals of the firms who would be responsible
for providing the conclusions and reports should be provided, together with the CVs of other
personnel proposed for the project, including detailed experiences with banking activities in
transitional economies and language qualifications. CVs for personnel should include details on
audits carried out by these staff, including ongoing assignments. The staff proposed for these
diagnostics will have to be made available and to participate directly in the investigations and the
formulation of opinions and recommendations. They shall not be replaced, during the course of
the studies, without prior agreement of the participating bank and of the World Bank.
15.         Timetable. The auditor would be expected to begin the work as soon as the
contract is signed. No later than __, the auditor should prepare a draft report (in English),
detailing its preliminary findings in particular regarding the portfolio analysis and the items
mentioned in paragraph 9 of these terms of reference. This report will be submitted no later than
, 1994. After review by the concerned parties, the auditors should be prepared to make
a presentation to these parties which highlights major findings and recommendations.
16.         Inputs, budgets and funding. The auditors will prepare their proposals on an all-
costs-included basis, the local banks providing secretarial support, furnished office space with
telephones, and car transportation. Those arrangements will be finalized during the negotiations
of the contracts.



- 49 -
ANNEX VII
Page I of 4
ESTONIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Advisors to
Qualifying Commercial Banks
I. Background
1.           Since Independence, Estonia has made significant progress toward establishing a
competitive banking sector operating in a free market environment. The banking sector has
adjusted to the evolving market conditions after some restructuring. The banks have a familiarity
with operating under internationally competitive standards but would still need further skills
building to become fully institutionalized under international standards.
2.          The World Bank, in conjunction with the Government of Sweden, is preparing a
joint credit line/capital fund that will be used to provide long term credit resources and capital
to qualifying banks. The Government of Sweden will provide capital to the banking sector,
permitting banks to increase their long-term loan volume. The World Bank Credit Line of the
project is intended to encourage the further development of the capability for credit analysis and
project finance in the banking sector, and to provide needed long-term funds to the enterprise
sector. To that end, participating banks would undertake a program of technical assistance in
diverse areas from bank strategy development to setting-up a treasury unit with full back-office
support. Three key areas that all the participating banks will need for successful performance
under the credit line project are: (i) development and implementation of Credit Policies and
Procedures; (ii) adoption of internationally acceptable accounting standards and applications with
proper operating guidelines and procedure; and (iii) medium to long-term project finance
structuring and management. Additional technical assistance to meet the individual needs of each
bank will be determined.
3.          The technical assistance can either be provided by placing banking experts as
advisors with these banks, or through subcontracting an international bank or bank consultancy
company to provide these services.
II. Functions and Activities of the Advisors
4.          The banking experts are expected to assist the management in redesigning their
banking operations specific to their area of expertise. They will also actively participate in the



- 50 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 4
decision making and application process of their areas of responsibility, together with the bank
management. The experts working in the three key areas of credit, accounting and project
finance will be expected to carry out the following functions:
A. Credit:
a.    Assist the management developing a comprehensive credit manual, including but
not limited to: (i) lending strategy; (ii) portfolio objectives; (iii) credit assessment
procedures; (iv) risk ratings pre- and post- lending; (v) credit limits; (vi) credit
monitoring procedures; and (vii) debt recovery procedures.
b.    Participate in several branch credit monitoring audits with the audit and/or credit
control departments.
c.    Prepare periodic reports on the progress and recommendations for further
strengthening of the credit/lending skills and procedures/controls of the bank.
d.    Participate and contribute actively in the identification and management of the
problem loans of the bank while providing on-the-job training to the staff
involved.
B. Operations/Accounting:
a.    Assist and work closely with the management in the transformation of the
accounting records/applications and standards of the bank into internationally
acceptable norms.
b.    Develop procedures for internal control and audit functions in the bank, including
the activities of the branches.
c.    Develop a management information system for monitoring operations of the bank
including treasury and loan activities.
d.    Participate actively in the decision making of Committee meetings related to
accounting/automation and operational applications,
e.    Deliver on-the-job training to key managers designated to be in charge of
accounting, control, audit, systems and operations and financial control
departments of the bank.



- 51 -
ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 4
f.    Assist the management in the preparation of annual operational and investment
budgets/plans.
C. Project Finance:
a.    Assist the management in developing banking related products and services and
in drafting internal implementation guidelines.
b.    Provide on-the-job training to the Department for Medium and Long Term Credits
(or Project Finance Department) including short seminars.
c.    Assist the designated credit staff in restructuring and/or work-out of problematic
loans. Together with the advisor for credit policies and procedures, develop the
problem loan management guidelines for the bank.
d.    Deliver 2- to 5-day case-oriented seminars to designated staff of all levels on:
(i) different loan products; (ii) project finance-analysis and structuring;
(iii) syndications; (iv) mergers and acquisitions; (v) target marketing; (vi) capital
market products and related banking products.
e.    Assist and train the credit officers in developing sector and industry analysis
studies.
f.     Assist the designated staff in structuring, selling and managing syndications.
g.    Assist the bank management in developing target/niche market definitions suitable
to their growth strategy and develop criteria for acceptability for enterprises.
III. Qualifications for the Advisors
5.           The advisors to be placed should have minimum 5-7 years of on-the-job experience
in their areas of expertise at the Head Offices within a multibranch bank preferably one that has
international operations. If a bank consultancy company is selected to provide the technical
assistance, it must have a proven track record in delivering similar types of technical assistance
in developing country environments.



- 52 -
ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 4
IV. Reporting Requirements
6.          The advisors will, on a quarterly basis, provide progress reports on their activities
with an action plan for the next 3 months. These reports will be available to the CAG, the PIU,
the World Bank and other supervisory/donor bodies as specified.



- 53 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 10
ESTONIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for
Institutional Development Assistance for the North Estonian Bank
1.          Background. In late 1992, two banks, the Union Baltic Bank (UBB) and the
North Estonian Share Bank (formerly the Estonian branch of the Soviet Vnesheconombank) had
many assets held with the Vnesheconombank in Moscow. In January, 1992 the Moscow
Vnesheconombank froze the Moscow-held accounts of banks based in other republics. The
amount of Russian assets held in Estonia was much smaller than the Estonian assets held in
Moscow. The resulting shortfall in assets left the UBB and the North Estonian Share Bank with
large gaps in their balance sheets. In November 1992, these three banks, representing 40 percent
of the total assets in the banking system, were placed in a moratorium.
2.          The authorities decided to merge the two banks into a new bank, North Estonian
Bank (NEB). The former shareholders of the UBB and the North Estonian Share Bank received
bonds representing claims against the frozen assets held in Moscow (i.e., the former shareholders
would receive nothing unless those assets are eventually recovered). The Government replaced
the NEB's frozen assets with EEK 300 million of Government bonds, and in return took over the
ownership of the bank. The North Estonian Bank is now the only bank that is 100 percent state-
owned.
3.          Unfortunately, although this EEK 300 million was sufficient to fill the gap created
by the frozen assets, it was not sufficient to cover losses from the loan portfolios of the two
former banks.  An audit conducted on international standards has revealed more than EEK
120 million in loan losses.
4.          In addition to financial assistance, the NEB needs a great deal of technical
assistance. The current management is facing an extremely difficult and daunting task. The
management is trying to develop new banking skills and reposition itself in a constantly changing
and increasingly competitive market for financial services. At the same time it is trying to
conduct a thorough workout of problem loans in its portfolio, particularly those loans granted
under previous management and under much laxer credit policies. Although the management has
been aggressively pursuing collection through, among other steps, the filing of bankruptcy
petitions to seize and liquidate borrowers' assets, the value of the assets awarded in bankruptcy
court has in general fallen extremely short of the amount of the loan. Given the difficulty of
developing new skills, staff and procedures while attempting to recover a large amount of bad
loans, the NEB can not much longer continue without clear changes in its structure.



- 54 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 10
5.          The Estonian authorities have already begun taking steps to financially restructure
the NEB. The Bank of Estonia has already assumed EEK 40 million in doubtful loans. The
Government of Estonia has written off more than EEK 80 million of remaining bad loans against
its equity.
6.          These steps have removed the bad loans and have resulted in a positive net worth,
but the remaining capital will be insufficient to support the current loan base of the NEB, let
alone provide for future loan growth. The Government of Estonia, with assistance from the
Government of Sweden's Capital Fund, plans to place a new injection of capital into the NEB,
which will stabilize the NEB. The Government of Sweden's contribution will be conditional on:
(i)    An agreement on a privatization program
(ii)   An agreement on an institutional development program, and the appointment of
management committed to its rapid implementation
(iii)  A capitalization program for the bank brings the bank up to a level which satisfies
the prudential norms established by the central bank with the Swedish component
of the capital base representing a minority share of the capital
The recapitalization of the NEB should be contingent on the signing of an agreement between
the management of the NEB and the Estonian Authorities which would incorporate sanctions for
non-compliance with the program as well as incentives for successful completion.
7.          The Institutional Development Program. The following issues are of particular
importance:
(i)   Improvements in operational and Management structures
-     There is an urgent need to strengthen the management team at the top of
the bank
-     An operational manual should be established
-     A system of controls should be put in place for credit (see below ), foreign
exchange risk, interest rate risk as well as a system for the monitoring and
control of liquidity
-     Credit and Treasury Committees should be established (It is essential that
both a supported with an effective secretariat charged with the timely
provision of the necessary management information)



- 55 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 3 of 10
-     Training programs must be set up for all levels of staff
(ii)   Development of a Business Strategy for the Bank
The management of the bank must develop a clear strategy for the future
development of the bank and translate this into a formal strategy document
Action Plans and Budgets must be constructed to map out a route for
achieving the strategic objectives of the bank
A monitoring and control system must be in place for ensuring that
necessary corrections and adjustments are made
(iii) Development of Effective Credit Risk Management
-     The management of the bank should develop a formal credit policy and
translate this into a formal document. The document should pay particular
attention to limits on lending to related parties, concentration of lending to
individual counterparties (in relation to own funds), and to the lending
limits and discretions applied by the branches
-     The organization of the credit department must be reviewed and
restructured and the number of credit specialists considerably increased
from the current level (8)
-     Review and automation of the method of interest accruals to ensure
compliance with international accounting standards
-     A  standard credit file should be introduced which gives complete
information about all stages of the development and repayment of a loan
-     A standard method of evaluation of credits must be introduced
-     A method of loan classification, loan provisioning and suspension of
interest should be established in line with the international standards being
introduced by the Bank of Estonia
-     A pricing policy should be established for loans to provide an adequate
return on capital, to cover funding and administrative costs, the costs of
liquidity and the provisions required to cover expected losses on loans of
different type and maturity



- 56 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 4 of 10
-     A debt recovery procedure should be elaborated and implemented
(iv)   Management Information, Computer and Reporting Systems
-     The reports received by senior management should be enhanced to provide
timely and concise information regarding all the banks main risk positions
and sources of profitability
-     A minimum package of management information to enable the sound
management of the bank should be prepared
-     The BANKMASTER system, currently in use in the bank should be used,
and if necessary upgraded to produce the necessary reports
-     A manager should be appointed to deal with the improvement in reporting
and information systems
-     A professional evaluation should be undertaken to determine whether the
BANKMASTER system can satisfy the management information needs
implicit in the strategy of the bank. In particular, an assessment should be
made of the capability of the system, if enhanced, to provide real time
information for the branch network as a whole
In the event of a positive evaluation system enhancement should be
introduced as soon as possible. If this is not the case an evaluation of
alternative systems should be undertaken by a suitably qualified expert and
a program of rapid implementation put in place
The systems team of the bank should be strengthened
(v)   Accounting Systems
-     As a priority the bank must have operational accounting systems which
satisfy international accounting standards and the requirements of the
Estonian Authorities, particularly the central bank and the Taxation
Authorities
In view of the difficulties of a transitional economy particular attention
should be given to ensuring that correct practices of interest accrual and
suspension are followed throughout the bank



- 57 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 5 of 10
A system of management accounts should be introduced in the bank to
assess the profitability of branches' to correctly allocate the costs of
balance sheet management and to begin the process of measuring product
profitability
(vi)   Development of a Marketing and Marketing Analysis Team
A small team should be established to undertake a continuous analysis of
the Estonian banking market and to undertake the monitoring of
competitors. The work of the team will be a vital input into the planning
process of the bank
The team should also assist in the development with senior management
of marketing and product development plans for new products
(vii)  Setting up of a Problem Loan Work-Out Unit
In view of the large amount of non-performing loans in balance sheet of the bank
it is essential that the bank develop a capacity to deal with problem debtors to
enhance its capacity to improve repayments from the current "problem portfolio"
and to ensure that such problems to do not recur in the future. The unit's objective
is to safeguard the interests of the bank through the following strategy:
Identifying the precise problems of the borrowers
- Find a workable solution to the problem borrower (This will focus initially
on the potential for the financial rather than the physical restructuring of
enterprises)
The financial restructuring in term and rate of the borrowers obligations
should be done according to regulations established by the central bank
(e.g., no restructuring allowed in the absence of a further import of capital
by borrowers or commitment to a privatization program)
The work-out unit is responsible for the implementation and monitoring of
the work-out plan
If the recovery of the borrower is not feasible the unit is responsible for
collection of the problem loan through voluntary or forced liquidation



- 58 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 6 of 10
Given the emphasis on developing the specialized skills of this unit and the
scarcity of such skills elsewhere in Estonia, serious consideration should
be given to provide the bank with an incentive fee for collecting those
"bad" loans carved out of the balance sheet. Targets should be set up for
the collection program as well as an annual audit of the collection process.
Longer term the unit would also develop expertise for more comprehensive
restructuring  processes  for  enterprises  involving  restructuring,
reorganization and recapitalization.
(viii) Development of an effective Treasury function
-     A set of policies for the control of interest rate, foreign exchange rate and
liquidity should be developed by management and translated into a formal
document
An information base should be constructed for the monitoring and control
of liquidity, interest rate and foreign exchange risk
A risk manager should be appointed to implement the above risk policies
working within the Treasury of the bank
The risk manager should develop the agenda for the Treasury Committee
which would involve the most senior management of the bank
(ix)  Internal Audit
A stronger internal audit team of at least four people should be constructed
A set of internal audit procedures should be prepared
(x)   Development of a Privatization Plan for the Bank
A clear timetable moving the bank towards privatization should be
established, including mileposts for completing the financial reconstruction
and rehabilitation measures indicated above.
Major strategic initiatives (e.g., development of investment banking
activities) should be postponed prior to privatization given the need to find
a merger partner/strategic investor.



- 59 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 7 of 10
Qualifications of the Advisors.   The program of institutional development for
the North Estonian Bank will require the support of extensive technical assistance
and the involvement of a strengthened senior management team. If the Estonian
Authorities accept the preconditions the following elements must be put in place
as soon as possible:
(i)    A General Management Advisor will need to work for a period of at least a year
to develop a business plan for the bank and to develop action plans for its
implementation, as well as advising management on general management issues
(see TOR below)
(ii)   An experienced bank accountant will be required for perhaps 6 months to develop
the accounting systems of the bank and assist in the strengthening of the internal
audit function (see TOR below)
(iii)   An experienced credit professional will be required for a period of up to a year
to develop the credit function with particular attention to the problem loans, loan
policies and the formation of the work-out unit (see TOR below)
(iv)   A systems expert (or consulting company) will be contract to conducting an
investigation of the flexibility of the BANKMASTER system or to seek an
alternative. Assistance will then be provided over a period of perhaps 3 months
to achieve a systems upgrade.
(v)   A Treasury specialist will be contracted to:
Develop a liquidity management system
Develop a foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk management system
Assist the bank in setting up daily money management meetings and
monthly T reasury (or Asset-Liability management meetings)
It is envisaged this attachment might last 3 months.
(vi)   A comprehensive training program will be developed for the bank preferably
through a contract signed with commercial bank from a developed market.



- 60 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 8 of 10
8.          Terms of Reference. General Management Advisor. The requirement will be for
a commercial banker with a proven track record of bank "turnaround" situations to support the
senior management of the North Estonian bank in all aspects of institution building and to be the
leading member of the team of international advisors. The banker will need to have credible
management experience in the following areas:
(i)   Strategic and operational planning
(ii)   Human resources management
(iii)  Financial control
(iv)   Management of the credit function
If possible, the candidate should also have experience in:
(v)   Marketing management
(vi)  Treasury
(vii)  Systems
The advisor will be responsible for the following key tasks in the institution building program:
(i)    Development of the organizational and management structure of the North
Estonian bank
(ii)   Development of a system of management controls for the day-to-day running of
the bank. This will include the implementation, in conjunction with the credit
advisor, of appropriate branch procedures covering all operational areas
(iii)   Development of a Human Resources Management strategy as well as a training
and recruitment program for the bank
(iv)   Development, in conjunction with the other advisors and the management of the
bank, a strategic plan. This will define the overall structure of development for the
bank to the point of privatization
(v)   Development, in conjunction with the other advisors and the management of the
bank, realistic operational plans designed to achieve the key strategic objectives.
The areas of particular importance will be:



- 61 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 9 of 10
a)    Accounting and systems development
b)    Human Resources development
c)    Product development
d)    Financial targets
e)    Risk Management Objectives
(vi)  The general management advisor will also play a key role in coordinating the
efforts of all the donors( multi-lateral and bi-lateral) involved in the institutional
development program for the "core" bank. He will be required to prepare quarterly
progress reports on all the targeted areas of development.
9.          Accounting Advisor.  The requirement is for an individual with extensive
experience of the bank financial management function. While accounting qualifications are a pre-
requisite this is not a job for an auditor but for someone with extensive operational financial
management experience which could have been gained in the role of a senior management
accountant or a finance director in a commercial bank.
The key tasks for the jobholder would be:
(i)   Implementation of the a Plan of Accounts to international standards which is
consistent with the requirements of the BOE as the consolidated reporting format
for the bank
(ii)   Development of a regulatory reporting system in line with the requirements of the
Bank of Estonia
(iii)   Development of a profitability measurement system (including a transfer pricing
system to allow branch profitability measurement)
(iv)   Development of a budgeting system as an integral component of the bank's
planning system
(v)   Development of accounting and financial analysis training in the bank
The accounting advisor will also have a key role to play in the specification of the MIS to be
developed for the bank. A knowledge of English would be essential to the jobholder. Estonian
speaking candidates will be looked upon with particular favor.



- 62 -
ANNEX Vill
Page 10 of 10
10.          Credit Advisor. The requirement is for an individual with extensive (at least
10 years) management experience the credit function of a major bank capacity. Experience in
developing markets working for a major international bank will be considered with particular
favor.
The principle responsibilities will be:
(i)    Develop and implement a credit policy for the bank
(ii)   Develop procedures for the analysis of new loans
(iii)   Develop Terms of reference and procedures for the activities of the bank's
problem loan work out unit(including treatment of collateral, restructuring of debt
(in line with BOE regulations) and liquidation of enterprises
(iv)   Assist in the development of credit training in the bank including the development
of a credit manual
(v)   Develop a loan portfolio review procedure within the bank
(vi)   Assist in the formation of the bank's credit committee.
A very good knowledge of English would be essential to the candidate. Estonian speakers who
are suitably qualified will be looked upon particularly favorably.



- 63 -
ANNEX IX
Page I of 3
ESTONIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for the Project Implementation Unit
1.          The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will have primary responsibility for
channeling the World Bank Credit Line to the Government of Estonia, which will be used to
finance qualifying Estonian private sector projects through eligible on-lender Estonian commercial
banks.
2.          Overall activities of the PIU will include, in consultation with the World Bank:
(i)   Selection of qualified commercial banks
(ii)   Ongoing monitoring of qualified banks, and, if necessary, disqualification
of banks which fall out of compliance with conditions of the program
(iii)  Prior review of first two projects from each participating bank and each
project over US$2 million equivalent.
(iv)   Ex-post review of other projects
In addition, the PIU will be responsible for:
(i)    On-lending/disbursement of the World Bank funds to eligible banks
(ii)   Compliance review  of the World Bank Procurement Rules and
Environmental Guidelines
(iii)  Monitoring, accounting and reporting on overall project implementation of
the World Bank credit line, under the terms and conditions specified by the
documentation
(iv)  Maintaining the accounting records of the "Special Account" incorporating
the disbursements and repayments of the revolving World Bank credit line
(v)   Conducting post-lending reviews of the project lending applications of the
borrowing banks with proper reporting of the results.
(vi)  Ensuring on behalf of the Government and the World Bank that all
compliance requirements under the terms and the conditions of the credit
line are met.
3.    Legal Structure. The PIU will be unit in the Ministry of Finance. This unit must be
empowered to act as an agent of the Republic of Estonia, i.e., able to disburse and collect World
Bank loan funds, sign contracts and manage donor special accounts. The unit must also be
empowered to hold and conduct transactions in Estonian Kroon and foreign exchange accounts.



- 64 -
ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 3
4.          Organizational structure. The PIU will be staffed by a competent team with the
authority and stature to deal directly and effectively with the Core Advisors Group, qualifying
banks, the World Bank, and other providers of assistance to this project.
5.          It is proposed that the PIU will  have four Estonian staff, composed of:
(i) Department  Head;  (ii) Credit  Line  Manager;  (iii) Accounting  Manager;  and
(iv) Secretary/Support Staff. In addition, a foreign procurement advisor will be needed.
6.          The Department Head will be responsible for:
Selection of qualified commercial banks, with the assistance of the Credit
Line Manager and the Core Advisors Group
Ongoing review of bank qualifications, and decisions on qualifying new
banks, or disqualifying banks which fall out of compliance
7.          The Credit Line Manager will be responsible for:
-     Prior review of first two projects from each participating bank and each
project over US$2 million equivalent
-     Ex-post subloan eligibility reviews and reporting
-     Review of the standard subloan agreements of the banks with the
enterprises
-     Analysis and consolidation of the subloan portfolio performance reporting
-     Referral to the World Bank of the loan applications of the banks for
approval for lending
-     Referral to the Accounting department for disbursement of the loans after
proper verification of the documents and the necessary approvals.
8.          The Accounting Manager will be responsible for:
-     Establishing the Special Account
-     Setting  up  the project accounts, accounting  system  and  related
documentation controls
-     Authorizing disbursements to/from the "special account" based on loan
payments/re-payments/replenishment needs, etc.
-     Arranging for the audit under international accounting standards and
applications for the PIU and all related project accounts by an acceptable
independent audit firm
-     Collecting repayments of the credit line
-     Monitoring final payment of the credit line to the World Bank



- 65 -
ANNEX IX
Page 3 of 3
Reporting, as required, on project disbursement and collection performance under
the credit line.
9.          The Procurement Advisor will be responsible for:
-     Providing information and guidance to qualifying banks and subborrowers
on procurement processes
-     Organizing training seminars for qualifying bank and subborrower staff on
procurement procedures
-     Checking compliance with World Bank Procurement rules
-     Providing assistance in procurement conducted by the PIU, including the
hiring of consultants for technical assistance.
10.         Qualifications of the staff of the PIU. The credit line manager needs to be
experienced and/or trained in the project finance and credit structuring/evaluation methodologies.
Prior experience in credit administration department (and/or a strong training in this area) of a
commercial bank would be helpful.
11.         The accounting manager need to have an accounting background with strong
familiarity and/or training in bank accounting under international standards and applications.
12.         The procurement advisor will be a professional with experience in World Bank
procurement procedures, and familiarity with potential contractors and suppliers.
13.         Cost of the PIU. It is estimated that the PIU will need to be fully operational for
the first 3 years of the operation of the credit line. Afterwards, the PIU will have mainly
monitoring activities that may be integrated with other responsibilities. The PIU can also be used
for the monitoring and reporting of the other donor funds for project finance. It is expected that
the administrative costs of the PIU will be covered through a margin over the cost of funds to
the government to be charged to the on-lender banks.
14.         Reporting requirements of the PIU    Semi-annually:   Subloan portfolio
performance/progress and the post-lending review of the compliance of the sub-loans for
procurement and other terms and conditions as specified in the loan documentation.



- 66 -
ANNEX X
Page I of 9
ESTONIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for the Core Advisors Group
I. Introduction
1.          Several bilateral donors and multilateral institutions are providing or are developing
plans to provide credit resources to the Government of Estonia in support of the stabilization and
adjustment process. A sizeable part of these funds is intended to be channeled through the
banking system.
2.          Although Estonia, since gaining its independence, has made impressive progress
towards establishing a market economy, further restructuring of the banking sector is needed to
improve the efficiency with which further bank lending including on-lending of external
resources, is undertaken. External bilateral donors and multilateral institutions providing funds
have therefore been assisting the Estonian authorities in designing an institutional framework to
support the on-lending of these resources through the commercial banks.
A. The External Financing Board (EFB)
3.          To facilitate the channeling through the Estonian banking system of external funds
received under the remaining of EU/G-24 assistance and part of the purchases from the
International Monetary Fund, the External Financing Board (EFB) within the Ministry of Finance
was established in October 1993. Unless otherwise provided for or agreed in the context of
bilateral agreements relating to the use of EU/G-24 assistance packages, these funds will
channeled to the banks in the form of credit lines established by the Government for the
qualifying banks. Banks will be pre-qualified on the basis of whether they meet basic prudential
criteria and their capacity to evaluate medium- and long-term credit risks.
4.          As a first step, the Banking Supervision Department of the Bank of Estonia (BOE)
will announce a set of objective prudential criteria and inform the EFB of the list of commercial
banks meeting those criteria. A separate Core Advisors Group (CAG), composed of foreign
experts, will assess the capacity of these banks to evaluate credits, in particular medium-term
credits related to investment. The CAG would recommend to the EFB for pre-qualification those
banks demonstrating an adequate capacity for credit evaluation. The EFB would then decide
which banks to pre-qualify based on these recommendations.  There would be a clear
understanding that banks which do not meet the prudential banking criteria set by the Bank of
Estonia, or are not recommended by the CAG would not be pre-qualified.



- 67 -
ANNEX X
Page 2 of 9
5.          The Banking Supervision Department of the Bank of Estonia will announce a
maximum limit for the credit lines to be made available, based on a set of objective criteria. On
this basis, the CAG would ascertain the size of the credit line available to each bank and inform
the EFB, which would then instruct the Bank of Estonia (which manages the foreign accounts
of the Government) to release credit lines from the Government for these amounts to each bank.
In addition, the EFB would set a uniform guideline for the banks regarding a minimum
proportion of the credit line which should be used by the banks for lending for investment
purposes. The EFB will monitor loans made under the credit line and if the performance of a
given bank is found to be unsatisfactory (e.g., it is unable to service the credit line, or it is found
not to meet the prudential standards of the Bank of Estonia), the EFB would suspend or cancel
the credit line.
6.          The credit line provided to banks will be tranched. The EFB will set guidelines
increasing, for each additional tranche, the proportion of minimum investment lending. The
experience of the banking system with the previous tranche would guide the setting of limits and
guidelines for the next tranche. The on-lender commercial banks can request a credit line in any
of six currencies (USD, JPY, DEM, FRF, GBP, ECU) and are expected to take the credit and
exchange risks of the projects financed under the proposed credit line.
7.          The provisions above are without prejudice to any specific arrangements or rules
applying to the use of EU/G-24 assistance packages.
B. The World Bank Financial Institutions Development Loan
8.          The World Bank, in conjunction with the Government of Sweden, is preparing a
joint credit line/capital fund that will be used to provide long term credit resources and capital
to qualifying banks. The Government of Sweden will provide capital to the banking sector,
permitting banks to increase their long-term loan volume. The World Bank Credit Line of the
project is intended to encourage the further development of the capability for credit analysis and
project finance in the banking sector, and to provide needed long-term funds to the enterprise
sector.
9.          The World Bank loan will be made to the Government of Estonia. The funds will
be on-lent to qualifying commercial banks after proper screening and authorizations, to finance
medium- and long-term productive investments of the private sector. Although this credit line
will be formally the responsibility of the Government of Estonia, the on-lender commercial banks
are expected to take credit and exchange risks of the projects financed under the credit line.



- 68 -
ANNEX X
Page 3 of 9
10.         The credit line administrations will be managed through a Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) in the Ministry of Finance. This unit will be responsible for the proper accounting,
reporting and procedural implementation of the disbursements and repayments under the credit
line. The PIU will also be responsible for ensuring that the procurement of all equipment and
services are done in accordance with the World Bank guidelines, and that all sub-projects are in
compliance with World Bank environmental guidelines.
11.         Disbursements by the Government under the credit line will be made against
specific approved project finance requests of the qualifying banks. The banks will be allowed
to borrow on a first-come, first-serve basis. The CAG will review and provide recommendations
on the first two projects of each bank as well as projects over US$2 million; these projects and
recommendations will be sen to the PIU and World Bank for approval. Other projects will be
subject to verification of eligibility criteria (such as environmental screening and compliance with
negative list), as well as ex-post review.
12.         Disbursements will be made against standard World Bank documentation. Under
the credit line, the World Bank would finance up to 100 percent of the amounts disbursed by
qualifying banks for sub-loans. In cases where the bank is also qualified for co-financing under
the Swedish Capital Fund, the World Bank would finance part of the amounts disbursed for sub-
loans.
13.         The CAG will provide recommendations to the PIU on the eligibility of banks and
will assist in monitoring the banks for their ongoing eligibility.
14.         Under both the EFB arrangement and the World Bank project, the CAG will
provide technical assistance to all interested commercial banks in Estonia. One important area
of technical assistance would be to strengthen banks' own credit evaluation units, including both
participating banks, and banks not immediately eligible for a credit line, but which would like
to qualify.   In addition, assistance would be provided to all banks, regardless of their
participation in the credit line programs, in a wide range of areas, including: (i) developing credit
policies and procedures/credit manuals with proper controls; (ii) developing internal operational
manuals applicable under internationally acceptable accounting standards and applications;
(iii) structuring and evaluating term-lending, including pre- and post-lending risk assessment and
project finance methodologies; (iv) developing operational and investment budgets in line with
bank strategy; and (v) developing proper internal management information systems for effective
asset and liability management.
15.         The operation of the EFB as envisaged above and the World Bank project would
be conditional on the hiring of three experienced bankers to serve as a Core Advisors Group for
a period of 2 to 3 years, the anticipated period of disbursement of initial funds. At the end of
this period, the need for the CAG will be re-evaluated. These advisors would be placed in the



- 69 -
ANNEX X
Page 4 of 9
Ministry of Finance. To promote the transfer of knowledge, local assistants will be hired and/or
counterpart staff from the Bank of Estonia, Ministry of Finance and/or Bankers' Association will
work with the CAG to receive on-the-job training.
16.         The CAG would not bear any financial liabilities for default of loans extended by
the qualifying commercial banks. However, the CAG will provide its assessments, guidance and
advice according to ethical and professional standards of the international banking community.
II. Functions and the Activities of the Core Advisors Group
A. The Core Advisors Group will jointly:
1.    Evaluate the eligibility of the banks for the EFB and World Bank Credit Lines
2.    Review progress of the implementation of the restructuring and/or technical
assistance programs of the banks applying for the qualification under the credit
line,
3.    Monitor and report periodically to the EFB and to the World Bank, respectively,
on the financial performance of the on-lending banks,
4.    For the World Bank Financial Institutions Development Loan only: Review and
provide recommendations on the eligibility and acceptability of the first two sub-
projects for each banks, as well as subprojects over US$2 million equivalent,
which will then be reviewed by the PIU and the World Bank,
5.    For the World Bank Financial Institutions Development Loan only, verify
eligibility of other subprojects (environmental screening, compliance with negative
list, etc.), and refer the subproject to the PIU for further processing.
6.    For the EFB only: Assess the credit evaluation capacity of the banks applying for
a credit line and report the findings to the EFB,
7.    For the EFB only: Ascertain the size of the credit lines announced by the BOE
and report to the EFB.
8.    Coordinate its activities with the EC/PHARE project for bank training in Estonia,
and, if requested, assist banks in writing terms of reference for financing under the
project.



- 70 -
ANNEX X
Page 5 of 9
B. The functions and the activities of the individual advisors will be:
1.    Advisor for Credit Policy/Procedures will be expected to perform the following
functions:
a. Assist the management of qualifying banks to develop proper credit policy and
procedures according to different types of products and customers the bank is
planning to specialize in.
b. Assist the management in developing internal methods and policies with regard
to risk asset classifications, proper monitoring of the loan portfolio, in
identifying problem loans/watch list clients and also in developing procedures
and policies in dealing with problem loans.
c. Provide guidance to the credit committees of the banks which are planning to
on-lend funds from the credit line.
d. Coordinate and assist the interested banks' internal training programs related
to credit.
e. Provide guidance and assistance in international training/study-tours for the
personnel related to credits. This personnel would range from central liability
clerks to loan officers.
f. For the EFB only: Monitor the financial performance of on-lending banks and
report developments to the EFB.
Specific activities to be carried out by the advisor include:
a. Deliver a series of case-oriented seminars of 3-5 days to different levels of
managements of banks in the following areas: (i) financial analysis for
different types of companies; (ii) defining risks related to lending; (iii) credit
policy development; (iv) credit management(from initiation to repayment);
(v) Risk asset evaluation; (vi) credit process and monitoring; (vii) problem
loan management; and (viii) work-outs and liquidation.
b. Attend the Credit Committee Meetings of the banks interested in developing
their lending skills.
c. Work with the Credit Department Heads of interested banks



- 71 -
ANNEX X
Page 6 of 9
d. Prepare periodic reports on recommendations for improving the lending
environment, needs for skill building in lending as well as own activities to the
related counterparties.
2.    Advisor for Accounting/Operations will be expected to perform the following
functions:
a. Assist the banks in developing proper operations manuals for their standard
services and products.
b. Assist the banks in adopting and understanding the International Accounting
Standards and Applications.
c. Assist the banks in setting up internal control and internal audit departments.
d. Assist the banks in converting to an automated operations mode with proper
controls.
e. Assist the banks in developing correct and meaningful Management
Information Systems.
f. Assist the banks in unit cost analysis, improvements in productivity and
efficiency thus rationalizing their products and services suitable to their
capabilities.
Specific activities to be carried out by the advisor include:
a. Deliver 3-5 days applied seminars to the different levels of management of the
banks in areas like; bank technology management, MIS, accounting
applications and standards with their implications, risks and controls of running
a bank operation, fraud in an automated environment, unit costing of bank
products and services, bank efficiency analysis, measuring customer
profitability and bank profitability, objectives of operational guidelines.
b. Prepare recommendation reports to interested banks in ways of improving
operational efficiency with proper controls.
c. Assist and coordinate with internal training departments of the banks in
developing proper on-the-job training programs for different levels of
operating and accounting personnel.



- 72 -
ANNEX X
Page 7 of 9
d. Arrange and coordinate for foreign study tours/training for selected staff.
e. Submit periodic report on sector recommendations as well as own activities to
the related counterparties.
3.     The Corporate Banking/Project Finance Advisor will be expected to perform the
following functions:
a. Assist the banks in developing capability to assess long term lending/project
finance.
b. Assist the banks in developing skills in structuring credits (pricing, collateral,
different types of products, etc.). Assist the banks in developing credit and
service products.
c. Assist the banks in developing technical skills to provide trade finance related
products and services.
d. Assist the banks in developing sector analysis and enterprise restructuring
capabilities.
e. Assist the banks in developing marketing skills to borrow from international
financial markets/correspondents and in selling and managing syndications.
f. For the EFB only: Monitor the financial performance of the on-lender banks
and report to EFB.
g. Assist the banks in introducing new loan products like financial leasing,
factoring, bankers acceptances, etc.
h. Assist the banks in developing target market definitions and criteria for
acceptability for enterprises.
i. Assist the banks in appraising equity investments for future involvement in
stock markets and privatization process.
Specific activities to be carried out by the advisor include:
a. Work closely with the loan officers/credit marketing departments of the
qualifying and other banks.



- 73 -
ANNEX X
Page 8 of 9
b. Give 3-5 days seminars on: (i) loan products; (ii) project finance analysis and
structuring; (iii) syndications; (iv) mergers and acquisitions; (v) credit
marketing; (vi) target marketing; (vii) methods of developing and introducing
new products and services; (viii) total service quality.
c. Confirm approval on project finance structuring capability on the banks that
want to qualify under the World Bank Credit Line.
d. Prepare periodic reports on developing corporate/wholesale banking for the
sector as well as own activities to the related counterparts.
III. Qualifications of the Advisors
A. Advisor for Credit Policy/Procedures:
Minimum 10-15 years of experience in an international bank particularly in
developing country environments as a senior credit related line-officer. The
functions held can be: (i) head of a credit or credit administration department of
a large multinational bank; (ii) member of a credit committee or credit policy
committee of a multibranch and/or multinational bank; (iii) risk asset reviewer of
a bank; and/or (iv) member of a bank regulatory body with particular emphasis on
loan portfolio assessment and monitoring capabilities of the banks. Several years
of experience in direct managing and/or monitoring/administering of a loan
portfolio in order to understand the psychology of lending is preferred.
Having worked only as a supervisor in a regulatory body is not sufficient. Further
experience in developing credit policy and procedures as well as credit
performance criterion would be helpful. The advisor should also be aware of the
new methods being developed for risk evaluation as well as risks involved in the
financial engineering products developed during the last 5 years.  Estonian
language skills are desirable; fluent English language skills will be required.
B. Accounting/Operations Advisor:
Minimum 10 years of experience as Head of Operations, or Head of Accounting
and Control Department of a bank that has been or is operating under the
European Accounting Standards and Applications. Background in accountancy is
helpful provided the experience and application was in banking. Experience in an
audit company, etc., is not necessary. Hands-on management of bank



- 74 -
ANNEX X
Page 9 of 9
operations, especially in a developing financial market, is much preferred.
Familiarity with bank technology, automated bank-MIS software is important.
Estonian language skills are desirable; fluent English language skills will be
required.
C. Corporate Banking/Project Finance Advisor:
Minimum 10 years of experience as: (i) corporate banker; (ii) investment/merchant
banker; (iii) head of credit and marketing department; and/or (iv) head of a bank
involved in wholesale banking. Knowledge and hands-on experience in structuring
different types of loans in different sectors, evaluating projects, syndications, trade
finance and asset based finance is essential.  Should be familiar with and
preferably involved in several large project finance term-lending projects,
preferably from international capital markets or through international investment
and development banks. Knowledge on monitoring a credit portfolio and hand-on
responsibility for administrative management of the loan portfolio would also be
helpful. Estonian language skills are desirable; fluent English language skills will
be required.
IV. Reporting Requirements
A.    The Core Advisors Group will jointly report:
I.    On a quarterly basis, eligibility status and overall performance evaluation of the
qualifying banks.
2.    On a quarterly basis, progress reports on the restructuring plan and/or technical
assistance programs of the banks under the qualification program.
3.    On a semi-annual basis, financial evaluation reports on the eligible banks including
and overall assessment of the loan quality of the banks, supported by audited
financials when available.
B.    The advisors will individually also report on an annual basis on their activities under the
technical assistance program with necessary recommendations relevant to their areas of expertise.
C.    These reports will be sent to the EFB and the PIU, as well as to the participating
multilateral and bilateral groups.



- 75 -
ANNEX XI
Page I of 5
ESTONIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Environmental Training
1.          Introduction. The country of Estonia is developing a program of Financial
Institutions Development for which it anticipates receiving financial support from the World
Bank. An aspect of this loan is to be a small Credit Line (US$10 million) which will incorporate
the standard conditions of eligibility for participating financial institutions (e.g., financial audits,
financial ratios, loan loss experience, credit appraisal capacity, adequate accounting and financial
controls, etc.), as well as specialized conditions reflecting the need to protect the interests of the
capital provider.
2.          One of the conditions of the World Bank loan is that the financial institutions
processing the loans take into account the environmental legislation of Estonia and the policy of
the World Bank on environmental assessment (Operational Directive 4.01). Screening of
individual sub-projects by the commercial banks (project implementing institutions) will be
required and those projects which require environmental impact assessment under Estonian law
must receive project approval prior to finalization of lending. These approvals are issued by
either the Environmental Impact Assessment Board of Estonia's Ministry of Environment or by
the Environmental Protection Boards of the appropriate County Government, depending on the
classification of the proposed project under Estonia's environmental assessment guidelines.
3.          Scope of Work. World Bank environmental staff have already reviewed current
environmental laws and regulations, and found them to be satisfactory. The main emphasis of
this project will be to build up the institutional capacity to ensure that these laws and regulations
are being properly implemented. Further institutional building activities will be carried out in
future World Bank projects.
4.          Consultants would undertake a program to develop the ability of the project
implementing institutions to screen the individual sub-projects, provide management training to
higher level personnel in the Estonian Environmental Impact Assessment Board, and improve the
overall capabilities of the governmental institutions responsible for environmental assessment.
The goal of the program would be to train the loan departments of the participating commercial
banks to screen proposed sub-projects for those which require environmental impact assessment
approval from the Environmental Impact Assessment Board or the County Environmental Boards.
The institutional capacity of the Environmental Impact Assessment Board will be augmented
through management training, computerization of the Board, computer training,



- 76 -
ANNEX XI
Page 2 of 5
development of an environmental assessment data base, overseas internships and training for key
employees, assistance with the development of environmental standards, English language
training, and the publication of EA guidelines in Estonian and English. The consultant group
undertaking this work should be composed of a mix of local and foreign consultants to utilize the
comparative skill advantages presented by both. Local Estonian consultants have a high capacity
to do most of the assignments detailed here and would be complemented by specialized foreign
consultants. Thereby skill transfer would also be enhanced.
5.          Support for the Banking Sector. The following major tasks would be conducted
under the element of the activity oriented to the needs of the banking sector:
(a)   Consultation. The local consultants would consult with both the Environmental
Impact Assessment Board and the Core Adviser Group (CAG) in order to
understand their views and concerns in regard to the substance of the training
program for commercial bank personnel. The consultants would familiarize
themselves with the loan evaluation process carried out by the commercial banks.
The consultants would take into account the current loan evaluation process as
well as the technical assistance on loan evaluation which will be offered by the
CAG when developing the TA on environmental assessment. The Estonian
Chamber of Commerce and the Estonian Privatization Agency would also be
contacted and their views solicited.
(b)   Review  of Current Environmental Assessment Procedures.  The local
consultants would review the current legislation and regulations that are in force
in the Republic of Estonia concentrating on "The Order on the Procedure of
Environmental Impact Assessment," and the Environmental Assessment Guidelines
prepared by the Environmental Impact Assessment Board with the assistance of
the Stockholm Environmental Institute - Tallinn.
(c)   Translation  of the Environmental Assessment Guidelines.   The local
consultants would translate the previously mentioned Environmental Assessment
Guidelines from Estonian into English.
(d)   Publication of the Environmental Assessment Guidelines. The Guidelines
would be published in a bilingual (Estonian/English) volume in the quantity of
2,000 copies.
(e)   Preparation of Environmental Assessment Manual. The local consultants
would prepare for publication a 10-20 page manual on environmental assessment
procedures in Estonia directed to the needs of the banking community in



- 77 -
ANNEX XI
Page 3 of 5
reviewing potential loans. The manual would be prepared in both the Estonian
and English languages. The manual would be suitable for use both during the
training process and in everyday banking business. The manual would provide a
review of the applicable environmental procedures and include concise overview
of the types of environmental issues commonly encountered in commercial bank
lending operations in Estonia. It would include, but not be limited to, the
following items:
(i)    An annotated list of Estonian environmental laws, regulations and
procedures which are related to the development of economic activities
(such as those on environmental assessment, natural resource charges,
coastal zones, emissions limits for pollution, and endangered species, for
example);
(ii)   A list and short descriptions of environmental permits necessary to initiate
economic activities;
(iii)  More detailed summaries of the regulations most directly concerning
investment activities (such as the Order on Environmental Impact
Assessment and the Guidelines); and
(iv)   A list of contact institutions in the Estonian government for inquiries
regarding specific environmental and permitting issues.
(f)   Training Program. The local consultants,in consultation with the CAG, would
design and implement a training program directed chiefly at the employees of
commercial banks dealing with loan evaluation. The program would include
"training of trainers." Participants in the training program should also include
representatives of the following:
- the Environmental Impact Assessment Board;
- the County Environmental Boards;
- the Estonian Privatization Agency; and
- the Estonian Chamber of Commerce.
The training session would be conducted by the local consultants in Tallinn
primarily in the Estonian language. The course would introduce the key written
materials including the Environmental Assessment Guidelines and Environmental
Assessment Manual to the participants. A case-study approach, utilizing case-
studies of environmental assessments prepared in Estonia, would be used to
familiarize the participants with the practical application of environmental



- 78 -
ANNEX XI
Page 4 of 5
assessment requirements. The training sessions be scheduled to take place on a
half-day basis (mornings or afternoons) for one working week.
Support for Environmental Management Institutions. The following major tasks
would be conducted under the element of activity directed towards strengthening the
government institutions responsible for supervision and management of the
environmental assessment process - the Environmental Impact Assessment Board and the
County Environment Boards:
(a)   Management Training. The Director of the Environmental Impact Assessment
Board would receive management training from the foreign consultants to increase
the efficiency and capacity of the Board. This training would concentrate on
increasing the capacity of the EIA Board in program planning and personnel
management;
(b)   Computerization and Computer Training.   The Environmental Impact
Assessment Board would be provided with three computer/printer sets and the staff
members would receive training in their use. A telefax would also be provided
for the Board.
(c)   Development of an Environmental Assessment Data Base.  The foreign
consultants would assist the Board in the establishment of a computerized data
base that can be utilized for the evaluation and analysis of environmental
assessments and related documents.
(d)   Overseas Internships and Training. The Director of the Board would placed in
a 1-month internship at the World Bank, where he would also have an opportunity
to consult with environmental assessment experts at the World Bank, International
Finance Corporation and the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
Two professional level staff members the Board would attend 1-2 month courses
in environmental impact assessment. This training would be followed by an
internship in a national environmental institutions dealing with environmental
assessment for one employee and an internship'in a private consulting firm which
regularly prepared environmental assessments for the other employee.
(e)   Environmental Audits. The foreign consultants would provide assistance for the
development of proposed procedures for the use of environmental audits as an
alternative to the preparation of environmental assessments. Efforts would focus



- 79 -
ANNEX XI
Page 5 of 5
on the use of environmental audits in the evaluation of proposed investments for
the rehabilitation and/or upgrading of industrial and energy facilities. Board staff
would be provided with a short-course in environmental audits which would
include a practical exercise to be conducted at an industrial facility in Estonia.
This work would be coordinated with the program for industrial auditing and
waste-minimization being conducted in Estonia by the World Environment Center
with support for the United States Agency for International Development.
(f)   Assistance with Development of Environmental Standards. The foreign
consultants would assist the Board, whose competence also includes environmental
standards, in preparation of proposed emissions standards for industrial enterprises,
and in developing a practical process for the phased implementation of these
standards which should be compatible with those of the European Union.
(g)   Translation of the World Bank Environmental Assessment Sourcebook. The
local consultants would translate relevant sections of the World Bank's
Environmental Assessment Sourcebook into Estonian for the use of the Board.
6.          Inception Report. The consultants would submit an inception report within
30 days of start-up. The inception report should include a training plan for the conduction of the
previously mentioned activities.



- 80 -
ANNEX XII
Page I of I
ESTONIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IBRD Disbursements
CATEGORY                         AMOUNT             % OF EXPENDITURES
(US$ million)      TO BE FINANCED
Participating financial         8.01                50 percent
institutions eligible to receive
funds from the Swedish Capital
fund.
Other PFIs                      2.0'                100 percent of foreign expenditures
100 percent of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
80 percent of other items
procured locally
Total                           10.0
Estimated allocations
Estimated IBRD Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY 95           FY 96           FY 97           FY 98
Annual                2               3                3               2
Cumulative            2               5                8              10



- 81 -
ANNEX XIII
Page 1 of 1
ESTONIA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
APPROXIMATE                 ACTIVITIES               STAFF COMPOSITION   STAFF
DATES                                                                            WEEKS
10/94-12/94             Project Launch                 Task Manager                   10
Bank Specialist
Enterprise/PSD Specialist
Procurement
Disbursement
Accounting
Environment
2/95                Supervision                     Task Manager                   5
Bank Specialist
Enterprise/PSD Specialist
Procurement
5/95                Supervision                     Task Manager                   5
Bank Specialist
Enterprise/PSD Specialist
Disbursement
8/95                Supervision                     Task Manager                   4
Bank Specialist
Enterprise/PSD Specialist
Disbursement
12/95                Supervision                    Task Manager                   4
Bank Specialist
Enterprise/PSD Specialist
Procurement
3/96                Supervision                     Task Manager                   4
Bank Specialist
Enterprise/PSD Specialist
Disbursement
6/96                Mid-term Review                 Task Manager                   10
Bank Specialist
Enterprise/PSD Specialist
Procurement
Disbursement
Country Lawyer



- 82 -
APPROXIMATE                 ACTIVITIES               STAFF COMPOSITION   STAFF
DATES                                                                           WEEKS
9/96                Supervision                    Task Manager                   4
Bank Specialist
Enterprise/PSD Specialist
Disbursement
12/96               Supervision                     Task Manager                  5
Bank Specialist
Enterprise/PSD Specialist
Procurement
Disbursement
3/97                Supervision                    Task Manager                   4
Bank Specialist
Enterprise/PSD Specialist
Disbursement
6/97                Supervision                    Task Manager                   4
Bank Specialist
Enterprise/PSD Specialist
Disbursement
9/97                Supervision                    Task Manager                   4
Bank Specialist
Enterprise/PSD Specialist
Disbursement
12/97               Supervision                     Task Manager                  4
Bank Specialist
Enterprise/PSD Specialist
Disbursement
3/98                Supervision                    Task Manager                   4
Bank Specialist
Enterprise/PSD Specialist
Disbursement
6/98                Final Supervision              Task Manager                   4
Disbursement
Country Lawyer



IBRD 26135
ESTONIA                                                   Guif of  finand                                                                   Gulf of Finland
Mai. Rooos                       Seleddeoon T2~                                                                                                           g Kqh&l- t.,
Roroood          (               County Hodq-orbx                                                                                                       KohIIam
Co.utyBoundori..    6            Notionl Copito                                                                          R
---In$nhotolooBondois            Urbon. Al..                   J                              = 
Kdrdlo a 
u_cor~ ~ ~~c \*F --~ /                                  L       K     r>         >     J         A     t\(X I_                                             e
Baltic
sea                                                                                                                                                                 Peip
Ji  
2r LmiRsaare
Gulf of
LATVIA 
.7/29/1994E~~i.             n,        3T 



