LOAN NUMBER 3803 EE
Loan Agreement
(Financial Institutions Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated     A   r'                  , 1994


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3803 EE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   aVB4 &7YL/Z/t   /'       , 1994, between
REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this-Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
(B)   the Kingdom of Sweden (Sweden) intends to establish a
capital fund in an amount equivalent to one hu)ndred million Swedish
kroner (SKr 100,000,000) to assist in financing the Project (the
Swedish Capital Fund);
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable t6 Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (1) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
" (k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a)   "Beneficiary" means the private enterprise to which a
PFI proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
(b)   "Participating Financial Institution" or "PFI" means a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank which is the recipient of a
Subsidiary Loan;
(c)   "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit within the
Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
(d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(e)   "Sub-loan" means a medium-term or long-term loan made or
to be made by a PFI financed in whole or in part out of the proceeds
of the Loan to a Beneficiary for a Sub-project;
(f)   "Sub-project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing, in whole or in part, the
proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(g)   "Subsidiary Loan" means a loan to be made pursuant to a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(h)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and a Participating Financial
Institution pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of ten million dollars ($10,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 3 -
(b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a bank
satisfactory to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
(c)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
ending on the date immediately preceding each
date  specified   in  Section   2.06  of   this
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
as reasonably determined by the Bank and
expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to


﻿-4-
fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
(d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
"(a)  The Prrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of
each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this


﻿-5-
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
accounting, administrative, banking, environmental and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)   For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall make available the equivalent of the proceeds of the
Loan under Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be entered into between the
Borrower and each PFI, respectively, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, without limitations,
those set forth in Schedule 7 of this Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provisions thereof.
(d)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and works required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)   Services required under the Project shall be carried out
by consultants under terms of reference discussed with the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall establish and maintain a PIU
and a Core Advisors Group, in accordance with staffing plans and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan, of such


﻿- 6 -
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, for
the future operation of the Project;
(b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into
account the Bank's comments thereon.
Section 3.05. On or before June 30, 1996, the Borrower shall
carry out, on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, a
detailed review of the progress of the Project, which review will
include without limitation, information concerning (i) training
activities in the Bank Supervision Department of the Bank of Estonia
including on- and off-site examinations, identification of problem
banks and steps taken to remedy such problems, and (ii) on-site bank
supervision being conducted by said Bank Supervision Department; and
shall furnish a copy of such review to the Bank for discussion, and,
thereafter, carry out all such actions, based on the results of such
review and taking the Bank's view thereon into consideration, as
shall be required to ensure the achievement of the objectives of the
Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank;


﻿- 7 -
(ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of each sttch year, the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain  or   cause  to   be  maintained,   in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and   accounts    reflecting    such
expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account or payment out of the Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv)   ensure that such    records and accounts    are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that:
(a)   subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
(i)    the right of the Borrower to withdraw      the
proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms thereof,
or                 I
(ii)   any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (i) such
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
the event specified in Section 5.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement shall
occur, subject to the proviso of Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely the Core Advisors Group has been established in accordance
with the provisions of Section 3.03.


﻿-9-
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
1 Suur-Ameerika
EE00100 Tallinn
Estonia
Telex:
173106 PLAAN
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA
By   //'a           JC
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By    /3     /
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
Goods, Works and
Services under
Subloans
(1) PFIs eligible          8,000,000       50%
to receive funds
from Swedish
Capital Fund
(2) Other PFIs             2,000,000        100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures
for other items
procured locally
TOTAL                     10,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and


﻿- 12 -
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) in respect of a Sub-loan unless the
Sub-loan has been made in accordance with the procedures and on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 7 to this
Agreement; and (b) in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under Sub-loans not exceeding $500,000 equivalent, under such terms
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support and help
accelerate the Borrower's implementation of reforms in the financial
and enterprise sectors, and work towards stabilizing the financial
sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Commercial Bank Development
1.    Provision of Sub-loans by Participating Financial Institutions
to Beneficiaries.
2.    Strengthening the Participating Financial Institutions by the
provision of audits of an international standard for such PFI's, and
assistance for the PFI's in credit analysis, project finance, bank
operations, treasury management and management information systems.
Part B:     Restructuring of North Estonian Bank
Restructuring of North Estonia Bank, including a program for
privatization, and institutional development, and, as needed,
recapitalization.
Part C:     Project Implementation
Strengthening the Borrower's capacity to implement the Project
by establishing a Core Advisors Group and by providing training in
environmental screening.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning July 15, 2000              500,000
through July 15, 2009
And on January 15, 2010                    500,000
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                         Premium
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                        0.20
before maturity
More than three years but                        0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                          0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                       0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before                        1.00
maturity


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in
accordance with the following additional procedures:
(a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to and in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines,
by the minimum amount of time required to complete the evaluation,
obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract.
The bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the
bidding documents or the request for extension shall provide for
appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in the
cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such
an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the
Bank's prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part D (a)
of this Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for (i)
a first extension of the bid validity period if the period of
extension exceeds sixty (60) days and (ii) any subsequent extension
of the bid validity period.
(b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Bank.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Estonia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,


﻿- 17 -
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items which the Bank agrees are available
from limited sources of supply may be procured under contracts
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from qualified
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).
2.    Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or less
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive  bidding, advertised   locally, in   accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or less
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per
contract and works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
less per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
5.    Contracts for goods which the Bank agrees are proprietary or
are available from a single source of supply may be awarded after
direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to: (i) each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more; (ii) each contract procured in
accordance with Parts A.1 and C.1 and 5 of this Schedule; and (iii)
the first two contracts from a Participating Financial Institution


﻿- 18 -
procured in accordance with Part C.2, 3 and 4 of this Schedule, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.    The PIU will be responsible for ensuring that the accounting,
reporting and procedural implementation of the disbursement,
procurement, repayments and Sub-project eligibility under the credit
line are in order. The PIU will: (i) select in consultation with
the Bank PFIs based on eligibility criteria satisfactory to the
Bank, including those set out in Schedule 7 hereto; (ii) make
decisions on accepting additional PFIs into the Project or
disqualifying existing PFIs; (iii) review the first two Sub-projects
submitted by each PFI and each additional Sub-loan over $2 million;
and (iv) review other Sub-projects on an ex-post basis.
2.    A Core Advisors Group shall be formed, consisting of three
qualified and experienced commercial bankers.
(a)   This Group shall assist the PIU and be responsible for
(i) preparing recommendations for the PIU on the eligibility of
various PFIs; (ii) monitoring the performance of PFIs and their
respective loan portfolios; and (iii) assisting the PIU in reviewing
the Sub-projects.
(b)   This Group shall also assist Estonian commercial banks,
including assistance in (i) developing credit policies and
procedures with proper controls; (ii) adopting intexnationally
acceptable accounting standards and applications with proper
operational procedures matching their automation strategies; and
(iii) structuring and evaluating term-lending, including pre- and
post-lending   risk  assessment   and  project   finance  analysis
methodologies and preparing project finance loan packages.
3.    By June 30, 1996, the North Estonian Bank shall have completed
the process of restructuring and shall have prepared a time-bound
action plan for its privatization.
4.    By June 30, 1996, the Borrower shall have established and
agreed with the PFIs a timetable, satisfactory to the Bank, for
compliance of accounting and reporting formats with guidelines of
the Bank for International Settlements.
5.    By June 30, 1996, aggregate loans with a maturity of one year
or longer will account for at least 20 percent of total loans held


﻿- 20 -
by the PFIs, provided that such lending is consistent with
prudential regulations.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of Sub-loans required fcr the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an     amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule; provided, however, that, unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount
equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals
from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$1,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits into the Special Account of an amount or amounts
determined by the Bank to be required to pay for eligible
expenditures during the four months following the date of each such
request which amount shall not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan


﻿- 22 -
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Bank shall have determined to be so required.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
documents and other evidence required pursuant
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been
shown by said documents and other evidence to
have been paid out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
(b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii)


﻿- 23 -
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time,that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph -2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.


﻿- 24 -
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 7
Terms and Conditions and On-lending Arrangements
A.    Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loans to PFIs
Loan Amount:             not to exceed net worth of PFI at any
point in time; any loan $2 million
equivalent or more shall be approved by
the Bank.
Terms:                   minimum loan maturity two years with a
maximum of ten years including grace
period.
Currency:                various
Interest Rate:           100 basis points over rate on the Bank
Loan.
Interest Period:         six months.
Commitment Fee:          equal to commitment fee paid by Borrower
to the Bank.
Prepayment:              negotiable with PIU.
Other:                   obligation of PFI to make Sub-loans to
Beneficiaries   for   Sub-projects,    in
accordance with criteria satisfactory to
the Bank.
B.    Eligibility Criteria for PFIs
1.    Only such PFIs which (a) initially satisfy and subsequently
continue to satisfy the criteria set forth in this Part; and (b)
make Sub-loans in accordance with the criteria for Beneficiaries and
Sub-projects, shall be eligible to receive Subsidiary Loans.
2.    Minimum of 20 million Estonian Kroon equity and 8% capital
adequacy after full loan loss provisioning under international
standards.
3.    Compliance with prudential rules and regulations of Bank of
Estonia.


﻿- 26 -
4.    Audit of financial statements for the most recent financial
year  under   internationally  acceptable  account  standard   and
applications. Defined and documented credit policies and procedures
with proper controls, risk asset classification standards and loan
loss provisioning practices in place, or a time bound action plan,
approved by the Core Advisors Group to implement such policies and
procedures.
5.    Maintenance of a minimum collection ratio of principal and
interest of ninety percent.
C.    Eligibility Criteria for Beneficiaries
1.    Legal entities that are majority privately owned and privately
managed.
2.    Proven management and at least one year of profitable
operations, or for new enterprises/projects proven management with
extensive experience in relevant fields and a positive credit
history verified through proper channels.
3.    Independent audits in accordance with Estonian standards
within six months of initial receipt of funds.
D.    Eligibility Criteria for Sub-projects
1.    Minimum equity contribution by the Beneficiary of thirty
percent of project costs.
2.    Minimum loan maturity of two years with a maximum of ten
years, including grace period. Sub-projects must be in compliance
with Estonian environmental rules and regulations.
3.    The onlending rate loans will be no less than 200 basis points
above the prevailing yield on the corresponding Government bonds of
the same currency and similar maturities, with 6-month variable
interest rates.
4.    Debt service coverage ratio for the life of the Sub-project at
least 1.5 for the project alone and for the project incorporated
into the cash flow of the on-going concern.
5.    Sub-projects shall not include: (a) refinancing of existing
obligations of a Beneficiary; (b) equity investments; and (c) short-
term trade financing.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


