Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                   LOAN NUMBER 4125 IND
                                Loan Agreement
                (Intensified Iodine Deficiency Control Project)
                                   between
                             REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated January 15, 1997
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4125 IND
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  January 15, 1997, between THE REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project; and
     WHEREAS (B) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                     General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995, with the modification of Section 6.03 set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
          "Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right
          of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
          shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the
          Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any
Page  2
          time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the
          Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will not be required
          to finance the Project's costs to be financed out of the
          proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank deter-
          mines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of
          the proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent
          practices were engaged in by representatives of the
          Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the
          procurement or the execution of such contract, without
          the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action
          satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation, and
          establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of
          such contract which would otherwise have been eligible
          for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (d)
          at any time, the Bank determines that the procurement
          of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of
          the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth
          or referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes
          the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract
          which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
          out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the
          Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain
          unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank
          shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant
          to Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan,
          the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the
          Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make
          withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the
          giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall
          be canceled."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
     (a)  "BAPPENAS" means the National Development Planning Agency
of the Borrower and any successor thereto;
     (b)  "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing April 1
and ending March 31;
     (c)  "Iodine Deficiency Disorder Project Management Unit" means
the unit to be established in accordance with paragraph 2 of Schedule
5 to this Agreement;
     (d)  "Kabupaten" means a district within a province of the
Borrower;
     (e)  "Kecamatan" means a sub-district within a Kabupaten;
     (f)  "National Iodine Deficiency Disorder Coordination Committee"
means the committee to be established in accordance with paragraph 1
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
     (g)  "P.T. Garam" means the state owned salt production and
processing company, established by PP No. 12/1991; and
     (h)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount equal to twenty eight million five hundred thousand dollars
($28,500,000).
     Section 2.02.(a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
Page  3
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia
or in a state commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, including, in the case of a state commercial bank,
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in
arrears on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, health and industrial practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
     (b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued
achievement of the Project's objectives; and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
Page  4
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section, including those for the Special
               Account, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six months after the end of each
               such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
               expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section and that the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal year, together with the pro-
               cedures and internal controls involved in their
               preparation, can be relied upon to support the
               related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                                Termination
     Section 5.01.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
              Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  5
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          c/o Directorate General of Budget
          Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
          P. O. Box 1139
          Jakarta 10710
          Indonesia
          Cable address:                Telex:
               FINMINISTRY              45799 DJMLN-IA
               Jakarta                  44319 DEPKEU-IA
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, NW
          Washington, DC 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                248423 (MCI)
               Washington, DC            64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                    By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar, Ambassador
                                                Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Marianne Haug
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                    East Asia and Pacific
                                SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                                Amount of the
                               Loan Allocated       % of
                               (Expressed in    Expenditures
     Category                     Dollars)     to be Financed
(1)  Equipment                    700,000      100% of foreign
                                               expenditures,
                                               100% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               (ex-factory cost)
                                               and 65% of local
                                               expenditures for
                                               other items procured
                                               locally
Page  6
(2)  Information,              2,600,000       70%
     education and
     communication,
     and instructional
     materials
(3)  Monitoring,               9,800,000       100%
     surveys and
     research
(4)  Training:
     (a)  Overseas             1,700,000       100%
          training and
          fellowships
     (b)  Local training,      3,500,000       70%
          fellowships and
          workshops
 (5) Project                   1,700,000       70%
     administration
(6)  Operating costs:                          100%
     (a)  incurred in FY       1,100,000
          1996/97 and FY
          1997/98
     (b)  incurred in FY         600,000
          1998/99 and FY
          1999/2000
     (c)  incurred in FY         300,000
          2000/01 and
          thereafter
(7)  Services under            3,700,000       100%
     Part C.4 of the
     Project
(8)  Consultants'              1,600,000       80%
     services
(9)  Unallocated               1,200,000
                              __________
                              28,500,000
     TOTAL                    ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  the term "Monitoring, surveys and research" means expenditures
on account of monitoring, research and survey activities under the
Project incurred by staff of the Ministries involved in the implemen-
tation of the Project for travel, per diem, honoraria, and supplies,
but excluding salaries, and for related technical assistance expendi-
tures;
     (d)  the term "Project administration" means expenditures on
account of the Project incurred by the Iodine Deficiency Disorder
Project Management Unit for travel, per diem, honoraria, supplies,
maintenance, and office accommodations, but excluding salaries; and
Page  7
     (e)  the term "Operating costs" means expenditures incurred by
Central, Provincial, Kabupaten and Kecamatan iodine monitoring staff,
including honoraria, travel, and per diem.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under
contracts for: (a) goods costing less than $200,000 equivalent; (b)
monitoring, surveys and research, (c) training, (d) Project admini-
stration and Operating costs, and (e) the employment of consulting
firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent, and individual con-
sultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent; all under such terms
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                          Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in lowering
the prevalence of iodine deficiency in Indonesia through (i) monitoring
the extent of iodine deficiency in the community,  (ii) increasing the
supply and the quality of  iodized  salt, (iii) increasing the con-
sumption of iodized salt; (iv) targeting the distribution of iodized
oil capsules, and (v) improving the coordination of activities among
the ministries and agencies of the Borrower and the private sector
related to iodine deficiency.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
PART A:  Monitoring the Iodine Status of the Community
1.   Carrying out of surveys and mapping at the Kabupaten and Kecamatan
levels of the prevalence of iodine deficiency among school children and
a sub-sample of pregnant women.
2.   Carrying out of operational research to determine factors affecting
iodine status in areas where iodine deficiency disorder persists,
including provision of technical assistance.
PART B:  Increasing Consumption of Iodized Salt
1.   Carrying out of campaigns, including mass media campaigns, to
increase the consumption of iodized salt by households.
2.   Carrying out of information, education and communication campaigns
in areas requiring annual iodized oil capsules distribution.
3.   Carrying out of operations research relating to consumer preference
and dissemination of information in remote and less urbanized areas.
PART C:  Increasing the Supply of Iodized Salt
1.   Monitoring of the Iodine Content of Salt:
     (a)  Monitoring of the iodine content of salt through:
          (i) routine monitoring through random tests of all brands
              of salt at processing plants, including provision of
              technical advice to producers and processors;
         (ii) routine monitoring at the retail level through sampling
              by brand; and
        (iii) community-based qualitative monitoring, particularly
              through test-ing of samples brought to school by
              students.
Page  8
     (b)  Upgrading and maintenance of the database of salt processors,
including company and brand profile.
     (c)  Establishment of an electronic database for monitoring
activities, and production of monthly reports on salt production and
iodization.
2.   Improvement of Salt Iodization
     (a)  Carrying out of intensified monitoring of iodine levels in
salt at processing plants and monitoring of compliance with regulations
relating to salt iodization.
     (b)  Provision of technical assistance to the salt industry for
improvement of salt iodization at processing plants.
3.   Strengthening the Rules-Based Approach to Iodization
     Carrying out of a review of existing regulations relating to salt
and iodized salt, including research on appropriate controls for the
product and minimum standards for salt and iodized salt in Indonesia.
4.   Improvement of the Quality of Salt Produced by Farmers and Share-
     Farmers
     (a)  Provision of assistance to salt farmers and share-farmers in
the adoption of improved techniques and pond design for the production
of higher quality salt, including extension activities.
     (b)  Establishment of demonstration and pilot salt ponds and
dissemination of related information to facilitate adoption of new
production technology and management techniques.
5.   Operations Research
     Carrying out of research on effective production techniques for
high quality salt from limited pond areas and improvement of storage
conditions to reduce the decline of iodine levels in salt, including
provision of technical assistance.
PART D:  Targeted Distribution of Iodized Oil Capsules
     Provision of iodized oil capsules to Kecamatans where iodine
deficiency is highly endemic and where the availability of iodized
salt is limited.
PART E:  Inter-Ministerial Policy and Program Coordination for the
         Control of Iodine Deficiency
1.   Strengthening of the Iodine Deficiency Disorder Coordination
Committees at the national and provincial levels to ensure improve-
ment in the iodine status of the community, including provision of
technical assistance.
2.   Carrying out of reviews of the monitoring results related to the
iodine status of the community, iodine levels in salt, and
epidemiological information, and review of the implications of the
monitoring results in the control of iodine deficiency.
                         *         *        *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
                               SCHEDULE 3
              Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.   General Definitions
     For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the
following meanings:
Page  9
     (a)  "Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest Period,
the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account in such Interest Period.
     (b)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and including
the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment
Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period
from and including an Interest Payment date to, but excluding, the next
following Interest Payment Date.
     (c)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement.
     (d)  "Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the
first day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period
in which such Disbursed Amount is withdrawn.
B.   Interest
1.   The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed
Amounts.  Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding
from time to time at a rate based on a floating rate index prior to
its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from its Rate Fixing Date,
as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.   (a)  From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed
Amount withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing
Date for such Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall
accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:
          (i)  LIBOR Base Rate; plus
         (ii)  LIBOR Total Spread.
     (b)  From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until
final repayment thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall
accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:
          (i)  Fixed Base Rate; plus
         (ii)  Fixed Total Spread.
3.   For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms
have the following meanings:
     (a)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for
six-month deposits in dollars for value the first day of such Interest
Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for value the
day occurring on the Interest Payment Date preceding the first day of
such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and
expressed as a percentage per annum.
     (b)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which
each Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
          (i)  one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
         (ii)  minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such
               Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank
               offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
               deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrow-
               ings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund
               single currency loans or portions thereof made by it
               that include such Disbursed Amount for such Interest
               Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum.
     (c)  "Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the
Page  10
equivalent of the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits
in dollars for value on the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
expressed as a single fixed interest rate based on the fixed interest
rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such Disbursed
Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum.
     (d)  "Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:
          (i)  one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
         (ii)  minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the
               Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, below
               (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or
               other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in
               respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or
               portions thereof allocated to fund single currency
               loans or portions thereof made by it that include
               such Disbursed Amount; plus
        (iii)  the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing
               Date for such Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum.
4.   The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total
Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each
Disbursed Amount, promptly upon the determination thereof.
5.   Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the
Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a
whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule,
the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates
applicable to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less
than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply
to the Loan.
C.   Repayment
1.   Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the
Borrower shall repay  each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semi-
annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15, the
first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) Interest
Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed
Amount and the last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth
(18th) Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such
Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be one-twelfth (1/12) of
such Disbursed Amount.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if
any installment of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant
to the provisions of said paragraph 1, be payable after January 15,
2012, the Borrower shall also pay on said date the aggregate amount
of all such installments.
3.   After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank
shall promptly notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for
such Disbursed Amount.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                 Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods
Part A:   General
Page  11
     Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following pro-
visions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:   Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of para-
graphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2    National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
Part C:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance
with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank,
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guide-
lines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have
been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents
have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the
Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to
prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms,
(c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consult-
Page  12
ing firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000
equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
1.   The Borrower shall, not later than January 31, 1997, establish
and thereafter maintain, under terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank, a National Iodine Deficiency Disorder Coordination Committee,
responsible for coordinating the implementation of programs to
control iodine deficiency, such Committee to be chaired by BAPPENAS.
2.   The Borrower shall, not later than January 31, 1997, establish
and thereafter maintain until completion of the Project, an Iodine
Deficiency Disorder Project Management Unit, with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, and with competent staff in adequate numbers.
3.   In carrying out Part C.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  carry out the review in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank;
     (b)  not later than June 30, 1998, furnish to the Bank for
comments the results of the review; and
     (c)  thereafter, taking into account the results of the review
and the comments of the Bank thereon, update the relevant regulations
to specify minimum standards for salt and iodized salt.
4.   In carrying out Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  ensure that, until completion of the Project, procurement
of iodized oil capsules is undertaken only as required for the
carrying out of Part D of the Project; and
     (b)  commencing December 31, 1997, carry out annual reviews,
based on available information, to determine whether a reduction in
the use of iodized oil capsules should be undertaken in the years
following the said reviews.
5.   In carrying out Part E.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall
cause independent reviews to be carried out of the extent of the
iodine deficiency in the population and of the effectiveness of
the iodine deficiency disorder control program, such reviews to be
carried out every eighteen months commencing not later than October
31, 1998.
6.   The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that,
until completion of the Project, no floor price for salt and iodized
salt shall be established by the Borrower, and no buffer stock of
salt shall be established by the Borrower.
7.   The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that,
not later than June 30, 1998, any salt produced and any salt
processed by P. T. Garam for human consumption contains the amount
of iodine required by the Borrower's relevant national standards.
8.   The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1998, take all
measures necessary to remove the internal non-tariff barriers to the
trade in iodized salt and salt for human consumption.
9.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)  cause technical audits of Project implementation to be
carried out, in a manner acceptable to the Bank, in each Fiscal Year
during implementation of the Project; and
     (b)  furnish to the Bank for comments as soon as available but
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a copy of
Page  13
such audit.
10.  The Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the
indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank, on or about July 31, 1999, a report inte-
grating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preced-
ing the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended
to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achieve-
ment of the objectives thereof during the period following such date;
and
     (c)  review with the Bank, by October 31, 1999, or such later date
as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the
said report and the Bank views on the matter.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                      Project Performance Indicators
1.   Lowering the prevalence of iodine deficiency
     Indicator: Goiter prevalence.
Target:  each of the provinces with highly endemic iodine deficiency
         to have a reduction of prevalence by 50% by Project closing
         date.
2.   Monitoring the iodine status of the community
     Indicator: Classification of districts and sub-districts by iodine
     deficiency disorder status using survey results.
Target: Not less than seven provinces by June 30, 1997.
An additional six provinces by December 31, 1997. The remaining
provinces by December 31, 1998.
3.   Increasing consumption and supply of iodized salt
     Indicator: Proportion of salt samples at household level with
     adequate levels of iodine.
Target: 80% by March 31, 1999.
4.   Targeted distribution of iodized oil capsules
     Indicator: Proportion of capsules distributed which are correctly
     targeted.
Target: 60% by December 31, 1998.
5.   Improving inter-ministerial policy and program coordination
     Indicator: Mechanism established and meeting regularly and
     effectively.
Target: December 31, 1997.
                                SCHEDULE 7
                              Special Account
Page  14
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time
to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into
the unless Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggre-
gate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request
or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
               of this Schedule for the payment or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
               basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on
               behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
               Account and deposit into the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as
               shall have been shown by said documents and other
               evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account
               for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
Page  15
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account:
          (i)  was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
               eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
               or
         (ii)  was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
               Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
               the Bank:
               (A)  provide such additional evidence as the Bank
                    may request; or
               (B)  deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
                    Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an
                    amount equal to the amount of such payment or
                    the portion thereof not so eligible or
                    justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
                    agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
                    the Special Account shall be made until the
                    Borrower has provided such evidence or made
                    such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
Page  16
