Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-5022-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED
SECOND ENERGY SECTOR LOAN (ESL II)
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$250 MILLION
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
JUNE 7, 1989
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            =    Pakistan Rupees (PRs)
Rupees 1,000,000              US$52,630
US$1                     =    Rs 19.0
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)              =    0.6214 miles (mi)
1 kilovolt (kV)               =    1,000 volts
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)         =    1,000 watt-hours
1 megawatt (MW)               -    1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)         =    1,000,000 kilowatt hours (kWh)
1 toe                               1 10.2x106 kcal (10.2 billion cal)
1 mtoe                        =    1,000,000 toe
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       -    Asian Development Bank
ADP       -    Annual Development Plan
CIDA      -    Canadian International Development Agency
CIP       -    Core Investment Program
DOFMA     -    Department of Forestry, Ministry of Agriculture
DC        -    Direct Contracting
ECC       -    Economic Coordination Committee
ECNEC     -    Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
ENERCON   -    National Energy Conservation Centet
ERG       -    Energy Review Group
ESL I     -    Energy Sector Loan I
ESL II    -    Energy Sector Loan II
GOP       -    Government of Pakistan
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
ICG       -    Internal Cash Generation
JEXIM     -    Export-Import Bank of Japan
KESC      -    Karachi Electric Supply Company
KfW       -    Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau of the
Federal Republic of Germany
LCB       -    Local Competitive Bidding
TLES      -    Long-Term Strategy for the Development of Energy
LIB       -    Limited International Bidding
LRMG      -    Long-Run Marginal Cost
MCF       -    Thousand Cubic Feet
MMCFD     -    Million Cubic Feet per Day
MOP       -    Ministry of Production
MPNR      -    Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources
MPD       -    Ministry of Planning and Development
MWP       -    Ministry of Water and Power
NDFC      -    National Development Finance Corporation
NEPC      -    National Energy Policy Committee
OGDC      -    Oil and Gas Development Corporation
PCB       -    Polychlorinated Biphenyl
PEAL      -    Pakistan Electric Agencies Limited
PFP       -    Policy Framework Paper
PMDC      -    Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation
PS        -    Private Sector
PSEDF    --   Private Sector Energy Development Fund
PSO       -    Pakistan State Oil
SNGPL     -    Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited
SSGC      -    Sui Southern Gas Company Limited
USAID     -    United States Agency for International Development
WAPDA     -    Water and Power Development Authority
GOP'S FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
PARISA
SECOND ENERRY SECTOR LOAN (ESL II)
Talbe of Contents
Page NWo.
LOAN SUMMARY ........................................... ( )
I. THE BE         COM.........................                   1
A.  Recent Macroeconomic Performance ..... ; . ............  1
B.  The Medium-Term Policy Frameork.                         2
C. The Medium-Term Framevork and the Energy Sector
Adjustment Program.                                      4
II.  LONG-TERM ENERGY STRATE6Y AND ACHIE .E.....                  5
A. Sectoral Setting.                                         5
B.  Developments in the Sector, FY79-8.                      6
C.  Long-Term Energy Strategy (LES).                         6
D.  Progress in the Implementation of LES ..............   10
II1. THE SEVENTH PLAN FOR ENERGY. FY89-93 ...................   13
A.  Objectives .................................            13
B. Physical Targets .14
C.  Investment Program ....................      : ,,.      15
D. Financing Plan .16
IV. THB ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM FOR THE SEVENTH PLN .22
A. Resource Development .22
B. Pricing, Resource Mobilization and
Demand Management .26
C. Institutional Development .33
D. Environmental Aspects .39
V. THE  LN..                                                    41
VI.  SOCIAL ASPECTS OF THE PROPOSED LOAN .49
VII. CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS AND RELEASE OF
SECOND TRANCHE .51
VIII.    .ENDASIN .51
ANNEXES
I. Main Economic Indicators
II. Status of Bank Group Operations
III. Letter of Sector Development Policies
IV. Matrix of Policy Issues and Actions
V. Core Investment Program (FY89-93)
VI. Financing Plan for CIP (FY89-93)
Ma:N1Q. IBRD 16248R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(1)
SECOND ENERGY SECTOR LOAN tESL II)
LOAN SUMNARY
Borrower:              Islamic Republic of Pakistan
eefinnlxin lni:        WAPDA, OGDC, KEVC, SSGC, SNGPL, PMDC, ENERCON, Energy
Planning Wing of MPD, DOFMAJ, and the Environment and
Urban Affairs Division.
Amount:                US$250 million equivalent.  The Export-Import Bank of
Japan  (JEXIM)  is  considering  the  possibility  of
cofinancing the Loan, to the extent of US$150 million
equivalent.
Zram:                  Twenty years,  including a five-year grace period, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
nnlenint Term%:        The proceeds of the Loan would be:  (a) onlent by the
Government of Pakistan (GOP) to the revenue earning
entities at 14X per annum, except for WAPDA, for which
proceeds will be onlent at 11 per annum, with the same
grace and repayment periods as those of the proposed
Bank loan; and (b) made available directly through
budgetary allocation to GOP's non-revenue earning
departments.
dbJectc ea:            Under  GOP's medium-term  policy  framework,  the Loan
would: (a) continue the process of sectoral adjustment
outlined in LES and initiated under ESL I, through an
adjustment   program   comprised   of   policies   and
institutional reforms to be introduced during the
Seventh Plan; (b) support the implementation of CIP
(FY89-91) which will comprise both new investments to
be launched during the Seventh Plan and, in some cases,
completion of these which were launched during the
Sixth Plan; (c) mobilize resources for CIP (FY89-91) by
rationalizing   energy   pricing,   integrating   donor
cofinancing, mobilizing PS financing, and coordinating
access to the credit and capital markets; and
(d) support the macroeconomic adjustment program by
facilitating an adequate level of imports.
Dnescriptin:           The Loan would:  (a) cover part of the foreign exchange
cost of goods and services for the implementation of
the CIP (FY89-91) of WAPDA, OGDC, KESC, SSGC, SNGPL,
PMDC, ENERCON, the Energy Planning Wing of MPD, DOFMA
and the Environment and Urban Affairs Division; and (b)
finance genetal imports for the public and private
sectors.



(ii)
Benefits and Risks:    The Loan would contribute to macroeconomic adjustment
as outlined in the medium-term policy framework agreed
with the IMF and the Bank in Dccember, 1988. Agreement
on CIP, comprised of ongoing and new projects, aimed at
assisting GOP in achieving energy targets during the
Seventh Plan and ensuring a smooth transition to the
Eighth Plan, would enrure that investments in energy
would be maintained within the overall level for public
expenditure agreed under such policy framework. The
energy pricing policies to be pursued would contribute
to GOP's resource mobilization efforts and reduce the
burden of the sector's investment program on the
national budget. In addition, the proposed divestiture
of public holdings in the energy sector entities would
generate additional revenues for GOP and increase the
role  of  the  capital  markets  in  financing  sector
investments.    Finally,   the  proposed  institutional
reforms would improve efficiency, and the greater role
envisaged for the private sector in the energy sector
would   mobilize   additional   resources   for   its
development.   The main risks of this operation are:
(a) inability of GOP to maintain the pace of increase
in prices of energy products at the rate envisaged,
which would erode the energy sector's potential for
resource mobilization and slow down the process of
rationalizing consumption;   b) inadequate response of
the international financial community in providing
financing under limited recourse for PS investment,
which would lead to an unavoidable increase in public
investments and hence would increase public investment
above the level needed to maintain the inter-sectoral
balance of investment in the medium- term framework;
(c)  slower  than  envisaged  pace  of  institutional
reforms, particularly in regard to OGDC's and KESC's
corporate    restructuring    program    and    WAPDA's
distribution wing; and (d) delays in the implementation
of CIP due to the limited amount of resources available
in the domestic banking system and capital markets. To
address   these  risks  several  actions  are  being
undertaken.   Price  increases  are  being  introduced
gradually during 1989. Consequently, increases in gas
prices were introduced in January 1989, while increases
in electricity tariffs would take place on July 1,
1989. As for the mobilization of financing under
limited recourse for PS investments, the Bank has been
actively  involved  in  the  formulation  of  security
packages  comprised  of  a  set  of  agreements  and
provisions  needed  to  safeguard  the  interests  of
investors, GOP and lenders for two of the PS projects
in power which would provide about 1,600 KW.   These
represent 70X of the 2,300 MW planned for the Seventh
Plan,  and  construction  is  expected  to  start  by
September 1989. In addition, there are four PS projects



(iii)
for power generation (900 NW) at an advanced stage of
preparation.   In  the  oil  and  gas  subsector,  PS
investment has already started. As for coal, the Bank
is in the process of assisting with the constitution of
PS consortium to start the detailed engineering for the
Lakhra field and begin implementation by January 1990.
The potential for delays in the implementation of CIP
due to constraints on the availability of local
financing would be addressed under the proposed Loan
through  the   introduction  of  special   levies   on
electricity and gas produced by the public and PS
sectors. These would shift the burden of f4.nancing 82X
of the local cost, otherwise covered oy domestic
borrowing, to the consumers, and reduce the potential
for crowding out and maintain the access of the sector
to the capital market within manageable levels.
Disbursements and      The proceeds of the Loan would be made available
Tranchina:             in two tranches:  the first, following compliance with
the conditions for effectiveness, expected around July
31, 1989; and the second following compliance with
conditions for the release of the second tranche,
expected around July 31, 1990. Disbursements for the
first tranche of US$155 million, would include:  (a)
US$75 million for general imports; and (b) US$80
million for goods and services for CIP (FY89-91). Both
would continue to be disbursed until the closing of the
Loan. Under the second tranche, US$50 million would be
for general imports, and US$45 million would be for
goods and services  for CIP  (FY89-91).   Also,  these
would continue to be disbursed until the closing of the
Loan.



(iv)
Estimated Costs of Core Investment Program (FM 9-21):
Local      oxlsa   Total
Public Sector                                         ----US Millio-
Power
WAPDA                                            1,304      1,013     2,317
KESC                                               352        310       662
Petrole
OGDC                                               212        280       492
SNGPL                                              266       137        403
SS1,C                                               73         64       137
coal
PMDC                                                35         is5
Subtotal Public Sector                           2,242     1.822      4,064
Private Sector                                        100                 I8
Total                                            Z            11
Financing Plan for Public Sector
IBRD - Proposed Loan                                    -        12S       125
Foreign Financing                                     197      1,583     1,780
Foreign Financing - Unidentified                        -        114       114
lnternal Cash Generation                            1,279          -     1,279
Equity Issues                                          30          -        30
GOP Loans                                              84          -        84
Local Borrowing                                       200          -       200
Special Levy                                         4An           -
Subtotal Public Sector                           2.242     1.822      4,064
Financing Plan for Private Sector
Equity                                                 68        158       226
PSEDF                                                   -        268       268
Deferred Charges                                       32          -        32
Local Borrowing                                         -          --
Foreign Commercial Loans                                =9
Subtotal Private Sector                            12
Total                                            i.MI                249S
Estimated Disbursements of Proposed Loan
(Includes General Imports Component)
U8s Million
Annual                                                           1SS        95
Cumulative                                                       155       250
Appraisal Report: Not Applicable.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PP73S4DENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
SECOND ENERGY SECTOR LOAN (ESL II)
TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
1.       I cutmit the following report and recommendation on a Loan for the
equivalent of US$250 million to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan to support an
energy sector adjustment program. The Loan would have a term of 20 years,
including a grace period of five years, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
I. THE ECONOMY
A. Recent Macroeconomic Performance
2.       Pakistan's economic performance during the 1980s has been remarkable,
with economic growth between FY80 and FY87 averaging 6.7X annually, a slow
down in domestic inflation from 10% to about 4.7%, and an average annual rate
of growth in exports of 20X (in terms of US$). Furthermore, the non-military
debt service ratio stabilized at about 27% since FY86, after rising quickly
from 15% in FY81. The foreign debt-to-GNP ratio also stabilized at about 42%,
in spite of a devaluation of the real effective exchange rate of about 4% per
annum required l.o boost export growth. Underlying this satisfactory economic
performance has been a greater reliance on market forces and private sector
(PS) initiatives, including the adoption of a flexible exchange rate policy,
investment licensing deregulation, and rationalization of prices and public
investments.
3.       Despite this strong economic performance, future growth is likely to
be inhibited by large fiscal Imbalances and the vulnerability of the external
current account due mainly to a narrow export base. The fiscal deficit
increased from 5.2% of GDP in FY81 to 7.7X in FY87, because of the increased
share of government expenditures in GDP, while the share of taxation remained
fairly stagnant. The increased deficit was financed mainly through domestic
borrowing, and as a result, domestic government debt increased from 24X of GDP
in FY81  to 41K  in FY87.   To minimize monetization  of the  deficit,  the
Government of Pakistan (GOP) borrowed mainly from non-bank institutions,
particularly the National Saving Schemes, thus increasing the share of
non-bank domestic borrowing from 1.6% of GDP in FY81 to 5.1% in FY87. On the
other hand, government borrowing from the domestic banking system and external
borrowing fluctuated around 2X of GDP. Thic approach to financing the deficit
was the principal reason for a low rate of inflation since 1985.
4.       The increase in the fiscal deficit initially did not have an adverse
impact on Pakistan's current account deficit, which declined from 5.2K of GDP
in FY85 to about 2% in FY87. This was due largely to the exceptionally rapid
growth of the country's exports, particularly of cotton-based products, and
also lower import prices, particularly for crude oil, petroleum products,
fertilizers and edible oils.  However,  export performance is vulnerable to
external changes because of its dependence on a narrow range of goods.



- 2 -
5.       GOP's  increased  non-bank  domestic borrowing to cover the  fiscal
deficit in conjunction with falling current account deficits exerted an upward
pressure on domestic interest rates to mobilize private domestic savings in
excess of private  inv6stment,  As a  result,  the  real  cost  of  domestic
borrowing by the public sector rose above the real growth rate of the econeoy,
thus limiting GOP's ability to sustain its current expansionary fiscal. stance,
and endangering the external balance as well. Continued high fiscal deficits
would require either larger amounts of external financing, or greater
monetization of the deficit accompanied by a resurgence of inflation, as has
been the case since FY88.
6.       Significant macroeconomic  imbalances were again present  in FY88.
Although GOP's target was to lower the fiscal deficit slightly from 7.7X of
GDP in FY87 to 7.6% in FY88, not only was this not achieved, but the deficit
rose instead to 8.6X of GOP in FY88 because of higher than budgeted
expenditures. Indeed, the pressures exerted by the fiscal deficit have begun
to put an upward pressure on inflation, which rose to above 6X in FY88, and is
expected to rise above 10% in FY89, as the Government deficit Is being
increasingly  financed  by  the  Central  Bank.   Whlle  merchandise  exports
continued to perform well, increasing by 24%, imports also increased
significantly by about 19%, reflecting  increases  in the world prices of
certain   commodities,   the   unfavorable   fiscal   trends,   and   generally
accommodative domestic  credit conditions.  As a result, the overall trade
deficit reached US$2.3 billion in FY88, equivalent to a high 5.71 of GDP.
These developments, together with the continuing erosion in remittances from
Pakistanis abroad, brought the current account deficit to about US$1.6 billion
or 4.31 of ODP in FY88. More critically, the Central Bank's gross foreign
reserve position has weakened further. At the end of September 1988, these
reserves were equivalent to less than two and a half weeks of annual imports
of goods and services, and less than the external short-term liabilities of
the banking system.
B. The Medium-Term Policy Framework
7.       In order to address these imbalances, GOP proposed a framework of
medium-term macroeconomic policies flanked by supporting structural adjustment
measures. The Bank and the Fund prepared a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) in
collaboration with GOP. PFP has been reconfirmed by the nev Government headed
by Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto. The Bank's Executive Directors considered
the PFP on December 19, 1988. The Fund's Board approved on December 28,
1988, a 15-month Standby Arrangement and a Structural Adjustment Facility
(FY89-91) for a total of US$813 million, which are supported by the PFP. The
medium term adjustment program, the first year of which has been put in place
in the context of the FY89 budget, contains the following important elements:
(a)  reduction of the fiscal deficit to a sustainable level of about
4.8% of GDP bY FY91, through revenue generation and expenditure
control.   The FY89 deficit reduction would  be  the  largest,
amounting to about 2% of GDP, from 8.6X to 6.5% of GDP. This is
to be achieved in part by reducing development expenditures
while maintaining a reasonable balance between fiscal discipline
in the near term and longer term development. Also, revenue
would be enhanced through the sales tax, improved tax
administration, gradual reduction of direct subsidies, and
higher user charges. The object is to limit Inflation to 10% in
FY89 and reduce it gradually to 71 in FY90 and to 6.5% in F791.



If annual inflation is reduced in such way, and assuming GDP
increases at an annual average rate of 5.5%, a budget deficit of
4.8% by FY91 would be sustainable, I.e., it would not require
increases in the ratios of domestic and foreign debt to GDP;
(b) reduction of the external current account deficit to a
sustainable level of about 2.6% of GDP by FY91, which can be
financed largely with net aid disbursements, while maintaining
adequate reserves, and significantly reducing restrictions on
external trade and payments. In addition, the program envisages
a strengthening of the structure of the current account and of
the  debt  service  profile.    In  particular,   it  aims  at
diversifying  the  export  base,  thereby  reducing  reliance  on
workers'  remittances  and  agricultural  exports.   Moreover,  a
prudent external borrowing policy would be pursued with the
objective of decreasing the non-defense debt-servJce ratio to a
sustainable 21% in FY91 ty reducing the current stock of
short-term commercial debts and limiting recourse to medium-term
credits on commercial terms;
(c) trade Rolicv reforms, with emphasis on liberalization of
non-tariff barriers to import, to be accompanied by a gradual
reduction in the average level and dispersion of import tariffs,
and supplemented by a continued flexible exchange rate policy.
The specific objectives of exchange rate management are to
foster the international competitiveness of non-traditional
exports; t.. help ensure a stable evolution of the current
account, particularly in the context of the intended trade
liberalization; and to strengthen the external reserve position
to cover at least seven weeks of annual imports by FYll;
(d)  further   relaxation   of   industrial   regulatory   gontrols,
particularly those pertaining to investment  sanctioning.   The
list of industries requiring sanctions regardless of project
size is to be frozen; the sanctioning limit would be adjusted
annually  in  line  with  domestic  inflation;  and  industrial
location policies would be replaced over the three-year period
with a regime based on the economic pricing of infrastructure
services.   Partial and full divestitures  of  government-owned
public corporations in favor of the private sector are being
planned,  together with the granting of greater financial and
managerial autonomy to the remaining public enterprises while
also enforcing better accountability;
(e) financial sector reforms aimed at improving the efficiency of
the banking system and the longer-term development of capital
markets. A comprehensive program is to be initiated in four
areas: (i) domestic debt management; (ii) monitoring and credit
management; (iii) supervision and regulation of financial
institutions; and (iv) improved efficiency and profitability of
the  banking  system.   The  autonomy  and  accountability  of
government-owned financial institutions is also to be developed,
particularly   the   nationalized   commercial   banks;   private
investment banks are to be allowed; private venture capital
firms are to be encouraged; the official setting of equity
prices is to be eliminatec; and a credit information bureau
within the State Bank is to be established; and



- 4 -
(f) other structural reforms in the agriculture and irrigation,
energy, transportation, and urban sectors are also envisaged,
with a view to improving the allocation and use of public
investment, increasing operational efficiency, and continuing
progress toward economic pricing of sectoral inputs and output
prices.
8.       The key policy requirements for FY89 are: (a) initiation of trade
policy reform, with significant liberalization of non-tariff barriers to
import; and (b) a reduction of the fiscal deficit to 6.5X of GDP, through a
substantial containment of expenditures. GOP introduced these measures in its
FY89 budget. While GOP may be able to reduce the fiscal deficit somewhat in
FY89, it now appears likely that the targetted deficit of 6.5% of GDP might be
exceeded.   Further macroeconomic and structural  adjustment  are  needed  to
preserve a viable balance of payments position. In fact, GOP's capacity to
carry out sucb policies will be severely tested in FY90 since Pakistan has
been confronted with a severe deterioration in the terms of trade in recent
months due to a steep decline in the export prices of cotton and textiles as
well as an increase in the price of edible oils and fertilizers. This would
make a further sizeable reduction in the fiscal deficit to 5.5% of GDP in FY90
very difficult.   In particular,  the large fiscal deficit together with the
large trade imbalance and low level of foreign exchange reserves limit the
country's flexibility to respond to any exogenous shock. Furthermore, in the
medium-term, overall policy consistency and appropriate sequencing of measures
are critical to success, particularly since continuing liberalization and
further deregulation are needed to increase the rates of domestic investment
and savings - presently too low to support rapid economic growth without
straining the balance of payments situation even further.
C. The Medium-Term Framework and the Energy Sector Adiustment Proarm
9.       One of the objectives of the medium-term macroeconomic framework is
the  reduction  in  the  fiscal  deficit  through  the  rationalization  of
expenditures for the development program and increased revenue generation.
The energy sector is critical to the achievement of this objective at. it
accounts for about 33% of public investments.   The adjustment program under
the proposed Loan has been designed to assist in the successful implementation
of the medium term framework.   The proposed  curtailed investment program
reflects the overall target on public sector development expenditures. Only
ongoing projects and those which are deemed critical for meeting minimal
energy needs have been included in the program, and financing for each has
been identified. This has reduced the investment plans of entities in the
sector by between 30% and 50% depending on their Importance. In order to
bridge the gap in the investment program, the adjustment program calls for a
substanti.1l1y increased role for PS whose investments during the plan period
would account for 25% of the overall investments in energy.
10.      On the revenue generation aspects of  the medium-term  framework,
energy prices would be increased in a systematic and timely fashion to cover
at least 35% of the cost of the investment program.  In addition, special
levies would be introduced to reduce the risks of delays in the implementatiLn
of the investment program because of constraints on the availability of
resources in the credit and capital markets. These would in essence increase
the level of internally generated cash from 35% to 47%, and thus reduce
borrowing, in form of GOP loans and local borrowing, from 21% to 9%.



- 5 -
II. LONG-TERM ENERGY STRATEGY AND ACHIEVEMENTS
A. Sectoral Setting
11.      Enerwv  Resources.    Pakistan's   commercially  exploitable  energy
resources consist of hydropower, natural gas, oil and coal. The hydropower
potential 4s estimated at about 30,000 NW. Proven and probable reserves of
natural gas are estimated at about 16 trillion cubic feet (TCF) and 3.3 TCF
respectively. Oil reserves, both probable and proven, are estimated at about
58 million tons. Coal and lignite deposits are estimated at about 900 million
tons, of which only 175 million tons are proven. In addition, the country has
a large base of traditional fuels in the form of fuelwood and agricultural and
animal waste, which provide a major share of rural consumers' energy needs.
Despite its endowment of energy resources, Pakistan's dependence on imported
energy is expected to continue over the foreseeable future, particularly in
light of the long lead time and vast financial resources required for the
implementation of the major bydro sites. This dependence, however, can be
reduced by: accelerating the development of the smaller hydro sites, and also
oil, gas and coal, and encouraging the latter's substitution as well as that
of imported coal for higher value petroleum products; restraining the growth
of demand for energy through price and non-price measures, including
rehabilitation and retrofitting of power plants, refineries and energy
Intensive industries; expanding and reinforcing the infrastructure for the
transport   and   delivery   of  energy  products;   and  strengthening  the
implementation capabilities of the entities involved in the sector.
12.      Institutional Setting.  Four ministries share thc responsibility for
the energy sector: the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources (PIPR),
the Ministry of Water and Power (MWP), the Ministry of Produ^tion (MOP), and
the Ministry of Planning and Development (NPD).  Coordination between the
ministries on energy matters is provided by the Energy Wing of MPD, which acts
as a secretariat for the National Energy Policy Committee (NEPC) and Energy
Review Group (ERG). NEPC is responsible for the formulation of GOP's overall
energy policy, while ERG is responsible for reviewing the status of the
implementation of projects.  The review of the investment plans of the sector
and the approve' of energy pricing proposals is under the jurisdiction of the
Economic Coordization Committee of the Cabinet (ECC).  The Executive Committee
of the National Economic Council (ECIEC) and the Central Development Working
Party (CDWP) review and approve major investment proposals and projects in all
sectors,  including energy.  The day-to-day management of operations of the
energy sector is vested in a number of public and private sector entities.
The public sector entities are: (a) Water and Power Development Authority
(WAPDA), which is responsible for developing Pakistan's water resources and
for the construction, operation and maintenance of power generation,
transmission and distribution facilities throughout the country, except the
Karachi area; (b) Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC) fcag exploration
and development of oil and g&s resources; (c) Pakistan Mineral Development
Corporation (PMDC) for the exploration and development of mineral resources
including coal; and (d) State Petroleum Refining and Petrochemical Corporation
(PERAC) and the National Refinery Limited (NRL) for processing of crude oil
and production of petroleum products. Also involved in the energy sector are
a number of semi-autonomous entities in which the Government has, either
directly or through public institutions, a controlling interest. These are:
(a) Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC), which is responsible for the
construction, operation and maintenance of generation iacilities, as well as



- 6 -
the transmission and distribution for electricity supply in the Karachi area;
(b) Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited (SNGPL) and Sui Southern Gas
Corporation (SSGC) for the transmission and distribution of natural gas; and
(c) the Pakistan State Oil Company Limited (PSO) for marketing and
distribution of petroleum products. The private sector (PS) entities include:
a large number of Pakistani coal mining companies; two refineries, the Attock
Refinery Limited (ARL) and Pakistan Refinery Limited (PRL); and five oil and
gas development companies namely, Pakistan Petroleum Limited (PPL), Pakistan
Oilfields Limited (POL), the Fauji Foundation, Union Texas and Occidental
Petroleum Limited. All operational entities (public and semi-autonomous) are
under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources,
except for WAPDA, KESC, PERAC and NRL. The MWP has jurisdiction over WAPDA and
KESC and MOP over PERAC and NRL.  In addition, the Department of Forestry
(DOFMA), Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for afforestation and the
Environment  and  Urban  Affairs  Division  for  issues  relating  to  the
implementation of GOP's environmental policies.
B. pevelopments in the Sector, FY79-85
13.      The Fifth Plan (FY79-83) emphasized the accelerated development of
domestic energy resources and the rationalization of energy prices. Financial
and implementation constraints impeded the achievement of the supply targets
for all energy products except natiural gas. The largest shortfall was in the
power subsector where only 50% of the target was achieved, followed by the oil
subsector where 64X of the output target was attained. These shortfalls,
together with the rapid growth of consumption precipitated by GOP's policy of
underpricing energy in an effort to stimulate economic growth, resulted in
acute shortages in energy, which increased the country's dependence on
imported energy. Consequently, GOP accorded high priority to restructuring
the sector and augmenting energy output during the Sixth Plan (FY84-88). Its
objectives were to accelerate and rationalize the development of energy,
correct distortions in energy pricing, streamline the institutions and
agencies in the sector and mobilize private sector involvement in the
development, production and delivery of energy. However, as these objectives
were not translated into concrete programs, only 50X of planned investments
were implemented in the first two years of the Plan; energy prices declined in
real terms; and the implementation capabilities of institutions in the sector
remained weak.   These  setbacks  prompted  GOP to formulate  in 1985, with
assistance from the Bank, a long-term energy strategy (LES) covering the
period 1986-2010.
C. Lonr-Term Enertv Stratenv (LES)
Maior Trends in the Consumution and SuuDDlY of Enerux
14.      Pakistan's consumption of commercial energy increased between FY79
and FY88 at an average annual rate of about 8.1S', from 12.3 mtoe to 25.0
mtoe. During this period the relative shares of coal and hydropower in the
total supply of energy have remained virtually unchanged at about 72 and
16.5%, respectively, while those of gas and petroleum products, the bulk of
which are imported, have varied markedly. In particular, the share of gas
after having increased from 39% in FY79 to 42% in FY83 dropped to about 392 in
FY88, mainly because of supply constraints. Reflecting the balancing role of
petroleum products in the mix of fuels consumed, its share declined from 382
in FY79 to 362 in FY83 and has since risen to about 39% in FY88. Moreover,
despite the recent threefold increase in the domestic output of oil, nearly
802 of the petroleum products consumed in FY88 were imported. This dependence



- 7 -
on imported energy is expected to continue vell into the future.
15.      The forecast for the period 1986-2010 calls for demand increasing at
an average annual rate of about 7% up to the mid-1990s and declining gradually
thereafter to about 6%.  Although the output of domestic energy resources
especially of coal and hydropower and, to a lesser extent of oil and gas, is
forecast to increase, their share in total supply is expected to decline
relative  to that of imported energy.  Consequently, in order to meet the
forecast demand at least cost, the share of coal both imported and domestic in
total consumption is forecast to increase from 7% in FY88 to about 21X in
FY2010 to substitute for higher value petroleum products and gas.  Despite
this, the share of petroleum products would increase from the present 'evel of
39% to 50% in FY2010. By contrast, the share of gas is expected to decline
significantly to about 12%, while given the long lead time and resources
required  to  develop  the  country's  major  hydro  sites,  the  hydropot
contribution to the overall supply of energy is expected to increase onay
marginally to about 20%.  LES was  formulated  to accommodate  these trends
through the implementation of integrated structural reforms over five-year
intervals corresponding to the planning cycle.  These reforms are discussed
below under the following three headings:   resource development and energy
investments, pricing, resource mobilization and demand management; and
institutional development.
Resource Development and Enerav Investments
16.      Primary Enerav.  Of the country's 30,000 NW hydropower potential,
only 2,897 MW have been developed, and another 1,928 MW are at an advanced
stage of implementation. Delays in site selection, inadequate preparation and
shortage of resources are responsible for this relatively low level of
development. LES calls for the development of another 8,700 MW by the year
2010. Of this, 7,700 NW would be in large schemes of between 1,000 14W and
3,000 MW to be implemented in sequence, and the remaining 1,000 MW, in
relatively small schemes of between 100 MW and 300 MW, to be implemented
concurrently with the large schemes. In order to initiate the implementation
of LES, GOP completed a feasibility study in 1985 which was followed by
detailed project preparation for Kalabagh (2,400 MW) under financing from the
United Nations Development Program (UNDP).  Also, under financing from the
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), a study to evaluate and rank
the remaining unexploited potential hydro sitps in the country of more than
200  KW was  completed in 1985.   The hydro  ranking study  recommended the
development of Basha (2,400 MW and ultimately 3,600 MW) after Kalabagh.
A prefeasibility study for Basha was undertaken concurrently with the hydro
ranking study and also completed in 1985.  In addition, GOP completed, in
1987, a study to evaluate the hydro sites of less than 200 KW under financing
from KfW of the Federal Republic of Germany.
17.      Coal  is  one  of  Pakistan's  principal  domestic  energy  resources.
However, despite the suitability of the coal for the production of electricity
and industrial steam, its share in the supply of commercial energy has
remained virtually stagnant. This stagnation was precipitated by the energy
pricing policy pursued by GOP in the past, when the prices of competing fuels,
i.e., fuel oil and natural gas, were maintained at a lower level than the
market determined price of coal. This induced industry, the power subsector
and household consumers to shift from coal to natural gas and fuel oil.
Presently, 97% of the coal produced in Pakistan is used by the brick kilns,
mainly because of technological constraints.  Since 1985, GOP has increased
the prices of natural gas and petroleum products. As a result, the present



- 8 -
price of domestic coal in terms of thermal equivalency is competitive with the
prices of substitute fuels (para 67). However, despite the realignment of
relative prices, coal production remains sluggish because of: (a) the absence
of a stable market for its use other than for the manufacture of bricks;
(b) the inadequacy of the laws governing coal exploration and development by
PS; and (c) PMDC's inability to implement/achieve a sustained program for the
development of publicly-held conceasions. LES calls for a program to assess
the reserves held by PMDC to delineate tracts suitable for exploration and
development, and the introduction of a framework for allowing PMDC to enter
into joint ventures with local and international private companies to overcome
its technical, managerial, and financial constraints. LES also calls for coal
concessions to be put on an equal footing with those in the oil and gas
subsector. This would allow for their termination should concessionaires fail
to invest in resource assessment and development within a specified period of
time, rather than continuing the present practice of holding concessions
indefinitely irrespective of the investment undertaken. In order to provide a
stable market for coal, the construction of power plants based on fluidized
bed technology of appropriate sizes would be pursued, and incentives to
stimulate investments by PS in the modernization of the coal mines would be
introduced. Since current projections show that, despite a more efficient and
systematic exploitation of Pakistan's proven reserves, production would not be
adequate, coal imports would be required to ensure that future demand for
energy is met at least cost. Accordingly, LES calls for increasing the annual
imports of coal from 0.5 mtoe to 5 mtoe by the year 2010 as a substitute for
higher value fuels, i.e., petroleum products and natural gas, and the
development of the infrastructure for coal handling.
18.      The rate at which oil and gas are being developed is slower than the
resource  base  warrants.   LES  calls  for  a  program  of  exploration  and
development to identify areas where exploration, particularly in geologically
risky areas, would be undertaken through joint ventures with PS, which would
provide risk capital and know-how to supplement the financial and technical
capabilities of OGDC; areas where OGDC would take the sole responsibility for
development; and areas which would be developed through work programs,
subcontracts,  etc. with PS entities.  LES also calls  for the accelerated
development and utilization of the dormant low quality gas fields.
19.      The share of traditional fuels in rural consumers' energy consumption
is declining because of deforestation, caused primarily by the unrestrained
use of fuelwood and the absence of a national program for afforestation to
replenish supply. As a result, the availability of fuelwood has declined
forcing its price significantly above the price of kerosene, both measured in
terms of thermal content. This has had an adverse impact on the income of the
rural low-income households. Accordingly, LES proposes a household energy
survey to determine the pattern of energy consumption, the potential for
substitution between traditional and commercial fuels, and the means for
meeting the energy needs of the rural poor at least cost. It also calls for
an assessment of the potential for increased use of solar energy for meeting
low-temperature hot water needs and for the formulation of a national
afforestation program to be implemented as a part of the Five-Year Development
Plans.
20.      Secondary Enerav.  LES calls for the formulation of a least cost
development   plan  for  the  production,   transport  and  distribution  of
electricity, coal, gas and petroleum products to be implemented in successive
five-year  intervals,  corresponding  to  the planning  cycle.   In the power
subsector, investment would move towards increased reliance on domestic energy



resources, such as coal and hydropower, and the use of petroleum products and
gas only when their use is deemed economic.  In this respect, the use of
natural gas would shift away from conventional base load plants to combined
cycle and peaking plants.  Domestic coal production would be increased to
substitute for hydrocarbons in the power and industrial sectors. In order to
supplement domestic coal, future increases in the thermal generating capacity
for base load plants would be based on imported coal.   The  least  cost
expansion plan for power generation for the period 1989-2010 calls for the
development of about 28,500 MW of generating capacity, approximately 8,700 KW
(302) of which is based on hydro. The remaining 19,800 KW (70X) would be
thermal capacity, of which about 9,300 MW (332) would be based on imported oil
and 4,500 MW (16%) on domestic gas. Generation capacity, based on coal, would
provide about 6,000 MW (22X), including 4,600 MW based on imported coal.
Approximately 30% of the proposed capacity, amounting to 8,500 MW, is expected
to be added through PS investments.
21.      LIS also calls for the implementation of a long-term plan for the
reinforcement and extension of transmission and distribution to ensure that
power is transported and delivered efficiently. The transmission development
program would involve the extension and reinforcement of the 500-kV network to
evacuate electricity efficiently from the major hydropower stations in the
north (Tarbela and Mangla) to the south during the rainy seasons, and
;ransport power from the major thermal stations in the south to the north
during  the  dry  seasons.   In  addition,  the  efficient  operation  of  the
integrated power system requires a dispatch system that would optimize the
operations of the power stations to meet the demand at least cost.  The
secondary transmission network would also be extended and reinforced to reduce
tecbnical  losses.   As  for the distribution system, substantial investment
would be undertaken to ensure its extension at least cost to reduce losses and
integrate the rural areas into a national low voltage network.
22.      As  the demand  for petroleum products and production of oil from
existing fields increase, the refining capacity would need to be expanded to
meet the demand at least cost. LES calls for increasing the refining capacity
between 1989 and 2010 by 5 million tons, of which one million tons would be in
the form of secondary refining to crack fuel oil. In addition, there is a
need for increasing the storage and handling facilities for petroleum
products.  As for the infrastructure  ,r the transport and distribution of
natural gas, LBS calls for the expans.on of the gas processing capacity to
meet the increased demand and the reinforcement and extension of the
transmission and distribution networks in the urban areas, based on a
long-term plan, the implementation of which would be phased over successive
five-year plans.
Pricina, Resource Mobilization and Demand Management
23.      LES calls for rationalization of energy prices to promote efficiency
and resource mobilization. To achieve this objective, prices of tradeable
energy sources, such as oil and petroleum products would be set, at a minimum,
at their equivalent border price plus the cost of inland handling. As for
electricity, lignite and gas, which in the case of Pakistan are considered
non-tradeable, prices would be set to cover their economic cost of supply,
including a premium for depletion when applicable, and finance at least 40% of
the investment program of each entity from internal sources. Moreover, the
structure of prices for gas, coal and electricity should reflect the structure
dictated by the economic cost of supply.



- 10 -
Institutional Development
24.      LIS calls for improving the efficiency of the entities in the sector
by  decentralizing  decision  making  and  moving  towards  financial  and
administrative autonomy. KESC would restructure its finances to ensure that
revenues cover all costs and at least 40X of its investment program. As for
WAPDA, dependence on annual allocations under the budget would be phased out
through greater reliance on the commercial markets for mobilizing financing.
In the area of planning, the strategy calls for strengthening the capabilities
of the Energy Wing in MPD to assume the lead role in integrating the plans of
the entities in the sector into a comprehensive energy development plan
dictated by national priorities, taking into account financial and resource
constraints. In the power subsector, LES calls for the integrated operation
of WAPDA and KESC in Investment planning and operations to ensure that demand
for electricity is met at least cost. PMDC would be restructured to assume a
more active role in the development of its coal reserves through joint
ventures with PS for the purpose of developing specific proven reserves. In
the oil and gas subsector, OGDC would become increasingly self-reliant in
financing its exploration and development program, through joint ventures,
internal resources and the credit market, and its technical and managerial
capabilities strengthened to evolve into a company whose operations are based
on internationally  accepted industry standards.   Government involvement in
SNGPL and SSGC would be reduced to allow for a greater role for PS.
25.      The implementation of the investment plans  in the energy sector
continues to be constrained by shortage of financial resources and, to some
extent, lack of technical know-how. The implementation capabilities of the
public sector and semi-autonomous entities in the sector are also taxed and,
consequently, their ability to achieve the targets under the five-year
development plans are hindered. LES calls for GOP to outline and introduce an
institutional framework aimed at providing the security and incentives for PS
to increase its involvement in the development of energy to complement the
investments of the public sector. While PS involvement in the oil and gas
subsector has been under way for several years, its role would be further
strengthened with the introduction of a better compensation package and fiscal
incentives.  As for the power and coal subsectors, LES calls for the relative
reduction in the investment outlays of the public sector and the delineation
of specific investments that would be earmarked for consideration by PS to
provide about 20% of the total installed power generating capacity by the year
2010, and contribute at least 50X of the incremental annual production of
domestic coal.
D. Progress in the Implementation of LES
26.      In order to assist GOP in the implementation of LES, a series of
sector  loans  were  envisaged  by  the  Bank.   Each  loan would support the
implementation of a monitorable core program of policy actions and priority
investments which would form the umbrella for the Bank's expanded lending for
specific energy investments and for more effective coordination of external
financing for the sector. ESL I (Ln. 2552-PAK) was made in 1985 to initiate
the implementation of the first phase of LES. It covered the last three years
of the Sixth Plan (FY86-88) and focused on minimizing the shortfalls in energy
supply during this period by rationalizing investments; and implementing
policy actions and institutional reforms needed to mobilize resources for
priority projects, restrain the growth of demand for energy and enhance the
planning and project implementation capabilities of the entities involved in
the sector. ESL I was successfully completed in December 1988. A detailed
review of the achievements under the loan is presented below.



- 11 -
Rnegy Investments
27.      As a first step toward rationalizing investments, a Core Investment
Program  (CIP) was outlined under ESL  I.  CIP consisted of high priority
projects which, when aggregated within and across subsectors, were designed to
minimize the shxrtfall in meeting the forecast energy demand at least cost.
The sources of financing for each project in CIP were identified, i.e., the
contribution of GOP through the Annual Development Plan (ADP), the revenues to
be generated by the entities in the sector, foreign loans and credits,
commercial  loans,  etc.   Progress  made  by  the energy sector entities in
implementing their respective CIPs for FY86-88 has been commendable. Actual
investments during the three-year period amounted to about Rs 46 billion,
compared to the agreed CIP of Rs 50 billion, representing in terms of the
level of investments, a shortfall of only 8X. Most of this shortEall was due
to the slump in the international market which reduced the price of equipment,
materials and services needed for the Implementation of CIP. In fact, these
cost savings and the more efficient deployment of resources enabled OGDC to
exceed the scope of work agreed under CIP, while reducing expenditures to
levels below those allocated under ADP. Progress made in the implementation
of CIP represents a substantial improvement relative to the past when resource
constraints forced entities to execute only about 50% of their investment
programs.
Enerav Pricing. Resource Mobilization and Demand Management
28.      In order to restrain the growth of demand for energy and mobilize
resources for priority projects, agreement was reached under ESL I on the
rationalization of both producer and consumer prices. As producer prices of
gas were insufficient to provide incentives for PS to undertake exploration
and development, GOP adopted a new formula which links the price paid to
producers to two-thirds of the border price of fuel oil, less a negotiated
discount for geological conditions of the concessions involved. The positive
response of PS led GOP to consider the application of this formula to new
fields which were already discovered, but not yet in production, and to future
gas fields which could be developed within existing concessions. As a result,
oil and gas development and production increased significantly during FY86-88
(para 55). The consumer price of natural gas has also been increased five
times since July 1981, averaging about 21X annually in nominal terms. As of
September 1988, the weighted average consumer price of gas was at about 972 of
the border price of fuel oil which is well above the target of 66X originally
agreed with the Bank. In addition, the gas distribution utilities have been
able to finance about 40X of their CIPs from internal sources through sales of
gas.  Power tariffs were maintained constant in real  terms  following the
second oil shock until 1983, but during the subsequent two years, GOP allowed
tariffs, including a fuel surcharge introduced in 1980, to fall in real
terms. In keeping with the agreement under BSL I, requiring WAPDA to finance
at least 402 of its CIP from its own resources, tariffs were increased by
about 10% in nominal terms in FY86. In FY87, the fuel adjustment surcharge
was extended to households consuming above 300 kWh/month. WAPDA's tariffs
were increased by 13% in FY88 and again in FY89 by 152. Presently, WAPDA's
tariffs are 27% above their real level in 1985, when ESL I was initiated.
Most importantly, tariffs, which were at 582 of Long Run Marginal Cost (LRMC)
in 1985, were at 742 of LRMC in 1989.



- 12 -
Institutional Reform
29.      GOP has established a National Energy Conservation Center (ERERCON)
for the overall coordination of energy conservation activities and an office
of Energy Planning to address substantive policy issues. The latter was
merged  with  the  Energy Wing  of M4PD  (para  12)  to  streamline  planning
activities.   ERERCON  has  conducted  a  large  number  of  energy  audits,
particularly in PS firms, and on that basis identified energy conservation
investments required in the industrial sector.  ENERCON has also identified
the major constraints to energy conservation industry, and launched a training
program addressed  to middle and senior managers.  GOP has also completed
studies  to  reorganize  WAPDA  which  recommended  the  separation  of  its
distribution function into a national distrib3ution corporation. Furthermore,
a program to strengthen the financial, technical and managerial capabilities
of OGDC has been initiated, partly in order to make it financially more
self-reliant.
30.      Most importantly, in accordance with LES, GOP announced, in November
1985, several measures aimed at stimulating PS interest in the power and coal
subsectors to overcome the shortage of resources and supplement the
Implementation capabilities of the public sector. In 1987, GOP requested Bank
assistance in the initiation of a plan to increase PS participation in energy
development. Several studies were undertaken by the Bank, with financing from
the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and the
Overseas Development Administration (ODA) of the United Kingdom, to identify
the institutional and policy constraints to PS involvement.  These studies
recommended: (a) strengthening the institutions responsible for the evaluation
and approval of PS proposals; (b) creating a vehicle to provide long-term
financing for PS investments; and (c) introducing a framework of incentives
for PS development of energy.  These recommendations were reviewed and agreed
with GOP, and as a first step towards their implementation, the BCC approved
in November 1987, the creation of a Private Sector Energy Development Fund
(PSEDF) to be administered by the National Development Finance Corporation
(UDFC), one of the principal development finance institutions in Pakistan and
a beneficiary under several Bank operations. PSEDr is designed to finance up
to 30% of each PS energy investment with repayment terms of up to 23 years,
including a grace period of up to eight years.
31.      In order to support GOP's decision to establish PSEDF, the Bank
approved, in June, 1988, a Loan of US$150 million for the Private Sector
Energy Development Project (Loan 2982-PAK) with cofinancing provided by USAID,
the United Kingdom, Canada, Italy, the Export-Import Bank of Japan and the
Nordic Investment Bank. Steps have been taken by GOP to strengthen PSEDF and
other institutions responsible for the evaluation and approval of PS
proposals, and introduce a framework of incentives for PS to invest in the
development  of  energy.   These  initiatives  have  proven  very  effective.
Bilateral donors and banks have approved and committed about US$450 million in
grant and loans, in addition to the Bank's US$150 million. These funds would
in turn enable GOP to mobilize another US$1.7 billion in PS investment under a
Build-Own-Operate (BOO) arrangement with limited recourse financing. So far,
GOP has received proposals for about 2,220 MW from various PS sponsors, 1,724
MW of which has been approved and the remaining 496 MW is under various stages
of review. Moreover, to increase further PS involvement in SNGPL, GOP has
agreed, in principle, to reduce its direct and indirect share holding in the
company from a majority to 49% and has solicited assistance from IFC in
carrying out this divestiture during the implementation of a proposed
Privatization of Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited project (para 80). In



- 13 -
addition, a proposal by a joint venture, comprising foreign coal mining
companies and PMDC to increase coal production by about two million tons per
annum during the Seventh Plan period is currently under consideration.
32.      In addition to supporting the implementation of the program for
restructuring the energy sector, ESL I served as a basis for coordinating all
external financing for the sector and for expanding Bank's lending for
specific energy investments. In particular, three working level coordinating
meetings of donors were held at the request of the Bank:  the first, in
Islamabad in September 1985 under the aegis of the USAID mission in Pakistan;
the second, in July 1986 at Bank Headquarters; and the third, hosted by GOP in
March 1987 in Islamabad. The donors and GOP officials who attended these
meetings endorsed the policy framework outlined under ESL I and reiterated
their commitment to support its implementation by earmarking resources for CIP.
33.      The Bank has eight ongoing loans, which support through specific
investments, the implementation of LES. In particular, these were made to:
(a) reduce losses in the networks through the expansion and reinforcement of
the transmission grid; (b) mobilize private sector involvement in the
exploration and development of energy; (c) expand generating capacity through
the conversion of combustion turbines to combined cycle operation; (d) improve
the efficiency of the existing power plants and provide additional generating
capacity through rehabilitation; (e) improve the efficiency of one of the
existing refineries; and (f) support the privatization of SNGPL. Performance
under the projects completed have been satisfactory, although implementation
has been consistently slower than eLvisaged at the time of appraisal, mainly
because of shortage of local resources.  In addition, the response of the
beneficiaries to the agreed reforms has been slow, particularly when involving
changes  in  the  by-laws  and  regulations.   The major achievements of the
projects completed have been the improvement of the financial discipline of
the  beneficiaries  and  the  increased  reliance  on  pricing  and,  hence
internally-generated revenues for financing the investment programs.
III. THE SEVENTH PLAN FOR ENERGY, FY89-93
A. Obiectives
34.      ESL I provided the basis for the preparation of the Seventh Plan for
energy through the studies that were undertaken, the formulation of LES, and
the implementation cf CIP (FY86-88) during the Sixth Plan. The Bank's role in
the preparation of the Seventh Plan was to review the planning assumptions,
and  ensure  consistency  with  the  macroeconemic  framework  and  LES.   The
objectives of the Seventh Plan are:
(a)  Resource  Develooment.   (i)  accelerate  the  exploration  and
development of oil, coal, gas, hydro and renewable resources;
(il) reduce energy imports by increasing the use of indigenous
fuels such as coal and gas; and (iii) increase the supply of
power to meet the projected growth in demand, eliminate
loadshedding and provide rural areas access to electricity;
(b)  Pricing, Resource Mobilization and Demand Manaaement.
(i) rationalize prices to generate funds for energy investments
and   provide   incentives   for   conservation   and   economic
substitution among fuels; and (ii) increase the capacity of the



- 14 -
public energy entities to self-finance their investment programs
and, in turn, to reduce the burden on the national budget and
domestic capital markets; and
(c)  Institutional Development.  (i) draw, to a much greater degree,
on the financial resources and expertise of PS for energy
development and production; and (ii) improve the operational and
investment efficiencies of the institutions in the sector.
35.      Prior to its ratification, the Bank assessed the Seventh Plan in the
process of preparing the proposed Loan which was coordinated with the
preparation  of  the medium-term  macroeconomic  framework.   This  assessment
started by developing a broad long-term forecast of the demand for energy for
FY89-2003, and a more detailed forecast for the Seventh and Eighth Plans
(FY89-98). The ten-year forecast was based on: (a) the projected rates of
growth for the main sectors of the economy which correspond to an average
annual rate of growth in GDP of 5.5X; (b) increases in the domestic prices of
petroleum products to reflect border prices; and (c) increases in the prices
of natural gas, coal and electricity to meet the financial performance
covenants agreed with the Bank, and for electricity and gas to achieve parity
with the economic cost of supply by the end of the Seventh Plan, the exception
being the consumer price of gas for households which is projected to reach
parity with the economic price by the end of the Eighth Plan. Once the price
of an energy product reaches parity with its economic price, the former is
increased only to maintain its level constant in real terms. On the basis of
this analysis, the demand of energy is expected to increase at an average
annual rate of 7.02 and 6.0X for the Seventh and Eighth Plans, respectively.
The size of the overall investments needed to meet the forecast demand at
least cost were then determined. Investments by the public sector, including
the semi-autonomous entities, were subsequently estimated by: (a) increasing,
relative to FY88, the level of their development program over the Seventh and
Eighth Plans at an average annual rate of 12, as a proxy for the improvement
in their implementation capabilities; and (b) limiting the increases in
nominal energy prices to average annual rates of between 8X and 122, depending
on the product, and the self-financing of the entities in the sector to
between 202 and 40%, depending on the entity. The difference between the
total investments required and the proposed public sector investments
represents the investments which needs to be carried out by PS to reduce
potential shortages in energy supply.
36.      The ongoing and new projects needed to meet energy demand during the
Seventh Plan and ensure smooth transition to the Eighth Plan were identified
and ranked in descending order on the basis of their economic rates of
return. The financial requirements for each project selected was determined
by phasing the expenditures and determining the sources of funds by optimally
combining  bileteral  and  multilateral  sources,  internal  cash  generation,
allocations through ADP, and loans from the local and foreign capital
markets. The detailed investment program for the Seventh Plan is presented in
Annex V.
B. Physical Targets
37.      As a result of the analysis undertaken, GOP and the Bank agreed on
the physical targets for energy under the Seventh Plan. These are summarized
in Table 1.



- 15 -
Table 1: Physical Taraets for the Seventh Plan
FY88            Seventh Plan             FY93
Publi   Piate Total  Publig  Private Total  Public  Private  Total
Power (N4W)    6,716       0   6.716  5,230  2,300   7,530 11,946  2,300   14,246
Oil ('000 SPO)   7.4    35.6   43.0  11.0  22.0    33.0  18.4  57.6        76.0
Gas (tMCFD)      100   1,100  1,200   768   132       900   368  1,232    2,100
Coal (M/tons)    0.3     3.9    4.2   0.7   2.0       2.7   1.0   5.9       6.9
Total power generation rapacity is expected to increase from 6,716 NW in FY88
to 14,246 KW in FY93. The public sector would add 5,230 NW, of which hydro
would account for 1,728 KW, and the remaining 3,502 MW would be thermal.  PS
would add 2,300 MW, of which 2,100 NMW is expected to be thermal, and the
remaining 200 MW hydro.  In order to evacuate power, WAPDA would extend and
reinforce the transmission and distribution networks.  Total production of oil
would increase from 43,000 BPD in FY88 to 76,000 BPD in FY93. In order to
achieve this increase, the public sector would drill 65 exploratory wells, and
PS would drill another 60 exploration wells and 150 development wells. PS0
would provide facilities for the transportation and storage of domestic
crude. Total gas production would increase from 1,200 NMCFD in FY88 to 2,100
MKCFD in FY93.  SNGPL and SSGC would develop their respective natural gas
transmission and distribution facilities to handle the increased supply. Coal
production would increase from 4.2 million tons in FY88 to 6.9 million tons in
rY93.  PMDC would drill 60 exploratory bore holes as well  as expand and
rehabilitate its operating mines at Lakhra, and PS would drill an additional
600 bore holes. No major new coal transport facilities are planned, as most
of the incremental coal produced would be consumed in mouth-of-mine power
plants.
C. Investment Program
38.      Total energy investments for the Seventh Plan are summarized in Table
2  below.   Investments by the public and private sectors  in power would
increase from 69% of energy investments under the Sixth Plan to 752 under the
Seventh Plan, to compensate for the slippages experienced during the Sixth
Plan period because of financial constraints, particularly by RESC for the Bin
Qasim Power Station complex. Investments in oil and gas would decrease from
302 of investments under the Sixth Plan to 23% under the Seventh, partly
reflecting the downturn in the international price of seismic and drilling
equipment.   The  coal  subsector,  which  accounted  for  only  1%  of  energy
investments during the Sixth Plan, would increase to about 2X under the
Seventh Plan, due to the incentive framework for PS involvement and the
restructuring of PMDC (paras 53 and 54). PS share in the development of
energy, amounting to Rs 43.7 billion (US$2.3 billion) or 252, represents a
significant increase relative to the Sixth Plan where it accounted for only 5X
of total investment.



- 16 -
Table 2: Total Enerav Investments for the Seventh Plan
(R Milln)
Public      Semi-Public      PrXvate   Total        % _
Power            77,714           17,025       34,960    129,699      75
Oil and Gas      14,932           18,096        6,500     39,528      23
Coal              1,505                -        2 240      3,745    _
Total       IL =                                    JZ21a    1
X            54              21            25        iOO
I           (US$ Million)
Public      Semi-Public      Private   Total
Power             4,090              896        1,840      6,826
Oil and Gas         786              952          342      2,080
Coal                 79                -          118        197
Total        4                  4_=
The expected increase in the PS investments is due to the recently introduced
measures and incentives (paras 30 and 31).  Proposals by PS amounting to Rs 36
billion have been received and, consequently, no difficulties are foreseen in
achieving the Rs 43 billion projected for PS investment. The major share of
PS investments, would be in power (80X), followed by oil and gas exploration
and development (15X), and coal (5%).
D. Financint Plan
39.      The financing strategy for the Seventh Plan for energy is to reduce
the sector's dependence on budgetary allocation, and maximize resources
mobilized from the consumers and PS. It also calls for prudent and tightly
managed access to the domestic capital and credit markets by both the public
and private sectors. This is consistent with the objectives of the Seventh
Plan (para 34). The energy sector adjustment program proposed under this Loan
would decrease dependence on budgetary allocation b:" increasing the share of
investments to be financed through foreign loans and credits (432) and
internal cash generation (352) to cover 782 of investments, compared to 682
during  the  Sixth  Plan.   As  a  result,  GOP  loans  and  local  borrowing
requirements would be reduced from 322 of total financial requirements under
the Sixth Plan to 21% for the Seventh Plan. However, in order to reduce the
burden on GOP and the domestic capital market of financing the investment
program for the Seventh Plan, special levies would be introduced under the
proposed Loan which would increase the cash generation of the entities in the
sector and reduce the level of GOP loan funding and local borrowing (paras 46
and 47). The financins plan for investment in energy during the Seventh Plan
is presented in Table 3.



- 17 -
table 3:  Summary Financina Plan for Eneray for the Seventh Plan
Oriainal Plan                          Revised Plan /a
Rs Million I USI- illion  X  Share  Rs_iD1.in  US1 -HiIion IX Share
I. Investment Plan
A. Public Inesglnts
Local Costs                        74,077        3,899         57      74,077        3,899         57
Foreign Costs                      55.195        29           --3      55.195        am            43
Subtotal Public Investments    129.272         6.84         100     129272 ,8Q4
B. PS Investhients
Local Costs                         4,9/2          262         11       4,972          262         11
Foreign Costs                      38L728        2.038                  L 38.728    L20            89
Subtotal PS Investments          43,700        2.3Q         1Q       43,.00        2 30Q        100
Total Investments             11L1Z1         5L2ZM 19<
II. Financina Plan
A. Public Sector
Foreian Financing
Bank - Ongoing                      7,388          389          6       7,388          389          6
Bank Group - Proposed                9.419         496          7       9,419          496          7
ESL II (Bank)                       2,373          125          2       2,373          125          2
Other                               36.          1.85         _        36.015        1.895        28
Subtotal Foreign Financing       55,195        2,905         43      55,195        2,905         43
Local Financing
Internal Cash Generation           44,967        2,365         35      44,967        2,365         35
Proposed Special Levy                    -           -          -      14,969 *        788         12
Equity Issues                          861          45          1         861           45          1
GOP Loans                            8,861         418          6       8,861          418          6
Local Borrowing                                  1.021.       J1S-    4.419 *          233 *        3
Subtotal Local Financing         74,077        3,899         57      74,077        3,899         57
Subtotal Pub. Sector Financing 1Z9.272         6 84         100     129272         6.4          la
B. Private Sector
Foreian Financina
Equity                              7,647          402        1        7,647          402         18
PSEOF                               13,110         690         30      13,110          690         30
Foreign Loans                       17.971         946         41      17.971          946         41
Subtotal                         38,728        2,038         89      38,728        2,038         89
Local Financing
Equity                               3,278         173          7       3,278          173          7
Deferred Front-End Charges               -           -          -       1,694           89          4
Local Borrowing                      I.694 A9                   4_-
Subtotal                          4.9226                     1147262
Subtotal PS Financing            43.700        2 0                   43.700
Total Investment Financing                   I 9.104              J22Z2          L.M
/l Includes provisions proposed in pares 43-49.
Jb Includes unidentified foreign financing of Rs 4,883 million (US$257 million).
*   Categories where the revised plan differs from original plan.



- 18 -
Financing of Foreima Exchanae
40.      Bilateral and multilateral agencies are the major source of financing
for the sector. A detailed review of the foreign exchange financing for each
project in the program indicates that the program for FY89 is fully financed.
To cover WAPDA's Subtransmission and Grid Programs, a gap of Rs 372 million
(US$19.6 million) for FY90 exists, which is expected to be financed by KfW of
the Federal Republic of Germany.  GOP would be expected to mobilize financing
for the remaining gaps for FY91 of Rs 327 million (US$17 million); FY92 of Rs
135 million (US$7 million); and FY93 of Rs 2,615 million (US$138 million).
Multilateral  and  bilateral  donors  have  been  approached  for  specific
investments that would bridge the prevailing financing gaps. The size of gaps
for FY90-91 are relatively small; consequently, they are not expected to delay
the implementation of CIP (FY89-91). The gap for FY92 and FY93 is also small
and preparation is underway to bridge it.
Local Cost Financina
41.      Local Cost Finaning involves: internal cash generation, issuance of
equity  shares,  GOP loans,  and local borrowing.   Internal Cash Generation
(ICG).   ICG  for the Seveuth Plan would amount  to about Rs  46  billion,
representing 35X of total requirements, compared with an ICG for the Sixth
Plan of 26X. The increase in ICG for the Seventh Plan reflects: (a) reforms
in the level and structure of prices for electricity and natural gas initiated
under ESL I which would be continued under the proposed Loan (paras 57, S8,
63); (b) the introduction of financial recovery plans for OGDC and RESC which
would involve corrections in the prices received for their products, the
restructuring of their capital and the gradual move towards levels of ICG
consistent with LES (paras 74, 78 and 79); and (c) the increase in customer
contribution for sales of gas to household consumers and agriculture consumers
of electricity, and the broadening of the fuel surcharge coverage in the price
of electricity to the household consumers.  Issuance of Eauitv Shares:  As
outlined  in LES,  GOP  forecasts an increase in the role of  PS  for  the
development of energy.  One of the measures to be taken to implement this
objective involves the increased reliance on the capital market by issuing
equity shares in SNGPL amounting to Rs 861 million (US$45 million). These
shares, which would be sold to the general public with the assistance of a
financial advisor would decrease GOP's direct and indirect stare in the
ownership of SNGPL from 91% to at most 49% over the Seventh Plan. Assistance
in tapping the capital market by SNGPL would be provided by the Bank under the
proposed Privatization of SNGPL Project to be presented to the Board shortly.
GOP Loans: The financing plan for the Seventh Plan calls for GOP to provide
long-term loans amounting to about Rs 7.9 billion (US$418 million),
representing  6% of total public sector financing requirements.  These are
funds which would be made available to GOP from external sources and onlent to
the entities in the sector. Local Borrowina: The energy entities would need
to borrow about Rs 19.4 billion (US$1 billion) to finance the local costs to
be secured  in the capital market (paras 43-49) representing 15% of total
financing requirements, compared to 31X under the Sixth Plan.
Financina of PS Investments
42.      PS investments for energy developments, amounting to Rs 43.7 billion
(US$2.3 billion), would be financed under limited recourse financing
arrangements. In view of the fact that PS investments would be undertaken by
companies  incorporated  to  constrlet and operate energy projects,  revenue
generation would not occur until the projects are commissioned. Consequently,



- 19 -
the IC6 cotcept is not relevant to these investments.  Instead, equity, both
foreign  and  local,  would  finance  Rs  10.9  billion  (US$575  million),
representing 25% of total PS investments, which would be comprised of local
equity of about Rs 3.3 billion (US$173 million) and foreign equity of about Rs
7.6 billion (US$402 million). PSEDP would finance foreign costs amounting to
Rs 13.1 billion (US$690 million), representing 30% of total PS investments.
Local borrowings would finance about Rs 1.7 billion (US$89 million),
representing 4% of total requirements. Foreign commercial banks and export
credit agencies would finance, without GOP's sovereign guarantee, about
Rs 17.8 billion (US$936 million), representing 41% of PS requirements.
Constraints on Access to Local Financial Markets
43.      As noted in paras 41 and 42, public and private sectors would need to
borrow about Rs 21 billion (US$1.1 billion) from the local financial markets
to finance energy investments during the Seventh Plan (para 38). A breakdown
of the borrowing requirements is summarized in Table 4.
Table 4.  Summary Borrowina from Local Markets during the Seveieth Plan
Rs Million      US$ Millin
Public Sector
UESC                                1,932              102            9
OGDC                                2,487              131           12
SNGPL                               2,675              140           13
WAPDA                              12,294              647           58
Subtotal                        19,388           1,020            92
Private Sector                           1,684               89            8
Total Borrowing                  1 2 
KUSC's borrowing requirements of about Rs 1.9 billion (US$102 million) during
the Seventh Plan would cover local funds required for the implementation of
Bin Qasim units 3, 4 and 5. OGDC's borrowing requirements of about Rs 2.5
billion (US$131 million), represent the maximum amount it could borrow from
the local market. if the wellhead price of gas produced by the Corporation is
increased in accordance with the financial restructuring plan sought under the
proposed Loan (para 74).  SNGPL, which is to be privatized, would need to
borrow Rs 2.6 billion (US$140 million) as a PS company without GOP guarantee.
44.      WAPDA's requirements for the Seventh Plan of about Rs 12.3 billion
(US$647 million) are high, stemming from GOP's decision to remove the utility,
starting PY89, from those eligible for budgetary allocation under ADP system.
The utility plans to borrow the required funds on its own from the general
public,  insurance companies and private investment trusts,  through  a bond
issue.  In FY88, WAPDA attempted to mobilize Rs 2.0 billion from the local
financial market for the first time with a bond issue of five-year maturities,
a 13.5% interest rate, and GOP guarantee. However, only Rs 700 million was
subscribed. The limited success experienced by WAPDA in tapping the local
financial  market  is  attributable  to:   (a) WAPDA's  reluctance to appoint
underwriters for the bond issue and its reliance on commissions which in turn
are low, set at 1/2% on bonds sold, providing little incentives for the
intermediaries; (b) the low yield of 13.5% on WAPDA bonds relative to the
yields available on GOP securities such as Khas certificates and real estate
investments; and (c) the absence of secondary market in bonds to provide
investors the opportunity to liquidate their investment. The development of
the secondary bond market is hindered by the high transfer fees and stamp
duties, over 9%, compared to about 0.75% on stocks and shares.



- 20 -
45.      WAPDA's  reliance  on  short-term  bonds  to  finance  the  rupee
requirements of its investments involves the use of short-term funds to
finance investments witb long gestation periods, typically a five-year
construction period and a 24-year life. These bonds are serviced and repaid
in full before  the corresponding assets  are  commissioned.   Although,  in
theory, the bonds could be rolled over every five years, in practice, it is
unviable because the repayment of bonds would become part of the debt service
of the year of rollover, requiring steep tariff increases to comply with ICG
covenant.   In addition, there are also costs involved in the rollover of
bonds, such as issuance fee, etc., that would require WAPDA to borrow more
than the amount of bonds to be repaid. The Bank's financial projections for
WAPDA indicate that an average annual rate of tariff increase of 10% during
the Seventh Plan is required to meet the 40X ICG and without exercising the
rollover option. It should be noted that these tariff increases are based on
an investment for WAPDA during the Seventh PLan of Rs 78 billion (US$4.1
billion). However, even with this level of investment, wbich represents about
50X of what WAPDA has originally requested, there is still high probability
that the local financing from the capital market would not materialize as
experienced with the first bond issue.
46.      In order to avoid delays in thk implementation of WAPDA's CIP because
of constraints on the availability of resources in the domestic capital
market, the utility could increase the proportion of its coverage of the local
cost by introducing a levy on electricity sales. This levy would mobilize
resources from the consumers sufficient to bridge gaps in local cost
financing, if any, attributable to the inability of the local finar.cial market
to provide the required resources to WAPDA. This levy would provide GOP
discretion in shifting the burden of financing WAPDA's investments from the
capital market to consumers. If the levy were introduced, it would result in
an average annual increase in tariffs of 102 over the Seventh Plan period,
which is not higher than the levels required under the proposed financing plan
for WAPDA involving bond borrowing, since the levy would result in lower
borrowings, and hence lower debt service on short-term bonds. It would also
eliminate the potential for crowding out other investments in the economy and
reduce the potential for delays in the implementation of the investment
program.
47.      The levy would in essence constitute an increase in the level of ICG,
above the 40% agreed with GOP. The Bank's estimates show that in order to
fully eliminate the need for WAPDA to borrow from the local market, the levy
should be set at about Rs 0.12/kWh over the Seventh Plan, given a CIP for the
plan period of about Rs 78 billion for WAPDA. If this were to be implemented
in a one-time increase in the tariff, it would require a 24X increase
effective July 1, 1989, which is not feasible as it would have a negative
impact on electricity consumers in terms of immediate effects on the welfare
of  low-income  household   consumers,  and  the  sudden  erosion  in  the
competitiveness of domestic industry by introducing relatively large tariff
increases in a one-time upward adjustment. Therefore, the levy should be
introduced in principle only; the size of the levy should be left open, and is
intended only to serve as a buffer in the overall financing scheme of GOP,
where it would fill any gap between local resources required on the one hand,
and the internally generated funds, the loans provided by GOP and the bonds
sold in the local market on the other.   The  levy would provide GOP the
flexibility of mobilizing the required resources from the market, the
consumers, or a combination of the two. A similar approach of introducing a
special levy would be followed under the proposed Privatization of Sui



- 21 -
Northern Gas Pipelines Limited project, where the local borrowing of SNGPL of
Rs 2.59 billion (US$140 million) would be financed through a levy of Rs
2.75!ICF to be paid to SNGPL for transmission and distribution.
48.      As stated earlier (para 42), newly created PS power companies would
not generate revenues from operations until the commissioning of their
subprojects. In order to implement the subprojects, PS sponsors would have to
incur front-end costs in rupees such as exchange rate insurance premium, Iqra
taxes, surcharge, and commitment fees. PS is expected to borrow, during the
Seventh Plan, from the local market tc finance these costs, estimated at about
Rs  1.7 billion  (US$89 million).  In view of the critical  importance of
implementing PS projects to achieve the supply targets of the Seventh Plan, it
is proposed that PS subprojects be put on the same footing as WAPDA, by
deferring the front-end charges owed to GOP until after the commissioning of
the respective PS subprojects, at which time GOP would collect the charges
over a five-year period, together with interest charges reflecting market
interest rates, presently 15%. This can be accommodated largely by changing
the procedures of the prevailing customs debentures facility. This facility
requires PS to pay 50X of applicable customs duties and taxes at importation
and the remaining 50% over five years, including two years' grace, with an
interest of 112.  In order to offset the revenue shortfall to GOP caused by
deferring the collection of front-end charges, it is proposed that a portion
of the proceeds of the Loan would be made available to GOP to finance general
imports under the first tranche similar to the arrangement envisaged for
compensating GOP for rescheduling repayment of a part of WAPDA's loan (para.
47).
49.      As a consequence of the measures and mechanisms proposed above, the
borrowing requirements of the energy entities from the local market would be
reduced by about 77% from Rs 21.0 billion (US$1.1 billion) to Rs 4.4 billion
(US$233 million) as shown in Table 5. The revisions in the financing plan for
the Seventh Plan, taking into account the special levy for WAPDA and SNGPL and
deferment of front-end charges for PS are reflected in Table 3 under the
revised plan for local financing of the public and private sectors.
Table 5: Revised Borrowina Reouirements from Local Market
Rs Billion      US$ Million
Public Sector
KESC                        1,932             102
OGDC                        2,487             131
SNGPL                           -               -
WAPDA                           -               -
Subtotal                  4,419             233
Private Sector                        -              -
Total Borrowing                             233



- 22 -
As shown in Table 3 under the revised plan for local financing of the public
sector, a large proportion of the resource mobilization burden in the sector
would now be shifted from the local market largely to consumers and as a
result the effective ICG for the public sector energy entities during the
Seventh Plan increases to 47%, compared to 35% prior to the introduction of
the special levy. Consequently, borrowing from the local markets is reduced
to 3%, thus reducing the risks and uncertainties of financing the local costs
of the Seventh Plan for energy. The special levy would result in resource
mobilization for CIP for the Seventh Plan with an acceptable level of tariff
increases, and reduced need for GOP guarantees on public debt and potential
for crowding out PS.  In addition,  it would move  electricity  tariffs to
achieve parity with LRMC by FY92 rather than FY93. Furthermore, the deferment
of front-end charges amounting to Rs 1,694 million (US$89 million) on PS
subprojects would lower the unit sale price of energy offered by PS
subprojects.   In  the  event  of  a  shortfall  in  WAPDA's  local  financing
reauirements for the neriod FY9O-93, after takina into account the resources
mobilized from internal resources and borrowings, GOP has agreed to cause
WAPDA to make uD the shortfall through a levv on the utility's sales of
electricity.   Such levy shall not result in an increase of more than: (i) 15%
in the electricity t)riff for FY90: or (H) an averaae annual increase of more
than 10% in the electricity tariff over FY89-93. based on an assumed annual
inflation rate of 8% provided that these increases are sufficient to comply
with the 40% ICG covenant, GOP has also agreed. in resnpect of orivate sector
energy development prolects, to adopt and announce not later than December 31?
1989, a policy, satisfactory to the Bank. regulating the modes and sources of
local cost financinat available for such orolects.
IV. THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM FOR THE SEVENT PLAN
50.      In support of the investment program for energy development during
the Seventh Plan, a set of policy and institutional actions are envisaged
under the Loan.  These are discussed below under the following headings:
Resource Development; Pricing; Resource Mobilization and Demand Management;
Institutional Development; and Environmental Aspects.
A. Resource Developmnent
51.      Primary Energy.  In line with LES, Pakistan should develop 8,700 MW
of new hydropower potential by the year 2010 to be implemented in sequence.
GOP agreed under ESL I to initiate, by December 31, 1986, a feasibility study
for Basha (2,400 MW) which was expected to be completed in three years,
followed by five years for implementation, This timetable corresponded with
the then estimated construction period of eight years for Kalabagh (2,400 MW
to 3,,600 MW) for whicL detailed studies have already been completed (para
16). Since ESL I was appraised, however,, interprovincial differences have
emerged concerning the allocation of water, particularly in the absence of:
(a) a schedule for water charges to ensure efficiency in the allocation of
water; and (b) a framework for the compensation of the population whose land
and property would be inundated by the Kalabagh reservoir. In early 1989, GOP
appointed a committee to address the issue of water allocations among
provinces  and  outline  a  framework  for  setting  water  charges.   The
recommendations of the committee would be submitted to the provincial and
national assemblies for approval. Given the nature of the differences and the
public pronouncements surrounding them, It is possible that the resolution of
differences would be a time-consuming process.   Since Kalabagh  and Basha



- 23 -
complement rather than compete with one another, there is merit in completing
the preparation of Basha as soon as possible, so that the latter is also
readied for implementation. There is a cost to postponing hydropower projects
in that alternative power generated by thermal stations would have to be
advanced.  However,  in view of the severe shortage of resources currently
being experienced, capital intensive and lumpy investments of long gestation
periods, such as major hydropower schemes, may have to be postponed, while
alternatives with shorter implementation periods and lower capital costs such
as coal-fired power plants, are being advanced to meet critical power needs.
By FY94, however, the resource constraints are expected to be eased, which
would permit the construction of large hydro projects to ensure the least cost
development of the sector. Currently, Basha is not expected to come on stream
until the year 2002. This implies that between 1996 and 2002, there would be
a gap of 2,400 MW that would otherwise have been provided by Kalabagh if its
construction had commenced at this time. In order to bridge this gap (and
pending a decision on Kalabagh), GOP has agreed with the Bank to advance the
implementation of Chasma (240 MW), Taunsa (110 MW), Jinnah (110 MW) and Ghazi
Ghariala (1,000 MW). This would provide a total of 1,500 MW by 2001, leaving
a gap of about 1,000 MW to be met by thermal generation based on coal. This
has prompted GOP to initiate a detailed engineering study for an imported
coal-fired power complex (10x460 MW) near Karachi with a view to advancing its
implementation to the beginning of the Eighth Plan. This power station has
been earmarked for implementation under a build-operate-transfer (BOT)
arrangement with limited recourse financing in light of GOP's growing
financial constraints.
52.      Since the appraisal of ESL I in 1985, differences of view emerged
between the consultants who prepared a prefeasibility study for Basha, and
WAPDA, concerning the scope of work which needs to be undertaken before the
feasibility of Basha is established.  In order to resolve these differences,
at the suggestion of the Bank, GOP appointed, in March 1988, an international
panel of experts (POE) to review the prefeasibility study, outline the scope
of work required to complete the feasibility study, and prepare the project
for implementation. POE outlined a work program for the preparation of Basha
that would require about five years to complete, after which implementation
could be initiated. The work plan has been reviewed and approved by GOP and
the Bank.   In order to ensure  the  development  of Pakistan's  hvdropower
potential, the appointment of consultants satisfactory to the Bank, for the
Rrenaration of the feasibility study for Basha is a condition of release of
the second tranche of the Loan.
53.      Coal.   Although  coal  is  one  of  Pakistan's  economically  proven
indigenous energy resources, its share of commercial energy has not grown. At
present, its role is limited to meeting the demands of the brick kiln industry
which requires a relatively low quality of combustible material, without the
need for guaranteed supply. Thermal power operation requires regularity of
supply and a consistent quality product.  Coal supply is not sufficiently
advanced technically or commercially to meet the sustained and more exacting
requirements of thermal power generation. This is due to several factors:
(a) the absence of a stable and secure market which would justify investment
in coal production and exploration; (b) limited geologically proven reserves
to serve as a basis for investment; (c) the public sector, principally PMDC,
accounts for only 5% of production, but holds some 25% of coal lease areas and
most of the geologically proven reserves; however, it has been unable to
implement a program for the development of publicly held concessions. PS has
shown itself willing to put forward schemes for coal production for power
generation, but proven reserves are held by the public sector.  There is,



- 24 -
therefore, a need to delineate some of the geologically proven resources for
exploitation by PS; (d) limited technical capability to exploit proven
resources in a manner appropriate to power generation. There is a need to
provide technical assistance to the both private and public sectors; (e)
inappropriate laws and guidelines for licensing exploration and granting
mining  leases,  which  create  investor  uncertainty  and  distortion  in  the
utilization of potential resources.  Substantial work at the level of the
Provinces, which have jurisdictiou over coal concessions, needs to be
undertaken to put coal on an equal footing with oil and gas; and (f) the lack
of an appropriate fiscal incentive framework to encourage private sector
development of coal.
54.      The Bank's Private Sector Energy Development Project has  recently
provided the incentives for the construction of a mouth-of-mine coal-fired
pover plant  to supply electricity to WAPDA.   Under ESL  I,  a  study  was
completed which identified the main operational constraints to development in
the coal sector.   This study outlined a comprehensive program  to assess
reserves at Lakhra and Sonda-Thatta.  This assessment has been progressing
satisfactorily; part of PMDC's lease areas at Lakhra were geologically
assessed, with USAID financing, which proved sufficient reserves to sustain
production of up to 4 million tons annually. Furthermore, a study undertaken
by consultants under ESL I has recommended the separation of the mining
activities of PMDC into two new companies, one for coal mining and the other
for salt and other mineral production, both of which would operate on
commercial principles; and the establishment of a Mineral Development Board,
responsible for setting policies related to mineral and coal development. GOp
has therefore agreed to: (a) review with the Bank by December 31. 1989. the
recommendations of the study on the promotion of accelerated coal develooment
undertaken under ESL I. and formulate and furnish to the Bank by March 31.,
1990. an action plan, satisfactorv to the Bank, for restructuring the
Institutions responsible for exploration. develooment and production of coal.
In addition. in order to accelerate the development of the zeolozicallv oroven
Lakhra coal reserves held by PMDC, GOP has agreed to outline by December 31,
1989. an action olan for the develooment of the central block of the Lakhra
field. which could Involve the participation of private sector and (b)
anpoint, by March 31, 1990, consultants with international expertise, in
accordance with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to complete a
study  by March 31.  1991. which would:   (i) review the arrangements  for
aranting coal concessions, includina an examination of the contents of
concession agreements with a view to outting them on an equal footing with
those for oil and gas; and (ii) review the fiscal incentive framework for
investments in coal development with a view to encouratina such investment by
the orivate sector.
55.      Oil and Gas.  In line with the objectives of LES,  GOP  initiated
measures, under ESL I, for accelerating the exploration and development of
petroleum resources. As a result, new oil and gas fields were discovered and
a number of already discovered oil fields and non-associated gas fields were
developed. During FY86-88 oil production increased from 1.2 million tons to
2.2 million tons, and gas production increased from 970 MMCFD to 1,200 MCFD.
Although the rate of development of oil is satisfactory, the pace of
development of gas is lower than warranted. On the basis of the recoverable
reserves of gas, and the hydrocarbon potential of the country, oil and gas
production could still be increased by accelerating the development of the
discovered fields, and by maintaining a reasonable level of exploration to
ensure that new fields are discovered and developed. A major hindrance to
rapid exploration has been the absence of a comprehensive exploration policy
that clearly establishes specific areas to be explored by OGDC and those to be



- 25 -
explored by PS. Under the Bank-financed Petroleum Exploration Project
(Loan 2351-PAK), GOP undertook a detailed Hydrocarbon Habitat Study, with
assistance from consultants, to evaluate the hydrocarbon potential of all the
onshore basins in the country, and to establish a more efficient exploration
policy. The Bank has reviewed the recommnendations of the study and found them
satisfactory.   Consequently, GOP completed in November  1988,  a concession
promotion map of the high priority and accessible areas for exploration, and
identified those areas to be undertaken by OGDC and those that would be
explored by PS.  These areas were successfully promoted to PS in December
1988, and by the end of February 1989, several applications had been submitted
to GOP by PS oil companies for oil and gas exploration. GOP is currently
evaluating these applications. Furthermore, in order to ensure that the level
of gas production is increased, OGDC should be encouraged to concentrate on
developing the already discovered gas fields. Therefore, GOP has agreed to:
(a) furnish the Bank by December 31, 1989, a dated and monitorable action
orogram for the aRoraisal and develooment of the already discovered fields at
Loti, Pirkoh, Randour, Dhodak. Dakhni, Uch and Panloir, to ensure increased
availability of gas; and (b) review. by no later than May 31 of each year,
bezinnina 1990 progress achieved in delineatinx areas in which exoloration and
develooment would be undertaken by OGDC, and identifving areas that would be
earmark.d for PS involvement.
56.      Household Enerav.  Households constitute the largest single consumer
category in the consumption of energy in Pakistan, accounting in 1987 for
approximately 45% of total energy consumed. The decline in firewood use by
households, together with the increase in the use of other biomass fuels
suggests that the forest cover is being rapidly depleted with attendant
adverse environmental consequences. In addition, the use of crop residues and
dung for fuel rather than soil enrichment, also has adverse effects on
agricultural productivity and increases fertilizer use. The optimal mix of
biomass fuels and modern fuels in the household consumption of energy requires
a better understanding of the factors that determine the use and supply of
energy in the household sector. Since existing data are inadequate for policy
formulation, a Household Energy Strategy Study (HESS) should be undertaken.
The study would be implemented in two phases over a period of two years. The
first Dphae would develop a comprehensive database and identify the main
issues. This database would integrate information on household energy supply
and use. It would also allow GOP to establish the welfare effects of various
household energy use patterns, and identify issues relating to the
agricultural,  environmental,  and  economic  linkages  with  the  household
subsector.   The second ohase would focus on the formulation of an action
program, concentrating on investments in social forestry as well as short and
long-term policy recommendations aimed at meeting household energy needs in a
cost efficient but equitable way. Discussions are presently at an advanced
stage with UNDP concerning funding for the development of a data base on the
supply and demand of household fuels. Therefore, GOP has aareed to:
(a) recruit by March 31, 1990, consultants, satisfactory to the Bank. to
comolete a data base on the su=olv and demand of household energy by June 30.
1991: (b) formulate and review with the Bank by no later than December 31,
1991 a household enerav' strateav and an action plan for its imolementation:
and  (c) recruit by March 31.  1990.  internationally  reputable consultants
satisfactory to the Bank, to comolete a forestry inventory in conjunction with
onaoina work, and formulate a boAg-term reforestation oroaram no later than
Seotember 30. 1991.



- 26 -
B.  Pricing. Resource Mobilization and Demand Manatement
Electricity PricinA
57.      The level of electricity tariffs is measured by the average revenue,
including the fuel adJustment surcharge (FAS), realized from the sale of
electricity. The structure of electricity prices on the other hand, refers to
the  relative  tariff  paid  by  each  consumer  category,  i.e.,  indus.. y,
agriculture, households, etc.  In Pakistan, the level of electricity tariffs
is set to ensure compliance with the internal cash generation covenant agreed
under ESL I, which requires WAPDA to generate from internal sources, 40% of
its investments averaged over the previous, current and ensuing years.  In
order to compli with the covenant, WAPDA's tariffs were increased in each of
the years FY86-89 by an average of 8.7X per year in nominal terms, which has
increased the average revenue/kWh from Rs 0.61 in FY88 to Rs 1.0 in FY89.
This covenant would be repeated under the proposed Loan. In order to comply
with the financial covenant, WAPDA's tariffs need to be increased annually by
an average of 11% in nominal terms during the period FY89-93, representing an
annual increase of about 5% in real terms based on an annual average inflation
of about 6X. In July 1988, GOP unified the tariffs of WAPDA and KESC as a
first step toward fully integrating the operations of the two systems to
ensure equity among consumers of electricity throughout  the country.   The
projected increase in average revenues needed to comply with the 40% internal
cash generation covenant would raise the average tariff level for KESC and
WAPDA's integrated system from 74% of LRMC in FY89 to full parity by FY92.
The Bank's forecasts show that tariffs should be increased by 152 beginning
July 1, 1989, and another 8% beginning July 1, 1990, in order to comply with
the financial covenant agreed with the Bank under ESL I, for FY90 and FY91,
respectively.  This would also accommodate the special levy of Rs 0.12 kWh
needed to reduce WAPDA's dependence on the local capital market (paras 46 and
47). In view of the need to mobilize revenues in a timely manner to implement
CIPs of UESC and WAPDA, an increase of electricity tariffs effective July 1.
1989. reauired to comolv with the 40% internal cash teneration covenant for
FY90. is a condition for effectiveness of the Progosed Loan; and an increase
in electricity tariffs effective July 1. 1990, reauired to comnlv with the 40%
internal cash zeneration covenant for FY91. is a condition for the release of
the second tranche of the orolosed Loan.
58.        Since the initiation of ESL I, GOP, WAPDA and UESC have taken
several steps to rationalize the structure of electricity tariffs.  In FY87,
FAS was broadened to cover household consumers consuming 300 kWh/month or
more. Furthermore, in July 1988, GOP restructured tariffs further by
increasing the tariff for agricultural and household consumers by 21%
vis-a-vis an 112 increase for industrial and bulk consumers. However, there
is still a need for an overall rationalization of the tariff structure. A
study is currently underway, financed by ADB, to determine the economic cost
of supply at each voltage level basis. The results of the study would be
reviewed in December 1989 by GOP, ADB and the Bank to prepare a dated and
monitorable program to implement the agreed recommendations.  In the meantime,
WAPDA is incurring revenue losses because the flat rate tariffs for
agricultural  tubewells  do  not  include FAS.   Therefore,  GOP would,  while
increasing tariffs in FY90 and FY91, increase the agricultural tariffs at a
higher  rate  vis-a-vis  other  consumers.   Furthermore,  the  300  largest
industrial consumers, which account for about 202 of electricity sales, can be
fitted with specially designed meters in a relatively short time to introduce
peak/off-peak pricing. This would contribute significantly to rationalizing
electricity consumption during seasonal and daily peak demand periods.



- 27 -
Therefore. GOP has atreed to implement measures starting July 1, 1990. to
rationalize the structure of electricity tariffs. including. but not limited
to the introduction of. peak/off-peak pricing for the largest 390 industrial
and other bulk consuMers.
Gas Pricing
59.      The producer Drice of gas refers to the price per unit of gas at the
wellhead.   It encompasses the financial cost of extraction and a return to
investors. The consumer price refers to the price per unit of gas faced by
the ultimate consumer, i.e. household sector, industrial sector, power
subsector, etc. It is equal to the sum of the producer price, the utilities'
cost of transmission and distribution and their financial returns and a
development surcharge. The surcharge, which accrues to the Government as a
means of capturing the rent, represents the difference between the consumer
price, producer price, and the utilities' costs and returns.  The economic
cost of oroduction refers to the extraction cost per unit of gas, adjusted for
any distortion stemming from interference in the operations of the market, a
depletion allowance and a return on investment. The economic cost of gas
refers to the incremental economic cost of production plus the incremental
cost of transmission and distribution and a return to the utilities
responsible. The economic price of gas is the price of the highest value fuel
that gas would replace in consumption.
60.      Producer Price.  In order to promote increased participation of PS in
gas exploration, GOP introduced in 1981 a formula for setting producer prices
which guaranteed the suppliers a financial rate of return of 12X on
investment. This formula, however, did not succeed in accelerating the
development of Pakistan's gas resource3 because: (a) the 12% rate of return
was low relative to the returns secured by the oil industry elsewhere, which
allocates its venture capital internationally to maximize the returns per unit
of investment; and (b) the practice of setting gas prices after discovery
increased the risk of producers in view of the likelihood of prolonged
negotiations once discoveries were made. As a result, the flow of venture
capital for gas exploration in Pakistan declined and the rate of increase in
gas production decelerated. GOP introduced, under ESL I in 1985, a new gas
producer price formula which, prior to discovery, links the producer price of
gas to two-thirds the border price of fuel oil, less a negotiated discount,
based on geological conditions of the concession involved. Since then, PS,
both local and foreign, has responded favorably to the new formula with
contracts signed for thirteen new concessions while negotiations for several
others are underway.  This has led to an 25%  increase  in gas production
between 1985 and 1988. OGDG in fact was able to double its gas production
during the same period to 100 MMCFD in 1988. In addition, to ensure continued
PS involvement in gas exploration and development, GOP has expanded the
application of this formula to already discovered fields, provided the
concessionaires are willing to renegotiate their entire contracts. Recently,
however, the downturn in the international price of oil has reduced the
returns on investment, which is beginning to dampen the interest of oil
companies in undertaking new exploration activities internationally. This is
particularly the case for remote and offshore areas in Pakistan. In order to
maintain the interest of the oil industry in exploration in these areas, there
are merits for moving the benchmark for the producer price formula from
two-thirds to full parity with the berder price of fuel oil, less negotiated
discounts, for concessions in offshore and remote areas. Such a policy would
provide additional stimulus for private sector exploration, particularly in
the new high cost concession areas which, with the currently low international



t                                  - 28 -
price of oil, became less attractive under the present formula. Therefore, in
order to maintain the momentum for natural a8s exploration and develo2ment in
Pakistan, GOP has agreed to revise the gas producer Dricing   rmula, by
October 31. 1989, for new gas concessions in offshore areas aranted after
July 1. 1989, so as to ensure full parity with the border orice of fuel oil,
less negotiated discounts for teoloaical and market conditions.
61.      Consumer Price.  Prior to 1981, GOP encouraged the use of gas by
maintaining its price at low levels, relative to that of its substitutes, to
buffer the economy from the adverse impact of the higher bill for energy
imports.  This resulted in the uneconomic use of gas and denied the subsector
the resources needed to implement an expanded exploration and development
program. In order to address these shortcomings, GOP agreed, under the first
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I) in 1981, to raise the weighted average
consumer price to two-thirds the border price of fuel oil by 1988, a
commitment which was reaffirmed under ESL I. Despite subsequent progress in
price increases (para 28), further realignment is needed during the Seventh
Plan  to  correct  prevailing  distortions.   Presently,  about  10%  of  the
households in the country, mostly in the urban areas, have access to gas;
however, the price paid for gas is only 24% of the domestic price of kerosene,
and 22% of the domestic price of fuelwood, both of which are used by the
remaining 90% of the households. The average price for gas sold to WAPDA for
power generation (steam stations) is at only 67% of the domestic price of fuel
oil. Moreover, for pipeline quality gas, i.e., the purified gas used by all
consumers, the fertilizer industry is currently only paying about 32% of the
price of the domestic price of fuel oil paid by the cement and other
industries. These distortions are still promoting the uneconomic use of the
gas and denying the subsector the resources needed to expand exploration and
development activities.
62.      At the outret, the issue to be resolved is whether consumer gas
prices should be pegged to border prices, or to the relatively higher domestic
prices of substitute petroleum products. A major drawback of pegging consumer
gas prices to border prices of petroleum products is the large fluctuation in
prices which has characterized the world market. In such case GOP would have
to attain parity with a moving and unpredictable target.  If the consumer
price of gas were to be pegged to border prices, the differential between the
domestic prices of petroleum prclucts and the substitute natural gas would
result in an uneconomic use of gas. Accordingly, under the proposed Loan, it
is proposed as a policy goal to move the consumer price of gas to full parity
with the domestic consumer price of the petroleum product it displaces by the
end of th5 Seventh Plan for industrial uses, namely, industry and power, and
by  the  end  of  the  Eighth  Plan  for households.   This would effectively
encourage more rational use of gas relative to competing fuels, and allow GOP
and the oil and gas industry to continue mobilizing resources for their
developmental needs. As a first step, GOP has already agreed on a covenant
for gas pricing with the IMF, under the recent Standby and SAF Arrangements
(December, 1988), which calls for moving the price of gas for household
consumers to full parity with the border price of fuel oil, which is currently
at 50% of the domestic price of kerosene.
63.      The proposed pricing formula for consumer gas prices would entail
increases in real terms in the price of gas for the power subsector and
households, since the industrial and commercial sectors are presently either
at parity with the domestic price of fuel oil or above it. The price of gas
for household consumers was increased by 40% in January 1989 in anticipation
of the increases required under the proposed Loan and in an effort to stagger



- 29 -
the increases in the prices of energy over FY89, which has resulted in the
price of gas sold to households to be at 70% of the border price of fuel oil.
For gas purchased directly from producers, WAPDA currently pays only 25S of
the domestic price of fuel oil. For this price to reach full parity with the
domestic price of fuel oil by the end of the Seventh Plan would require an
average annual nominal increase in price of gas purchased directly from
producers of 502. In order to ensure that the returns of these producers are
kept at adequate levels, GOP would have to introduce a gas development
surcharge, such as is already in place for the gas transmission and
distribution companies, in order to capture the considerable rents thus
generated. Gas purchased directly from the pipeline companies used for power
generation is already at parity with the domestic price of fuel oil. If price
increases for all constmer categories were to be implemented as outlined
above, the weighted average consumer gas price would reach full parit; with
the domestic price of fuel oil by 1993, which would amount to an annual real
increase in the weighted average domestic price of 6.6% for the Seventh Plan.
As for the fertilizer industry, because it is a major consumer of gas and also
has important links to the agriculture sector, a study should be undertaken by
consultants in collaboration with the Bank to determine the effects on the
fertilizer industry of raising the price of gas for fertilizer producers.
Therefore, GOP has agreed to:
(a) introduce startinQ FY90 a develonment surcharge in the structure
of the consumer grice for tas sold directly to the Rower
subsector. which would accrue to the Government. and raise the
level of the surcharte over a six year period so that the Dric
reaches by June 30. 1995 full parity with the domestic DrIce of
fuel oil. less discounts for the gas transmission Investments
made by the npower subsector;
(b)  beainnina FY91. annually increase the consumer urice of gaS sold
to households to reach full parity with the border price of fuel
oil by the end of the Seventh Plan (June 30. 1993);
(e)  maintain the consumer price of gas supDulied by the transmission
and distribution companies to the industrial, comrcial and
nower subsectors at least at full Raritv with the domestic orice
of fuel oil; and
(d)  recruit by March 31, 1990. consultants acceotable to the Bank,
to comolete by March 31, 1991, a study to assess the impact of
hiaher gas prices on the ex-factory Drices of fertilizers and
identify investments in retrofittine and changes in technolony
to imorove the efficiency of itas utilization.
In order to achieve the above oricinx oblectives:
(a) the increase in the onice of eas purchased by WAPDA directly
from producers to reach 30% of the domestic price of fuel oil,
which would be effective as of JuLY 1, 1989,. has been set as a
condition of effectiveness of the Loan; and
(b)  the increase in the price of tas ourchased by WAPDA directlv
from Droducers to reach 40X of the domestic nrice of fuel oil
effective July 1, 1990, has been set as a condition of release
of the second tranche. These increases would be inclusive of
the  develooment  surcharge  less  discounts  for  the  power
subsector's gas transmission investments.



- 30 -
64.      The demand for gas in Pakistan varies significantly by time of day
and season. This, together with the supply constraints that have persisted
since 1981, has induced the GOP to curtail the supply of gas to new industrial
consumers to nine months each year. As a result, for the remaining three
months, these consumers shift to the use of fuel oil, which is highly import
intensive. As this Is contrary to the objectives of LES, GOP needs to adopt a
demand management strategy that would balance the supply and demand of gas
and promote allocative and operational efficiency.  Such  a strategy would
require storing the excess gas underground and producing it to meet peak
demand. The Bank, in consultation with GOP and SNGPL, has ascertained that
sufficient gas is available for storage particularly during the summer months.
The Gas Utilization Study has identified the now depleted Dhulian field as a
suitable candidate for creating such a facility, but has recommended a
detailed feasibility study to assess its viability. Moreover, as the domestic
prices of fuel oil and kerosene are at present higher than that of gas for a
large number of consumers these would substitute the gas for petroleum
products during peak periods.   The adoption of time of day and seasonal
tariffs would in turn mobilize resources for GOP and induce conservation.
Therefore, in order to orovide the means for imRlementing an effective load
manatement strategv, GOP has atreed to recruit by March al, 1990, consultants
satisfactory to the Bank. to complete, by March 31, 1991, a study to:  (a)
assess the notential for peak shavina of Qas consumDtion:  (b) formulate a
structure of tariffs for gas which would oromote neak shaving: and (c) vreRare
a timetable satisfactorv to the Bank for the imnlementation of the new tariff
structure.
Oil Pricing
65.      Ex-Refinery Pricina.  Prior to 1973, ex-refinery prices for petroleum
products were set to reflect the border prices of imports. Since then, until
recently, GOP has closely regulated ex-refinery prices to permit the
refineries to earn a guaranteed after-tax return on historically valued
equity. These returns have increased over time from 10% in 1977 to 18X in
1983. Shortfalls in revenue are made up by GOP, and conversely, eventual
surpluses are captured by GOP.  In essence, the prevailing pricing formula
rests on a cost-plus approach, thus providing no incentives to the refineries
to improve their product mix or to induce new investments in the industry. In
fact,  the  existing  private  sector  refineries  have  not  made  any  major
investments  for  the  last  ten  years.   However,  GOP  recently  outlined  a
framework for the new pricing system that involves:  (a) setting ex-refinery
prices in proportion to the average border prices of the previous year plus
appropriate transport costs for inland refineries; (b) setting the refinery
gate price of crude oil at a netback level which, at historically-based
production levels and costs, would allow each refinery to achieve a
reasonable, ex ante, rate of return of about 18X on equity; and
(c) negotiating the refinery margins thus obtained, in terms of income per ton
of crude processed, on an annual basis, or whenever requested by GOP and the
refineries.  In late 1988, GOP introduced a new pricing formula based on these
eonsiderations for the two Karachi refineries, which was made effective for
FY89. This formula was not appropriate for the Attock refinery, however.
Attock has access to only locally produced crude oil, the production of which
varies from year to year leading to widely fluctuating costs of refining per
unit of output, since most of the costs of the refinery are fixed. This in
turn results in widely fluctuating profit levels. GOP has asked the Bank to
assist in outlining a new and equitable refinery pricing formula for the
Attock refinery which would reflect its special conditions.  To accomplish



- 31 -
this goal, GOP would need a detailed refinery processing model, that would
reflect the operating parameters of the domestic refineries and the crudes
used, to simulate the impact of different pricing proposals on the optimum mix
of products produced, the return on equity, etc. In order to accelerate the
implementation of a new and equitable system for pricing ex-refinery products,
GOP has aareed to:  (a) aDooint by March 31, 1990, two suitably qualified
Rrofesionals in the Directorate General of Oil, -PMR, to develop and install a
refinerX simulation model at MPNR; (b) recruit by March 31. 1990, consultants,
satisfactory to the Bank. to assist M!PU in developina and installing bx March
31. 1991. the refinery simulation model to assess the impact of altetnative
Rricina Proposals on the mix of refined products: (c) review with the Bank, by
December 31, 1989. and December 31, 1990 the experience of the two Karachi
refineries with the new pricinra formula: and (d) revise, on the basis of the
above reviews, by September 30, 1991. the existinQ oricing formula for
ex-refinerv oroducts for the two Karachi refineries as well as the Attock
refinery.
66.      Consumer Price of Petroleum Products.  In 1981, GOP adopted a policy
of passing on the higher cost of petroleum products to final consumers. The
policy was not applied uniformly in that the prices of kerosene and fuel oil
were kept below their economic cost of supply, while prices of the other
products were maintained substantially higher than their corresponding border
prices. The decline in the world market price of oil since 1986, and the fact
that domestic retail prices were only marginally reduced in response to this
decline, brought the level of domestic prices of all petroleum products above
their border prices. As of December 1988, the weighted average retail price
was at about 180X of the weighted average border price, with prices for
gasoline and high speed diesel well above border prices, but with other fuels,
particularly kerosene, slightly above its border price. As a result of this
policy, the petroleum subsector continues to be the principal contributor to
the national budget, and distortions in the relative prices among products
have been reduced.  Therefore. in cage the CIF ruoee onre of crude oil rises
above the level of such price as was obtained when the retail consumer orices
of petroleum oroducts were last adjusted, GOP has agreed to recover from
consumers the resultina difference in the orice of crude oil.
Coal Pricing
67.      Unlike  electricity,  gas  and  oil,  the  prices  of  coal  are  not
controlled or regulated by GOP. Actual production costs at mine-mouth vary by
province - Baluchistan, Sind and Punjab - and location of mine. Because of
more favorable geological conditions, coal produced from the major field of
Lakhra in Sind is cheaper, compared to those from the Baluchistan and Punjab
fields.   Mine-mouth coal prices vary based on quality or calorific value and
mode of mining from an average of about US$14/metric ton (US$46/toe) in Sind
to about US$40/metric ton (US$80/toe) in Baluchistan and about US$35/metric
ton  (US$70/toe)  in  Punjab.   The  final  delivered  price  includes  the
transportation cost to the end-consumers, who are essentially brick-kiln
owners,  comprising  about 97% of the  existing  coal  market.   The  typical
transport cost to the major market of Punjab is about US$20/metric ton for
Sind coal, US$30/metric ton for Baluchistan coal and US$11/metric ton for
Punjab. The delivered prices for Sind coal from the Lakhra field as well as
the weighted average mine-mouth price of coal in Pakistan, are both about
US$32/metric ton (equivalent to US$106/toe), i.e., almost at parity with the
domestic fuel oil price of about US$110/toe.  Therefore, on a price basis
alone, coal is competitive with fuel oil (and also with wood and charcoal).



- 32 -
Accordingly, no action on coal pricing policy is being sought under the
proposed Loan.
Energy Conservation
68.       Considerable scope exists for conserving energy in the industrial
and agricultural sectors as vell as in residential and commercial buildings,
which together account for most commercial energy consumption. In line with
LES, agreement was reached under ESL I to develop a strategy for reducing
energy consumption by the end of the Eighth Plan by 20%. To that effect,
ENERCON was established in 1986 to serve as the focal point for all
conservation activities, Including policy formulation. ENERCON has already
established its credentials vis-a-vis its present and potential clients,
particularly in PS, due to an effective public relations effort and to a
growing awareness about the potential benefits of conservation resulting from
ENERCON's most concrete achievements to date: (a) its program to identify,
via sectorwide surveys and audits, specific conservation investments in the
private industrial sector; and (b) its training and outreach activities.
Despite an initial delay in the establishment of ENERCON and in its staffing,
it exceeded the audit targets agreed under ESL I. Detailed energy audits have
been completed in 43 private sector industrial plants, where potential average
savings are estimated at about 22% of the total energy consumption with pay
back period of about 6 months.   Audits have also been completed  in  27
industrial plants in the public sector, although only 17 are as detailed as
those for PS; additional detailed audits are therefore being envisaged under
the proposed Loan for the remaining public sector plants.
69.       Energy  conservation  in  industry,  which  accounts  for  45%  of
commercial energy consumption, has the highest potential for energy savings.
ENERCON has identified through these audits the need for an investment of
about US$17 million for 23 private sector projects, and another US$11 million
for public sector projects.   A  comprehensive  energy survey of about 200
private industrial firms, accounting for over 50% of PS energy consumption in
industry, indicates a potential for annual savings in energy amounting to
US$45 million, which would require investments of about US$120 million. This
major survey recommends that the highest priority should be given to the
fertilizer, textiles, and oil refinery subsectors, as collectively these
account for over 25% of the potential in just nine plants; and that second
priority be given to the metals, chemicals and food subsectors, as together
these account for about 60% of the energy savings potential, albeit in a much
larger number of plants. Under the proposed Loan, the financing of follow-up
detailed engineering and feasibility studies associated with conservation
investments in the public sector would be envisaged.  These studies would
prepare subprojects which could be included in a stand-alone project for
conservation. As for PS firms, their conservation and cogeneration projects
would  be  f    ced  through  the  newly  established  Private  Sector  Energy
Development  Euad  (para  30),  provided  auch  projects  are  financially  and
technically viable.
70.       The major constraints to energy conservation in industry are:
(a) the inability to identify attractive projects at the individual plant
level; (b) the lack of sufficient technical know-how in implementing such
projects; and (c) the lack of appropriate financial, security and incentive
frameworks.  Most critically, although a number of 2mblic sect   firms are
prepared to launch conservation activities, the lack of adequate financing has
proven  to be a major constraint.   More broadly,  the lack of appropriate
incentives is affectinag private sector firms, particularly those in need of



- 33 -
undertaking large investments. Although these firms are usually willing to
invest if the payback involved is not more than three years, access to funds
from the financial institutions is cumbersome and time-consuming, and the
collateral  requirements  too  stringent.   Furthermore,  private  investors
consider that heavy customs duties and sales taxes on imported energy
conservation equipment and materials, as well as such taxes for industries
that could manufacture such items locally, also introduce a major bias in the
incentive  system.   A  study  to  improve  the  incentive  framework  for
energy-conserving investment is therefore envisaged under the Loan.
71.       ENERCON has also launched efforts in regard to commercial buildings
as well as the agriculture and transportation sectors. A Building Energy Code
has been already drafted and is about to complete GOP's internal review and
approval process.  In addition, 43 preliminary audits of small buildings and
detailed audit of a large Government offices complex have been completed. In
agriculture, a program to audit 300 agricultural tubewells and retrofit 100 of
them has been launched; a plan to improve efficiency of tractors is also under
development.  An auto tune-up program is being launched as well.  Further
studies are being envisaged with a view to formulating a self-standing energy
conservation project. Together with the program for private sector industrial
firms discussed above, ENERCON's Training and Outreach activities have been
particularly successful. About 1,800 participants have attended short and
long seminars/courses, mostly one day workshops; Rome Energy Conservation
Seminars have attracted a large number of women; and courses are being
developed for engineering/architecture departments and for high school
students. A numbex of fact sheets for industry, commercial buildings and
transport have been prepared, and a bi-monthly newsletter is published with a
circulation of more than 8,000. Given ENERCON's considerable experience in
this area, no special action is envisaged under the Loan in Training.
Consequently, GOP has agreed to: (a) furnish. by December 31, 1989. an action
Rlan aimed at: (i) undertakina feasibility and detailed engineering studies
f-or retrofittinat for about 20- of the- larstest industrial energy-consuming
Rlants in the oublic sector; (ii) financina retrofittint and energy-conserving
Investments and related studies for about 20 of the lartest energy-consuming
plants  In  PS:  and  (III)  formulatina- - ronosalgs -for  eners-  conservation
investments in agriculture, industrial, transportation and construction
pectors: and (b) aDpoint consultants, by March 31. 1990, to be financed under
the Loan acceotable to the Bank to comolete a study by March 3a, 1991, aimed
at eliminatina the constraints to energy conservation in industrv arising from
existing tax. industrial and trade lenislation, and on the basis of this
study, establish, by June 30, 1991. an incentive framework to promote energy
conservation.
C. Institutional Develooment
Reornanization of the Power Subsector
72.       WAPDA's customer base has increased from 2.5 million in FY79 to 6.4
million in FY89, representing an annual average increase of 10%. However, the
distribution system to cater to these customers has expanded in an ad hoc
manner, primarily because investments in distribution development have been
treated as a residual since priority has been given to generation and
tranmission  investments.   This  has  resulted  in  an  overloading  of  the
distribution system and an erosion of the quality of service. Furthermore,
because of a lack of appropriate accounting and financial controls, which are
clearly laid down but cannot be monitored due in part to the vast number of
accounting units (about 400), poor collections and hence revenue leakages are



- 34 -
being experienced, resulting in serious cash flow constraints. As a result,
more than half of the technical and commercial losses, which are equivalent to
about 25% of gross generation, are in the distribution network.   By FY93,
WAPDA's generation capacity is expected to expand to about 10,000 NW, in
addition to expected power purchases from PS of about 2,300 NW.  Such rapid
expansion of the generation capacity would accelerate the erosion in the
quality of service if proper attention is not given to the planning,
expansion, operation and maintenance of the distribution network. Improved
performance in distribution could be achieved by separating the distribution
function into a distinct distribution corporation. This was In fact the major
recommendation of a study, instituted by GOP as agreed under ESL I, and
completed with the assistance of consultants financed by USAID. Rowever, in
view of the complex logistical and personnel issues involved that would affect
roughly 100,000 people employed in the distribution wing, GOP and WAPDA have
agreed to create initially a separate distribution wing within WAPDA.  In
order  to  ensure  better  control  and  accountability  for  the  proposed
distribution wing and also ensure that it would be responsive to the needs of
the utility's consumers, which are expected to increase to about 10 million in
FY93, the distribution wing should have its own accounts, investment
allocations   and   financial   performance   criteria.    Fundamental  to  the
achievement of the above objectives of control and accountability of the
distribution function is the need to have arrangements for sale/purchase of
electricity between the generation/transmission wing of WAPDA and the
distribution  wing.   Such  arrangements would also  facilitate the eventual
detachment of the distribution wing from WAPDA, if warranted. The next step
in the creation of the separate distribution wing is to outline an action plan
that would identify the major milestones for establishing the distribution
wing.   These  milestones  would  include  the  timing  for  staffing  and
implementation of systems and procedures for planning, operations, finance,
accounting and personnel, as well as for instituting the arrangements for sale
and purchase of electricity between the generation/transmission wing and the
distribution wing of WAPDA. GOP has asreed to: (a) furnish to the Bank. by
December 31? 1989. an action plan for the creation of a distinct and
self--contained distribution wins within WAPDA; and (b) -establish the
distribution wing under arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, by
December 31. 1991.
Institutional Development in the Oil and Gas Subsector
73.       OGDC  is  a  Government-owned  corporation  set  up  under  the OGDC
Ordinance,  1961.   Although  the  Corporation  was  supposed  to  function
autonomously, in practice, it has functioned as a GOP department, subject to
government control and subsidies, particularly in the areas of investment
levels, financing and price setting. The Corporation also suffers from the
lack of a clear definition, either by itself or by GOP, of the role and
responsibility of its management, and also overly centralized decision making,
as  well  as  inadequate  management  information  and  financial  reporting
systems.   In addition, OGDC has neither been profitable nor had any surplus
cash to finance its investments owing to the concentration of its activities
on exploration, and of late, to the low well head price of gas it receives
from GOP, compared both with other producers and taking into account its
financial obligations.   In order to address these shortcomings, GOP agreed
with the Bank under ESL I that OGDC's immediate objective should be to orient
its operations along those of an international commercial oil company and to
become financially autonomous. Consequently, GOP decided to remove OGDC from
ADP allocation and require the Corporation to raise the required funds for
investments  from  the local  financial markets.   As  a  first  step,  OGDC's



- 35 -
investment program was rationalized by emphasizing development of discovered
fields and relinquishing, to the maximum extent possible, exploration
investments to PS and joint ventures.   Additionally,  OGDC should  receive
starting FY90, government funds on a loan basis only.
74.       In order to enable OGDC to operate as a commercially oriented and
financially autonomous entity, the Corporation needs to implement a financial
restructuring plan, which would provide for: (a) developing and implementing
modern accounting and financial information systems; (b) restructuring the
Corporation's balance sheet by reconciling its current and fixed assets with
the results of a physical inventory and valuation of fixed and current assets;
(c) eatimating the reserves of oil and gas by an internationally reputable
reservoir engineering firm in order to provide a basis for determining the
current economic value of OGDC's deferred exploration and development
expenditures and revising the amortization rates of deferred costs of OGDC's
successful oil and gas operations; (d) pricing OGDC's gas at the well head to
allow the corporation to cover operating costs, debt service and change in
working capital, and to finance a reasonable portion of its investments; (e)
set financial performance criteria such as would, inter alia, enable OGDC to
generate adequate revenues from internal sources; and (f) recruiting an
international audit firm to annually audit the accounts of OGDC, for at least
two years, in order to provide the Corporation with an unqualified audit
report. In June, 1987, OGDC engaged the services of a Financial Advisor under
CIDA financing, to design and implement the modern accounting and financial
information systems.  GOP has axreed to:  (a) beainnina FY90, provide funds to
OGDC on a loan basis only;  (b) imDlement, beginning October 31, 1989, a
financial restructuring plan for OGDC, providing, inter alia, for adjustinx
its balance sheet by reconciling the book value of its current and fixed
assets and deferred exploration and develooment costs with the results of a
nhvsical inventory and valuation of such assets and a determination of the
current value of the deferred costs on the basis of its estimated oil and gas
reserves; (c) recruit, by October 31, 1989, consultants satisfactory to the
Bank, to assist OGDC in imolementing the financial restructurina plan; (d)
aowoint by October 31. 1989 internationallv experienced independent auditors
acceRtable to the Bank to audit, in accordance with international accounting
standards and auditina Rrocedures, OGDC's financial operations for each of the
fiscal Years 1990 and 1991: and (e) establish financial performance criteria
for OGDC as a condition of second tranche release.  As an interim measure.
nendina the imolementation of financial performance criteria in FY91, GOP has
agreed to make available on a loan basis the funds needed by OGDC for the
purposes of OGDC's investment orosram durina FY90.
75.       There is also a need to promulgate rules under the 1961 Ordinance
under which OGDC was established, in order to regulate the appointment of the
Chairman and all Directors, and stipulate disclosure requirements satisfactory
to the financial community, similar to those in the Pakistan Companies
Ordinance of 1984, which governs the affairs of all the other oil and gas
companies operating in Pakistan, domestic and international. GOP has agreed
to oromulgate, by March 31, 1990, the rules under OGDC Ordinance, satisfactorv
to  the  Bank,  relating,  inter  alia,  to  Board  of  Directors.  management,
administration, accounts and audits.



- 36 -
Restructuring of KESC
76.      Althougb RESC is a public joint stock company registered under the
Companies Ordinvsnce of Pakistan, almost all of KESC's shares, amounting to
96%, are owned ',, GOP and GOP-owned financial institutions, while the balance
of about 4% is owned by private shareholders. RESC has a Board of Directors
consisting of a Chairman and 12 Directors elected for a specifiel period, and
under a unique managing agency agreement, management of KESC is entrusted to
the Pakistan Electric Agencies Limited (PEAL), a company wholly owned by GOP,
which is paid a remuneration of 5% of KESC's net annual profits for its
services.   The present Managing Director of KESC  is also a senior WAPDA
official on secondment.  PEAL nominates the Chairman of KESC's Board, and
since April 1984, the Chairman of WAPDA has also been the Chairman of UESC's
Board. Given UESC's arrangement with PEAL, it presently has, de facto, two
boards, which results in excessive control of UESC's operations.  Issues on
investment planning, financial planning or procurement of goods and services
have to be first approved by the PEAL Board, then by the KESC Board, and then
by GOP.  In fact, such excessive control contributed significantly to the
procurement delays experienced under ESL I. It is argued that PEAL, in return
for the 5X managing agency commission, represents UESC's interests with GOP,
ensures better coordination between WAPDA and UESC, and obtains preferential
terms for RESC's domestic borrowings. However, all KESC matters before GOP
could easily be taken care of by MWP as the administrative ministry for the
power sector. MWP is also in a position to ensure coordination between WAPDA
and KESC, and, more fundamentally, WAPDA should not be involved in the
management of UESC, because the two entities are simultaneously competing for
resources. As regards preferential terms for UESC's borrowings, a comparison
of UESC's borrowing terms with private sector companies and discussion with
Pakistan's financial institutions reveals that KESC's terms of borrowings are
not any more favorable to the utility than those for a private sector
company. Therefore, based on these arguments, there is merit in abolishing
the present PEAL managing agency arrangements.
77.      KESC suffers from severe financial problems and is not in a position
to marshall the large amount of resources required to rehabilitate the
distribution system, where losses amount to more than 30% of gross generation
and the quality of service is very poor. The very weak financial condition of
UESC is partly a consequence of the organizational problems noted above, but
also of its past financial policies, particularly those rertaining to its
tariff structure.  In addition to burdening UESC with the managing agency
commission to PEAL, GOP also stipulates the corporation's electricity
tariffs.   UESC's  tariffs have never been  sufficient  to  cover  fully  the
utility's operating costs, debt service and increases in working capital, let
alone make any contribution to the investment program from internal sources,
given the high costs of UESC's thermal plant-based operations. However, GOP
has provided subsidies to UESC amounting to Rs 2.0 billion during FY86-FY88 by
maintaining fuel costs at about 20% below those paid by other consumers and by
reducing the onlending interest rates of non-Bank, non-ADB foreign loans to
UBSC to about 4.25% (compared to 11.5% for WAPDA).  Notwithstanding these
subsidies, KESC still did not meet financial performance criteria agreed with
ADB, which require the corporation to finance 25% of its investments from
internal sources, which indicates inherent problems with the financial
structure of UESC.  One major problem is the corporation's debt to equity
ratio, which was in FY88 76:24 compared to 57:43 for WAPDA. There are several
reasons for the high proportion of debt in KESC's financial structure:



- 37 -
(a) Unlike WAPDA, which received 25-year loans from GOP's budget
prior to FY89, RESC had access only to 8-9 year loans from the
local financial institutions, causing erosion in the utility's
financial viability;
(b) RESC suffers from a chronic accounts receivable problem,
particularly from Federal and Provincial Government department
and agencies, resulting in severe cash flow constraints forcing
the utility to borrow short-term funds to meet even its
long-term financial obligations;
(c) Despite the severe constraints on cash, KESC was still required
to pay the 5% agency commission to PEAL;
(d) Since the financial institutions hold a major proportion of
KESC's shares, UESC was compelled to declare 20X dividends to
give it the appearance of viability, but which in fact
compounded the corporation's financial distress;
(e) Under political pressure for equity among WAPDA's and KESC's
consumers, GOP in FY89 equated UZSC's tariffs, which were low to
begin with, with WAPDA's tariffs. This further lowered UESC's
revenues  because  WAPDA's  tariffs  are  based  on  a  mixed
thermal/hydel system, and therefore are lower than those of the
all-thermal UESC system; and
(f) KESC's investments are now in a peaking period when the need for
resources is highest. Since there is little chance of reversing
the uniformity of tariffs, KESC would increasingly be required
to rely on borrowings, and, coupled with the fact that the
unpaid loans and interest are being rolled back as additional
principal, UESC's debt:equity ratio would increase to 90:10 in
FY91.
78.      In order to address these problems, GOP agreed to review, under ESL
I, the means of reorganizing the power subsector, including the possibility of
WAPDA taking over UESC's generation assets. However, at present there is an
urgent need to implement a financial restructuring plan for UESC that would
address the financial performance and management problems of the corporation.
The financial restructuring plan for UESC could comprise:
(a) An engineering and financial valuation of the corporation's
asset base in order to arrive at an equitable price for transfer
of generation assets to WAPDA, as well as provide the basis for
setting depreciation rates for the distribution assets, based on
their remaining economic lives;
(b) retirement of some of KESC's debt which is held by the local
financial institutions with the compensation expected to be
received from WAPDA;
(c) GOP causing the GOP-owned financial institutions to sell some of
KESC's shares held by them, as security for their loans, to the
public such that GOP and GOP-owned financial institutions become
minority shareholders;
(d) KESC becoming eligible to borrow from the Private Sector Energy
Development Fund, after restructuring, which offers loans with



- 38 -
repayments up to 23 years, including a grace period of up to
eight years, to finance the rehabilitation and expansion of the
distribution system iln Karachi thereby reducing the energy
losses in the network and increasing the revenues;
(e)  requiring WAPDA to sell power in bulk to UESC at the average
cost of generation of pover for the entire WAPDA system, since
this power is now being offered by a mixed thermal/hydel system
and is consequently lower in cost;
(f) phasing out GOP subsidies to UESC from FY92; and
(g)  RESC  supplying  electricity  to the municipal,  provincial  and
federal government departments and agencies against revolving
letters of credit to improve its cash flow.
79.      GOP and RBSC would need the assistance of consultants to formulate
and implement the financial restructuring plan. In view of the magnitude of
the task, which involves MWP, WAPDA, MPD and Ministry of Finance, the
preparation of the financial restructuring plan for RESC by the consultants
should be overseen by an interministerial committee within GOP.  GOP has
areged to:- (a) form an interministerial committee by December 31. 1989, to
ovemree the 2remaration ant implementation of an orlanizational and financial
restructurins plan for RESC  and (b) recruit by [arch 31, 1990. conault&atn.
satisfactory to the Bank,. to assist in develpuina an oraanizational and
financial restructuring nlan for RESC, to be furnished to the Bank by
March 31,-1991.
Privatigatioa
80.      A key GOP objective being pursued under the proposed Loan in regard
to privatization is to be able to meet the large investment requirements of
the energy sector in a situation in which there is need for fiscal
retrenchment. Privatization should help in meeting such requirements, while
reducing the potential for crowding out PS investment, particularly critical
in light of the large amount of private sector income which has been used in
recent years to finance a growing public sector deficit. It should also allow
the privatized corporations greater access to the domestic banking system and
capital markets, particularly relevant at this stage when the financing of
local  currency  costs  has  become  a  major  constraint  to  investment.
Privatization should also contribute to increase access to sources of foreign
finance, and thus to provide some relief to the balance of payments,
particularly in conjunction with the efforts pursued under the Bank's Private
Sector Energy Development Project. As stated above, RESC's restructuring plan
would constitute the first step at privatization under the proposed Loan. As
regards SNGPL, a proposed GOP equity divestiture from a majority holding to
only 49%, being pursued under the proposed Privatization of Sui Northern Gas
Pipelines Limited Project, would make it eligible for equity and debt
participation by IFC as well as for borrowing from the newly established
Private Sector Energy Development Fund. As regards SSGC, an assessment is
being made of the company's investment and financing requirements, and GOP has
in principle agreed to reduce its direct shareholding from the present level
of about 80% to about 35% to make the company eligible for the same type of
financing as SNGPL. These divestitures, however, would have to be carefully
planned and implemented to match the limited absorptive capacity of the
domestic capital market.  Therefore, GOP has agreed to  orenare and furnish to
the Bank, by no later than December 31. 1989. a strategy for the privatization
of SSGC.



- 39 -
Institutional Development f9r Energv Planning
81e      Prior to ESL I, the capacity for energy planning in GOP was limited.
With assistauce from USAID, GOP established in 1985 an energy planning office
(E1ERPLAN) to provide institutional capacity for energy planning and project
appraisal needed for the preparation of the Seventh Plan for the energy
sector. ENERPLAN was subsequently merged in 1986 with an existing office in
the Planning and Development Division of MPD to establish the Energy Wing
within the Planning and Development Division. Since it was established, the
Energy Wing has developed the energy chapter of the Seventh Plan and has also
successfully served as the main interlocutor between the Bank and GOP under
ESL I as well as coordinated all energy sector entities under that operation,
a function it would retain under the proposed Loan. Despite the significant
progress Energy Wing has made in developing expertise in plan formulation,
project appraisal, and in establishiin- data bases, it continues to remain weak
in the areas of financial and economic analysis. There are also uncertainties
surrounding the status of its existing staff as they were hired as contract
personnel rather than full time regular employees of GOP, a situation which
could impair future continuity in terms of its staff and its role. Given the
prominent role envisaged for Energy Wing in future energy sector planning, and
policy and financial analysis, there is a need to enhance its capabilities in
these areas and clarify the status of itT existing personnel. Therefore, GOP
has aareed as a condition of effectiveness of -the proposed Loan. to: (a) Issue
notification declaring the Enera-v Wing a permanent and integral part of the
Secretariat of the Planning and Develon-ment Division of the- Ministryv of
Plann-ina and Development: (b) absorb selected existing contract lpersonnel of
the Eneray Wing as rexular emplovees of GOP on a permanent basis; and
(c) create additional p)ositions within the Energy Wing for a Finance and
Economic Section headed by a Chief and supoorted by at least two positions
each for financial analysts and economists.
D. Environmental Asnects
82.      In  1983,  the  GOP approved the Pakistan Environmental Protection
Ordinance (Ordinance XXXVII). This ordinance provides a general framework for
environmental protection in Pakistan; establishes the Environment and Urban
Affairs Division in the Ministry of Housing and Works; mandates the
preparation of environmental impact assessments for major projects; and
provides for the development of regulations concerning the protection of land,
air and water.   This  legislation has been complemented with  the initial
development of the Environment and Urban Affairs Division, the establishment
of provincial environmental agencies in Punjab and Sind, and steps to create
agencies in Baluchistan and North West Frontier provinces. Ministries and
organizations, including WAPDA, are responding to these developments by
establishing environmental units to assure their activities are conducted in
an  environmentally  sound  fashion.   All  recent public and private sector
thermal power projects prepared with support from the Bank, USAID, and/or KfW
have been subject to the preparation of environmental assessments in
compliance with Pakistani and donor procedures. Preparation of the Bank and
USAID supported environmental assessments has included the conduct of scoping
sessions with representatives from a variety of national, provincial and local
organizations.   In  addition,  GOP  has  adopted  the  use  of  World  Bank
Environmental Guidelines on an interim basis for energy sector projects,
pending the issuance of GOP's guidelines.



- 40 -
83.      Despite  this significant progress,  serious  environmental problems
associated with energy development persist, which need to be addressed in the
immediate future. The most important is the degradation of ambient air and
surface water resources. Often energy facilities are located in the proximity
of population centers, prime agricultural areas, and/or major industrial zones
which often compound the environmental impact of air and water emissions.
Facilities also pose a risk to surface and groundwater quality through the
improper disposal of fly ash and other waste products. Most thermal pover
facilities generate relatively small quantities of concentrated industrial
waste materials, but these are often hazardous in nature and must be carefully
managed. In addition, extremely hazardous PCBs are used in transformer
cooling which require strict control and supervised management. At gas and
oil-fired facilities, large quantities of highly flammable fuel are used which
require   special   safety   precautions   at   the   plant   and   adJacent
settlements/industrial areas. Moreover, the planning and design of energy
facilities is often done without the preparation of adequate environmental
studies,  such  as  environmental  assessments.   There  is  frequently  poor
coordination   between   energy   development   organizations;   institutions
responsible  for environmental protection and natural resources management;
national, provincial and local governments; and those potentially affected In
the project area.  This often results in the poor selection of sites for
facilities and generates imnecessary conflict between the Project, other
planned/proposed developments, and current land uses.  In some cases, negative
impacts on local populations, important natural habitats, and cultural
properties have occurred which could have been avoided by the use of a proper
enviromental review process.
84.      Actions  to  improve  the  environmental  management  capabilities  in
Pakistan  would  focus  on  the  establishment  of:   enviromental  standards;
preparation  of  guidelines;  institutional  capacity  building;  and  human
resources development. GOP needs to prepare and adopt ambient air quality and
receiving water standards for pollutants emitted from thermal power facilities
to protect air and water resources. Guidelines need to be adopted for the
preparation of detailed environmental impact assessments to upgrade the
present   proforma  environmental  impact  assessment  requirement.   These
guidelines need to address procedures for the review of potential physical,
biological and socio-economic impacts of energy development, including
involuntary resettlement and tribal issues.  Special attention needs to be
given to the preparation of an environmental siting study for the expansion of
thermal power facilities in the Karachi region. Support needs to be provided
for development of environment units in WAPDA and other key organizations in
the energy sector, while the adoption of significantly improved health and
safety standards should be required in advance of the development of new large
scale coal mining operations. Throughout the energy sector operations need to
adopt improved standards for emergency prevention, planning, and management.
Consequently under the Loan, GOP has aareed to orepare and nrovide a dated and
monitorable Environmental Action Plan (EAP) by March 31, 1990 for the Energy
Sector, urovidina for inter alia; (a) adoption of environmental standards for
protection against air and water pollution, by December 31, 1991: (b) adogtion
of suidelines for assessment of environmental impact of energv producina
activities, by July 31, 1990; (C) development of capacity in key institutions
in the sector to address environmental issues; and (d) adoption of imuroved
health and safety, and emergency manatement standards.



- 41 -
V. zuL.LOAN
The Setting of the Loan
85.      The achievement of the targets for the Seventh Plan depends on the
continuation of the structiiral reforms, initiated in 1985, by implementing the
adjustment program outlined above, and the execution of an investment program
whose size and phasing is dictated by the medium-term macroeconomic framework
and the availability of domestic credit, external financing and internally
generated funds. Although under ESL I, GOP has exceeded all expectations in
introducing the structural reforms in the sector and executing CIP (FY86-88),
the implementation of the Seventh Plan is being undertaken in a more difficult
environment characterized by a constrained availability of public revenues,
greater emphasis on self financing, limitation on the availability of credit
and capital, and a much greater dependence on PS for meeting the supply
targets. This environment underscores the need to ensure that the priority
investments identified at the planning stage are monitored, the foreign and
local resources mobilized for their implementation are secured, and access to
domestic capital markets by both public and private sector is coordinated to
avoid crowding out other potential borrowers. The investment program for the
Seventh Plan represents the maximum that the public sector should undertake,
and the minimum that PS should invest. The program is comprised of ongoing
and new projects whose implementation would assist in achieving the targets of
the Seventh Plan and ensure a smooth transition to the Eighth Plan. The
program would receive priority in terms of allocation of resources, both
internal and external.
86.      In order to assist in the implementation of the investment program
under the Seventh Plan, the Bank has planned two energy loans for the
five-year lending program. The Loan would provide financing for the energy
investment program for the first three years of the Seventh Plan, referred to
as the Core Investment Program, CIP (FY89-91), and a planned third sector loan
(ESL III) would cover the last two years of the investment program for the
Seventh Plan, designated CIP (FY92-93). The implementation of CIP (FY89-91)
and its successor in FY92-93 is critical for the success of a long-term energy
development strategy which began during the Sixth Plan and will continue
beyond  the Seventh Plan.   In this sense the proposed CIPs  (FY89-91 and
FY92-93) constitute tranches of a continuing investment program.
Obiectives of the Loan
87.      Under the medium-term policy framework, the Loan would:
(a) continue the process of sectoral adjustment outlined in LES and initiated
under ESL I, through an adjustment program comprised of policies and
institutional reforms to be introduced during the Seventh Plan; (b) support
the implementation of CIP (FY89-91) which will comprise both new investments
to be launched during the Seventh Plan and, in some cases, completion of these
which were launched during the Sixth Plan; (c) mobilize resources for CIP
(FY89-91) by rationalizing energy pricing, integrating donor cofinancing,
mobilizing PS financing, and coordinating access to the credit and capital
markets; and (d) support the macroeconomic adjustment program by facilitating
an adequate level of imports.
DescriDtion of the Loan
88.      The Loan would:  (a) cover part of the foreign exchange cost of goods
and services for the implementation of the CIP (FY89-91) of WAPDA, OGDC, KESC,



- 42 -
SSGC, SNGPL, PMDC, BRERCON, the Energy Planning Wing of MPD, DOFMA and the
Environment and Urban Affairs Division; and (b) finance general imports for
the puxblic and private sectors.
CIP (FY8w-91)
89.      CIP (FY89-91) would amount to about Rs 94 billion (US$5 billion), of
which about Rs 77.2 billion (US$4.1 billion) would be undertaken by the public
sector, and the remaining Rs 17 billion (US$895 million) would be undertaken
by PS. CIP (FY89-91) is summarized in Table 6, and details are presented in
Annex V.
Table 6. Core Investment Proaram (FYS9-91)
Rs Million             ISt Million
Loal Foreian  Total   Local Foreisn   Total   X
I. Public Sectr
Power          31,464  25,152  56,616   1,656  1,324   2,980  73
Oil and Gas    10,477   9,104  19,581    551   480   1,031   26
Coal             664    353  1.017       35    18    __3    I
Subtotal     42.605  34.609  77.214  2.242  1.822   4.0A6  100
II. Private Sector
Power           1,562  12,438  14,000    83   655       737
Oil and Gas      294   2,306   2,600     15   121       137
Coal              44    356     400       2     19      21
Subtotal      1900  15.100  17.000    100   795       895
Total CIP                              LAU02  a L02 a42    L2j 
90.      CIP (FY89-91) for power in the public sector would amount to Rs 70.6
billion (US$3.7 billion), representing about 74% of the total projected
outlays; Rs 22.2 billion (US$1.25 billion) for oil and gas, amounting to 25%;
and Rs 1.4 billion (US$72.9 million) for coal, accounting for the remaining
12.   The  PS  investments  in power,  amounting  to Rs  14.0 billion  (US$737
million), represents the front end of the implementation of a 1,392 MW
oil-fired power station, a 144 MW coal-fired station and the completion of a
120 MW diesel  fired power station.   The  oil  and gas investments by PS,
amounting to Rs 2.6 billion (US$137 million), are primarily for exploration
and development of oil and gas. The PS investments in coal, amounting to Rs
140 million (US$21 million), are for the development of the Lakhra coal mines
that would feed the mouth-of-mine power plants.
Financing Plan for CIP (FY89-91)
91.      Details  of  the  financing  plan  for  each  of  the  public  and
semi-autonomous entities are given in Annex VI end summarized in Table 7.



- 43 -
Table 7. SuMnarv Financino Plan for CIP (FY89-91)
I. Public Sector
Rs Million             USS Million
Lg21 Foraian  ITota  Lscal Foreian   Total   S
Internal Cash Gen.   24,300      -  24,300   1,279     -    1,279  31
Equity Issues          575       -    575      30      -      30    1
GOP Loans             1,589      -   1,589     84      -       84    2
Local Borrowing       3,791      -   3,791    200      -      200    5
Special Levy          8,599      -   8,599    452      -      452   11
IBRO - ESL II            -   2,373   2,373      -    125      125    3
Other Foreign Fin.    3,750  30,110  33,860    197  1,583    1,780  44
Foreign Fin. Unident.    -   2.126   2126   ___       114     114  --U
Subtotal           42.605  34.609  77.214  ?2.4   1.,822   4.Q64  100
tI. Private Sector
Equity                1,300   3,000   4,300    68   158       226  25
PSEDF                   -    5,100   5,100      -    268      268  30
Deferred Charges       600       -    600      32      -      32    3
Local Borrowing         -       _-              -      -       -    -
Foreign Caon. Loans   7_lQQ  7D000              -    369     369  42
Subtotal           1JM0  l5l]Q   17000    100  __5    __5  100
Total               =   2        MIZ14   law   LAlZ    AM
92.      The financing of CIP (FY89-91) in the public and private sectors, is
discussed below:
(a) Financing of Public Sector InvestkLnts. ICG would finance 31%
of CIP  (FY89-91)  for the public  sector.   However,  with the
special levy revenues of Rs 8.6 billion (US$452 million),
mobilized from the consumers of electricity and gas, ICG
increases to 42X, in contrast to 30% for CIP (FY86-88) covered
under ESL I. Loans from GOP's budget are limited to 22 of total
financing, amounting to Rs 1,589 million (US$84 million), which
would finance the local costs of PMDC's CIP (FY89-91). This is
in contrast to the 212 share of CIP (FY86-88) financed through
GOP loans. The balance of the local financing amounting to Rs
3.8 billion (US$200 million), representing 52 of the total
requirements, would be borrowed from the local market. This
level of borrowing which results in an average borrowing of Rs
1.3 billion per year is considered feasible as evidenced by the
Rs 1.7 billion borrowing per year for CIP (FY86-88). As regards
foreign cost financing, the Bank would finance Rs 12.1 billion
(US$639 million), representing 15% of total requirements as
follows: Rs 6.3 billion (US$329 million) under ongoing loans;
Rs 2.4 billion (US$125 million) under the Loan; and Rs 3.5
billion (US$185 million) under other proposed Bank projects such
as Privatization of SNGPL (appraised), Rural Electrification
(pre-appraised)   and  Domestic  Energy  Resource  Development.
Cofinanciers   such   as   ADB,   OECF,   USAID,   CIDA,   would



- 44 -
finnce Rs 22.4 billion (US$1.3 billion) representing 29Z of
total requirements leaving a foreign financing gap of Rs 2.1
billion (US$114 million). The status of the cofinancing from
other sources has been reviewed and the Bank has concluded that
they would materialize in time to allow for the effective
implementation of CIP (FY89-91). The foreign financing gap is
small and, in case of delay in securing bilateral financing for
specific projects, gaps could be bridged through the Commodities
Loan of USAID or the Power Sector Loan of ADB, which are
available for disbursement against goods and services for CIP
(FY89-91) to offer flexibility to the beneficiaries in the
implementation of their projects.
(b)  Fi.nancing Plan  for PS Investments.   Of the Rs 43.7 billion
(US$2.3 billion) investments to be undertaken by PS on the basis
of limited recourse financing arrangements (para 38), Rs 16.4
billion (US$862 million) would be required under CIP (FY89-91).
These  expenditures  comprise  primarily  the  funds  for  the
implementation of a 1,392 NW oil fired and a 132 MW coal fired
power stations, and for the completion of a 120 MW diesel power
station. In order to finance these investments, PS would not be
seeking any loans from the local markets, particularly since GOP
has agreed to defer the front end charges on PS subprojects
until after the commissioning of the subprojects (para 48),
which the PS would otherwise have to raise through local
borrowing. The resource mobilization from the local market is
therefore limited to equity issues amounting to Ea 1.3 billion
(US$68 million), about 60X of which would be provided by local
partners in each of PS subprojects under consideration.   The
Bank has concluded thai. the levels of financing required for PS
investments under CIP (FY89-91), including the foreign loans
from commercial banks and export-credit agencies, could be
mobilized in time to implement the PS subprojects.
93.      GOP's commitment to energy investments for FY89-91 is critical f^r
the successful implementation of the medium-term adjustment program. This
covers  approval  of  annual  investment  programs,  ADP  allocations,   and
mobilization of resources, both foreign and local, price reforms, review of PS
subprojects, and coordination of access to the credit and capital markets. In
order to ensure the development of enerny in accordance with the Long-Term
Eneriv Strateav. and consistent with the medium-term policy framework, GOP has
agreed to: (a) a Core Investment Proaram (CIP)f comprised of ongoinx and new
Rroiects, for each of the nublic sector and semi-autonomous energy entities,
as well as for PS, for the neriod FY89-91; (b) a financinu ulan for each CIP,
with  an  indicative  breakdown  between  internal  cash  generation,  GOP
contribution, and local and foreisn loans; and (c) review with the Bank by no
later than May 31 of each year, betinning 1990: (i) the progress achieved in
carrving out CIP and the corresponding financing Dlan. and the measures
necessarv for their implementation: and (ii) the Droaress achieved in
processing the nronosals received for PS investments, to identify the measures
vronosed to facilitate and exoedite such processing.
Tranching
94.      The Loan would cover the costs  of  goods  and  services  for  two
components: CIP (FY89-91); and general imports. The proceeds of the Loan
would be made available in two tranches: the first, following compliance with



- 45 -
the conditions for effectiveness, expected in July 31, 1989; and the second
following compliance with conditions for the release of the second tranche,
expected in July 31, 1990. Tranching and loan allocation are shown in Table
8.  Disbursements for the first tranche of US$155 million, would include:  (a)
Us$75 million  for general  imports;  and (b) US$80 million  for goods  and
services for CIP (FY89-91).  Both would continue to be disbursed until the
closing of the Loan.  Under the second tranche, US$50 million would be for
general imports, and US$45 million would be for goods and services for CIP
(FY89-91). Also, these would continue to be disbursed until the closing of
the Loan.
Table 8: Tranchina and Loan Allocation
(US$ Million)
Tranche 1                        Tranche 2
Investment Gen. Imports          Investment Gen. Imports            Total
Cmponent    Comnonent   Total   Component    Comnonent  Total   Loan
80           75        15S       45            50         95     250
Onlending Arrangements
95.      Of the Loan amount of US$250 million, US$125 million (US$80 million
under Tranche I and US$45 million under Tranche II) would finance goods and
services for CIP (FY89-91). Of these funds, US$122.5 million would be onlent
to the revenue generating entities, i.e., WAPDA, OGDC, RESC, SSGC, SNGPL, and
PMDC; and US$2.5 million would be made available, through budgetary
allocation, to the non-revenue earning departments, such as the Energy
Planning Wing of MPD, EUKICON, DOFMA, and the Enviroment and Urban Affairs
Division. The proceeds of the Loan would be onlent to the revenue generating
entities at 14X per annum, except for WAPDA, for which proceeds will be onlent
at 11% per annum, repayable under the same terms as the Bank loan, namely 20
years, including a five-year grace period. This would allow GOP to cover the
interest on the loans and provide a margin to compensate for GOP's assumption
of the foreign exchange risk. The effectiveness of ESL I was delayed because
of slippages in the ratification of subsidiary loan agreements (SLA),
primarily because of amendments required to conform to Bank guidelines. Under
the proposed Loan, SLAs identical to those executed under ESL I would be used,
and therefore delays in their ratification are not likely to occur.
Nevertheless, in order to ensure the timely use of the uronosed Loan. the
execution of the subsidiarv loan ajreements with each of the beneficiaries is
set as a condition of effectiveness of the pronosed Loan.
Procurement
96.      Procurement under the Loan, for CIP (FY89-91) and General Imports
Components, are as follows:
(a) CIP (FY89-91) Component. As in ESL I, procurement under the
investment component of the Loan would cover the foreign
exchange costs of equipment and services needed by the
energy sector entities for the implementation of their CIPs.
Procurement of goods, materials and services financed by the
Loan   would   be   in   accordance   with   Bank   guidelines.
Table 9 below shows the procurement arrangements for CIP for the
Loan.   Contracts amounting to approximately US$102.0  million



- 46 -
equivalent would be awarded through International Competitive
Bidding (ICB). Local manufacturers competing under ICB would
have a 15 preference or the applicable duty, whichever is less,
for the supply of goods. Specialized well services estimated to
cost US$15 million, and spare parts costing a total of US$4
million will be procured through Limited International Bidding
(LIB)   procedures   in   accordance   with   Bank   procurement
guidelines.   Direct Contracting  (DC)  for foreign proprietary
items under the proposed Loan is estimated to total about US$4.0
million. Consultants would be selected in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. All bid packages with an
estimated value of US$1.5 million or more equivalent, would be
subject to the Bank's prior review.   This  would  amount  to
reviewing more than 50% of the estimated cost of Bank financed
bidding packages. The remainder would be subject to selective
post-award review.  Considerable preparatory work done by the
beneficiaries on the bidding documents was reviewed and cleared
by the appraisal mission. However, Bank review of bid documents
of some entities remains to be completed, which would be
finalized during negotiations.  In order to ensure that delays
in procurement would not hinder the timely implementation of CIP
(FY89-91), GOP has agreed to ensure that bidding documents for
aoods and services amountina to the equivalent of US$40 million
or more to be financed under the Loan, are issued by December
31, 1989.
Table 9: Procurement for CIP (FY89-91)
'USS Million)
First Tranche          Second Tranche             Totals
Tota lo    URB LI     DC Ttal  10   LIB  DC   Total_ IC    al  DC
WAPDA   37.0  35.0   -    2.0  20.5  19.0   -    1.5  57.5  54.0   -    3.5
KESC    12.0  12.0   -    -    5.5  5.5   -    -    17.5  17.5   -    -
OGDC    17.0  12.0  7.0   -    10.5  3.5  7.0   -   27.5  8.5  19.0   -
SNGPL    9.0  9.0   -    -    5.5  5.5   -    -    14.5  14.5   -    -
SSGC     3.0  3.0   -    -    2.0  2.0   -    -    5.0  5.0   -    -
PHDC     0.5   -    -    0.5   -    -    -    -    0.5   -    -    0.5
Others   15   1.A   -    -    10  1i0   -    - .           2      ..  -
Total  ALU  =L    L    LA      Q    A   LZQ   Ja  .J=  DlM  L         & LQ
(b)  General  Imports Cqmnonent.   The proposed US$125  million  for
general imports, would finance all goods to be imported into
Pakistan, based on a negative list comprising military or
para-military items, luxury goods, nuclear reactors and parts,
and uranium. (The rationale for such financing is discussed in
paras 43-49 above.) Procurement would be limited to goods from
countries eligible under the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.
Both private and public sector imports would be eligible for
financing. All contracts exceeding US$5 million in size would
be  awarded through international  competitive bidding.   These
contracts would be subject to ex-post review; that is, a report
containing evidence that each was let in accordance with Bank
Guidelines and conformed copies of the contract would be



- 47 -
submitted to the Bank before making the first payment out of the
Special Account (para 97) in respect of such contracts.
Contracts under US$5 million procured by private firms would
follow normal commercial practices, and procurement by the
public sector would be in accordance with GOP's standard
procurement practices. Reports for contracts under US$5 million
containing evidence of the procedure used for procurement and
contract copies would be presented to the Bank to support
withdrawal applications.
Diaburagmento
97.      The procedures for disbursement of the proceeds of the Loan for CIP
(FY89-91) and General Imports Components are as follows:
(a) CIP (FY89-91) Component. The Loan would finance 100% of foreign
expenditures; 100% of local expenditures (ex factory costs); 65%
of local expenditures for other items procured locally; and 100%
of  expenditures   for  consultants'   services.    Disbursement
experience under ESL I was satisfactory, but slower than
envisaged due to: (a) the absence of Special Accounts for the
beneficiaries, except for WAPDA, due to their reluctance to pay
the prevailing interest rate of 14% for Special Accounts to
GOP. This led to an inordinate number of requests for Bank
special commitments; (b) a relatively low threshold for the
value of contracts procured under the Statement of Expenditures
(SOEs); and (c) the lack of experience in the State Bank of
Pakistan on how to operate the Special Accounts. These problems
have  since  b,een  addressed  and  satisfactory  procedures  for
operating Special Accounts are now in place.  In order to ensure
timely and efficient disbursement for CI?, (FY92-91) the
establishment of SRecial Accounts for each-entity wt  initial
deposits amountina -to U5t5 million, in the auarestate., to cover
an avera1e of four months' disbursements. at the NatiqpL Bank
of Pakistan on terms and co_nditions satisf-actory to the Bank, Is
a condition of effectiveness of the Loan.
(b)  General Imports Component.  The Loan would finance 10O  of the
c.i.f. costs of eligible imports. The National Bank of Pakistan
would be responsible for collecting appropriate supporting
documentation, the preparation and submission of withdrawal
applications, and the establishment and maintenance of a Special
Account for the general imports component of the Loan.   The
initial  deposit would be US$10 million.   Reimbursements  for
expenditures to be funded from the Special Account would be
accompanied by a Statement of Transactions certified by the
National Bank of Pakistan. Payments under contracts above US$2
million would be fully documented. Disbursements from the Loan
for items below US$2 million would be made on the basis of SOs
from  the  National  Bank  of  Pakistan  detailing  individual
transactions in a given period by SITC group and source,  in
respect of eligible imports, together with a certification of
the  amounts  involved.   Documentation  would  be  forwarded  by
concerned commercial banks to the National Bank of Pakistan and
would be available for review by Bank supervision missions. The



- 48 -
documentation supporting withdrawal applications would consist
of a copy of the invoice from the supplier, evidence of
shipment,  and  evidence  of payment.   In order to facilitate
disbursement for general imnorts. the establishment of a Soecial
Account with an initial denosit of US$10 million,. at the
National Bank of Pakistan on terms and conditions satisfactorv
to the Bank is a condition of effectiveness of the Loan.
The closing date of the Loan would be December 31, 1991.
Retroactive FinancinA
98.      It is expected that expenditures for the CIP (PY89-91) component,
amounting to a maximum of US$12.5 million, would be incurred within the twelve
month period prior to Loan signature. These contracts, which pertain to the
implementation of CIP, have been concluded under Bank procurement guidelines,
and  consequently,  the  expenditures  would  be  eligible  for  retroactive
financing.   In view of the shortages of foreign exchange being experienced by
Pakistan at present, and the need for the country to maintain a steady level
of imports to sustain its growth and support an ongoing set of policy reforms,
there is a need for retroactive financing under the general imports component
of the Loan. Ret:oactive financing for general imports under the Loan would be
provided in tba amount of US$25 milllon for items contracted within 4 months
of loan signJture. Total retroactive financing would therefore amount to
US$37.5 million.
Pro1=ect Monitoring
99.      In accordance with established practice under ESL I, the Energy Wing
of MPD would be responsible for the coordination of all activities under the
Loan. As such, it would be required to collect and submit to the Bank in
summary form, quarterly reports, beginning December 1989, covering physical
progress, procurement of goods and services as well as disbursement aspects of
the entire CIP (FY89-91) for the duration of the Loan. It would also monitor
progress made each year in the implementatioll of CIP (FY89-91). The Energy
Wing would also collect and communicate to the Bank, on a quarterly basis, any
other information and evaluation pertinent to compliance with the covenants
under the policy reform program.
Audit of Annual Accounts and Special Accounts
100.     Each of the beneficiaries of the Loan would be required to agree to
comply with the Bank's standard covenant of audit of annual accounts, which
requires them to furnish to the Bank within six months of the end of each
financial year, the annual accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank, together with the auditors report. The audit report would also
include: (i) a statement verifying that the amounts disbursed against SOEs
(either direct or from Special Accounts for investment component and general
imports component), have been used for the purpose they were intended; and
(ii) Special Accounts for CIP (FY89-91) and general imports components under
the Loan.  For GOP departments, i.e., MWP, MPRR, DOFMAC, ENERCON, Energy Wing
of MPD and the Environment and  Urban  Affairs  Division,  there  would  be
submission of an audit of annual receipt and expenditure of funds.



- 49 -
Risks
101.     The main risks of the Loan are:  (a) inability of GOP to maintain the
pace of increase in prices of energy products at the rate envisaged, which
would erode the energy sector's potential for resource mobilization and slow
down the process of rationalizing consumption; (b) inadequate response of the
international financial community in providing financing under limited
recourse for PS investment, which woild lead to unavoidable pressure to
increase public investments and hence exceed the level agreed under the
medium-term framework; (c) slower than envisaged pace of institutional
reforms, particularly in regard to OGDC's and KESC's corporate restructuring
program and WAPDA's distribution wing; and (d) delays in the implementation of
CIP due to the constraints on the resources available in the domestlc banking
system and capital markets. To address these risks, several actions are being
taken.   Price  increases  are  being  introduced  gradually  during  1989.
Consequently, increases in gas prices were introduced in January 1989, while
increases in electricity tariffs would take place on July 1, 1989. As for the
mobilization of financing under limited recourse for PS investments, the Bank
has been actively involved in the formulation of security packages comprised
of a set of agreements and provisions needed to safeguard the interests of
investors, GOP and lenders, and for two of the PS projects in power which
would provide about 1.600 MW. These represent 70X of the 2,300 KW planned for
the Seventh Plan, and construction is expected to start by September 1989. In
addition, there are four PS projects for power generation (900 MW) at an
advanced stage of preparation. In the oil and gas subsector, PS investment
has already started. As for coal, the Bank is in the process of assisting
with the constitution of PS consortium to start the detailed engineering for
the Lakhra field by July 1, 1989 and start implementation by January 1990.
The potential for delays in the implementation of CIP due to constraints on
the availability of local financing would be addressed under the proposed Loan
through the introduction of special levies on electricity and gas produced by
the public and PS sectors. These would shift the burden of financing 82% of
the local cost, otherwise covered by domestic borrowing, to the consumers, and
reduce the potential for crowding out and maintain the access of the sector to
the capital market within manageable levels.
VI. SOCIAL ASPECTS OF THE LOAN
102.    The adjustment program included under the Loan involves a social
dimension aimed at cushioning the impact of the structural changes on the low
income segment of the population.  In the area of coal development, USAID
supported by the Bank has initiated a pilot scheme for the production of
briquettes by PS, manufactured from domestic coal to provide energy for
households, particularly in the rural areas.. The briquettes are lower in
price than the domestic price of kerosene and fuel wood. The increased use of
briquettes would have positive effects on the households as it substitutes for
higher value products used as a source of energy for cooking and space
heating.   It would also improve the environment in rural habitats since
briquetting eliminates the undesirable gases usually released by burning
untreated coal and fuel wood. In addition, under the policy umbrellas of ESL
I and that of the Loan, a Rural Electrification program has been under
implementation, financed by USAID, Japan and ADB. This program has resulted
in the extension of public supply of electricity to villages and increased
over the past four years the access of the rural population to electricity
from 12,000 to 21,000 villages and hamlets.   In order to continue  this



- so -
initiative and accelerate the program for electrification, the Bank would
appraise in Nay 1989, the largest Rural Electrification project undertaken so
far In the country which would provide public supply of electricity to 4,800
villages and hamlets by 1994.
103.     A unique feature of the proposed Rural Electrification Project (which
is a part of CIP, FY89-91) is that it incorporates a component for improving
the quality of life of rural housewives by including provisions for the
introduction of better designed stoves which would reduce the health hazards
to mothers and infants in the rural areas by eliminating the disposal of waste
gases outside the habitats. This would contribute to the reduction of the
incidence of respiratory disease.  The rural electrification project would
also include provisions for local social forests to be administered and
maintained by the female population of the villages in order to provide income
and also reduce the time spent by the housewives in the collection of
fuelwood.   It  would  also  reduce  the  potential  for  deforestation.   The
adjustment program outlined in the proposed Loan includes a study to determine
the rural household pattern of energy consumption, including traditional
fuels, which would be used as a basis for the development of a program to
supply rural consumers energy at least cost, and also assess the income
distribution impact of expenditures on energy supply by low-income consumers
and outline a strategy for ameliorating this impact. This would be achieved
by identifying the basik energy needs of the rural poor, which would assist in
setting prices to accommodate the social objective of providing a minimum
level of energy at affordable prices. The study and implementation of its
recommendation would be undertaken in accordance with a timetable agreed under
the Loan.
104.     Although objective of LES  for energy pricing is to correct the
distortion in prices to reach parity with economic prices, substantial work
has been initiated to buffer the low income consumers from the full impact of
higher energy prices.   Electricity  tariffs have been designed to allow a
lifeline tariff which provides a minimum level of electricity to household
consumers at affordable prices. Moreover, the Bank continues to support the
differential increases in tariffs to raise the average revenue/kWh to meet the
financial objectives agreed with GOP, which provide the flexibility in
moderating the rates of increase in tariffs for the household consumers in
general. A similar approach is followed in the gas subsector where the tariff
for gas consumed by households is designed on the basis of increasing block
rates. The first block provides a minimum supply of gas at a relatively lower
tariff, while any forgone revenue is recovered from consumers at the two
higher blocks. In additicn, although the household gas consumers account for
only 9X of all the households in Pakistan, the proposed increases in consumer
gas prices have been moderated by setting a 10-year period for reaching parity
with the domestic price of kerosene.   Also,  in terms of the pricing of
kerosene, the strategy is to allow GOP the flexibility in setting domestic
price, where in past the domestic price was lower than the border price and
the deficit was recovered from consumers of other petroleum products. This
cross subsidization has now been eliminated because of the decline in recent
past of border prices. However, should the border price reverse its trend by
increasing, the adjustment program under the Loan would allow for a gradual
and a relatively slower adjustment in the price of kerosene then would be
required for all other petroleum products provided the cost of the subsidy, if
any, is recovered from the consumers of the remaining petroleum products.



- 51 -
VII. CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS ARD RELEASE OF SECOND TRANCHE
105.     The following are set as conditions of effectiveness  (release of
first tranche) of the Loan:
(a) (i) issuance of notification declaring the Energy Wing of MPD a
permanent and integral part of the Secretariat of the Planning
and Development Division of the Ministry of Planning and
Development; (ii) absorption of selected existing contract
personnel of the Energy Wing as regular employees of GOP on a
permanent basis; and (ii) creation of additional positions
within the Energy Wing for a Finance and Economic Section headed
by a Chief and supported by at least two positions each for
financial analysts and economists (para 81);
(b) execution of subsidiary loan agreements with each of the
beneficiaries (para 95);
(c)  establishment of Special Accounts, one for each entity under the
CIP and one for the General Imports Component, vith the National
Bank of Pakistan (para 97);
(d) an increase of electricity tariffs effective July 1, 1989,
required to comply vith the 40% internal cash generation
covenant for FY90 (para 57); and
(e)  Increase the price of gas, including the development surcharge,
purchased by WAPDA directly from producers to reach 302 of
the domestic price of fuel oil, effective July 1, 1989 (para 63);
106.     The folloving are set as conditions for release of second tranche:
(a) appointment of consultants, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
preparation of the feasibility study for Basha (para 52);
(b) increase in electricity tariffs effective July 1, 1990, required
to comply with the 40X internal cash generation covenant
(para 57);
(c) increase the price of gas, including the development surcharge,
purchased by WAPDA directly from producers to reach 402 of the
domestic price of fuel oil, effective July 1, 1990 (para 63); and
(d) establishment by GOP of financial performance criteria for OGDC,
from FY91 onward (para 74).
VIII. RECOMMENDATION
107.     I am satisfied  that  the Loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed Loan.
Barber B. Conable
President



-52-
ISTAN
PAKISTAN - eCONUIC IVICAT08                                ANiNME  I
PA0E 1 OF 3
,.198  Pcputation (ad L.)     103.8
193B Per Cqpfta GP9 fn USS    391.5
A. Shams of Gross DOgistic Prodct                       S. Growth Rstes(% per wyun)
(fram oIIWnt price data)                            (from constant price data
19465   1973   1980   1966   1987   1988             1965-73 1973-80 1980-87   1987   1988
wos Donatic Prochct m.p.        1MO.  100.   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0                  5.5     5.4    6.7    7.0    5.5
Met Irdirect Taxe               7.4    9.1   10.2   10.6   10.2   10.1..                         .
Agriculture                    37.2   32.8   26.5   22.0   21.1   20.1                 4.7    2.8    3.4       2.0    0.6
IrKistry                       18.6   19.9   22.4   24.3   25.1   26.0                 6.6    7.0    9.1       7.8    9.6
(of ticid Meufacturing)        13.4   14.5   14.3   15.0   15.5   16.0                 6.2    6.3    8.9       7.5   10.0
Services                       36.8   38.2   40.9   43.1   43.6   43.8                 5.1    6.4      7.1    6.4    6.3
Resource Seanmce                 -8.3   -2.8  -11.6   -9.4   -6.5   -7.3..                         .
Exports of BPS         ~8.5   13.4   12.5   11.9   13.4   14.0                 45      42      99     1.        .
Imports of GBPS                16.8   16.2   24.1   21.3   19.8   21.2                -1.3    9.1      3.8   -0.3   -4.2
TotaL Expsendftures             108.3  102.8  111.6  109.4  106.S  107.3                 3.9    6.3    5.7    5.0    5.4
Total Cauu'ption               86.9   89.9   93.1   93.0   89.5   90.2                 4.9    6.4    5.4    3.7    6.4
Private romuiptfen           76.1   78.3   83.    80.9   76.9          ..4.7    6.7    4.9    3.0
Gnenera Goaeemmnt            10.8   11.6   10.0   12.1   12.5          -.6.2    4.0    8.6    8.4                     -
Grows Danestfc Irwestniet      21.5   12.9   18.5   16.4   17.0   17.1                 0.4    5.8    7.4   11.3    1.4
Ffxed Irnvatmint             21.3   11.4   17.6   14.8   15.4   15.5                -1.6    6.7    7.0   12.1    1.4
Changeln Stocks               0.1     1.5    0.9    1.6    1.6    1.5                  .       .
Gross Domestic Santg             13.1   10.1    6.9    7.0   10.5    9.8                 3.4   -5.6   13.9   41.3    1.8
Net Factor losai               -0.4   -1.3   -1.2   -1.9   -2.0    3.0                   .       .
Net Currant Transfers            ..     2.1    7.9    8.7    7.3         .               .       .
Gross Natinali saving                    10.9   13.6   13.8   15.9   12.8                6.1     6.2     8.7   18.5
In billions of LCLI              1965   1973   1980   1986   1987   1988
(at comttnt 1980 prices)         --- -- ...               .. ---          --
Gros Danfesi Prodact            100    161    235    389    410    432                 5.5    5.4    6.7    5.4    5.2
Capoity to Import                20      25      29      49      59      57             1.5    2.7    6.5   2D.2   -4.0
Tema ofTrab Adjutzmnt             4       3      10      -6      -2       2              .       .       .       .      -
Gross Domestic Inan             110    164    235    383    408    430                 5.0    5.2    6.2    6.5        5.'4
Gross Natlaul Prodxt            105     159    232    413    430    444                5.5    5.4    6.6    4.0    3.4
Gross Natiaona  Incane          109    162    232    407    428    446                 4.9    5.2      6.0    5.2    4.2
...        .....(1980a  100) ---------                ------Inflation Rates(Z pa.)----
C. Price Indice                  1980    18      1985   1986   1987   1988             1985-73 1913-80 1980-87  198     1988
.. . . . . .. .. . . . . .       . .    . .      . .    . .      - -    - -            . . .    .. .    . . .   . .    . .
Comutaw Prices (IFS 64)         100.0  133.7  141.2  146.2  153.0          ..5.8   11.                   6.0     4.7      -
UfolesaLe Prices (IFS 63)       100.0  135.7  139.7  146.5  158.6          ..5.8   11.7    6.5                   8.3
lspticit GDP Deflator           100.0  138.6  147.1  157.   163.3  17'6.2                4.9   12.5    7.3    3.8   7r.9
Isplicit Expenditures Deft1.    10O.  146.7  155.6  167.3  172.3  187.4                  6.2   12.6    7.8    3.0    8.8
D. Othe Indicsator:            1965-73 1973-8D 1980-87
Growth Rates(% p.a.):
Popilation                      3.0    3.1    3.1
Labor Force
Gross Matt. Inous p.c.          1.9    2.0    2.8
Private Cwoswption p.c.         1.6    3.5      1.7
lafport Etastiefty.
[sport (G.*JF) / GOP(aP)       -0.2     1.7    0.6
Marinal Ssvfrgs Rates:
Gross Natioaet Ssvfrg            .    19.8   21.4
Gross Domestic Saving           1.0   -0.6   18.1
ICO  (period  rieraes):            ..     3.5    2.6
Share of Total                   1965    1975   198    1987
Labor Force in-s- --- --- --
Agriculture                    59.8   57.6   54.6
irdstry                        18.3   17.8   15.7
services                       21.9   24.6   29.7
Total                         100.0  100.0  100.
.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
IEC 08/05/89



-53.-
WAISTDN
....S....E......C......i....                              ANNEX  I
Volum  1,dw                         VWus at anwent PricS  CmlUlmu US$)
E. Nrdrdiwles Eapwts            196    196    19E'   19 1      1967 l   IM     195    198     195    1966   196    19
x.m................         .....   ....       ....   .....   .....   .....    1....?  152...    ......    .....0  64.......
X.FOM0.RIM                     166.0  116.1   45.9  129.7i  1006.0   96.0   1423   142         229    342    290
LceIl.WTTS                     10.0   39.1  101.8  256.6  19.0  154.0    3S    131    28B    514 446.19  611.3
X.NA.TEXT.X                     0.0  12.7  186.0  131.5         ..15.0    24          360    306    311    341
Totat E*oprts FOB              100.0  131.6  121.3  131.0  107.7         .. 2342   26w    2457   2942   3496   4362
F. NerdwMlse Iqmrts
;od..                                     .       .       .       .      .     359    394      53      611    519
Ruet r a mrg                   100.0  166.7   95'.9   86.5  105.2i  117.4   1050   142    139    1039    813    97
other integ,edgoods                        .       .      .       .                      .20
capital goods.                                    ..     ..      ..      .    1465   1811   1910   am5   1910
Totat lapert CIF                                                               so. . .  .  . 56    599    g531   452    629    1521
G. Tam~ Of Trae*                19      161 15    196    196    1968
March. Empxrt Price In,hK       10.0   86.6   66.6   72.8   76.3   71.9
Morch. lqorwts Price Irdt         .       ..       .   81.1   75.8   19.2
March. Tnme of Track.                     ..      .
US mittian (at aurrant prices):
H. Baluic Of Pa)mumt            1960   161   19        1966   197    96
E,ports of Gaood & *FS          295    3448   3246   355   4433   523
Nerdwdise (FOB)               3342   266    244    2992   3196   4362
Mon-FaWsterSevices             613    75    78        83    93        87?
1aports of Goack&NFS            571     154   7113   7345   7014   8319
Maerdwudise (FOB)             483    S994   601    609    519    6919
Non-Factor Servics             855   1060   1097   1219   1222   1430
Resource Balwm                 -2157  -360   -3845  -3490  -2591  -3110
met fawtor Iroin                -260    .43   -506   -649  6-5
(interest per OM)              249    318    312    354    386    446
met Orrent Tranfer              1872   2947   272    235    255    2361
(workers rmdttsers)           1747   2739   245    263    2278   2013
curr A/C Bet beform Of. Trwns  -1165  -1102  -1650  -1285   -719  -148
Net Officiat Trauffrs          292    405    381    4971   353
curr A/C Bal after off. Traisf   -873   -69   -1268   -788   -336
Lore-Temls  taita Inflom         630    394    410    789    452   1314
Direct lowssumt                 72      44       81   159       0
Net LT Loo  CORS dta)          815    572    243    392    174    762
Other LT Inflow (Not)         -317   -223       68    235    278    552
Total Other Item  (not)          159    185   -13        as    186    830
Not iliart Teom Copitat        148    152   -121       96    109    365
Capltat FLcmM.E.I.               0       0       0      0       0       0
Errom rs  Ck mleslw             21      34    -59    -13       17    466
Caernge In Net Racrvs             54    118   1042    -86   -242   -46
mat Credfit frolm te IMP       -U2    -15    -85   -255   -356   -322
other ReeervwsChUWe            136    132   1127    169    116   -140
As MShar OfMP
ResoArce BetlmFs              -11.6  -11.6  -12.3  -10.3   -7.3   -7.9
Interest Paeufts               1.1    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.1
OrA7,nt AceoM mt Sai          -4.9   -3.5   -5.2   -3.8   -2.0   -4.3
Mowand Items:
Rewsewvs tm. Cold Cull. 138      496   1036    SW7    709    592    395
Reserves inct. Gold Cudl. US$)   1546   1610   1429   1445   1441   1193
Official X-Raft CLUe/US)        9.90   14.05  15.93  16.45   17.40  17.55
incex Real 1ff. X-R Bse 1980  100.00  101.95  95.24  78.63  69.57  67.3
00P (m1tt1cm of arrent US$)   2369   31035  3152   DM92   35255  3K945
.... .. . . ... . . . .. ... . ... . . ... .. . . .. . . .. . .. . .. .. .. .. . . . . .. .. .. .. .. . .
IEC 05/05/89



-54-
WISAN
PKItSTAN - ECOMIC INDICATCAS                                  A         I
......... .... .............                                  NE        
PACE 3 OF 3
...... ........_._..................................,..                         ............................
Share of WP (X)                                            Growth Rates
8udset (C . federl Gov.)    1980    1984    1985    1986    1987    I8                         19E0-83   1986    1987    1988
.. .    .................. ............ . ......... ....... ....... ......................... ..... ... .......  4 .......  .......... ....... .......
jrrent Receipts                  16.8    17.9    16.7    17.1   17.1    17.6                       8.5     5.1
irrent Expenditures              15.0    17.6   17.8    17.9    18.9   19.2                        6.4      9.3
urrent Btxbet 8alance             1.8     0.3    -1.1    -0.8    -1.8    -1.6                       9.6     9.0
apital Receipts                     ..      ..      ..      ..      ..      ..                       ..
;qpital Expenditwr to              8.0     6.4     6.5     6.8     5.8     7.0                      4.0     5.9       .
verall Deficit                    -6.2   -6.0   -7.7   -7.7   -7.7   -8.6                          11.1     4.8
Jfficiat Cqpftal Greats             ..      ..      ..       ..      ..      ..                       ..
Extermtl  orrvAd,  (net)           2.9       .2    1.1      1.6     2.0     1.9                    -16.5   103.0
Zamestic  cn-Bar* Finaciro         0.6     2.9     2.7      5.0     5.1     4.6                    100.0   72.7
Domestic  Wu* Flrnomir,            2.7      1.9    3.9      1.1     2.0     2.1                     -8.8  -69.1
Net Disbursements CUSS mitlitfs)         Debt Outstwdino & Disbursed (USS mdllitns)
J. Extermt Caittl Flows, Debt    ---------  --------------------------          -        -----------
and Debt arden Ratios          1980    19e4    1985    1986    1967    198B    1980    1984    195    1986    1987    198
................ -------------------..... .... ---   ----.......   .....  ....   .... ___ ----   ---  ---     ---- _ .... .    ......__  .....  
Pbtlic & PtllcLy bam. LT           873     580      244    388      148     709   8785    9979   10774   11886   13150   10
Official Creditors               707     409    433       398    329      562    8Z46   9030   9986   11089   12494   12203
slAtilateral                   289    356       282    233      421     50    1822    269    3110    3522   4237   4543
of- sih  IBD                 -10       4       30      75     150     180    330      337    434       6(5     9Q8    1019
Of ihAd IDA                   70     123      104     128     130     175     821    1256    1391    1560    17M      1838
si lateral                     418      54      150     165    -92      -28   6423    6341    67        7567   8258    7660
Private Creditors                165      170   -189      -10    -181     147     539    949       787    797    655       797
awliers                          7      29      -10       4     -19     -25     199     188      183     192     181     163
Firacial Nwkets                158     141    -178      -14    -162    -120     341     761     605      605     474     343
Private on-gu teed                   2       -7      -1       4      26      53      18      26       26      30      56      72
Total LT                           875     572      243     392     174     762   8803   100W    10799   11916   13205   13072
IMF Credit                          -3    -53    -152    -316    -367   -322        382    1241    1266    1036      804     553
Net Short-Tem Cipital              168      152   -124       98     109    365      737    932    1310    1863    2280    2399
Total fncl. IMF & Net ST          1041     671      -32     174    -84      806    99?2   12178   13376   14815   16289   16024
ex* and ID  Ratios                1980    1984    195    1986    1987    1988
_---- ---        -                ---       ----   ----      ---  _ ....    ... .___
Share of Total Lwu-Tem DoM                                                              Notes:
1. IUD as X of Total              3.75    3.36    4.02    5.08   6.88    7. 0
2. IDA as X of Total              9.33   12.56   12.88   13.09   13.47   14.J6          Data an EcoMc Indicators tebles
3. IBRDiIDA as X of Total        13.07   15.92   16.90   18.17  20.35        s. should foilow the definitions ard
the coClepts of the Stardard Tabtes and
Share of LT Debt Serviee                                                                Stadard Attadments.  The indficators
1. IBRD as X of Total             9.73    6.39   5.58   7.98   10.47   10.05            should include dta throsih the most
2. IDA as X of Total              1.56    1.92    1.94    2.35    2.43    2.07          recently ooapleted calerdr year (or
3. 18rDvIDA as X of Total        11.29   8.31    7.52   10.33   12.90         .         fiscal year in the case of fiscal year
couitries). Staff estimates may be used
D0Wto-Exports Ratios                                                                     if ffnat or preliminary actuals are not
---------------------                                                                   yet avaitebte. The use of estimates and
1. Long-Tenn Debt/Exports       185.13  156.77  184.26  180.54  194.11       p. preliminery figures should be irdicated
2. IPF Credit/Exports             8.84   19.44   21.61   15.70   11.82       ..         by.
3. Short-Term Debt/Exports       15.50   14.60   22.35   28.23   33.51        .
4. LT+IFST DODWExports          208.66  190.82  228.22  224.46  239.44       ..         e = estimated data
p a prelimin ry data
DOD-tor-GP Ratios
........ .............
1. Law-Tem Dd*et/P               37.16   32.24  34.25   35.13   37.46         .
2. IMP Credtt/GDP                 1.61    4.00   4.02   3.05    2.28          .
3. Short-Term Oebt/DP             3.11    3.00    4.15    5.49    6.47
4. LT+IMPFSr DCDlGP              41.88  39.24  42.42   43.68   46.20 D        .
Debt Service /Exports
...................
1. PshAic & Guanteed LT          12.49   14.64   18.19   16.37   17.25
2. Private one-suranteed LT       0.17    0.22    0.28   0.27   0.29         ..
3. Total Las-Tenn Debt Service  12.67   14.85   18.47   16.64   17.54
4. IMF Rir          er. Oigs.
5. Interest only on ST Debt
6. total CTIMF46T Int.)
,.....................__.........................................           ......................             .........         . _.....
IEC 05/05189



STATUS OF  MANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN                       A -NEX II
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS                         Page 1 of 2
(as of March 31. 1989) /a & /b
(USS million)
Loan/                                               (Amount net of cancellations)
Credit  Fiscal                                                              Undis-
Nwmber   Year                  Purpose                    Bank     I^A      bursed
120 loans and credits fully disbursed                    950.5  1414.9
754       1978      Salinity Control & Reclamation         -       70.0    45.7
877       1979      Salinity Control & Reel. (Mardan)    -         60.0    31.2
1157/c    1981     Grain Storage                           -       32.0    16.1
1158/c    1981     Agricultural Research                  -        24.0      3.1
2122      1982      Fourth Telecommunications              40.0    -         0.2
1239/c    1982      Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation    -         40.0        0
1243/c    1982     Oaluchistan Minor Irrig. & Agr.         -       14.0      8.6
2247      1983      Reservoir Maintenance Facilities       10.2              3.5
2324      1983      Fifth Sui Northern Gas Pipeline        43.0              5.5
1348/c    1983      Lahore Urban Development              -        16.0    10.2
1350/c    1983      Population                             -       18.0      7.7
1374/c    1983     Karachi Water Supply                    -       25.0      5.9
1375/c    1983      Fourth Drainage                       -        65.0    55.0
2351      1984      Petroleum Exploration                  51.5    -         8.5
2380      1984      Industrial Investment Credit           50.0    -        11.1
1439/c    1984      Industrial Investment Credit          -        50.0     2.1
1461/c    1984      Integrated Hill Farming Dev.           -       21.0    12.3
1480/c    1984     Second Technical Assistance            -         7.0     0.1
1487/c    1984     Comnand Water Management               -        46.5    30.6
1499/c    1984      Second Small Industries               -        50.0      1.1
1532/c    1985      Left Bank Outfall Drain - Stage 1    -        150.0   133.5
1533/c    1985      Baluchistan Agricultural Extension   -          8.3      3.6
2499      1985      Fourth WAPDA Power                    100.0    -        70.0
1602/c    1985      Second Primary Education              -        52.5    43.6
1603/c    1985     Second On-Farm Water Management        -        34.5        0
2552      1985      Energy Sector Loan                    178.0    -         5.6
2553      1985      Petroleum Resource Joint Venture       55.0    -         5.7
2556      1985      Fifth WAPDA Power                     100.0    -        78.4
2648      1986      Industrial Investment Credit          148.0    -        50.8
1646/c    1986      Industrial Investment Credit          -         2.0      1.2
1652/c    1986     Karachi Special Development            -        70.0    60.1
1670/c    1986     Second Vocational Training             -        40.2    36.7
1693      1986     SCARP Transition Pilot                 -        10.0     6.3
1699      1986     Agric. Dev. Bank of Pakistan VI        -        55.0      1.4
2693      1986      Agric. 0ev. Bank of Pakistan VI       165.0    -        68.4
2698      1986      Kot Addu Combined Cycle                90.0    -        70.3
2743      1987      Telecomuunications V                  100.0    -        62.8
1755/c    1987      Third Technical Assistance            -         7.0      5.2
1762/c    1987     Ag. Extension IV                       -        42.1    37.2
1821/c    1987     Third Primary Education                -       145.0   144.9
2792      1987      Power Plant Efficiency                 70.0    -       64.3
2814      1987      Fourth Highways                       152.0    -       136.0
2839      1987      Third Small Industries                 54.0    -        53.9
2842      1987      Refinery Energy Conservation           21.0    -        19.0
2884      1988      Cement Industry Modernization          96.0             93.9
1888      1988      Second Irrigation Systems Rehab.               79.5    79.5
1895      1988      Punjab Urban Development                       90.0    90.0
1936      1988     National Oilseed Development                    20.0    20.0
2973      1988      National Oilseed Development           31.4            31.4
2982      1988      Private Sector Energy Development   150.0              150.0
2986      1989      Agriculture Sector Adjustment         200.0            190.1
1982      1989      Industrial Investment Credit III                2.0     2.0
3019      1989      Industrial Investment Credit III    148.0              148.0
1987      1989      Karachi Water Supply II                       125.0   125.0
3029      1989      Financial Sector Adjustment           1                T50.0
Total                           3153.6  2878.0  2628.6
of which has been repaid       6         88.7
Total now outstanding           2527.3  2789.3
Amount sold                       33.5    12.0
of which has been repaid        27.8    12.0
Total now held by I6RD/IDA      2493.8  2777.3
Total undisbursed               1477.3  1151.3  2628.6
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
/b  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for
projects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by
Bangladesh.
Ic  IDA Credits under the 6th and 7th Replenishments are denominated in SORs.
The principal and non-effective Credits are shown in USS equivalent at the
time of negotiations. Disbursed amounts are computed at the exchange rate
applicable on the transaction dates. Undisbursed amounts are valued at
the exchange rate applicable on the date of this statement.



-56-
Page  of2
STATUS OF BANK GOP OPRATIONS IN PAlISTAN
(As of liarch31, 198)
Investment  Fiscal                                                        Amount US$ millions
Number    Year    Oblicator                Tpe gf Business           Loan    Eauitv    Total
140       1958       Steel Corp. of akistan   Rolled Steel Products      0.63      -       0.63
90        1959       Adamjee Industries Ltd.  Textiles                   0.75      -        0.75
440/920    1962/6S   Charibwal Cemnt          Cement
Industries Ltd.                                  5.25     0.42      5.67
6550-52/  1963/      PICIC                    Developing Financing
7610-7611  69n5                                                                   3.63      3.63
870       1965       Crescent Jute Products   Textiles                   1.84    0.11       1.95
910/50701  1965/     Packages Ltd.             Paper Products
6150-51/  80/82
928081                                                                  26.01     1.01     27.02
1230-31    1967/76    Pakistan Paper Corp.    Paper
Ltd.                                               5.38    2.02       t.40
1330      1969       Cawood Herculei          Fertilizers
Cheicals Ltd.                                    18.30    2.92    21.22
4570-13/  1979       lilkpak Ltd.              Food and Food Processing
9410                                                                     2.40     0.41      2.81
4720-21/  1979       Pakistan Oilfields       Chemicals and Petro-
6060/6800            Ltd. and Attock            chemicals
Refinery Ltd.                                     29.00     2.04    31.04
5060      1980       Fauji Foundation         Woven Polypropylene Bags   1.78      -        1.78
984       1988       Fecto Cement             Cement and Construction
Mlaterials            18.58      -       18.58
953       1987       Anglo-Suisse             Chemicals and Petro-
chemicals               -       4.30      4.30
5080      1980       Premier Board Hills Ltd. Particle Board             2.70      -       2.70
9790      1988       lillat                   Tractors                   4.90      -       4.90
5760-61    1981      Habib Arkady             Food & Food Frocessing     3.15     0.16     3.31
6210      1982       Asbestos                 Cement                     3.50    0.51      4.01
6550-52/   1983      Pakistan Petroleum       Chemical and Petro-
7610-11                 Ltd.                     chemicals             104.50     1.56   106.06
1069      1989       Shams Textile            Textiles & Fibers          2.92     -        2.92
7500-7501  1985      National Oevelopment     Noney and Capital Market
Leasing Corp.                                   5.49    0.37       5.86
1070      1989       Suraj Cotton             Textiles & Fibers          2.92     -        2.92
1112      1989       Hala                     Spinning Plant             3.46      -       3.46
8220-8223  1986      Mari Gas                 Chemicals and Petro-
chemicals             46.53      -.      46.53
Total Gross Comitments                           289.99    19.46   309.45
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales                          220.14         4.17   224 31
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                 69.85    1.29    85.14
Undisbursed (including Participants)              27.36    3.3        .6
3091!I Pg. 3



ANNEX III
_57-                     Page 1 of 11
From: V. A. Jafarey
Advisor to the Prime Minister
PAKISTAN
SECOND ENERGY SECTOR LOAN (ESL II)
Letter of Sector Development Policies
Islamabad
June 4, 1989
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Conable,
1.       In recent years, Pakistan's ecoromic performance has been very good
with real CDP increasing at an average anr'al rate of 6.5% in the Sixth Plan
period (FY84-FY88). The industrial, transport and household sectors
contributed to the buoyancy of the economic growth and the resultant rapid
growth of energy. The consumption of commercial energy increased at an
average annual rate of 8.8X between FY84 and FT88. The Government continued
to emphasize the accelerated development of domestic energy resources with the
result that the share of imported commercial energy in the form of crude oil
and petroleum products decreased from 33K in FY83 to 31X in FY88. Moreover,
mainly due to the decline in international petroleum prices, the import bill
for crude oil and products also decreased from US$1.6 billion in FY83 to
US$1.0 billion in FY88.
2.       High priority was accorded to restructuring the sector and augmenting
energy output during the Sixth Plan (FY84-FY88). Its objectives were to
accelerate and rationalize the development of energy, correct distortions in
energy pricing, streamline the institutions and agencies in the sector and
mobilize private sector (PS) involvement in the development, production and
delivery of energy. However, the progress in the first two years were below
expectations. Subsequently, under the first Energy Sector Loan (ESL I) from
the Bank, our Government outlined a Core Investment Program (CIP) for the
remaining three years of the Sixth Plan which identified priority investments
in the energy sector. This program has been almost fully achieved, and actual
investments during this three-year period were about Rs. 46 billion compared
to the program of Rs. 50 billion, or only an 8% shortfall. This was a
substantial improvement over the first two years of the Plan, as most of this
shortfall was due to the slump in the international market which reduced the
price of equipment, material and services needed for the implementation of the
program.  OGDC, in fact, exceeded the scope of their drilling program while
reducing expenditures to levels below those agreed under the CIP.



ANNEX III
-58-                      Page 2 of I1
3.       With regard to the physical targets in the Sixth Plan, performance
was generally satisfactory except for the power generation and coal
subsectors. In the power subsector, additional generating capacity of 2,018
11W was installed, representing a significant 43% increase from the existing
capacity at the end of the Fifth Plan, but which was less than the planned
target of 3,795 NW. In the coal subsector, although production did not match
the target, the actual production in PY88 was 4.2 million tonnes, compared to
1.7 million tonnes in FY83. The target for coal could not be achieved due, in
part, to considerable delays in the setting up of the proposed power plant of
300 NW capacity which was to utilize coal from the Lakhra field.   By
contrast, the production of domestic crude oil in FY88 far exceeded the target
and was slightly more than double the original target. Similarly, the total
number of exploratory, appraisal and development wells drilled was greater
than the target; the private sector (including joint ventures with OGDC)
drilled a substantial number of wells while OGDC drilled somewhat less. Gas
production also increased significantly from an average of 951 million cubic
feet per day (MCFD) in FY83 to 1,200 MMCFD in FY88, in line with the target.
4.       In order to restrain the growth of demand for energy and mobilize
resources for priority projects, we have begun to rationalize both producer
and consumer prices of energy products. We adopted a new producer gas price
formula in 1985 which provided greater incentive for exploration and
development and has led to a positive response from PS producers. As a
result. vil and gas development and production increased significantly during
FY86-FY88. Gas consumer prices have been increased steadily over the last
seven years, and in September 1988, the weighted average consumer price was
almost at parity with the border price of fuel oil, which is taken as the
relevant substitute for gas. In addition, the gas distribution companies have
been able to finance about 40% of their CIPs from internal sources thbough the
sale of gas. Power tariffs had been maintained constant in real terms
following the second oil shock until 1983, but during the subsequent two
years, they fell in real terms. In keeping with agreements under ESL I,
however, tariffs were increased significantly in FY88; most importantly,
APDA's tariffs in 1989 are at 742 of long-rum marginal costs (LRMC), up from
582 in 1985.
5.       In the area of institutional development, we have established a
National Energy Conservation Center (EERCON) for the overall coordination of
energy conservation activities and have reorganized the former Energy Section
into the Energy Wing as integral parts of the Planning and Division's
Secretariat. The Energy Wing has played a very significant role in plan
formulation, project appraisal, and has been the main interlocutor with the
Bank for energy issues. ENERCON has conducted a large number of energy
audits, particularly in PS firms, and on that basis identified energy
conservation investments required in the industrial sector. It also
identified the major constraints to energy conservation in the country, and
launched a training program addressed to middle and senior managers. Studies
have been completed to reorganize WAPDA which recommend the decentralization
of its distribution function. Purthermore, a program to strengthen the
financial, technical and managerial capabilities of OGDC has been initiated,
partly in order to make it more financially self-reliant. Proposals to
increase coal production by about two million tons per year during the next
five years are also currently under consideration. Finally, and perhaps most
importantly, we announced, in November 1985, several measures aimed at
stimulating PS interest in the power and coal subsectors to overcome the
shortage of resources and supplement implementation capabilities of the public
sector. As part of this major



ANNME III
-59-                      Page 3 of 11
initiative, the creation of a Private Sector Energy Development Fund (PSEDF),
which is being administered by the National Development Finance Corporation
(NDFC), was approved in November 1987. The Bank and other donors have acted
to support the Fund, and bilateral donors and banks have approved and
committed about US$450 million in grant and loans, in addition to the Bank's
US$150 million though the Private Sector Energy Development Project. These
funds would In turn enable the Government to mobilize another US$1.7 billion
In PS Investment under a build-ovn-operate (BOO) arrangement with limited
recourse financing.
6.       In terms of the macroeconomic situation, despite the strong economic
performance experienced In the past, future growth is likely to be inhibited
by large fiscal imbalances and the vulnerability of the external current
account due mainly to a narrow export base. Macroeconomic imbalances in these
two areas were significant in FY88. Although the Government attempted to
lower the fiscal deficit slightly from 7.71 of GDP in FY87 to 7.6S in FY88, it
was not able to carry out such an adjustment, due to higher than budgeted
expenditures. Instead, the deficit for FY88 reached 8.6X of GDP. Indeed, the
pressures exerted by the fiscal deficit have begun to put an upward pressure
on inflation, which rose to above 61 in FY88, and is expected to rise above
101 in FY89. While merchandise exports continued to perform well, imports
also increased significantly, reflecting increases in the world prices of
certain commoditAes, the unfavorable fiscal trends, and generally
accommodative domestic credit conditions. As a result, the overall trade
deficit reached US$2.3 billion In FY88, equivalent to a high 5.71 of GDP.
These developments, together with the continuing erosion in remittances from
Pakistanlis abroad, brought the current account deficit to about US$1.6 billion
or 4.3X of GDP in FY88. More critically, the Central Bank's gross foreign
reserve position has weakened further. At the end of September 1988, these
reserves were equivalent to less than two and a half weeks of annual imports,
and less than the external short-term liabilities of the banking system.
7.       As you know, in order to address these imbalances, t'ae Government
recently agreed on a medium-term adjustment framework with the Bank and the
IMF, which is to be supported by a 15-month Standby Agreement and a Structural
Adjustment Facility (FY89-91), approved by the IMF Board on December 28,
1988. In addition to IMF resources, we are requesting support for general
imports under the proposed ESL II, in order to support our macroeconomic
adjustment program by maintaining an adequate level of imports throughout the
economy. Crucial objectives of the medium-term framework are to reduce the
fiscal deficit and external imbalance in order to sustain the economy's growth
momentum and control inflation. Adjustments in the energy sector are in
support of both the internal and external macroeconomic objectives. The
energy program outlined in the macroeconomic adjustment framework is based on
the experiences gained particularly during the last three years of the Sixth
Plan when the dialogue with the Bank and other donors was initiated under the
umbrella of the first Energy Sector Loan (ESL I), with a view to addressing
the major policy issues in the sector. We believe that further adjustments in
the energy sector are required given the fact that: (a) energy investments
account for about one-third of the public sector investment program; and
(b) energy imports of about US$1 billion In FY88, constituting about 15% of
the total import bill, are expected to Increase to about US$2 billion in
FY93.
8.       Our Government is supporting the adjustment program objective of
lowering the fiscal deficit through several aspects of the energy program. On
the expenditure side, agreement on a CIP, a portion of which would be financed



ANNEX III
-60-                     Page 4 of 11
by the Bank, and comprised of ongoing and new projects aimed at meeting
forecast demand at least cost, would ensure that investments in energy would
be maintained within the overall level agreed under the medium-term policy
framework. These expenditures would be directed towards priority projects
aimed at reducing Pakistan's dependence on energy imports. On the revenue
side, the energy pricing policies to be pursued would contribute to the
Government's resource mobilization efforts. In addition, the divestiture of
public holdings In the energy sector entities would be undertaken, to the
extent possible, to generate additional revenues for the Goverment and
increase the role of the capital markets ln financing the privatized
corporations' investments; moreover, the institutional reforms and the
increased role of PS in the energy sector would improve efficiency in the
sector and mobilize additional resources for Its development. The policy
Issues to be addressed and actions required to be taken under the energy
sector adjustment program are outlined below under the following headings:
Energy Investments and Resource Development; Pricing, Resource Mobilization
ana Demand Management; Institutional Development; and Environmental Aspects.
I. *Enerevy Investments and-Resource Develonment
IneXgl Investm=ents
9.       the Core Investment Proaram. Under ESL I, our Government had
outlined, in collaboration with the Bank, CIP for the last three years of the
Sixth Plan, which comprised high priority projects to be completed or
Initiated during that period. Similarly, we have developed a CIP comprised of
ongoing projects and new projects whose implementation is critical to the
achievement of the targets for the period FY89-FY93, for each of the energy
sector entities, covering: (a) the project composition, and timing; (b)
sources of foreign financing for each project; and (c) sources of local
financing, with an indicative breakdown between internal cash generation, the
Government contribution, and local borrowing and foreign loans. This
basically represents the minimum investment level in this sector which may be
increased if more resources become available. We also have developed an
estimate of likely Investment by the private sector. We will review in May
every year, beginning in 1990, the implementation of the CIP for each entity
and the private sector for the preceding year and identify constraints
experienced and agree on remedial actions. We have provided a separate letter
to the Bank which outlines the CIP for the sector, agreed with the Bank, and
the indicative financing plan for each entity and the estimated likely
investment by the private sector.
Resource Development
10.      Bydr22oi er.  The long-term least cost power generation expansion plan
calls for the development of another 8,700 MW of hydropower capacity by the
year 2010. In this context, the Government has already developed a ranking
list of 10 best hydel sites in the country. A feasibility study, including
detailed engineering of the Kalabagh Dam project has already been completed
and the issues related to the project implementation are being sorted out. We
appointed a Panel of Experts (POE), financed under Bank Technical Assistance
Credit, to review the prefeasibility study for the hydropower site at Basha,
previously completed in 1985 by CIDA-financed consultants, outline the scope
of work required to complete the feasibility study, and prepare the project
for implementation. In November 1988, POE recommended a work program for the
preparation of Basha that would require about five years to complete, after



ANNEX III
-61-                     Page 5 of 11
wilch Implementation could be Initiated.  Meantime, WAPDA has prepared the
project document (PC-II) required to complete the feasibility study and
detailed engineering. Therefore, we plan to recruit consultants by June 30,
1990, to prepare a feasibility study for Basha.
11.      oa.  Although coal is one of Pakistan's economtcally proven
domestic energy resources, its share in the supply of commercial energy has
not grow. This is due to several factors, including: (a) the absence of a
stable and secure market for its use; (b) inadequate laws and guidelines for
licensing exploration and granting mining leases; (c) lack of an ;acentive
framework; (d) the inability of PNDC to implement a program for the rapid
development of the coal mines at Lakhra; (e) limited geologically proven
reserves; and (f) limited technical capability to exploit proven reserves for
power generation. We intend to establish large-scale pover plants at or near
the major coal fields and have created the necessary institutional structure
for the financing and construction of mouth-of-mine coal-fired power plants by
the private sector to supply power to WAPDA. Accordingly, ve intend to devise
an action plan, by December 31, 1989, for the development of the central block
of the Lakhra field, which could involve the participation of the private
sector. We also Intend to appoint consultants by March 31, 1990, to complete
a study by March 31, 1991, which would: (a) review the arrangements for
granting coal concessions, including an examination of the contents of
concession agreements, with a view to putting them on an equal footing with
those for oil and gas; and (b) review the incentive framework for investments
in coal development with a view to encouraging such investment by the private
sector.
12.      Oil auS Gss.  In the past the development of gas was constrained by a
low producer price and transmission bottlenecks. In addition, there are
several low quality gas fields, such as Uch, Pan3pir and Nandpur, already
discovered but which have remained undeveloped. Under the Bank-financed
Petroleum Exploration Project, we undertook a detailed Hydrocarbon Habitat
Study with assistance from consultants to evaluate the hydrocarbon potential
of all the onshore basins in the country. On the basis of this study, we
recently completed in November 1988 an exploration and concession map of all
available areas, and have identified the areas to be reserved solely for
exploration by OGDC and those which are open to be explored by the private
sector. The open areas were promoted to the international private sector in
meetings, held in Houston and London in December 1988, in order to obtain
competitive bids for the indicated 43 blocks by the end of June 1989. In
order to ensure increased availability of gas, we plan on developing, by
December 31, 1989, a monitorable action program for the appraisal and
development of the already discovered fields at Pirkoh, Loti, Dhodak, Dakhni,
Uch, Nandpur and Panjpir.  We also plan to review, by no later than May 31
each year, beginning in 1990, progress achieved in delineating areas in which
exploration and development would be undertaken by OGDC, and identifying areas
that would be earmarked for private sector Involvement.
13.      Household Energy.  Households constitute the largest single consumer
category In the consumption of energy in Pakistan, accounting for about 45X of
the total energy consumed in FY88. The optimal mix of modern fuels and
biomass fuels in the household consumption of energy requires a better
understanding of the factors which determine the demand and supply of energy
in the household subsector. Since existing data are inadequate for policy
formulation, we intend to develop a comprehensive database and formulate an
action program aimed at meeting the future energy needs of the household
s7Jbsector at least cost. Discussions with UNDP are presently at an advanced



ANNEX III
-62-                     Page 6 of 11
stage for obtaining funding to undertake a Household Energy Strategy Study,
which would encompass these two tasks. For this purpose, our Government would
recruit consultants, by March 31, 1990, to complete a database on the supply
and demand of household energy by June 30, 1991, and formulate a household
energy strategy, and an action plan for its implementation, by December 31,
1991. In addition, we also plan to recruit international consultants by March
31, 1990 to complete a forestry inventory, In conjunction with ongoing work
and formulate a long-term reforestation program, by September 30, 1991.
II. Pricina. Resource Mobilization and Demand Manaement
14.      Electricity Pricina.  Our Government has made periodic adJustments in
power tariffs over the last three years to ensure that WAPDA would finance at
least 40X of its agreed investment from internal resources. Towards
rationalization of tariffs, we propose to implement measures, starting July 1,
1990, to rationalize the structure of electricity tariffs, including, but not
limited to, the introduction of peak/off-peak pricing for the largest 300
industrial and bulk consumers. In addition, our Government and WAPDA would
continue to meet the existing covenant of 40% internal cash generation for
FY90 and FY91 by increasing tariffs on July 1 of 1989 and 1990 for this
purpose. Regarding local costs financing of WAPDA's program, the Gov-rnment
shall cause WAPDA to finance such requirements from funds produced by WAPDA
from its internal sources and borrowed by WAPDA as loans, bonds, commercial
loans, etc. Therefore, in the event of a shortfall in local cost financing of
WAPDA's CIP, the difference would be made up through a levy on electricity
sales, vhich shall in any case not result in an annual increase in tariffs of
more than 152 for FY90, nor an average annual tariff increase for the Seventh
Plan beyond 10%. In terms of private sector energy development projects, we
plan to adopt and announce, by December 31, 1989, a policy regulating the
modes and sources of local cost financing available for these private sector
projects.
15.      Producer Gas Prices.  In 1985, we introduced a new formula which
linked the producer price of gas to two-thirds the border price of fuel oil,
less a negotiated discount based on geological and market conditions of the
concession involved. This resulted in an encouraging response in on-shore
areas. In order to maintain the momentum of gas exploration and development,
we intend to revise the ges producer pricing formula, by October 31, 1989, for
new concessions in offshore areas granted after July 1, 1989, so as to ensure
full parity with the border price of fuel oil, less negotiated discou"cs for
geological and market conditions.
16.      Consumer Gas Prices.  The recent increases in the consumer gas
prices, together with the downturn in international prices of petroleum, have
brought the weighted average prices of gas to about 100% of the border price
of fuel oil In November 1988. Building upon this performance, GOP Intends to
increase the price of gas to households to reach full parity vith the border
price of fuel oil by June 1993. Further, beginning FY90, a development
surcharge in the structure of the consumer price for gas sold directly to the
pover subsector would be introduced, which would accrue to the Government, and
raise the level of the price to reach full parity with the domestic price of
fuel oil, by June 30, 1995, less discounts for the gas transmission
investments made by WAPDA. To achieve these pricing objectives, we plan to
Increase the price of gas purchased by WAPDA directly from producers to reach
30X of the domestic price of fuel oil by July 1, 1989, and to reach 402 of the
domestic price of fuel oil by July 1, 1990. These increases would be



ANNEX III
-63-                     Page 7 of 11
inclusive of the development surcharge, less discounts for the power
subsector's gas transmission Investments. The price of gas supplied by the
gas transmission and distribution companies to the industrial, commercial and
power subsectors vould be maintained at least at full parity vith the domestic
price of fuel oil. The Government also Intends to recruit consultants by
March 31, 1990, to complete by March 31, 1991, a study to assess the impact of
higher gas prices on the ex-factory prices of fertilizers and identify
investments in retrofitting and changes In technology to improve the
efficiency of gas utilization.
17.      The demand for gas in Pakistan varies significantly by time of day
and season. This, together with supply constraints that have persisted since
1981, has induced the gas distribution companies to curtail the supply of gas
to new industrial consumers to nine months each year. We therefore plan to
adopt a demand management strategy that would balance the supply and demand of
gas throughout the year, and promote allocative and operational efficiency in
the subsector. Accordingly, our Government would recruit consultants by March
31, 1990, to complete by March 31, 1991 a study to: (a) assess the potential
for peak shaving of gas consumption; (b) formulate a structure of tariffs for
gas which would promote peak shaving; and (c) prepare a timetable for the
implementation of the new tariff structure.
18.     ERx-Refinerv Prices.  Subsequent to the oil crisis in 1973, our
Government closely regulated ex-refinery prices to permit the refineries to
continue to operate while earning a reasonable guaranteed after-tax return on
the equity. These returns increased over time from 10% In 1977 to 181 in
1983. Although this policy provided protection to the.industry, the existing
private sector refineries did not make any major investments over the last ten
years because of a lack of incentives, sad the mix of refined products did not
satisfy current demand specifications. In late 1988, a new pricing formula
was introduced for the two refineries in Karachi, which was made effective for
FY89, as a first step in revamping the ex-refinery pricing system. This
formula will increase efficiency in the refineries as well as set ex-refinery
prices In proportion to the relevant border prices. A new pricing formula for
Attock refinery, located in the north of the country, will require more
analysis as it faces special operating conditions. In order to accelerate the
implementation of a new and equitable system for pricing ex-refinery products
at Attock refinery, and to analyze the new formula adopted for the Karachi
refineries, we will appoint, by March 31, 1990, two suitably qualified
professionals In the Directorate General of Oil of the Ministry of Petroleum
and Natural Resources (MPNR), to develop and install, by March 31, 1991, a
refinery simulation model at MPN. We will also recruit, by March 31, 1990,
consultants to assist MPNR in developing and installing by March 31, 1991, the
model to assess the impact of alternative pricing proposals on the mix of
refined products. We will review the experience of the Karachi refineries
with the new pricing formula by December 31, 1989 and December 31, 1990 and,
based on these reviews, revise the existing pricing formula for the two
Karachi refineries, as well as that for the Attock refinery by September 30,
1991.
19.      Consumer Price of Petroleum Products.  In 1981, we adopted a policy
of passing on the higher cost of petroleum products to final consumers. The
decline in the world market price of oil since 1986, and the fact that
domestic retail prices were only marginally reduced in response to this
decline, brought the level of domestic prices of AU. petroleum products above
their border prices. As of December, 1988, the weighted average retail price
was at about 180% of the weighted average border price. As a result of this



ANNEX III
-64-                     Page 8 of 11
policy, the petroleum suboector remains a major contributor to the national
budget. In case the CIF rupee price of crude oil rises above the level when
the retail consumer prices were last fixed by covernment, the differential In
the cost of imports in rupee terms will be proportionately passed on to the
consumers.
20.      inersv Conservation.  During FY89-93, our Government plans to provide
all the necessary incentives to encourage energy conservation and the rational
use of energy. The major constraints to energy conservation in the industrial
sector have been: (a) identification of attractive projects at the individual
plant level; (b) the lack of sufficient tecbnical know-how in implementing
such projects; and (c) inadequate incentive frameworks. Consequently, our
Government intends to: (a) prepare, by December 31, 1989, an action plan aimed
at: (i) undertaking detailed engineering and feasibility studies for
retrofitting for about 20 of the largest industrial energy consuming plants in
the public sector; (ii) financing retrofitting and energy-conserving
investments and related studies for about 20 of the largest energy consuming
plants in the private sector; and (iii) formulating proposals for energy
conservation investments in the agricultural, industrial, transport, and
construction sectors; and (b) appoint consultants, by March 31, 1990, to
complete, by March 1991, a study aimed at eliminating the constraints to
conservation arising from existing tax, industrial and trade legislation, and
on the basis of this study, establish by June 30, 1991, an incentive framework
to promote energy conservation.
1IZ. Institutional Develo2ment
Reorganization of the Power Subsectgr
21.      The operations of WAPDA have expanded significantly during the period
FY79-FY89. Partly because of this growth, the number of personnel employed by
this utility has increased substantially. Because of a lack of appropriate
accounting and financial controls, which are clearly laid down but cannot be
monitored due to the large number of operations involved, there are problems
In bill collection and revenue leakages, which result in serious cash flow
constraints for WAPDA. There is a growing need to attend to the planning,
implementation, operation, and maintenance of the distribution network, and
the management of WAPDA's distribution operations. Our Government initiated a
study by consultants, recruited under USAID financing, which has recommended
the separation of WAPDA's distribution function from generation and
tranmission. In light of the complex organizational and institutional issues
involved, we intend to create a separate distribution wing within WAPDA, with
mAnagerial autonomy, in order to improve WAPDA's performance in this area. As
the next step, we intend to: (a) complete by December 31, 1989, an action
plan for the creation of a distinct and self-contained distribution wing
within WAPDA; and (b) establish the distribution wing by December 31, 1991.
Inotitutional Develonment in the Oil and Gas Subsector
22.      The Government intends to critically review the financial performance
of OGDC and improve its financial and managerial structure. In this context,
beginning with FY90, OGDC's activities will be funded through the Government's
annual development budget only on a loan basis, and OGDC will be required to
generate adequate revenues from internal sources and borrow the rest from the
domestic capital markets to finance its local costs. We realize, however,
that the ability of OGDC to raise resources from the capital markets is



ANNEX III
-65-                     Page 9 of 11
hampered by the absence of an unqualified certified audit of its accounts.
Also, given the fact that OGDC has experienced a number of other
organizational and financial difficulties, there is a need at this point for
OGDC to adopt a financial restructuring plan. As a preliminary step, the
corporation Is presently in the process of implementing a finncial management
improvement program under CIDA finiancig begun under ESL I. We plan to
promulgate by March 31, 1990 rules under OGDC Ordinance for matters relating
to section 29 for improvement of OGDC's management, administration, accounts
and audits. We also plan to: (a) beginning FY90, provide budgetary
allocation to OGDC on a loan basis only; (b) recruit by October 31, 1989,
consultants to assist OGDC in implementing a financial restructuring plan; and
(c) appoint, by October 31, 1989, internationally experienced auditors to
audit OGDC's financial operations for FY90 and FY91. In addition, we plan on
implementing financial performance criteria for OGDC, from FY91 onward.
Restructurint of KRSC
23.      Under ESL I, the Government of Pakistan reviewed the means of
reorganizing the pover subsector. As a further step, the Government plans
to: (a) form an interministerial committee by December 31, 1989, to oversee
the preparation and implementation of an organizational and financial
restructuring plan for RESC; and (b) recruit consultants, by March 31, 1990,
to assist in developing an organizational and financial restructuring plan for
3USC by March 31, 1991.
Privatization
2 .      A key objective for our Government under the proposed ESL II in
r gard to privatization is to be able to meet the large investment
requirements of the energy sector during the current macroeconomic situation,
where fiscal retrenchment is imperative.  Privatization should help in meeting
such requirements, while reducing the potential for crowding out private
sector investment. It should also allow the privatized corporations greater
access to the domestic capital markets, and contribute to Increasing access to
sources of foreign finance. In this regard, the Government intends to
prepare, by December 31, 1989, a strategy for the privatization of SSGC.
Institutional Develooment for Enermy Plannina
25.      Under ESL I, and with assistance from USAID, our Government
established the Energy Wing within the Planning and Development Division of
the Ministry of Planning and Development (MPD).  Since its establishment,
significant progress has been made in developing expertise in the Energy Wing
in plan formulation, project appraisal, establishing energy data bases, anb
coordinating overall energy sector policies. However, further strengthening
in the areas of financial and economic analysis is required. Some of the
professionals in the Energy Wing were hired on contract and are now highly
trained with the assistance of USAID. The Government of Pakistan intends to
absorb them as full time regular government employees in the pursuance of the
objective of consolidating Energy Wing as an integral part of the Planning and
Development Division Secretariat. We therefore plan to, by July 1, 1989,
issue notification that the Energy Wing is a permanent and integral part of
the Secretariat of the Planning and Development Division of the Ministry of
Planning and Development, and absorb selected existing contract personnel of
the Energy Wing, as regular government employees on a permanent basis. We
also plan to create positions within the Energy Wing by July 1, 1989, for a
Finance and Economic Section to be headed by a chief, and supported by at
least two financial analysts and two economists.



ANNEX III
-66-                    Page 10 of 11
IV. Environmental AsDects
26.      In 1983, our Government approved an ordinance which: (a) provides a
general framework for environmental protection in Pakistan; (b) establishes
the Environment and Urban Affairs Division in the Ministry of Housing and
Works; (c) mandates the preparation of environmental impact assessments for
major projects which may result in significant environmental impact; and
(d) provides for the development of regulations concerning the protection of
land, air and water. This legislation has been complemented with the initial
development of the Environment and Urban Affairs Division and the
establishment of provincial environmental agencies in Punjab and Sind, while
steps have been taken to create similar organizations in Baluchistan and North
West Frontier Provinces.  Ministries and organizations, including WAPDA, are
responding to this development by establishing environmental units to assure
their activities are conducted in an environmentally sound fashion. In
addition, pending the issuance of our own guidelines, we have adopted the use
of World Bank Environmental Guidelines on an interim basis.
27.      In order to ensure that Pakistan's energy development is undertaken
within internationally acceptable environmental guidelines, we intend to
devise an Environmental Action Plan for the energy sector by March 31, 1990,
which would provide for, inter alia: (a) the adoption of environmental
standards for protection against air and water pollution, by December 31,
1991; (b) adoption of guidelines for assessment of environmental impact
resulting from energy producing activities by July 31, 1990;
(c) development of capacity in key institutions in the sector to address
environmental issues; and (d) adoption of improved health and safety, and
emergency management guidelines.
28.      In view of the successful implementation of ESL I, and the commitment
of the Government of Pakistan to the adjustment program detailed above in
support of the three-year macroeconomic adjustment program, the 60vernment
requests your favorable consideration for the extension of a Second Energy
Sector Loan (ESL II) in the amount of US$250 million. This would assist in
financing goods and services needed for the implementation of the Core
Investment Program for FY89-91 and would also finance general imports urgently
needed to maintain an adequate level of imports for the economy.
29.      I look forward to receiving the Bank's response.
With best regards,
Yours sincerely,
signed V. A. Jafare



-67-                      ANNEX III
Page 11 of 11
From: V. A. Jafarey
Advisor to the Prime Minister
PAKISTAN
SECOND ENERGY SECTOR LOAN (ESL II)
Eneray Sector Core Investment Program (CIP). FY89-91
Islamabad
June 4, 1989
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Conable,
Attached is a Core Investment Program (CIP), FY89-91 and projections
for FY92-93, as agreed with the Bank for the Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA), the Karachi Electric Supply Company (KESC), the Oil and Gas
Development Corporation (OGDC), the Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited
(SNGPL), the Sui Southern Gas Company Limited (SSGC), the Pakistan Mineral
Development Corporation (PMDC) or other agency/agencies for coal development,
and an indicative financing plan for each GOP entity. Expected investments
from the private sector have also been identified. As already agreed, the CIP
reflects the minimum core program which may increase if resources become
available. Project-wise allocations are the best possible estimation at this
stage which may, however, be adjusted for actual physical progress in the
future years. We are requesting assistance from the Bank under the proposed
Second Energy Sector Loan (ESL II) in the financing of goods and services
required for the implementation of the CIP. We are fully committed to the
successful implementation of the CIP.
With best regards,
Yours sincerely,
sianed V. A. Jafarev



6-6-89
PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN 11
MATRIX OF POLICY ISSUES AND ACTIONS
ISSUES                                     ACTIONS TAKEN UNDER ESL I                                ACTIONS REQUIRED
1. ENERGY INVESTMENTS AND RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
1. Core Investment Pro ram.  The appraisal                Under ESL 1, a Core Investment Program            GOP has agreed to:  (a) a CIP comprised of
mission carried out an in depth review of              (CIP) was outtlined for the last three            ongoing and new projects for each of the
each  CIP  at the  level of  Individual                years of the Sixth Plan (FY86-FY88),              public sector and semi-autonomous energy
project, and thus agreed with GOP on: (a)              which  consisted  of  high  priority              entities, as well( as for PS, for the period
the project composition at such detail                 projects in the energy sector to be               FY89-91; (b) a financing plan for each CIP,
over the medium-term; (b) the phasing of               implemented by the entities  in each              with  an  indicative  breakdown  between
expenditures of each entity; and (c) a                 subsector.   Progress made by  these              internal cash generation, GMP contribution
financing  plan,  with  an  indicative                 entities    in   implementing    their            and local and foreign loant; and (c) review
breakdown    between    bilateral    and               respective CiPs for those years was               with the Bank by no later than fay 31 of
multilaterat   sources,   internal   cash              commendable,  and  the  shortfall  in             each year, beginning  in  1990: (i) the
generation, ADP allocations, and foreign               implementing the three year CIP was only          progress achieved in carrying out the CIP
and  local  loans.    In  view  of  the                8X for all entities combined.                     and the corresponding financing plan, and       4
complementarity  of public  and  private                                                                 the   measures   necessary   for   their
sector investments  in achieving  energy                                                                  implemention;  and  (ii)  the  progress
supply targets, the progress achieved in                                                                 achieved  in  processing  the  proposals
initiation   of  private   sector   (PS)                                                                 received for PS investments to identify the
investments in energy development was also                                                               measures  proposed  to  facilitate  and
reviewed and found satisfactory.   This                                                                  expedite such processing.
review resulted in a medium-term CIP for
each public sector energy entity for the
Seventh  Plan period  (FY89-93).   GOP's
commitment  to  each  entity's  CIP  is
critical for success, in terms of approval
of their annual investment programs,
allocations through the Annual Development
Plan   (ADP)   where   necessary,   and
mobilization of resources through price
reforms and loans and credits.
2. Hydrooower ootential.   The long-tern               Since a prefeasibility study for the Basha            The    appointment    of    consultants,   I"
least cost generation expansion plan                Project had been completed in 1985, GOP              satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  for  the . S
calls for the development of another                agreed  under  ESL  I  to  initiate  a               preparation of the feasibility study for  "M
8,700 NW of hydropower potential by the             feasibility study for the site.  WAPDA has           Sasha is a condition for the release of the .
year 2010.  This could be achieved by               prepared  a  project  document  (PC-II)              second tranche of the Loan.                  iM
initiating the development of the major             required to obtain GOP's approval of the



sites at Kalabagh (2,400 MW to 3,600 MU              proposed feasibility study.   However, in
potential capacity) and Basha (2,400 MU              order to resolve major differences between
capacity), both of which are critical                the consultants and WAPDA which emerged
for the country to be able to cope with              following the aWpraisal of ESL I over the
the  expected  growth  in  electricity               scope of work needed to be undertaken
demand over the long-term.  Since ESL                before Basha is implemented, GOP appointed
I was  appraised  in  1985. however,                 a Panel of Experts (POE) in March, 1988.
important inter-provincial differences               whose recommendations were reviewed Jointly
have emerged around Kalabagh concerning              with the Bank and GOP in wovember, 1988.
the allocation of water in the absence               The panel outlined a work program for the
of a schedule for water charges and a                preparation of Basha that would require
framework  for  compensation  of  the                about five years to complete, after which
population  whose  land  and  property               Imptementation could be initiated.   The
would be inundated by the Kalabagh                   work plan has been reviewed and approved by
reservoir.  GoP appointed a committee                GOP and the Bank.
in early 1989 to address the problems
surrounding Kalabagh, but given the
nature of the differeces and the
public pronouncements surrounding them,
it Is possible that the resolution of
differences would be a time-constming
process. Since Kalabagh and Basha are
complements,  there   is   merit  In
completing the preparation of Bashe as
soon  as  possible,  so  that  the
feasibility  of  both  projects  is
established    in   readiness    for
implementation.
3. Coal.  Although coal is one of Pakistan's            Under ESL 1, a study was completed which              GOP has agreed to: (a) review with the
economically  proven  indigenxus  energy             identif fed the main operational constraints          Bank,   by   December   31,   1989,   the
resources, its share in the supply of                to development in the coal sector.  This              recommendations  of  the  study  on  the
commercial energy has not grown. This is             study outlined a comprehensive program to             promotion of accelerated coal development
due to: (a) the absence of a stable and              assess reserves at Lakhra and Sonda-Thatta,           undertaken under ESL I, and formulate and
secure   market   which   would   justify            which has been progressing satisfactorily;            furnish to the Sank by March 31, I990, an
investment   in  coal   production   and             the reserves at Lakhra held by PMDC were              action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for
exploration;  (b)  limited  geologically             geologically assessed, under financing by             restructuring the institutions responsible
proven reserves; (c) inappropriate laws              USAID,  which  showed  that  there  are               for exploration, development ard production
and   guldelines   for   licensing   coal            sufficient reserves to sustain a level of             of  coal.    in  addition,  in  order  to
exploration and granting mining leases,              production  of  up  to  4  million  tons              accelerate   the   development   of   the
creating  investor  uncertainty;  Cd) an             annually. rheBank'sPrivateSectorEnergy                geologically proven Lakhra coal reserves    ,d a
incentive   framework  Which  does  not              Development Project has recently provided             held by PMDC, GOP has agreed to outtine, by
encourage investment in coal development;            the incentives for the construction of a              December 31, 1989, an action plan for the
(e)  PIDC's  technical,  managerial  and             mouth-of-mine coal-fired power plant to               development of the central block of the
financial   inability  *o  !mplement  a              supply  WAPDA.    Furthermore,  a  study              Lakhra field, which  could  involve  the
sustained program for the development of             undertaken by consultants under ESL I has             participation of PS; and tb) appoint by    
the publicly held concessions; and (f)               recomfended  the  separation  of  mining              March   31,   1990,   consultants   with
limited technical capability to exploit              activities of PIDC into two new companies,            international expertise In accordance with    F



proven reserves in a manner appropriate            one for coat mIning, and one for salt and            terms and conditions satisfactory to the
for power generation.                              other mineral production, both of which are          Sank, to complete a study by Mlarch 31,
to operate on a commercial basis.  it also          1991,  which  would:  (i)  review  the
recommtended   establishing   a   Mineral           arrangements for granting coal concessions,
Development   Board,   which   would   be           inctuding an examination of the contents of
responsible for setting policies retated to         concession  agreements  with  a  view  to
coal and mineral development.                       putting them on an equal footing with those
for oil and gas; and (ii) review the fiscal
incentive framework for investments in coal
development with a view to encourage such
investment by the private sector.
4. Devetowment of Ofl and Gas Resource.                Under ESL I, GOP and OGDC fully implemented         GOP has agreed to: (a) furnish the Bank by
Although the rate of oil development is             the priority projects agreed under the core         December 31, 1989., a dated and monitorable
satisfactory, the pace of gas development          investment program, and GOP adopted a new            action program for the development of the
is lower than warranted. in the pest the           producer  gas  price  formula  aimed  at             already discovered fields at Loti, Pirkoh,
development of gas was constrained by a             increasing private sector participation in          Uch, Dhodak, Dakhni, Panipir and Nandpur,
low producer price, and the lack of a              the exploration and development of natural          to ensure Increased availability of gas;
comprehensive  exploration  policy  that           gas.    As a  resutt,  several  oil  and             and (b) review, by no later than May 31 of
clearly  identified  those areas  to  be           associated and non-associated gas fields             each year beginning 1990, the progress
explored by OGDC and those to be explored          have been discovered recently, and both oil          achieved  in delineating  areas in which
by the private sector. In addition, there          and   gas   production   has   increased             exploration  and  development  woutd  be
are several low quality gas fields already         significantly during FY85-FY88.   In an              undertaken by OGDC and identIfyIng areas
discovered but which remain undeveloped.           effort to enhance oil and gas exploration            that would be earmarked for PS involvement.      'I
and development further, GOP completed in                                                            0
November,  1988,  an   exploration   and
concession map of all available areas, and
identified those areas reserved for OGDC
and those open for PS exploration. These
areas were successfully promoted to PS in
December, 1988.
5. Household Energv.  Households constitute            A  household  energy  component was not             GOP has agreed to: (a) recruit, by March
the largest single consumer category in            included under ESL 1.                                31, 1990, consultants, satisfactory to the
the conrwption of energy in Pakistan,                                                                   Bank, to complete a data base on the supply
accounting in 1987 for approximately 45X                                                                and demand of household energy by June 30,
of total energy consumed.   The recent                                                                  1991; (b) formulate and review with the
decline  in firewood use by households                                                                  Bank, by no later than Deceaber 31, 1991,
together with the large increase in the                                                                 a household energy strategy and an action
use of other biamss fuels suggests that                                                                 plan  for  its  implementation;  and  (c)    ..s
the forest cover is being rapidly depleted                                                              recruit, by March 31, 1990, international t
with  attendant  adverse  envirormental                                                                 consultants satisfactory to the Bank, to      *
consequences. The optimal mix of biomass                                                                complete   a   forestry   inventory,   In       w
fuels and modern fuels in household energy                                                              conjunctIon wIth ongoing work and formulate   0
consumption    requires   a   better                                                                    a long-term reforestation program no later
understanding   of  the   factors  that                                                                 than September 30, 1991.
determine the use and supply of energy in



the household sector. Since existIng data
are inadequate for poltcy formulation, a
Household Energy Strategy Study (HESS)
should be undertaken.   Discussions are
presently at an advanced stage with UNDP
concerning funding for such a study.
11. PRICING. RESOURCE MOBILIZATION AND DEMAND MANAGEMENT
6. Electricity  Tariffs.      (a)  Level  and             Under ESL I it was agreed that GOP would             a. An   increase  of   electricity   tariffs
structure. If WAPDA's tariffs were to be              take  all  necessary  actions,  including               effective July 1, 1989, required to comply
increased by 11% annually in nominal terms            tariff  Increases,  to ensure that WAPDA                with  the  40%  internal  cash  generation
to  comply  with  the 40%  internal  cash             would finance at least 40% of its agreed                covenant for FY90, is set as a condition of
generation Bank covenant established under             investment program from internal resources.            effectiveness of the; and an increase in
ESL  I, based on an  agreed  investment                In order to comply with  the covenant,                 electricity tariffs effective July 1, 1990
program, tariffs would attain parity with             UAPDAls tariffs were increased in each of               required to comply with the 40% internal
LRMC by FY92.  However, the structure of              the years FY86-89 by an average of 8.7% per             cash generation covenant for FY91, is set
tariffs still do not reflect that dictated            year in nominal terms.  Furthermore, the                as a condition for the release of the
by  LRMC, despite  the  fact  that  each              applicability  of  the  fuel  adjustment                second trarche of the Loan. Also, GOP has
successive tariff increase has brought the            surcharge was extended to cover domestic                agreed to implement measures starting July
average level closer to LRMC.  A study                consumers consuming above 300 kWh/month,                1, 1990, to rationalize the structure of
financed by ADB is currently under way                and in July, 1988, tariffs for agricultural             electricity  tariffs  inluding,  but  not
whose  objective  is  to  determine  the              and household consumers were increased by               limited to the introduction of peak/off-
economic cost of supply at each voltage               21%   vis-a-vis   an   11%  increase   for              peak pricing for the largest 300 industrial
level, and on a seasonal and daily peak               industrial and bulk consumers. As a result              and bulk consumers.
and off-peak basis.   The move to LRMC                of these measures, WAPDA's tariffs are
should  be  faster  for  the  agriculture             presently at 74% of Long Run Marginal Costs          b. In the event of a shortfall in WAPDA's
sector than for others, however, as there              (LRMC) compared to 58% in FY85.                        local financing  requirements  for the
is already a large subsidy inherent in the                                                                    period  FY90-93,  after  taking  into
current rate structure for that sector.                                                                       account the resources mobilized from
Finally, since the largest 300 industrial                                                                     internal resources and borrowings, GOP
and bulk consumers, which  account for                                                                        has agreed to cause WAPDA to make up the
about 20% of UAPDA's sales, can be fitted                                                                     shortfall  through  a  levy  on  the
with specially designed meters, there is                                                                      utility's sales of electricity.   Such
merit  for  Introducing  peak/off  peak                                                                       levy shall not result in an Increase of
pricing to these consumers. (b) Special                                                                       more than: (i) 15% in the electricity
levv and aeneral imoorts comoonent. In an                                                                     tariff for FY90; or (Ii) an average
effort  to  reduce  WAPDA's  short-term                                                                       annual increase of more than 10% in the          ,0
borrowing  from  the  domestic  capital                                                                       electricity tariff over FY89-93, based           P  _
market, there is a need to offset the                                                                         on an assumed anmual inflation rate of          1 
local cost component of its CIP through                                                                       8X, provided that these increases are           4X
the  introduction of a special  levy on                                                                       sufficient to comply with the 40% ICC O
electricity sales, which would accrue to                                                                      covenant.   GOP has also agreed,  in
GOP, and be provided to WAPDA. In order to                                                                    respect  of  PS  energy  development
facilitate  the phasing  of  the special                                                                      projects, to adopt and announce, not
levy, GOP would be compensated for the                                                                        later than December 31, 1989, a policy,



shortfall in resources in FY90 and FY91                                                                   satisfactory to the Sank, regulating the
through the general imports conponent of                                                                  modes  and  sources  of  locat  cost
the proposed  Loan. (c) PS  local cost                                                                    financing available for such projects.
f inancina.   PS   projects   for   power
generation face constraints in mobilizing
adequate local financing for up front
local costs, since revenue reneration is
delayed until the conmissicling of these
projects.       Therefore,   alternative
mechanisms   should  be   explored   for
mobilizing these resources for PS.
7. Producer  Gas  Price.        Despite  the            Under ESL  I a new producer gas price                GOP has agreed to revise the gas producer
encouraging  response  of  producers  to            formula linked the producer price of gas to           pricing formula, by October 31, 1989, for
increased producer gas prices in terms of           two-thirds the border price of fuel oil,             new  gas concessions  in  offshore areas
gas production  since  1985, the recent             less  a  negotiated  discount  based  on              granted after July 1, 1989, so as to ensure
downturn in the international price of oil          geological and market conditions of the               full parity wlth the border price of fuel
now calls for linking the producer price            concession  involved.   Contrary  to  the             oil,   less  negotiated   discounts  for
of gas to full parity with the border               previous  policy,  this  price  is  now               geological and market conditions.
price  of  fuel  oil,  less  negotiated             negotiated   Prior   to   initiation   of
discounts   for   offshore   areas   and            exploration.   The private sector, both
concessions  in  remote areas.   Such a             local and foreign, has responded favorably
policy would provide additional stimulus            and,  on  the  basis  of  this  formula,
for   private   sector   exploration,               contracts have been signed for ten new
particularly  in  the  new  high  costs             concessions, and negotiations are underway
concession areas, which with the currently          for several others.  The Government has
low  international  price  of  oil,  have           expanded the application of this formula
become less atttactive under the formula            not  only  to  fields  discovered  after
adopted under ESL X.                                September 1985. but also to all discovered
fields, provided the concessionaires are
willing to renegotiate their entire
contracts.
8. Consumer Gas Price.  Despite progress in             Consumer gas prices have been Increased           a. The  Government  has  agreed  to:    (a)
consumer gas price Increases, distortions           five times since 1981 by about 24% annually           Introduce, starting FY90, a development
continue to persist In the structure of             in nominal terms In line with agreements              surcharge in the structure of the consumer
the  price  of  gas,  particularly  for             under the first Structural Adjustment Loan           price for gas sold directly to the power
residential    consumers,    the    power           (SAL 1), which were confirmed under ESL 1.           subsector,  which  would  accrue  to  the
subsector, and the fertilizer industry,             These increases, together with the downturn          Goverrnent, and raise the level of the
all of which pay substantially less for             In the international price of oil, have               surcharge over a six year period so that  
gas vis a vis the prevailing domestic               brought the weighted average consumer price           the price reaches by June 30, 1995 full t
prices of the relevant petroleum product            of gas to about 100% of the border price of           parity with the domestic price of fuel oil, ,
substitutes.     These  distortions  are            fuel oil as of September, 1988.                      less discounts for the gas transmission
promoting inefficiencies through the use                                                                  investments made by the power subsector;
of low cost Inputs, and are denying the                                                                   (b) beginning FY91, annually increase the    
subsector the  Income needed to  expand                                                                   &onsumer price of gas sold to households to
exploration and development activities.                                                                   reach full parity uith the border price of



As a policy goal under the proposed Loan,                                                                 fuel oil by the end of the Seventh Plan
It is proposed to move the consumer price                                                                 (June 30, 1993); Cc) maintain the consumr
of gas to full parity with the domestic                                                                   price of gas supplied by the transmission
consumer price of the petroleum product it                                                                and   distrfbution   coopanfes   to   the
displaces by the end of the Eighth Plan.                                                                  industrial, commercial and power subsectors
GOP has recently increased the price of                                                                   at least at fult parity with the domestic
gas  to  households  by 40X,  which  has                                                                  price of fuel oil; (d) recruit by harch
brought it to 70X of the border price of                                                                  31, 1990. consultants acceptable to the
fuel ofl.  For gas purchased directty from                                                                Bank to complete by March 31. 1991, a study
producers, WAPDA currently pays only 25X                                                                  to assess the irpact of higher gas prices
of the domestic price of fuel oil.  Since                                                                 on the ex-factory prices of fertilizers and
the  fertilizer  industry  is  a  major                                                                   identify investments in retrofitting and
consumer of gas and also has important                                                                    changes  in  technology  to  improve  the
links to the agriculture sector, there is                                                                 efficiency of gas utilization.  In order to
a particular need to determine the effects                                                                achieve the above pricing objectives: (a)
on the fertilizer  industry of raising                                                                    the Increase In the rrice of gas purchased
significantly  the  price  of  gas  for                                                                   by WAPDA directly from producers to reach
fertilizer producers.   Since the demand                                                                 30X of the domestic price of fuel oil,
for gss in Pakistan varies significantly                                                                 effective July 1, 1989, has been set as a
by time of day and season, and given the                                                                  condition of effectiveness of the toan; and
fact that supply constraints have existed                                                                 the increase in the price of gas purchased
since 1981, the Governrent needs to adopt                                                                 by WAPDA directly from producers to rasch
a demand management strategy that would                                                                   40X of the domestic price of fuel oil
balaace the supply and demand of gas                                                                      effective July 1, 1990, has been set as a
throughout   the   year,   and   promote                                                                  condition of the release of the secord
allocative  and  operational  efficiency.                                                                 tranche of the proposed  Loan.    These
Such a strategy could involve peak shaving                                                                increases  would  be  inclusive  of  the
of gas consumption.                                                                                       development surcharge less discounts for
the power subsector's gas transmission
investments.
b. GOP has agreed to recruit by March
31,1990, consultants, satisfactory to
the Bank, to complete, by March 31,
1991, a  study  to:  (a)  assess  the
potential for peak shaving of gas
caonsuption; (b) formulate a structure
of tariffs for gas which would promote
peak  shaving;  and    (c)  prepare  a
timetable satisfactory to the Bank for
the i1plementation of the new tariff
structure.
9. Ex-refinerv Prices.   in the past, ex-               The dialogue on refinery pricing between             GOP has agreed to: (a) sppcint, by March    O
refinery prices were based on essentially           the Bank and GOP was initiated under ESL 1           31,   1990,   two   suitably   qualified    m
a cost plus formula with a guaranteed rate          and resumed under the onsoing Refinery               professionals fn the Directorate General of   F
of return, which failed to induce maximum           Energy  Conservation  and  Modernization             Oil,  MPMR,  to  develop  and  Install  a       '



production of higher value products, or a             Project.   However, ESL I contained  no                refinery simulation model at MMUR; (b)
reduction in processing costs.  Under ESL             specific covenant in this area.                        recruit, by March 31, 1990, consultants
t, GOP outlined a framework for the new                                                                      satisfactory to the Bank, to assist MPIR in
pricing system that involves: (a) setting                                                                    developing and installing, by March 31,
ex-refinery prices in proportion to the                                                                      1991, the refinery simulatfon model to
average border prices  of the previous                                                                       assess the impact of alternative pricing
years plus appropriate transport costs for                                                                   proposals on the mix of refined products;
inland refineries;  (b) setting refinery                                                                     Cc) review with the Sank, by Decefber 31,
gate pricing of crude oil at a netback                                                                       1989, and December 31, 1990, the experience
level   which,   at   historicaltly-bsed                                                                    of the two Karachi refineries with the new
production levels and costs, would allow                                                                     pricing formula; and (d) revise, en the
each refinery to achieve a reasonable, e                                                                     basis of the above reviews, by September
ante  rate of return of about 18%  an                                                                        30, 1991, the existing pricing formula for
equity; and (c) negotiating the refinery                                                                     ex-refinery products for the two Karachi
margins thus obtained, in terms of income                                                                    refineries as well as the Attock refinery.
per ton of crude prccessed, on an awnual
basis, or whenever requested by GOP and
the  refineries.     In  late  1988,  GOP
introduced a new pricing formula based on
these elements for the Karachi refineries,
which was made effective for FY89. This
formula was not appropriate for the Attock
refinery, however, which has access to
only locally produced crude eil, the
output of which varies from year to year, 
which results in both widely fluctuating                                                                                                                       -4
costs per unit of production, and profits.                                                                                                                      I
GOP has asked the Bank to assist in
outlining a new pricing formula for the
Attock refinery which would reflect its
special conditions.   To accomplish this
goal, GOP wouLd need a detailed refinery
processing model, that would reflect the
operating  parameters  of  the  domestic
refineries  and  the  crudes  used,  to
simulate the impact of different pricing
proposals on the optimum mix of products
produced, and the return on equity.
10. Cnsumer Price of Petroleum Products.  In          Since 1985, the weighted average domestic              In case the CIF rupee price of crude oil rises
1981, GCB adopted a policy of passing on           retail price of petroleum products has been at         above the level of such price as was obtained    00
the higher cost of petroleum products to           about 150% of the weighted average border             when retail  consumer prices  of pea.. -leum
final consumers.  Initially, however, the          price, and with the recent drop in oil prices         product were last adjusted, GOP has agreed to         F
policy was not uniformly applied, in that          it is now at about 180% (December, 1988).              recover   from   consumers   the   resulting    0
the prices of kerosene and fuel oil were                                                                 difference in the price of crude oil.
kept below their economic cost of supply, 
while  prices  of  other  products  were                                                                                                                     N



maintained substantially above their
corresponding border prices. However, the
decline in the world market price of oit,
combined with the fact that GOP only
slightly reduced the domestic retail price
of petroleum products in response, brought
the domestic retail prices of all products
above their border prices. As a result of
this policy, the petroleum subsector a
major contributor to the national budget
and distortions in the relative prices
among products have been reduced.
ii.Eneray   Conservation.         The   major          GOP established under ESL I a National Energy          GOP has agreed to: (a) furnish by December 31,
constraints  to  energy  conservation  in           Conservation Center (ENERCON) for the overall          1989, an action plan aimed at: (i) undertaking
industry  are:  (a)  the  inability  to            coordination    of    energy    conservation            feasibility and detailed engineering studies
identify  attractive  projects  at  the            activities.   ENERCON has conducted energy              for retrofitting for about 20 of the targest
individual plant level; (b) the lack of            audits of major private industrial firms, and           industrial  energy-consuming  ptants  in  the
sufficient    technical    know-how    in           has    indentified   specific   conservation           public sector; (ii) financing retrofitting and
fiplementing such projects; and tc) the             investments in this sector.  A major energy            energy-conserving  investments  and  retated
lack of appropriate financial, security            survey of about 200 private industrial firms,           studies for about 20 of the targest energy
and   incentive   frameworks.          Mast         recommiends  that  the  highest  priority  for         consuming ptants in PS; and (iii) formulating
criticalty, atthough a nurber of oublic             energy conservatior. should be given to the            proposals for energy conservation investments
sector  firms  are  prepared  to  launch            fertilizer,  textiles,  and  oil   refinery            in    the    agriculturat,    industriat,
conservation  activities,  the  lack  of            subsectors.                                            transportation, and construction sectors; and
adequate  financing  has  been  a  major                                                                   (b) appoint consultants, by March 31, 1990, to
constraint.   More broadly, the tack of                                                                    be financed under the Loan, acceptabte to the
appropriate incentives is also hindering                                                                   Bank, to comptete a study by March 31, 1991,
orivate sector firms, particutarly those                                                                   aimed at eliminating the constraints to energy
in need of undertaking large investments.                                                                  conservation In fndustry arising frow existing
tax, industrial and trade tegistation, and on
the basis of this study, estabdlish by June 30,
1991, an incentive framework to promote energy
conservation.
12.Environmental    Asoects.           Serious            An  environmental  coeponent  was  not                 GOP has agreed to prepare and provide a
environmental  problems  associated  with              included under ESL 1.                                  dated and moni torable Envi ronmental Action
energy development persist, which need to                                                                     Ptan (EAP), by March 31. 1990, for the
be addressed in the imnediate future. The                                                                     Energy Sector, providing for, inter alia:
most  important  is  the  degradation  of                                                                     (a) adoption of environmentat standards for
ambient air and surface water resources.                                                                      portection against air and water poltution,
GOP needs to prepare and adopt ambient air                                                                    by December 31, 1991; (b) adoption of    co
quatity and receiving water standards for                                                                     guidelines for assessment of environmental    a
potlutants  emitted  from  thermal  power                                                                     impact of energy-producing activities by
facilities  to  protect  air  and  water                                                                      July 31, 1990; Cc) development of capacity    F-
resources.  Guidelines need to be adopted                                                                     In  key  institutions  in  the  sector  to



for   the   preparation   of   detailed                                                                      address  envirormental  issues;  and  (d)
environmental   impact   assessments   to                                                                    adoption of inproved health and safety and
include   the   review   of   involuntary                                                                   emergency management standards.
resettlement and tribal issues. Special
attention needs to be given to the
preparation of an envirormentat siting
study for the expansion of thermal power
facilities in the Karachi region. Support
needs to be provided for development of
environment units within WAPDA and other
key organizations in the sector. Adoption
of  significantly  improved  health  and
safety standards should be required for
large scale coal mining operations.
Throughout the energy sector, operations
need to adopt improved standards for
emergency management.
111. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
13. Reoroanization of  the Power Subsector.              GOP agreed under ESL I to review with the           GOP has agreed to: (a) furnish to the Sank by
WAPDA's operations expanded significantly             Bank   the   means   and   timetable   for          December 31. 1989. an action plan for the
during the period FY79-FY89 in response to            reorganizing  the  subsector,  and,  with           creation of a distinct and self-contained
a large increase in its customer base.                financing   from   USAID,   subsequently           distribution  wing  within  WAPDA;  and  (b)
However, WAPDA's expenditures on expanding            initiated a study to identify means for            establish   the  distribution   wing  under
the distribution system are being spent in            improving the operational  efficiency of           arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, by
an ad-hoc manner, since generation and                WAPDA.     This  study  recommended  the           December 31, 1991.
transmission investments receive priority.            separation of the distribution function
This  has  resulted  in  overloading  the             from generation and transmission  into a
distrbution system ;-d an erosion in the              national  distribution  corporation  as  a
quality of service.  Also, because of a               means to improve the quality of service to
lack  of  appropriate  accounting   and              the utility's consumers.  However, in view
financial controls, there are problems in             of the complex logistical and personnel
bill  collection  and  revenue  leakages              issues involved that would affect roughly
resulting in serious cash flow constraints            100,000 people employed in the distribution
for WAPDA,  More attention thus needs to             wing, GOP and WAPDA have now agreed to
be given to the planning, implementation,             create initially a separate distribution
operatfon   and   maintenance   of   the              wing within WAPDA.
distribution network and management of
WAPOA#s distribution activities.                                                                                                                            Cr'
O'



14.Institutional Development in the Oil and             Under ESL I OGDC agreed that it should              a. GOP has agreed to: (a) beginning FY90
Gas Subsector.  Although OGDC is supposed            operate along the lines of an international           provide funds to OGDC on a loan basis
to function autonomously, in practice it             comercial   oil   company   and   become              only; (b) implement, beginning October
functions as a GOP department, subject to            financially autonomous.  As a first step,             31, 1989, a finaneial restructuring plan
goverrment   control   and   subsidies,              OGDCs investment program was rationalized             for OGDC, providing, inter alia, for
particularly in the area of investment               by emphasizing development of discovered              adjusting   its   balance   sheet   by
levets, financing and price setting. OGDC            fields   and   relinquishing   exploration            reconciling  the  book  value  of  its
also  suffers  from  a  number  of  other            investment to the private sector and joint            current and fixed assets and deferred
organizational  and  financial  problems,            ventures.   Consequently, GOP decided to              exploration and development costs, with
including: no clear definition of the role           remove OGDC from ADP allocation and require           the results of physical inventory and
and  responsibility  of  the  management;            the Corporation to raise the required funds           valuation  of  such  assets  and  a
overly centralized decision making; and              for its investment program from the local             determination of the current value of
inadequate  management  information  and             financial  markets.   Additionaltly   OGDC            the deferred costs on the basis of its
financial reporting systems. In addition,            would receive, starting FY,O govemnnert              estimated oil and gas reserves;  (c)
OGDC has neither been profitable, nor had            funds on a loan basis only. OGDC also had             recruit,   by   October   31,   198,
any   surplus   cash   to   finance   its            agreed under ESL I to obtain bilateral                consultants satisfactory to the Bsnk,
investments owing to the concentration of            assistance  to  undertake  a  finaneal               to  assist OGOC  in  isplementing  the
its activities on exploration, and of late           management improvement program, which is              financial   restructuring   plan;   (d)
to the  low well head price of gas it                being implemented under CIDA financing.               appoint,   by   October   31,    98,
receives  from  GOP  compared  to  other                                                                   internationally experienced independent
producers. In order for OGDC to operate as                                                                 auditors, acceptable to the Bank, to
a commqrcially oriented and financially                                                                    audit, in accordance with international
autonom6ps entity, the company needs to                                                                    accounting   standards   and   auditing
implement a financial recovery plan, which                                                                 procedures, OGODC's financial operations
would  include  several  components:  (a)                                                                  for each of the fiscal years, 1990 and
properly pricing OGDC's gas at the well                                                                    1991;  and  (e)  establish  ffnancfal
head; (b) development and implementation                                                                   pei'formance  criteria  for OSDC  as a
of  modern  accounting   and  financial                                                                    condition of second tranche release. As
information systems; (c) restructuring the                                                                 an   interim  measure,   pending   the
corporation's    balance    sheet;    (d)                                                                  implewentation of financial performance
estimating the reserves of oil and gas by                                                                  criteria in FY91, GOP has agreed to make
an  internationally  reputable  resevoir                                                                   available on a loan basis the funds
engineering firm; and (e) recruiting an                                                                    needed by OGOC for the purposes of
international  audit firm  to audit the                                                                    OGODCs investment program during FY90.
accounts of OGOC, for at least two years,
in order to provide the corporation with                                                                b. GOP has agreed to promulgate, by Narch
an unqualified audit report. In addition,                                                                  31,   90, the rules under the OGODC
there is also a need to promulgate rules                                                                   Ordinance, satisfactory to the Sank,
under the 1961 Ordinance which established                                                                 relating, Inter alis, to the Board of
OGDC, similar to those under the Pakistan                                                                  Directors, man_gement, administration,
Companies Ordinance of 1984, to regulate                                                                   accounts and audits.
the appointment of the Chairman and all tt .
Directors, and provide for satisfactory
disclosure requirements.
0



15. Restructurina of KESC.  Although KESC             Under ESL 1, CP agreed to review means               GOP  has  agreed  to:  (a)  form  an
is  a  pblic  joint  stock  company                for reorsanizing the power subsector,                interministerial comnittee by December
registered   under   the   Companies               including examining the possibility of               31, 1989, to oversee the preparation and
Ordinance of Pakistan, almost all of               WAPDA  taking  over KESC's  generation               implementation of an organizational and
KESC's stock is owned by GOP and GOP-              assets. However, there is an urgent need             financial restructuring plan for KESC;
owned financial institutions. Through              to implement a financial restructuring               and (b) recruit, by March 31, 1990,
a unique manaogement contract, which               plan for KESC that would address the                 consultants, satisfactory to the Sank,
involves  the  GOP-owned  management               financial  performance  and  management             to    assist   in   developing    an
agency,  Pakistan  Electric  Agencies              problems of the corporation. In view of              organizational    and   financial
Limited  (PEAL), KESC is subject to                the magnitude of this task, which would              restructuring  plan  for KESC, to  be
excessive    interference   in   its               involve many ministries and agencies, an             furnished to the Bank by March 31, 1991.
operations.   KESC also suffers from               interministerial  comnittee  should  be
severe   financial   problems,   In                established to oversee the process.
particular because KESC's tariffs have
never been sufficient to cover the
utility's operating costs, and GOP has
had to provide significant subsidies in
the past.   Hence KESC is not in a
position to marshall the large amount
of resources required to rehabilitate
its distribution system, where losses
are very high.
16.Privatilation of Public Sector Entities.           A privatization component was not included           GOP has agreed to prepare and furnish to
KESC's   restructuring   program   would           under ESL I                                          the Bank, by no tater than Decearer 31,
constitute   the   first   attempt   at                                                                 1989, a strategy for the privatization of
privatization under the proposed Loan. As                                                               SSGC.
regards SNGPL, a proposed  GOP equity
divestiture from a majority shareholding
to only 49X being pursued under the Bank's
proposed Privatization of Northern Gas
Distribution Systemi project, would make it
eligible for equity and debt participation
by IFC, as well as for borrowing from the
newly established Private Sector Energy
Development Fund.  As regards SSGC, an
assessment is currently being made of the
company's financial requirements, and GOP
has agreed in principle to reduce its
direct shareholding from the present level
of about 80X to about 351 with a view to                                                                                                             V
making the company eligible for the same                                                                                                             XI
type of financfng as SNGPL. 
0
o a



V. Institutional Develoment for EneMy                    Under ESL I, and with assistanme from                  GOP  has  agreed, as  a  condftion  of
Plannin.  Since the establishment of                  USAID, GOP estsbli shed an energy pamnning             effectiveness of the Lon, to: (a) fssue
the Energy Wing in the Ptanning and                  office (EERPAW), whifch wes later merged               notification declaring the Energy Wing
Development    Dfvfsfon    of   NPD,                  with an existing office within WPO to                  a permanent and integral part of the
significant  progress  has  been made                 form  the  Energy  Wing.    Since  its                 Secretariat   of   the   Planning   and
within GOP in developing expertise in                 establishment,  the  Energy  Wing  has                Development Division of the Minstry of
plan formulation, project appraisal,                 developed the energy chapter for the                   Plannig and Development;  (b) absorb
and establishing data bases.  However,                Seventh Plan and also served a key role               selected existing contract personnet of
the Energy Wing contfinues to remain                 during ESL I as the coordinating agency                the Energy Wing as regular employees of
weak in the areas of financial and                    within GOP for the loan as well as the                GOM on a permanent basis; and (c) create
economic  analysis   and   investment                 main interlocutor between GOP and the                 additional positions within the Energy
programming.       There   are   also                 sank.                                                 Wfng for a Finance and Economic Sectfon,
uncertainties surrounding the status                                                                         to be headed by a Chief and supported by
of its existing staff, as they were                                                                         at  least  two  positions  each  for
hired as contract personnel rather than                                                                     financial analysts and ecornomists.
full-time regular employees of GOP.
Given the prominent role envisaged for
the Energy wing in future energy sector
plannfng and policy and financfal
analysis, there is a need to enhance
its capacity in these areas and clarify
the status of its exisitng personnel.
l
It!
0



ENERGY SECTOR LOAN II
ENERGY SECTOR
CORE INVESTMENT PROGRAM FY89-FY93
(Nominal Million Rupees)
FY89                 FY90                  FY91                  FY92                 FY93                  Total
Entities     Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Tota.  Local Forefgn Total  Locat Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total
Public Sector
Power
WAPDA           6578   6623  13201   8860   5553  14413   9340. 7072  16412   9964   6915  16879  10412   6397  16809 45154  32560  771M4
KESC            2381   2986   5367   2600   2088   4688   1705    830   2535    982    269   1251   2102   1081   3183   9770   7254  17024
Subtotal          8959   9609  18568  11460   7641  19101  11045   7902  18947  10946   7184  18130  12514   7478  19992  54924  39814  94738
Oil and Gas
OGDC            1167   1706   2873   1329   1708   3037   1530   1893   3423   1386   1585   2971   1242   1386   2628   6654   8278  14932                       1
SNOPL           1517    434   1951   1289    758   2047   2248   1406   3654   2460   1261   3721   1592    689   2281   9106   4548  13654                      ^
SSGC             546    445    991    359    246    605    493    510   1003    695    592   1287    349    210    559   2442   2003   4445
Subtotal          3230   2585   5815   2977   2712   5689   4271   3809   8080   4541   3438   7979   3183   2285   5468  18202  14828  33030
Coal
PRDC               8       1      9    239    141    380    417    212    629    241    200    441       46      0      46    951    553   1504
Subtotal             8       1      9    239    141    380    417    212    629    241    200    441       46       0     46    951    553   1504
Totals
Public Sector    12197  U.74  24391  14676  10493  25169  15733  11923  27656  15728  10822  26550  15743   9763  25506  74077  55195 129272
Private Sector      130    300    430    390   5920   6310   1380   8880  10260   1410   9451  10861   1662  14177  15839   4972  38728  43700
Grand Total      12327  12494  24821  15066  16413  31479  17113  20803  37916  17138  20273  37411  17405  23940  41345  79049  93923 1M72972
*e=  *=-=        33  3323   3=3 e =32=  3=        33=3=  3=32 3e        3.=33-  3=3=3  3=3=3  *3=3  *---- =3   33=3 =3==3                     0



PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN II
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPKENT AUTHORITY
CORE INVESTMENT PROGRAM FY89-FY93
(Nominal Million Rupees)
FY89                 FY90                 FY91                  FY92                 FY93                  Total
........ ... .... ... .........  .   ....                  ....        .        ....                 .....
Projects        Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total
Generation
..........
Ongoing Inwestments
Guddu CC                37     46     83      17      7     24      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0     54     53    107
Muzaffargarh           362    419    781    700   500   1200    800    600   1400    900    900   1800    925   1075   2000   3687   3494   7181
Kot Addu Comb. Tur.    605    638   1243    323    252    575       0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0    928    890   1818
Kot Addu CC I          389    789   1178    350    250    600    350    150    500    230       64    294      0      0      0   1319   1253   2572
Jamshoro Oi   1       456    718   1174    250    150    400    208      56    264      0       0      0      0      0      0    914    924   1838
Jamshoro II&III        825    470   1295    200    600    800    267    670    937    188    355    543        0      0      0   1480   2095   3575
Jamshoro Oil IV                              412    235    647    100    300    400    133   330    463       95    177    272    740   1042   1782
Gilgit Diesel Sets      14      1      15      4      0      4      1      0       1      0      0      0      0      0      0     19       1     20
Guddu CC                 0      0       0      0    114    114    300    900   1200    125    375    500    100    300    400    525   1689   2214
Thermal Rehab.         200    265    465    453    519    972    300    500    800      83    228    311       0      0      0   1036   1512   2548 
Irport. Coal Engr.       4      6     10      4      34     38      0      0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      8     40     48              co
Centr. Test Lab.         9     '6     25      10     20     30     10     22     32      0       0      0      0      0      0     29    58      87
Tarbela 11-14          470    523    993    800    400   1200   800    600   1400   1000    900   1900   1200   1000   2200   4270   3423   7693
nta 9 & 10              64      0     64      75     25    100     75     75    150    175    175    350    185    375    560    574    650   1224
P&8 Low Head Hydel      12     18     30      10      9     19      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0     22     27     49
Dev. of irpur           25      0     25       8      0      8      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0     33      0      33
Subtotal (Ongoing)      3472   3909   7381   3616   3115   6731   3211   3873   7084   2834   3327  6161   2505   2927   5432  15638  17151  32789
New Investme nts
Coal F.B.              105     15    120    300    200    500    400    400    800    300    600    900    155    175    330   1260   1390   2650
Jamsh. 5-7 Engr.                                                                         5      15    20       7     25     32     12     40     52
Others                                                                                  180    430    610    225    645    870    405   1075   1480
Chashma                 30      0     30    100      50    150    140    110    250    240    310    550   480    570   1050   990   1040   2030
Basha Engineering        8      0      8      10      0     10    45       5     50     80      20    100   475    225    700   618    250    868
Gazi Ghar. Engr.        10      0     10      8       2     10     30     10     40     50      20     70     63     27     90    161     59    220
Ghati Ghariala           0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0     45       5     50     70     30    100    115     35    150
Tautsa                   1      7      8      15      5     20     40     10    50       75     25    100   215      85    300    346    132   478
Jinmah                   0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0     75     25    100   375    125    500    450    150    600
ii   ....    ........ ....   ........ ....   ........ ....   ........ ....   , ........ ....   ........ ....    ....   ....    ....C
Sub-total (New Inv.)    154      22    176    433    257    690    655    535   1190   1050   1450   2500   2065   1907   3972   4357   4171   8528
Total (Generation)      3626   3931   7557   4049   3372   7421   3866   4408   8274   3884  4 77    8661   4570   4834   9404  19995  21322  41317?          c
UnS"   sce=   cceU  anU=    zU   gflU   anin 3e3S       inCu   =-t=   =on=   *=uC   ==co  a*=        3==3  C=C   am==   CCC=



PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN II
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
CORE INVESTMENT PROGRAM FY89-FY93
..................... ..........................
(Nominal MNilion Rupees)
(Continued)             FY89                 FY90                FY91                 FY92                FY93                 Totat
.... .....                               ....                .........                                ..      ........................ ....  ............
Projects       Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Totat
Transmission
............
Ongoing Investment
F/abad-Mult-Karachf    11    84    95    13    12    25          0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0    24    96   120
Tarbela-Faisalabad      1      2      3      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      1      2     3
Faisalabad-Sahiwal      1      0      1      0      0     0      0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      1      0      1
Mardan-Peshawar        22    17    39    SO    26    76    50    75   125             0      0      0     0      0      0   122   118   240
Dadu-Khuzdar           61    35    96   160   115   275   .63    67   230             0      0      0     0      0      0   384   217   601
Moder.Despatch Cen.   186   212   398   150   150   300   100   100   200   156    26   182               0      0      0   592   488  1080
A.C Network Modern.     0    22    22        0    25    25       0      0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0    47    47
Tarbela-Lahore          8    83    91   350   250   600   200   200   400   230    52   282               0      0      0   788   585  1373
Lahore-Jamshoro       545   683   1228   200   100   300   300   200   500   700   300  1000   607    61    668  2352  1344  3696
.. ............   .. ....... .....   ....... .....   ....... ..... ....... ....... ........ ... .... ... ...... .... . ..... .....   ....... .....   ....... .....
Sub-total (Ongoing)     835  1138  1973   923   678  1601   813   642  1455  1086   378  1464   607    61   668  4264  2897  7161
New Investment
Trans. PC It            0    41    41        0    50    50       1    57    58        0      0     0      0      0      0      1   148   149
Ludewala-Daudkhel       0      0      0   200   100   300   300   300   600    73    65   138             0      0      0   573   465  1038
Plan. St. (PC-II)       4      5      9      3     11    14      0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      7    16    23
Guu-Sibi-2uetta         2      2      4    250   250   500   280   120   400    98    38   136            0      0      0   630   410  1040                1
Kot Addu-Loralei        0      0      0      0      0     0    75    25   100   100   100   200    90   150   240   265   275   540
T/L LowHead Hydels.     0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0      0     0    45    25    70    45    25    70
Karachi-Janshoro                           150    50   200   200   300   500   150   150   300   102    40   142   602   540  1142
Jamshoro-Multan         0      0      0    150    50   200   350   250   600   550   450  1000   250   150   400  1300   900  2200
Multan-Lahore           0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0      0     0   200   100   300   200   100   300
Muzaffarghar-Multan                                             35    15    50    25    35    60    28           7    35    88    57   145
Muzaffarghar-Multen                         35    15    50    40    35    75    13           7    20                          88    57   145
Sub-totat (New Iv.)       6    48    54   788   526  1314  1281   1102  2383  1009   845  1854   715   472   1187  3799  2993  6792
....    .... .  ....   .... .. . .. .... .  ....   .... .  ....   .... .  ....   .... .  .: ....   ....   .... .  ....   .... .  ....   . .... *... ....  ..... ..... ..... ....
Total(Transmission)     841   1186  2027  1711   1204  2915  2094  1744  3838  2095  1223  3318  1322   533  1855  8063  5890  13953
Sumary
Generation             3626  3931   7557  4049  3372  7421  3866  4408  8274  3884  4777  8661  4570  4834  9404  19995 21322 41317
TransmissIon            841  1186  2027  1711  1204  2915  2094  1744  3838  2095  1223  3318  1322   533  1855  8063  5890  i3953
Sec. T/L & Grid Stn.    689   871   1560  1000   650  1650  1000   800  1800  1230   770  2000  1370   830  2200  5289  3921  9210
Rural Electr.           774   463   1237  1606   125  1731  1770    30  1800  1965    35  2000  2160    40  2200  8275   693  8968 
Distrib. of Power       458      0   458   440    60   500   530    70   600   630    70   700   710    90   800  2768   290  3058
Loss Reduct.& Ld. Mgt.    4      4      8    40    10    50    80    20   100   160    40   200   280    70   350   564   144   708
uistribution Rehab.     186   168   354    14   132   146          0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0   200   300   500
..... ....i;. .....    .................    .....    .....    ...................................    .................  .......
Grand Total            6578  6623  13201  8860  5553  14413  9340  7072  16412  9964  6915  16879  10412  6397  16809 45154 32560 77714                 m
=====3  __3===#  ====   = ====  33==  ===3a  ===   ===  ===    ====  ==           33a= ==#=   ==   =0=  ===2  =====  #=#         am



PAKI STAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN It
KARACHI ELECTRIC SUPPLY CORPORATION LIMITED
CORE INVESTMENT PROGRAM - (FY89-FY93)
(Nominal Million Rupees)
FY89                FY90                  FY91                 FY92                 FY93                  Total
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total
200 NW Din Oasim
Unit Nos. 1 & 2    25      0     25      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0    25       0    25
Unit No. 3        932   1322  2254    227   261    488         0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   1159   1583  2742
Unit No. 4         776   1113   1889   359   203   562         0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   1135  1316  2451
Unft No. 5         166   314    480  1517  1434  2951    436   336   772            0      0      0      0      0      0  2119  2084  4203
West Wharf              0     0      0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0    250   220   470   250   220   470                 1
Allied Trans. Lines                                                                                                              0      0      0           00
w
Nos. 3 & 4       150   103   253       4      0      4       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0    154   103   257
132/66KV Grid Stn.    172   134   306    173    190   363    789   494  1283   262   269   531    956   861   1817  2352  1948  4300
Distrib. Expansion    160     0    160   320       0   320    480        0   480    720       0   720   896        0    896  2576       0   2576
....     .... .  ....   .... .  ....   .... .   ....   .... .  ....   .... .  ....   .... .  ....   .... .  ....   .... .  ....   ...............................................
TOTAL            2381   2986   5367  2600   2088  4E88   1705   830   2535   982   269  1251   2102  1081   3183  9770   7254  17024
*,=  3333   =33   33=   =3=   =33=   3=33  333=   3=33   =2=3  33=3   =3=S  33=3   =3=  =3:=  3==,  3=3  3=3
co



PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN 11
OIL AND GAS DEVELOPNENT CORPORATION
CORE INVESTMENT PROGRAM (FY89-FY93)
(Nominal Million Rupees)
FY89                FY90                  FY91                 FY92                 FY93                  Total
Investments        Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Locat Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total
Development
Southern FieLds      0      0      0    120   167   287    143   179   322    99    114   213    61    81   142   423   542   964
Loti                 0      0      0    100   131   231        80    101   182    57    68   124          0      0      0    237   300   537
Pirkoh             397   483   880   430   498   928    459   513   972   486   528  1014   510   544   1054  2282  2567  4850
Dakhni               0      0      0      0      0      0      55    109   164       0      0      0      0      0      0    55   109   164
Dhodak              247   482    729     89    129   218       95    133   227       0      0      0      0      0      0   430   744  1174
Uch                  0      0      0      0      6      6      36    22    58    39    22    61    40    23    63   115    73   188
Nandpur               0     0      0      0      0      0      80    138   218    86   142   228          0      0      0    166   280   446
Sari/Hundi/Khin     100   149   249    108   154   262          0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   208   303   511
Data Acquisition    147    61   208    165    68   233    176    70   246    186    72   258   202    80   282   877   351   1228
Ongoing JV           19    43    62      20    44    64        22    45    67    23    47    70    24    48    72   109   227   335
Dev. of New Disc.    0      0      0      0      0      0      61    54    115    64    56   120    67    57    125   192   167   359
....     .... .   ....   .... .   ....   .... .    ....   .... .   ....   .... .   ....   .... .   ....   .... .   ....   .... .   ....   ....................................................
Sub-total            909   1219  2128   1033   1197  2230   1208   1363  2571   1039  1049  2089   905   834   1739  5095  5662  10757
Exploration Program
South               42    59   101    63    61    123          67    63    129    77    64   141    54    66    120   303   313   615
North               63    71   134    68    78    147          73    81   154       77    78   155    81    80   161   362   388   750
Central             37    41      77    40    45    85         49    50    98    51    48    99    54    49    103   231   232   463
Other 9 New JV      53   244   296       57   251    308       61    259   319    64   266   331         67   274   342   302   1294  1596          2 
Appraisal           63    73    136    68    75    144         73    78   151    77    80   157    81           82    163   362   388   751         'a'
....   ....  ....    ....  ....  ....   ....   ....  ....  ....  ....  ....  ....  ....  ...,. ....  ...    ....
Sub-total            257   487   745    296   511    807    322   529   851    347   536   883   337   552   890  1559  2616  4175
....     ....  ...    ....  ...     ....  ...      ....  ...     ....  ...     ....  ... -   ....  ....    ....  ...     -.-.-- ---- ----..  c D
Total               1167  1706  2873   1329  1708  3036   1530   1893  3423   1386  1585  2972   1243   1386  2628  6654  8278  14932
u===   =--=  ==s  =c==   === =cm ==    5==  =U==   ===1   3==    3 ===    ====    r.==  ==3=   =--=  ====  a=== ==a==



PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN II
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINE COMPANY
CORE INVESTMENT trI4QRAN (FY89-FY93)
(Nominal Ni liton RupeOs)
FY89                 FY90                   FY91                 FY92                 FY93                   Totat
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Totat   Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Forelgn Total  Local Foreign Total
Invmetsents
,...........
ProJect V             219    281    S00       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0    219    281    500
ESL I Projects        168     17    185       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0    168      17    185
ESL II Projecta         0      0       0     44     77    121     130    162    m       107    110    217      0      0      0    281    349    630
Dakni (ESL II)        102      14    116      0      0      0       0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0    102      14    116
Adhi (ESL 11)         109    39    148        0      0      0       0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0    109    39    148
Project Vl - Phase    390     83    473       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0   390      83    473
Privatization           0      0      0    858    681   1539    2018   1244   3262   2248   1151   3399   1482   689   2171   6606  3765  10371
Distribution Dev.
before Proj. VI     310      0   310    285        0    285       0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0    595      0    595
Nisc. Capital Expen   219      0    219    102       0    102     100      0    100    105       0    105    110      0    110    636      0    636
...... .......  ..... ..... ..... .......    .... .....    .... .....    .... .....    .... .....    .... .....    .... .....    .... .....    .... .....    ....
Total                1517    434   1951   1289    758   2047    2248   1406   3654   2460   1261   3721   1592    689   2281   9106   4548  13654
3=C    C=3   3=33   =333   C33    333       3333   3333   33=3   333 e=   3333   =33    333    3333   333 =t   =33=   33=3  3=33
0>
II
CD



SUI SOUTHERN GAS CORPORATION
CORE INVESTMENT PROGRAM (FY89-FY93)
(Nominal Mition Rupees)
FY89                FY90                    FY91                 FY92                 FY93                 Total
Investments                 Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total    Locat Foreign Total  Locat Foreign Total  Locat Foreign Total  Local Foreign Totat
Southern Gas System
Gas Distrib. Sys.
Rehab. Program.
a. Tech. Study               0      0     0      8      2      10        0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      8      2     10
b. Ongning Rehab.            0      0     0    28    29       57        40    121   161    68        0    68    38        0    38    174   150   324
Ongoing Expan.                61    53   114    79    72   151            82    70   152    92        7?   169   101    84    185   415   356   771
Other Invest.                 33     57    90    11       4      15       11      3     14    12       3     16    14       4     17    82    71   153
Meter Manuf.                   2      2     4       1      1      1         1     1      1      1      1      1      1      1      1      4      4      8
LPG Div.                     46    31    76        0      0      0         0      0      0    32    22    54         0      0      0    78    52   130
Subtotat                    142    143   285    127   108   234         134   195   328   205    102   308   153    88   241   761   636   1397
Southern Gas Trans. System
Sadin Block Gas               161    86   247       0      0      0         0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0    161    86   247
IRBP Proj. 1                 243   216   459    232    138   370           65    36   101        0      0      0      0     0      0   540   390   930
IRBP Proj. II                  0      0      0      0      0      0       294   204   498   490   490   980   196   122   318   980   816   1796
ESL It Projects
P1peline (I)                 0      0      0      0      0      0         0    66    66        0      0      0      0      0      0      0    66    66
Sui Purif.(BMR)              0      0      0      0      0      0         0      9      9      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      9     9
....     .... .  ....   .... .   ....   .... .  ....   .... .   ....   .... .   ....   .... .   .. . . .. .... .    ....   .... ... ....   ... ... ..... ..~ ... ..... ..... ..... ....
Subtotat                   404   302   706   232    138   370           359   315   674   490   490   980   196   122   318  1681   1367  3048
Totat                        546   445   991    359   246   604           493    510  1003   695    592   1287   349   211    560   2442  2003  4445
IIIt
0 
o C



PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN II
PAKISlAN MINERAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION 1/
CORE INVESTMENT PROGRAM (FY89-FY93)
(Nominal Million Rupees)
FY89                 FY90                  FY91                 FY92                 FY93                   Total
Investments                 Local Foreign Total  Local foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local foreign Total  Lotal foreign Totat
Ongoing
Lakhra Field                    8       1      9     15      0     15      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      23      1     24
New Projects
Sonda Field                     0       0      0     16     10    26       16      0     16     18      0     18     12      0     12     62      10     72
Explo. Meting Area              0       0      0      9      5     14     14       0     14      0      0      0      0      0      0      23      5     28
Dev. Metig Area                  0      0      0      0      0      0      12      5     17     13      6     19     13      0      13     38     11     49
Coat util. St.                  0       0      0      3      7     10      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      3       7     10      '
Smokeless Coal Pt.              0       0      0     12     32     44      12     22     34     13    11      24      0      0      0     37      64    101     j
Rational Mak., Degari           0       0      0      2      4      6      4      4       8      8      4     12      9      0      9      23     12     35
Dev. So. Lakhra                 0       0      0      0      0      0      9       5     14      6      6     12    11       0     11      26     11     37
5Ox3O F8C at Lakhra             0       0      0    183     83    266    350    175    525    184    173    357       0      0      0    717   431   1148
Total                           8       1      9    240    141    381    417    211    628    242    200    442      45      0     45    952    552   1504
=as ==3 = 33 =       =33   3333   3=3 = 33      == =      ==a3=  =  3==3  I=3   =33   ==3=   3=33    3
1/ The allocation and projects listed in this table and the agency, namely PMDC, are indicative
and would be revised as necessary.
'ae
Fb



ENERGY SECTOR LOAN II
ENERGY SECTOR
CORE INVESTMENT PROGRAM AND FINANCING PLAN - FY89 TO FY93
.......(Rs Mittion)---- ----------- -------   ........(US t Nfltion)-- ........
FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93  Total         FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93  Total
....     .... .   ....   .... ... ....   ..... . . ....   .... ... ....   .... .. ..... .............. .................... ..........
Invest ents
............
Local Costs                   12326  15066  17113  17140  17405  79049          649    793    901    902    916   4160
Foreign Costs                 12495  16413  20601  20273  23941  93923          658    864   1095   106?   1260   4943
Total                         24822  31479  37914  37413  41345 172972         1306   1657   1995   1969   2176   9104
Financing
Local Financing
................
Int. Cash Gen.             6766   8090   9443   9782  10884  44967          356    426    497    515    573   2366
Equity Issues                130    587   1157   1077   1188   4139            7     31      61     57     63    218
GOP Loans                    568   2656   2117  1719   1801   8861            30    140    111      90     95    466
Local  Worrowing           4862   3733   4395   4561   3531  21082           256    196    231    240    186   1110
.....  ...... .....   ....... .....  .....   . . .....  ....... .....  ....... .....  .......... .......................................
Sub-total                   12326  15066  17113  17140  17405  79049          649    793    901    902    916   4160
Foreign Financing
..................
IBRD - Ongoing              3611   1257   1391    901    228   7388           190     66      73     47      12    389
IR  - Proposed                  0   1094   2413   3921   1991   9419            0     58    127    206    105    496
tBRO - ESL II                238   1280    856        0       0   2373         13     67     45       0      0    125
Equity                        300    870   1830   1860   2787   7647           16     46      96     9S    147    402
Others                       8347  11090  12991  13456  16325  62209          439    584    684    708   8$60   3275
Foreign Fin. Gap                0    822   1320    135   2609   4887            0     43      69      7    137    257
.....    ...... ... ...    .. . .... ....... .....  ....... .....    ........ ........ .....    ...... ........... .......
Sub-totat                   12495  16413  .0801  20273  23941  93923          658    864   1095   1067   1261   4944
.....  .....  .....  .....  .....  .....        .....  .....  .....  .....  .....  .....                                
Total Financing               24822  31479  37914  37413  4134S 172972         1306   1657   1995   1969   2176   9104
0
,,,,  a,,,,  ,t,,  ,,,,,  ,,n,  a,,,,  wa"  sa=aw  a===t aSwsa  WnasS  um Ba                        I_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(P
cOF



WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
CORE INVESTMENT PROGRAM AND FINANCING PLAN - FY89 TO FY93
................................................. ...............................................................
-------------(Rs Nillion)----------- --    -------------(LUS S  illion)---------
FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93  Total      FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93 Total
.... .    .... .....    .... .....  .... ..  ....    .... .....    .... .....  .....
Investments
....... ..........
Local Costs                6578   8860   9340   9964  10412 45154        346    466    492    524   548   2377
Foreign Costs              6623   5553   7072   6915   6397 32560        349    292    372    364   337   1714
Total                       13201  14413  16412  16879  16809 77714        695    759   864    888   885   4090
33333  33333=  ===   ===3=  3333=  =3===      ====   =33=   333   ====   ====   ====
Financing
Local Financing
Int. Cash Gen.            3942   5699   6030   6024   6755  28450       207   300    317    317   356   1497
GOP Loans                  126   945   1071   1134   1136  4410           7     50     56     60    60    232
Local Borrowing           2510   2216   2239   2806   2523  12294       132    117    118   148   133    647
---.....  .........  ....  .....             .... *. .....  .... .  . .... ..... .....
Sub-total                  6578  8860   9340   9964  10412 45154         346   466    492    524   548   2377
Foreign Financing
IBRD - Proposed              0    752   1507   2664    454   5377         0    40      79    140    24   283
IBRD - Ongoing            2754   1049   1344   901    228  6276         145     55    71      47    12   330
UGSR                       419    500    600    900   1075  3493         22     26    32      47    57    184
France                     638    252      0      0      0   890         34     13      0      0      0     47
Japan                     1013    101     70     16     18  1218         53      5      4      1      1    64
China                      485    800   1070   955    175  3485          26     42     56     SO      9    183
Italy                       38     45     22      0      0    105         2      2      1      0      0      6
Canada                      78     60     90    135    150   513          4      3      5      7      8     27
Czech. (Barter)              0     18    55    129    276   479           0      1      3      7     15    25
UNDP                         0      2     10    20      27    59          0      0      1       1      1     3
ADO                        842    740   1145    825  1144  4695          44     39     60     43    60    247
KFW                        218    222   341    371    525   1676         11     12    18    20    28    88
IBRD - ESL II              138   563    391       0      0   1092         7    30      21      0      0     57
Financing Gap                0    449    427      1   2326  3202         -0    24      22      0    122    169
. ..      ...     ...   .  ..  ..  .      ....   -  --  ....   ...    ....  *--*-*-*-  
Sub-total                  6623   5553   7072   6915   6397 32560        349    292    372    364   337   1714                                        w I
...  ...  ...  .. ...  ---. ....  ......  ..... ......  ..... .....  .... .C
Total Financing             13201  14413  16412  16879  16809  77714       695    759    864    888   885   4090
====3  ==3== ===3=  ==3=3    =       ==== =3333  =3333  3=33=3 33==  3====  ==33=  ===3a



ENERGY SECTOR LOAN II
KARACHI ELECTRIC SUPPLY CORPORATION
CORE INVESTMENT PROGRAM AND FINANCING PLAN - FY89 TO FY93
-C-------(Rs Million)- ...............(US $ Nillion)-------
FY89   FY90  FY91   FY92   FY93  Total      FY89  FY90  FY91   FY92   FY93 Total
Investments
Local Costs               2381   2600   1705   982  2102  9770          125   137    90    52    III   514
Foreign Costs             2986   2088   830    269  1081   7254         157   110    44    14    57   382
...  .. .... .. ................. .......  .....  ....... ........ ........  ........  .... .....  .... .....  ....
Total                       5367  4688   2535   1251  3;83  17024         282   247   133    66   168   896
=3333  :=3=33  _=33=  =====  =====  ====:7    33=3=  =3=3=3=3382   == =  =3#= 3333 ==3
Financing
Local Financing
Int.Cash Gen.             580   766   717   566   1040  3669            31    40    38    30    55   193
GOP Loans                 132    847   629   343   622   2573            7    45    33       18    33   135
Local Borrowing           1098   362    156    58   257   1932          58    19       8      3     14   102
Deferred Duty              571   624    203    15   183  1595           30    33    11        1    10    d4
Sub-total                  2381   2600   1705   982  2102  9770         125   137    90    52   111   514
Foreign Financing
UK Grant (1985)            155    26     26      0      0   207          8      1      1      0      0     11
KFW                        824    158     0      0      0   982         43      8      0      0      0    52
Italy                    1611    308      0      0      0 1919          85    16       0      0      0    101
OECF                       104   460       0     0      0   564          5    24       0      0      0    30
JEXIM Loan                  0    387   259       0      0   647          0    20    14        0      0    34
ADO (KESC V)               110   397   249    269   336   1361           6    21    13    14    18    72
IBRD - ESL I              104      0      0      0      0    104         5      0      0      0      0      5
- ESL II              78    150   105       0      0   332          4      8      6      0      0     17
- Prop.                0      0      0      0   652   652           0      0      0      0    34    34
Foreign Fin. Gap            0   202   191        0    93   486           0     11    10       0      5    26
.....    .....    ...  .....    --    -- -- .....  ....   ....  ....   ....  ....   ....
Sub-total                  2986   2088   830    269   1081  7254        157   110    44    14    57   382                                            Q
.....  .. ...  .. .  ..  .        .....      ....     ...  ....     ...  ....     ....----*-- -- 
Total Financing             5367  4688  2535   1251   3183  17024         282   247    133    66    168   896                                          O
=_=   ====  3====  =3333  3333= 3=====     3=3=  3==   333=  =3==   ====  =3=                                            gl



ENERGY SECTOR LOAN II
OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
CORE INVESTMENT PROGRAM AND FINANCING PLAN - FY89 TO FY93
- ------------(Rs Million)--------------    ...............(US S Million).---------
FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93 Total          FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  Total
....    .... .   ....   .... .   ....   ..... . . ....   .... ... ....   .... ... ..... ........................................
Investments
Locat Costs               1167  1329  1530  1386   1243  6654            61     70    81    73    65   350
Foreign Costs             1706   1708  1893  1585   1386  8278           90    90   100    83    73   436
... ... . ........................  ----- ....... ..........  ----- ......  ........  .... .....  .... .....   ....
Total                       2873  3036  3423  2972   2628  14932          151    160   180   156   138   786
=CCC 2CY       =              C 5C=           :   C =MM= =C= CZQ=  __=  CCCCC
Financing
Local Financing
Int. Cash Gen.              0      0   925   1181   1135  3241           0      0    49    62    60    171
GOP Loans                 302   624       0      0      0   926         16    33       0      0      0    49
Local Borrowing           865   705   605   205    108  2487            46    37    32    11         6    131
Sub-total                  1167  1329  1530   1386   1243  6654          61    70    81    73    65   350
Foreign Financing
CIDA Grant                279   142   180   134         0    735        15      7      9      7      0    39
IRD - Petr. Exp.          181    163      0      0      0   344         10      9      0      0      0     18
- Joint Vent.          0    45    47        0      0    92          0      2      2      0      0      5
- ESL I               48      0      0      0      0    48          3      0      0      0      0      3
- ESL 11               0    323   199       0      0   522          0     17    10       0      0     27
- Prop. ProJ.          0      0   205   633    652  1490            0      0     11    33    34       78
ADO                       903    382   684   683    544  3196           48    20    36    36    29    168
Islamic Oev. Bank         295   348       0      0      0   643         16    18       0      0      0     34
Opec Fuid                    0    163    62      0      0    225         0      9      3      0      0     12
Foreign Fin. Gap            0    142   516   135    190   983            0      7    27       7    10    52
Sub-total                  1706  1708  1893  1585   1386  8278           90    90    100    83    73   436                                            1
..... . ..... .. .... .. .... .. .... .. ...... ....  . .... . .... . .... . .... . ....                                   0 w
Total Financing             2873  3036  3423  2972   2628  14932          151   160   180   156   138   786                                            Er'
=3333  3333=33333  333=   33333  3333        3333   333=3333e=3 3333   333



ENERGY SECTOR LOAN II
SWI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED
CORE INVESTMENT PROGRAM AND FINANCING PLAN - FY89 TO FY93
---*------C-(Rs Million).-----------          .(U----------(US S Mittion)......
FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93  Total            FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93  Total
Investments
...........
Locat Costs                   1517   1289   2248   2460   1592   9106               80      68    118    129        84    479
Foreign Costs                  434    758   1406   1261    689   4548               23      40      74      66      36    239
,...... .....  ....... -----    ....... .....       .... ... .... .  .... ... .... .  .... ... .... ........... .............. .......... 
Total                            1951   2047   3654   3721   2281  13654             103    108    192    196    120    719
Financing
Local financing
tnt. Cash Gen.               1128    642   1076   1301   1423   5570              S9      34      57      68      75    293
Equity Issues                    0    287    287    287          0    861           0      15      15      15       0     45
Local Borrowing               389    360    885    872    169   2675               20      19      47     46       9    141
... ... .. .... ..... . ..........  ..... .......  .......  .....  .......  .. .....  ..... .......  ..... .......  .....
Subtotel                       1517   1289   2248   2460   1592   9106              80      68    118    129       54    479
Foreign Financing
IBRD - SW L V                 282       0       0       0       0    282           15      0       0       0       0      15
- ESL I                  1OO       0       0       0       0    100           5       0       0       0       0       5
- Privatization            0    342    701    624    233   1900               0      18      37     33       12    100
- ESL II                  22    149    105         0       0    275           1       8       6       0       0      14
IFC                             0    191    405    374    224  1194                 0     10      21      20      12      63
PSEDF                          31      18    148    263    232    692               2       1      8      14      12      36
Foreign Fin. Gap                  0     58      48       0       0    106            0       3       3      0       0       6
.....   ...... .....   ....... .....   .....   .  . .....  ....... .....          ....... ..... ............................ .. .... .. .... ..
Subtotal                       434    758   1406   1261    689   4548               23      40      74     66      36    239
.....   ...... .....   ....... .....   .....   .  . .....  ....... .....  ....... .....   ....................................... .. .... ..
Total Financing                  1951   2047   3654   3721   2281  13654             103    108    192    196    120    719
ZZc  =-=  s=2    cau -    a===B" =CC=    cou    =C5C 15ma l=C
3333 3U3    333   333   333    333 3,33    333   333   333    333 333
O C



ENERGY SECTOR LOAN II
SWI SOUTHERN GAS COMPANY, LTD.
CORE INWESTMENT PROGRAM AND FINANCING PLAN - FY89 TO FY93
.........................................................
C------------(Rs MIllion)-  -----  -----                        (US S Million)--
FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93  Total          FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93  Total
Investments
Local Costs                    546    359    493    695    349   2442            29      19      26     37      18    129
Foreign Costs                 44S    246    510    592    211   2003             23      13      27     31      11    105
.. ............ .............. ......    .... ......    ....    ...... .. ....   .......    .... .......    .... .......    ....
Totat                            991    604   1003   1287  560  444S               52      32      53     68      29    234
Financing
Local Financing
Int. Cash  en.               S46    359    493    695    349  2442              29      19     26      37      18    129
GaP Grants                      0      0       0       0       0      0          0       0       0      0       0       0
Local fin. Gp                   0      0       0       0      0       0          0       0       0      0       0       0
........    .....    ....... .....    ....... .....  ....... .....    ....... .....    ....... ..... .... .. .... .. .... .. .... .. .... ..
Sub-total                      546    359    493    695    349  2442             29      19      26     37      18    129
foreign Financing
IBRD - ESL I                   143      0       0       0       0    143          8       0       OI     p       0       8
- ESL It                   0      S7     38       0       0      95          0      3       2       0      0       5
PSEDF                            0     69    248    592    210   1119             0       4      13     31      11      59
ADS                            216    120      66       0       0    402         11       6       3      0       0      21
Own Sourcing                    86      0       0       0       0     86          5       0       0      0       0       5
foreign Fin. Gp                  0     -0    158       -0       1    158          0      -O       8     -0       0       8
.....  ...... .....    .....     .    . .....    ....... .....  ....... .....   ....... ..... ............ .. .... .. .... .. .... .. .... ..
Sub-total                     445    246    510    592    211   2003             23      13     27      31      11    105
Total Financing                  991    604   1003   1287    560   4445            52      32      53     68      29    234
10%



PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN II
PAKISTAN NINERAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION t/
CORE INVESTMENT PROGRAM AND FINANCING PLAN - FY89 TO FY93
---------- C--(Rs Million)- ............        -------------(US S Million)-.....
FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93  Total   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93  Total
Investments
Local Costs                      8    240    417    242       45    952        0      13     22      13       2     SO
Foreign Costs                    1    141    211    200        0    552        0      7      11      11      0      29
, ~~~~~...               ...    ...  . . ... .    ... . . ...  ...  . . ...   ....... ........... ........ ......
Total                              9    381    628    442       45  1504         0      20     33      23       2     79
Financing
Local Financing
Int. Cash Gen.                 0       0       0      0       0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0
GOP Loans                      8    240   417    242         45    952        0      13     22      13      2      50
Local Fin. Gap                 0       0       0       0      0       0       I      0       0       0      0       0
........ ..... ..... .......   .....   ....    .....   .. .  ...    ....    ...  ....    ...  ....    ....  ...
Subtotal                         8    240    417    242       45    952        0      13     22      13      2      50
Foreign FinancIng
..................
PSEDF                            1    131    211    200        0    543        0       7     11      11      0      29
ESL II                           0     10       0       0      0      10       0       1      0       0      0       1
.. ..........    .... .....    .... .....    .... .....  ....    ....... ...    .... ---* 
Subtotal                         1    141    211    200        0    552        0       7     11      11      0      29
. ...    ....   ...      ....   ....    *-....    ..  ..     ..     ..      -  - .                        *                     I                     
Totat Financing                    9    381    628    442       45  1504         0      20     33      23       2     79
...__..__...................................................................                                                                                  K
1/ The allocation and the financing plan  shown in thfs table and the agency, namely PNDC, are indicative                                                     
and would be revised as necessary.



PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN II
PRIVATE SECTOR
CORE INVESTMENT PROGRAM AND FINANCING PLAN - FY89 TO FY93
........ ---------Rs Million -------........USS Nillion-------------
FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93  Total      FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93 Total
Investments                  ....     ....  ....    ....  ....     .....  ....     ....  ....    ....  ....     -----
Local Costs               130   390   1380   1410   1662   4972          7     21     73    74      87    262
Foreign Costs             300  5920   8880   9451  14177 38728          16   312   467   497    746  2038
,.... .    . ....  ....   ...... .... .... .....  .... ... .... .  .... ... ....  .... .  .... .. ..... ..... ..... ..
Total Investments             430  6310  10260  10861  15839 43700          23    332    540   572   834   2300
=3=    =3   3=3=3  =33   =3==  3=3=          '3= '  33=  =3 i=3:l  3l=33   =3=3t    #
Financing
Local Cost Financing
Equity                130   300    870    790   1188  3278           7     16    46    42       63    173
Local Loans             0     90    510   620    474   1694          0      5     27    33      25     89
Total Local Financing     130   390   1380   1410   1662  4972           7    21      73    74    87    262
Foreign Cost Financing
Equity                300   870   1830   1860   2787   7647         16    46      96    98    147   402
PSEDf                   0   1900  3200   3600   4410  13110          0    100   168    189   232   690
For. Com. Loans         0  3150   3850   3991   6980  17971          0    166   203    210    367   946
,--     ----  ....    .....  ....    .... .  ....     .... .  ....   .... .  ....   ........ ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
Total Foreign finacing   300  5920   8880   9451  14177 38728           16   312    467   497   746   2038
Total Financing               430  6310  10260  10861  15839 43700          23    332    540   s72   834   2300
coe



MAP SECTION



IBRD 16248R1
6 4-     U. S. S R.
PAKISTAN                                       ' ,J
-36                                                                        <       C                       <
3   NATIONAL CAPITAL
0   CITIES AND TOWNS
NATIONAL ROADS
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ROADS                  , .
- RAILWAS "RAILWAYS
4   AIRPORTS                                                          AA-* .-l lim / COwmd"
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                           3
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
RIVERS
I~~~~~~~~~~~~
3r  i                                                                                X)                     32-
3?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D
)   A FGHANISTAN              tD.f                    11  l         Bv; 
= <    N       D I A ~~~~ NDI
28                                                                                                          28-
ISLAMIC                                                  w      { *
REPUBLIC OF i(.
IRAN                              I           / Kaii&oro   (              0       0     200    300   400
_.J  | S  ifl t N  D            KILOMETERS
MILES
(.S   . -f tel                                                         0    50 s   0o    ISO  200  250
(J.                       .      io ,.  /     x\                i                     MI
r,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~up -nd q, kcme4' go, 
sep~~~~~~~~~~~~~c                                        Pth              ,    h.  { b w   ->bbl r
ous       Jfut                  \
wV,d~a Of The mbOOBw*
-24*                                              /        Bd            7owerudomfb.e'OSm                  24'
wJ;~~~~~~~~~~~~* so- *_         dos  FiEa t
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ' jt2 M? ,d .. -W. m V                   24
_  of N tW
64                           6r                          7 
MARCH 1987



