Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15412
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN II
(LOANS 3107-0-PAK and 3107-1-PAK)
MARCH 15, 1996
Energy and Project Finance Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
Appraisal Year 1989 = US$1.0 = Rs 17.0
Intervening Year 1991 = US$1.0 = Rs 22.0
Completion Year 1994 = US$1.0 = Rs 31.0
GOP AND ENERGY ENTITIES FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 megawatt (MW)        =         1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)    =       1000 watt-hours (Wh)
1 TOE                  =         10.2 billion calories
1 MTOE                            1 million tons of oil equivalent
MMCFD                             1 million cu. ft. per day
ACRONYMS
CIP     -   Core Investment Program
ESL I   -   Energy Sector Loan (2552-PAK)
ESL II  -   Energy Sector Loan II (3107-PAK)
GOP      -   Government of Pakistan
ICG      -   Internal Cash Generation
ICR      -   Implementation Completion Report
IMF      -   International Monetary Fund
JEXIM   -   Export-Import Bank of Japan
KESC    -   Karachi Electricity Supply Corporation
LES     -   Long-Term Energy Strategy
OGDC   -   Oil & Gas Development Corporation
PMDC   -   Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation
SNGPL  -   Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited
SSGC    -   Sui Southern Gas Company
WAPDA -   Water and Power Development Authority



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN II
(Loans 3107-0-PAK and 3107-1-PAK)
Table of Contents
PageNo.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY   .........................................                                 i
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT  .....................                              1
A.  Project Setting .1
B. Background .1
C.   Program Objectives and Design.                                                 2
D.   Achievement of Objectives.                                                     5
E.    Major Factors Affecting the Program .10
F.  Sustainability .10
G.  Bank Performance .10
H   Borrower Performance .11
I.  Assessment of Outcome .11
J.  Future Operation .12
K.  Lessons Learned .14
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES ....................................                             14
Table I Summary of Assessment .14
Table 2 Related Bank Loans and Credits .15
Table 3 Project Timetable .17
Table 4  Cumulative, Estimated and Actual Disbursements .18
Table 5  Planned and Revised Allocations and Utilization .19
Table 6  Electricity and Gas Tariffs, and Household Energy Expenditures             20
Table 7  Investment Programs and Financing Plans (FYs89-93) .21
Table 8 Status of Legal Covenants .23
Table 9  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .32
Table 10 Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ............................                  32
Table 11 Bank Resources: Missions .       ............................              33
APPENDICES
A.       Mission's Aide-Memoire (with Operation Plan) .34
B.  Borrower's Evaluation .45
C.   Cofinancier's Evaluation .56
This document has a restricted distribution and nay be used by recipients only in the performance of their
of icial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN II
(Loans 3107-0-PAK and 3107-1-PAK)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for a second sector adjustment loan to
Pakistan, for which Loan 3107-0-PAK in the amount of US$250 million, and a Supplementary Loan
3107-1-PAK in the amount of US$28 million, were approved on June 29, 1989 and June 21, 1991,
respectively, and declared effective on March 8, 1990 and January 22, 1992. The Loan was closed on
December 31, 1994 compared with the original closing date of December 31, 1991. Final disbursement
took place in August 1995, at which time a balance of US$15.8 million was cancelled. Cofmancing for
the program was provided by the Export-Import Bank of Japan, through a Loan of US$150 million,
which was signed in May 1991. The Loan covered part of the foreign exchange cost of goods and
services for the implementation of the Core Investment Program (CIP) and financed general imports for
the public and private sectors; the balance of the financing was arranged by the Government of Pakistan
(GOP) through its own resources and other multilateral and bilateral agencies.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. R. Aziz and Waqar Haider (consultant) (Resident Mission,
Pakistan). It has been reviewed by Messrs. Per Ljung (Chief, Energy and Project Finance Division) and
Fakhruddin Ahmed (Project Adviser, Country Department I) of the South Asia Regional Office. The
Energy Wing of the Ministry of Planning and Development (MPD) as the coordinating agency, and the
beneficiary entities Water and Power Development Authority, Oil and Gas Development Corporation,
Karachi Electricity Supply Corporation Ltd., Sui Southem Gas Company and Sui Northem Pipelines
Limited provided comments on the report, which are included in Appendix B of this ICR. The Export-
Import Bank of Japan also provided comments that are included as Appendix C.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final completion mission during December
1994. It is based on material in the project file, discussions with and information provided by GOP and
the implementing agencies. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR through an exchange
of views (reflected in the mission's aide-memoire) by preparing its own evaluation of the project
implementation experience, and by commenting on the draft ICR.
The generous assistance provided by officials of the Energy Wing (MPD) and the beneficiaries
to the completion mission is gratefully acknowledged.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
Energy Sector Loan II
(Loans 3107-0-PAK and 3107-1-PAK)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
Pakistan's overall growth performance during the 1980's was fairly impressive. Strong
performance was witnessed from all sectors, with the manufacturing value-added increasing by over 7%
per annum. However, this generally satisfactory performance coincided with worsening macro-economic
imbalances, particularly high and increasing budget and balance of payments deficits. Successive
governments had, in response to these imbalances, pursued macro-economic and structural reforms aimed
at stabilizing the economy, redefining the roles of the public and private sectors, encouraging export
oriented manufacturing, and developing Pakistan's human resource base (para 1). Following a change
in Government in late 1988, the Government of Pakistan (GOP) prepared a Medium-Term Policy
Framework for FY89-91, in close consultation with the Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF).
This Framework was approved by the Bank and the IMF in December 1988. Complementing the overall
adjustment program, sectoral reform programs were to be implemented in key sectors, including energy
(para 2). A comprehensive reform program for the energy sector had been developed as part of the
Government's Long Term Energy Strategy (LES), which was prepared by GOP (with Bank assistance)
in 1985. To assist GOP in implementing the LES, a series of Bank sector adjustment loans were
envisaged. The first Loan, the Energy Sector Loan (ESL-I, Loan 2552-PAK) was approved by the Bank
on May 23, 1985; the second Loan, ESL-II (Loan 3107-0-PAK, approved on June 29, 1989, followed
by a Supplemental Loan, Loan 3107-1-PAK, approved on June 21, 1991) for continuing the process
during the Seventh Five Year Plan (FY89-93) is the subject of this Implementation Completion Report
(para 3).
Loan Obiectives
The objectives of the sector adjustment Loan of ESL-II were to: (a) continue the sectoral
adjustment process initiated under ESL-I through a program of policies and institutional reforms to be
introduced during the Seventh Plan; (b) support the implementation of the Core Investment Program (CIP)
for FY89-91; (c) mobilize resources for CIP by rationalizing energy pricing, integrating donor
cofinancing, mobilizing private sector financing, and coordinating access to the credit and capital markets;
and (d) support the macroeconomic adjustment program by facilitating an adequate level of imports (para
5). The CIP was to be funded through ongoing Bank and new Bank loans, ESL-II, financing from other
bilateral and multi-lateral sources, GOP, and the implementing agencies. A comprehensive policy
reform, price rationalization and institutional development program, to be implemented by GOP during
the Seventh Plan (FY89-93) was agreed under ESL-II (paras 9-11). The overall rationale and specific
objectives of the sector Loan were clearly stated in the appraisal and legal documents, agreed to, and
supported by GOP and the entities (para 8).
Loan Operation Experience and Results
Overall, implementation of the ESL-II program was highly satisfactory, and major program
objectives were achieved, particularly as regards the critical adjustment component of the loan. The CIP



-ii-
for FY89-91 (including projections for FYs 92 and 93) amounted to Rs. 127.8 billion. Actual
investments by public sector entities during this period amounted to Rs 136.5 billion (about 7% higher
than appraisal estimates). Since domestic inflation averaged over 10% per annum (compared to the
projected level of 6% p.a.), energy investment during the Seventh Plan was probably about 25% lower
(in real terms) than the appraisal target. The anticipated level of private investment, particularly in the
power sub-sector, was not achieved during the Seventh Plan. This was largely due to the delays
encountered in finalizing the security package and financing agreements for the Hub Power Project.
Implementation of this project is now proceeding satisfactorily with commissioning scheduled for the
second half of 1996. A further acceleration in private investments in the energy sector can be expected
in future, given the large numbers of proposals received by GOP during 1994 and 1995 (paras 16-18).
Implementation of the policy reform program agreed under the Loans was fairly expeditious.
A major focus of the program was on timely adjustments in prices (for electricity, natural gas and
petroleum products), to rationalize producer and consumer prices for energy, mobilize resources for
priority projects, and restrain the growth in demand for energy. The framework for producer prices
(particularly for natural gas) was redefined, and additional incentives for oil and gas exploration were
introduced (para 20). Consumer energy prices were adjusted periodically, to enable the entities to finance
a reasonable portion of their investments through internally generated funds and to pass on to consumers
the increases in import costs of products. The only exception was the failure to achieve the gas prices
target for residential consumers (full parity with the border price of fuel oil) by the agreed date of June
1993. This failure was caused mainly because natural gas prices were not increased between April 1991
and August 1993. A revised date for meeting the required parity price was agreed under the Public
Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 3645/Credit 2542-PAK). Progress achieved in rationalizing the structure
of electricity prices among consumer categories was somewhat limited. Reforms introduced by GOP for
enhancing the attractiveness of the sector for private sector investments exceeded the ESL-II targets (paras
20, 27).
The studies agreed under the Loan were carried out (albeit with delays encountered in the
selection of consultants), and action plans covering energy conservation, enviromnental issues, and a
strategy for the household energy sector were submitted to the Bank. Implementation of the reforms and
actions identified in these plans have, however, been slower than planned. The institutional development
program comprising the establishment of an autonomous Distribution Wing in the Water and Power
Development Authority (WAPDA), preparation of a financial restructuring plan for Karachi Electric
Supply Corporation (KESC), adoption of financial performance criteria for Oil & Gas Development
Corporation (OGDC), and promulgation of Rules under the OGDC Ordinance, were largely completed
during the implementation of the Loans. GOP has also initiated, since mid-1991, a comprehensive plan
for restructuring and privatizing the power sector, including the corporatization and conmnercialization
of WAPDA's assets, and the privatization of selected assets and KESC, Sui Northem Gas Pipelines
Limited (SNGPL) and Sui Southem Gas Company (SSGC) (paras 23-24, 28).
Sustainability
Experience under ESL-II indicates that the direction of the reform process has been in line with
expectations. Specifically, pricing reforms have enhanced the attractiveness of energy sector investments
in Pakistan. Measures adopted to enhance operational and financial autonomy, including the restructuring
and privatization program, have received strong Government support. The emphasis placed by successive
Governments on the reform program, particularly with regard to privatization and deregulation, indicates
that policy reforms undertaken during the last five years are likely to be sustained. The continued



-iii-
dialogue between GOP and the Bank further enhances the prospects for sustainability of the reform
program in future years (para 32).
Summary of Findings. Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned
Finding-s. Overall, implementation of the ESL-II program was highly satisfactory, and major
program objectives were achieved. Consistent with the program for promoting efficiency in sector
operations and mobilizing additional private sector financing agreed under the Loan, GOP's policy
framework for the sector has evolved, and improved, over time. GOP's long term framework for the
sector envisages that most ownership and management functions will devolve to the private sector, and
energy prices will be set by competitive market forces, while the Government focuses on policy
preparation and establishes a transparent regulatory framework for the sector. Not only has GOP adopted
this innovative vision for the sector as part of its own strategy, it has also been receptive to Bank advice.
This correspondence of views improved the policy environment for the sector and established the basis
for enhanced private investments in energy in future years, and thus enhancing the prospects for
sustainability of the reform program undertaken (para 32).
While most of the policy reforms were carried out, there were delays in some institutional
development components (para 43). Similarly, progress in rationalizing energy prices and removing
cross-subsidies in the structure of electricity prices was limited (para 21).
Cofinancing was provided by Export-Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM). The recipient entities
reported a number of difficulties in utilizing funds available under both the JEXIM and Bank Loans.
Staff in the entities were relatively unfamiliar with JEXIM and Bank procurement and disbursement
requirements, which resulted in delays in disbursements and non-utilization of a small part of the funds
(para 44).
Future Operation. An Operation Plan was prepared and agreed with GOP during the
completion mission (Appendix A, Attachment 1). Involvement of the Bank in the energy sector in
Pakistan is strong, and both new lending and ongoing projects are linked to an agreed program and
continuous policy dialogue with the Govermnent. The actions outlined in the Operation Plan will
therefore continue to be monitored during supervision of ongoing projects as well as preparation of new
investment operations (para 45).
Key Lessons Learned. The ESL-II experience provides important insights on factors which
contributed to its success as well as on areas where the design of the program could have been improved
(para 45). The major lessons are sunmnarized below:
(a)  the preparation of a sectoral reform program should involve extensive consultations (and
fostering ownership) with the Govermnent and potential beneficiaries. The ESL-II experience
indicates that these consultations enabled GOP and the Bank to agree on a programn that was
realistic as regards the scope and phasing of reforms, and which could be implemented in a
reasonable time span by the Government (para 8);
(b)  the designation of a single agency (in this case, the Energy Wing) to coordinate actions under
the Loan facilitates timely decisions, as well as actions;



-iv-
(c)   a continuous dialogue and monitoring of the program  by GOP and the Bank helps in
developing a correspondence of views and consistency of policies and strategy. Additional
reforms implemented by GOP during the period, while representing primarily the
Government's priorities for the sector, reflect the ongoing dialogue between GOP and the
Bank;
(d)   despite efforts in the past to strengthen the procurement and contract management skills of the
entities, there is a need for continuous training of staff in the executing agencies in order to
develop and maintain the required procurement skills (para 30);
(e)  the ESL-II experience suggests the need for more intensive investigation of the likely impacts
of price rationalization measures before any agreement on the scope and phasing of such
programs is reached (para 39); and
(f)   agreements on policy reforms should be limited in number, and more explicit linkages between
priority actions and availability of resources should be defined. This would enhance the utility
and leverage of tranche releases to ensure and secure the implementation of reforms (para 42).



PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN II
(Loans 3107-0-PAK and 3107-1-PAK)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Part I: Proiect Implementation Assessment
A. Project Setting
Project Identity
Project Name:     Energy Sector Loan II
Loan Numbers:     3107-0-PAK and 3107-1-PAK
RVP Unit:         South Asia
Country:          Pakistan
Sector/Sub-sector:   Energy/AI sub-sectors
B. Background
1. General Description. Pakistan's growth performance during the 1980's was fairly impressive. Gross
domestic product (GDP) increased by over 6 % per annum (p.a.), domestic inflation fell to about 5 % p.a.
during the Sixth Five Year Plan (FY84-88), while export growth exceeded 10% p.a. in real terms.
However, the improved growth performance coincided with worsening macroeconomic imbalances,
particularly high and increasing budget and balance of payments deficits. The consolidated fiscal and
current account deficits reached 8.5% and 4.1% of GDP respectively by FY88. In response to these
imbalances, successive Governments have pursued macroeconomic and structural reforms aimed at
stabilizing the economy, redefining the roles of public and private sectors, encouraging export oriented
manufacturing, and developing Pakistan's human resource base.
2. Following a change in Government in late 1988, the Government of Pakistan (GOP) developed a
Medium-Term Policy Framework for FY89-91, in consultation with the Bank and the International
Monetary Fund (IMF). The Framework covered (a) fiscal deficit reduction; (b) trade, exchange, tariff
and financial sector reform; (c) enhanced private investment and privatization; and, (d) correcting
domestic price rigidities. Following agreement with the new Government, this Framework was approved
by the Bank and IMF in December 1988. Complementing the adjustment program, reforms were to be
implemented in key sectors, including energy. Energy sector reform was critical for meeting adjustment
program objectives, since the sector accounted for about one-third of public investment. Also, there was
an urgent need to address energy supply shortfalls, strengthen operational performance, and mobilize
resources for the sector without recourse to the budget.
3. While GOP accorded a high priority to the development of energy resources, financial constraints and
weak implementation capacity impeded the achievement of supply targets envisaged under each Plan.
Consequently, (in 1985) GOP developed (with the assistance of the Bank) a Long-Term Energy Strategy
(LES) involving measures to minimize shortfalls in supply, enhance planning and implementation
capacity, mobilize resources, restrain the growth of demand, increase private investment, initiate energy



-2-
conservation programs, and strengthen environmental management capacity.  To assist GOP in
implementing the LES, a series of Bank sector loans were envisaged. The first loan, the Energy Sector
Loan (ESL-I, Loan 2552-PAK), was approved by the Bank on May 23, 1985 to support reforms
implemented during the Sixth Plan. The second loan, ESL-II (Loan 3107-0-PAK, US$250 million, along
with a Supplemental Loan, Loan 3107-1-PAK, US$28 million, approved on June 29, 1989 and June 21,
1991) respectively for continuing the process during the Seventh Plan (FY89-93) is reviewed in this
Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The Loan was appraised in February 1989, negotiations were
held in May 1989, and the Loan was approved by the Board on June 29, 1989. Part II, Table 2 provides
a listing of ongoing Bank Loans, as well as subsequent Bank Loans and Credits in the energy sector.
4. Overview of the Energy Sector. Pakistan's commercial energy resources consist of hydropower,
natural gas, oil and coal. Traditional fuels-fuelwood and agricultural and animal waste-also provide a
major share of rural consumers' energy needs. Pakistan's dependence on imported energy has, however,
been higher than projected since the investment and supply targets of the respective Plans could not be
achieved. The Seventh Plan forecasted an increase of 8.8% p.a. in gross commercial energy supplies,
with natural gas production increasing by 10.8% p.a., coal by 9.4% p.a. and oil by 8.5% p.a. Actual
increases in energy supplies were lower (under 6% p.a.), with lower growth in natural gas and coal
production (6.2% and 3.4% p.a. respectively). Oil supply also increased more modestly (6.7% p.a.).
This slower expansion in energy supplies can partly be attributed to the lower level of investments (para
17). GOP's revised forecast envisages annual growth of about 6.7% p.a. in energy demand up to
FY2008, which is more in line with past trends regarding energy supply growth.
C. Program Obiectives and Desien
5. Overall Objectives and Description. The objectives of the sector adjustment Loan of ESL-II were to
(a) continue the process of sectoral adjustment, outlined under ESL-1, through an adjustment program
comprised of policies and institutional reforms to be introduced during the Seventh Plan; (b) support the
implementation of the Core Investment Program (CIP) which comprised both new investments to be
launched during the Seventh Plan, as well as the completion of those launched during the Sixth Plan; (c)
mobilize resources for the CIP by rationalizing energy pricing, integrating donor financing, mobilizing
private sector financing, and coordinating access to the credit and capital markets; and, (d) support the
macroeconomic adjustment program by facilitating an adequate level of imports.
6. The adjustment program was designed to assist in the implementation of the Medium-Term Policy
Framework by: (a) rationalizing and prioritizing public investments, and establishing a core program of
investments that are consistent with the overall targets regarding public sector development expenditures;
(b) promoting additional private investments to complement the anticipated reduction in public
investments; (c) adjusting energy prices to mobilize additional resources for the public entities outside
of the GOP budget; and (d) strengthening implementation capacity in the main public sector entities.
7. Design of the Loan Program. ESL-Il was designed as an integrated set of actions and policy reforms
which could serve as an umbrella for Bank lending and for coordinating external donor financing for the
development of the sector. The Loan was expected to cover part of the foreign exchange cost of goods
and services for the FY89-91 CIP (the investment component) and finance general imports for the public
and private sectors (the adjustment component). The Loan was to be disbursed in two tranches with the
release of the second tranche (US$50 million of the adjustment component and US$45 million of the
investment component) requiring a number of actions by GOP. Most of these actions were undertaken
by December 1991, when the second tranche was released. Cofinancing for the ESL-II program was
provided by the Export-Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM) through a Loan of US$150 million equivalent,
which was signed in May 1991.



-3-
8. The overall rationale and specific objectives of the sector Loan were clearly stated in the appraisal
and legal documents, agreed to, and supported by GOP and the entities. Perhaps the only exception to
this broadly based agreement and support for the program (including the specific actions to be taken by
GOP) related to the domestic prices of petroleum products. As indicated in para 20, the ESL-II
agreement specified that these prices were to be increased whenever there was an increase in the
corresponding import price; however, the mechanism or quantum of domestic price increases (in response
to any increase in import costs) was not spelled out in the legal documents. One of the main risks
identified at appraisal related to GOP's ability to maintain the pace of sectoral reforms and to continue
support for these reforms at the highest levels of the Govermment. To minimize these risks, the program
was prepared after extensive discussions with GOP and the entities, and a phased program for price
increases and institutional reforms was developed and agreed. ESL-II also included a social dimension
which was directed towards cushioning the impact of the adjustment program on low income segments
of the population. Thus, for example, the structure of electricity and natural gas prices provided for a
"lifeline" tariff, which provided a minimum level of energy to households at affordable prices. A Rural
Electrification Project was also being appraised by the Bank around the time of approval of ESL-II!';
this project was expected to extend electricity supply to about 5,000 villages during the Seventh Plan,
allowing the residents of those rural areas to substitute partly their reliance (for lighting and/or cooking)
on kerosene, fuelwood and other traditional fuels with more modem fuels. Similarly, in the pricing of
kerosene (which is consumed largely by low income households) flexibility was allowed to GOP in setting
the domestic price lower than the border price, with the deficit to be recovered from consumers of other
petroleum products.)
9. Investment Program. The Seventh Plan was initiated by GOP under difficult conditions, particularly
a constrained availability of public sector resources. Greater emphasis was thus placed upon self-
financing and a substantial increase in private sector investments. This environment underscored the need
for more rigorous scrutiny of investments and preparation of a core program of priority investments
which would be protected from cutbacks necessitated by fiscal constraints. CIP covered: (a) investments
by the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA), Karachi Electricity Supply Corporation
(KESC), Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC), Sui Northem Pipelines Limited (SNGPL), Sui
Southem Gas Company (SSGC) and Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation (PMDC); and, (b)
anticipated private investments during this Plan.
10.      The projected CIP for FY89-91 was Rs 94 billion (US$5 billion), of which Rs 77.2 billion
(US$4.1 billion) was for public investment, and Rs 17 billion (US$0.9 billion) was for private investment.
The foreign currency component of these investments was about Rs 49.7 billion (US$2.6 billion). These
investments were anticipated in power (Rs 70.6 billion - US$3.7 billion); oil and gas (Rs 22.2 billion -
US$1.2 billion); and the balance for coal. Ongoing Bank Loans were to cover Rs 9.8 billion (US$514
million) of foreign costs; financing through ESL-II was Rs 2.4 billion (US$125 million); and the balance
of the financing, Rs 37.6 billion (US$2 billion), was to be provided by other bilateral and multilateral
sources, including sponsors' equity for private projects. GOP and the Bank agreed to annually review
and update the CIP. Procurement under the Loan was to be in accordance with Bank Guidelines, with
contracts amounting to about US$102 million under the investment component to be awarded through
Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB), and specialized services and proprietary items procured through
Limited International Bidding (LIB) or Direct Contracting (DC).
11.     Policy Reforms and Price Rationalization.  A comprehensive policy reform  and price
rationalization program was to be implemented by GOP. Pricing reforms were designed to: improve the
financial position of the entities and generate additional resources for financing the CIP, rationalize the
" Ln. 3148-PAK/Cr. 2078-PAK, approved December 1989.



-4-
consumer price structure to promote efficiency in energy use, and pass on increases in import costs to
the end-users. In addition, a number of studies and reviews were to be carried out, including action plans
covering energy conservation activities, environmental assessments, guidelines and standards, and
household energy use."'
12.     Institutional Development. Actions to strengthen the institutional capability and autonomy of
key sector institutions included the: (a) establishment of a separate Distribution Wing in WAPDA; (b)
restructuring of OGDC, through a financial restructuring plan (including financial performance criteria),
auditing of accounts, and promulgation of rules under the OGDC Ordinance; (c) preparation of an
organizational and financial restructuring plan for KESC; (d) strengthening of the Energy Wing; (e)
preparation of a strategy for privatization of SSGC; and, (f) strengthening of the environmental
management capabilities of the entities.
13.      Bank Strategy for Energv Sector. The Bank's sector strategy was designed to support GOP
in implementing the LES. Over the medium term this strategy placed emphasis on improving operational
performance of existing institutions by decentralizing decision making and moving towards financial and
administrative autonomy. The long term goal was to achieve a largely deregulated operating environment
with significant private sector participation. Past lending was thus aimed at: improving efficiency and
implementation capacity; encouraging least-cost planning; and, tariff setting to provide reasonable levels
of self-financing. The Bank's current and future programs lay special emphasis upon GOP's privatization
efforts and enhancing private sector participation in the sector. ESL-II was an integral part of the Bank's
strategy of assistance and complemented the overall adjustment program.
14.      Implementation Arrangements. The Energy Wing, Ministry of Planning and Development,
was the coordinating agency on behalf of GOP responsible for ensuring timely progress and
implementation of agreements reached under the Loan. Special Accounts for each entity, with initial
deposits amounting to US$5 million in aggregate, were to be established. The State Bank of Pakistan was
responsible for collecting supporting documentation, submitting withdrawal applications, and maintaining
a Special Account for the adjustment component of the Loan.
15.      Delays in Signing. Second Tranche Release and Closing Date. There was a delay in GOP's
authorization for signature of the legal documents; consequently, these were signed on December 8, 1989,
about 6 months after Board approval. The Loan was declared effective on March 8, 1990 (with no
extension in the target date), following the compliance with the conditions for effectiveness. In view of
the delay in signing, GOP's request for second tranche release was deferred to mid-1991. Around this
time, GOP instructed WAPDA to pay hydropower profits to the provinces. The Bank sought an
assurance that WAPDA's financial position would be protected in case it was required to pay hydropower
profits; on receipt of this assurance, and the introduction of a surcharge to generate additional resources,
the Bank released the second tranche in December 1991. In view of the difficult foreign exchange
situation faced by Pakistan due to the Gulf war in 1991, the Bank approved, in June 1991, a Supplemental
Loan (Loan 3107-1-PAK) to provide additional foreign exchange for the CIP. The Closing Date
(December 31, 1991) was extended by three years. The first extension (of two years) was agreed with
the approval of the Supplemental Loan, to allow time for implementing the investments financed under
this Loan; also, as a result of procurement difficulties, the entities required additional time to disburse
the funds.
21 A full listing of the policy reform program agreed under the Loan is provided in Part II, Table 8.



-5-
D. Achievement of Objectives
16.      Overall Experience. Overall, implementation of the ESL-II program was highly satisfactory,
and major program objectives were achieved, although with delays. In particular, the objectives of the
adjustment component of the Loan were achieved in a very highly satisfactory manner, as the Govermnent
continued and strengthened its reform program in the sector. Public investments during the Seventh Plan
amounted to Rs 136.5 billion (about 7% higher, in nomninal terms). The energy sector CIP was reviewed
annually by GOP and the Bank, to ensure that the program was consistent with macro-economic targets
(particularly the share of the public investment in total investmnents), adequately reflected the entities'
requirements for funds, and was in line with the anticipated availability of resources, including additional
resources that could be mobilized through price increases. Energy prices were periodically adjusted, and
the increases were generally adequate for meeting the financial targets agreed under the Loan.
Commercial energy supplies increased by about 6% per annum. Institutional reforms, involving the
corporatization and restructuring of WAPDA and OGDC, as well as the privatization of SNGPL, SSGC
and KESC, was initiated. Anticipated levels of private investment, notably in power, were not achieved.
This was largely due to time required for negotiating the security package and financing agreements for
the Hub Power Project. As a result, the bulk of these investments was deferred to the Eighth Plan.
Implementation of the Hub project is now proceeding ahead of schedule (para 25). A further acceleration
in private power investments is expected in the future, given the large number of applications received
by GOP during 1994 -95 (para 27). These reforms, along with an independent regulatory framework,
have enhanced the attractiveness of the sector for private investment.
Enerfv Investments and Resource Development
17.      Core Investment Pro2ramn  During appraisal, a core program  for FY89-91 (including
projections for FYs 92 and 93) amounting to Rs 127.8 billion to be implemented by the five implementing
agencies3', along with detailed financing plans, was agreed. Actual investments by the entities during
this period amounted to Rs 136.5 billion (about 7% higher than appraisal estimates). WAPDA
investments were about 20% higher (Rs 93 billion compared to Rs 77.8 billion), while those of KESC
and SSGC were close to the estimate. OGDC's investments were about 15% lower than estimated.
SNGPL's investments fell substantially short of appraisal targets (Rs 8.6 billion versus Rs 13.7 billion);
this was mainly due to delays in finalizing the funding arrangements for SNGPL VI4", with the
consequent deferral of about two years in these investments. The increase in WAPDA investments
reflected the devaluation of the rupee, and higher domestic inflation. Since domestic inflation averaged
over 10% p.a. (compared to the projected level of 6% p.a.), energy investments during the Seventh Plan
were about 25 % lower (in real terms) than the appraisal target. Tables 1 and 2 below present a summary
of the investment program and financing plan, details of which are listed in Part II, Table 7. The
investments were financed through internal cash generation (ICG), foreign loans, and local borrowing.
The entities were generally able to meet the ICG and other financial targets agreed under the Loan.
3' The agencies included in this review are WAPDA, OGDC, KESC, SNGPL and SSGC. While
PMDC was also included as a beneficiary at appraisal, PMDC surrendered its allocation under the
Loan and is therefore, excluded from this review. (A separate company was established for the
development of the Lakhra coal field. This company could not utilize the funds allocated to PMDC
under the Loan, because it was not one of the originally agreed beneficiaries of the Loan).
41 SNGPL VI, Corporate Restructuring and System Expansion Project, Ln. 3252-PAK, US$130 million,
approved in August 1990, and a Supplemental Loan, Loan 3252-1-PAK, US$60 million, approved
in June 1991.



-6-
TabLe-1: Planned and Actual Expenditures by Energy Entities (FYs 89-93)
(Rs Million)
FY89 + FY90             FY91 + FY92                 FY93             7th PLan (1989-93)
l____________   Appraisal   Actual        Appraisal  Actual        Appraisal  Actual      Appraisal   Actual
WAPDA               27614   29743           33291   39638            16809   23549          77714      92930
KESC                10055    9865            3786    5196             3183    2152          17024      17214
OGDC                 5910    4989            6394    4425             2628    3317          14932      12732
SNGPL                3998    2153            7375    3086             2281    3326          13654       8565
SSGC                 1595    1599            2290    1620              559    1855           444        5074
TotaL               49172   48351            53136   53965           25460   34200         127768    136515
TabLe-2: Planned and Actual Financing for CIP (FYs 89-93)
(Rs Million)
Planned        X of Total        Actual         X of Total
Local Financing:
Internal Cash Generation                        43371           33.95X           47390           34.71X
Equity Issues                                     861            0.67X               0             0.001
GOP Loank                                        7909            6.19X            5796            4.25X
Deferred Duty                                    1595            1.25X            1012            0.74X
LocaL Borrowing                                 19388           15.17X           25905           18.98X
Sub-total                                       73125           57.23X           80103            58.68
Foreian Financina:
IBRD Loans (inci. ESL II)                       18628           14.58X
Other Foreign Loans                             31128           24.36X
Foreign Financing Gap                            4887            3.82%
Sub-total                                       54643           42.77X           56412           41.32X
Total Financing                                 127768          100.00X          136514          100.00X
18.     While overall investmnents were somewhat lower than the Seventh Plan target, even this outcome
represents an improvement over the Sixth Plan, when up to 50% of the planned investments could not
be implemented due to resource constraints. Annual agreement between GOP and the Bank on the CIP
ensured that adequate resources were allocated in the budgets for priority investments, and no core project
was delayed due to inadequate funding. While delays were experienced during FY89-90 in finalizing the
funding arrangements for SNGPL's main investment project, i.e., SNGPL VI (para 17 above), once those
arrangements were in place, the annual requirements for these investments were adequately provided in
the budget/public sector program. As indicated in para 38 below, the effects of protecting the core
program from budgetary cutbacks is gradually being felt, since the incidence of electricity and gas
shortages is now generally lower than was observed in the recent past.
19.     Commercial Energv Supplies. Commercial energy supplies increased from 24.6 MTOE in FY88
to 32.9 MTOE in FY93, by an average of 5.97% p.a. Given the reduced level of investments (para 17),
the increase in energy supplies was 3.6 MTOE (10%) less than the Seventh Plan target, which was also
the target used for the appraisal of ESL-II; the largest shortfall was in natural gas supply (2.8 MTOE).
As a result, the share of natural gas in total supplies remained at historical levels (about 37 %) as
compared to the projected increase to over 40%. The share of imported petroleum products rose to about
20%, partly offsetting the reduced share of natural gas. The shares of electricity and coal were close to
projected levels. Table 3 below presents a summary of commercial energy supplies.



-7-
Table-3: Commercial Energv SuDOLies (FY88-FY94)
(MTOE & % Shares)
-------- FY93 --------                         Annual
FY88          Seventh PLan                        FY94         Growth
Actual            Taraet         Actual           Actual        FY88-94
Gross Primary
Energy Supply         24.63  (100)    37.5  (100)      32.92  (100)     34.75  (100 )    5.91%
Oil & Petroleum        9.56  (38.9)   14.9  (39.7)    13.21  (40.2)    14.56  (41.9)    7.27%
Domestic Crude         2.09   (8.5)    3.8  (10.1)      2.80   (8.5)     2.77   (8.0)      4.79%
Imported Crude        3.76  (15.3)    4.4  (11.7)      3.94  (12.0)      4.00  (11.5)      1.05%
Imported Products     3.71  (15.1)    6.7  (17.9)      6.47  (19.7)      7.79  (22.4)    13.16%
Natural Gas           9.23  (37.5)   15.2  (40.5)    12.41  (37.7)       13.13  (37.8)    6.04%
Coal                   1.79   (7.2)    3.6   (9.6)     2.12  (6.4)       2.30   (6.6)     4.26%
Domestic               1.23   (5.0)       n.a.          1.46  (4.4)      1.58   (4.6)     4.27%
Imported                .56   (2.2)       n.a.          .65  (2.0)         .72   (2.0)    4.25%
Primary
Electricity           4045  (16.4)    3.8  (10.1)      5.18  (15.7)      4.76  (13.7)     2.74%
Hydro                 3.98  (16.2)    3.7   (9.9)      5.04  (15.3)      4.64  (13.4)     2.72%
NucLear                 .06   (0.2)   0.1    (.3)       .14  (0.4)        .12   (0.3)    11.78%
Source: Hydrocarbon Development Institute of Pakistan.
ImDlementation of Policy Reforms
20.     Pricing Reforms A major focus of the program was on timely adjustmnents in electricity, natural
gas and petroleum prices. Producer prices, especially for natural gas, have been substantially enhanced
in recent years. Under the 1991 Petroleum Policy (para 25) these were revised (from the ESL-11 agreed
level of two-thirds the border price of fuel oil) to full parity with the fuel oil border price. The 1994
Petroleum Policy (para 27) further improved on this by linking the gas producer price to a basket of
international crudes, thus meeting a long standing demand of the industry. As discussed in the mission's
aide-memoire (Appendix A, paras 14-17), consumer prices were adjusted periodically, to enable the
entities to finance a reasonable portion of their investments through ICG and pass on the increases in
import costs to consumers. The only exception was the failure to achieve the target regarding household
gas prices (full parity with the border price of fuel oil by June 1993), mainly because gas prices were not
increased between April 1991 and August 1993. The target date for achieving the agreed parity was thus
amended to April 1995 under the Public Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 3645/Credit 2542-PAK).
Subsequently, residential gas prices were raised in June and November 1994, and June 1995, to reach
the target levels. The agreement on consumer prices of petroleum products specified that GOP was to
pass on any increase in import costs to consumers through increases in domestic prices. While the intent
of this agreement was to maintain, over time, the same margin between domestic and import prices as
had prevailed at the time of ESL-II appraisal, the actual wording left considerable discretion to GOP in
determining how much of the increase in import costs was to be passed on to consumers and the time
period for implementing these increases. Since these price increases had a revenue impact (the difference
between domestic and import costs of petroleum products is a direct and significant source of revenue
for the Government's budget), at times considerable discussions between GOP, the Bank and the IMF
were required before agreement was reached on whether the specific price increases were in line with
adjustment program targets, particularly with regard to mobilizing additional revenues for the budget.
21.     Another area of concern identified in this ICR is the somewhat less than satisfactory progress in
rationalizing the structure of electricity prices among consumer categories. Such rationalization was
aiming at the reduction of subsidies to the residential and agricultural sectors. Increases in power tariffs
for commercial and industrial consumers were larger than for residential consumers (Part nl, Table 6);



-8-
thus the ratio of commercial/industrial to residential tariffs widened. Increases in electricity tariffs for
the largest slab of residential consumers (consuming over 300 kWh/month) were also, until recently,
almost the same as for the medium slab (between 151-300 kWh/month). If this trend continues, the
competitiveness of commercial and industrial activities could be affected; also, the effectiveness of pricing
policies in restraining demand growth and promoting efficiency in energy use (a key GOP objective)
could be limited. More recent electricity tariff adjustments (e.g., in 1994 and 1995) have introduced
greater progressivity in the tariff structure, and tariffs for the largest consumption slabs (consuming 600-
1000 kWh/month, and over 1000 kWh/month) are now significantly higher than the average, and
approaching those of the industrial and commercial sectors.
22.   Social AsRects of the Program. Using some data from the Household Energy Strategy Study
(financed by the United Nations Development Program with the Bank as executing agency), the
completion mission carried out a preliminary analysis of the impact of recent increases in energy prices
on household budgets; Table 6, Part II presents the results. In 1990, energy accounted for 19.6% of total
expenditures for low income households; the share for medium and high income households was 12.5 %,
and under 6%. By 1994, these shares rose to 20.6%, 14.3% and 7.4%, respectively. While the recent
increases had a larger impact on high and medium income households, low income households continue
to expend a larger portion of their incomes on energy than high or medium income households. Thus,
low energy prices in the past do not appear to have benefitted the low income groups; in fact the major
beneficiaries of such policies appears to have been the more prosperous segments of the population.
However, GOP continues to provide some relief to the lower income groups, by maintaining the price
of kerosene (which is used mainly by low income households, for lighting as well as cooking) at or below
the border price.  Concurrently, GOP is implementing (with Bank support through the Rural
Electrification Project, Loan 3148-PAK and Credit 2078-PAK, for US$160 million, approved in
December 1989), a comprehensive program for extending electricity supply to rural areas. While
considerable delays have been encountered in implementation of this project, contracts amounting to over
75% of the Loan/Credit amount had been awarded by early 1996, and it is expected that implementation
will improve in the near future.
23.   Studies and Action Plans. The agreed studies were carried out (albeit with delays in consultant
selection), and action plans covering energy conservation, environmental issues, and a household energy
sector were prepared and reviewed with the Bank.5' Implementation of reforms based on the
recommendations of these studies was slower than envisaged. For example, environmental emission
standards are being enforced only partially by GOP; and, the entities have only recently initiated steps
to strengthen environmental management capacities. Similarly, while selected energy conservation
programs were started, implementation of a comprehensive strategy for energy efficiency and
conservation was not initiated.
24.   Institutional Development. The agreed program (involving, inter alia, the establishment of an
autonomous Distribution Wing in WAPDA, a financial restructuring plan for KESC, financial
performance criteria and promulgation of Rules under the OGDC Ordinance, and preparation of a strategy
for privatization of SSGC) was directed mainly towards improving the financial position and strengthening
the operational autonomy of the entities.  These activities were largely completed during the
implementation of the Loan. Specifically: (a) an autonomous Distribution Wing was established in
WAPDA; and (b) the restructuring program for OGDC was implemented. The Bank agreed to waive
the requirement for preparing a strategy for the privatization of SSGC at the time of effectiveness of ESL-
S' Part II, Table 8 provides the status of all the agreements reached under the Loan, including those
related to pricing reforms, studies, action plans, institutional development programs, and other
agreements.



-9-
II. The financial restructuring plan for KESC was not prepared. However, subsequently GOP has
initiated the privatization of both KESC and SSGC without a major restructuring (which was envisaged
under ESL-II) of KESC.
25.   While ESL-I1 provided an overall program for promoting efficiency in sector operations and
mobilizing additional private sector financing, GOP's policy framnework for the sector has evolved, and
improved, over time. GOP's long term framework for the sector envisages that most ownership and
management functions would devolve to the private sector, energy prices would be set by competitive
market forces, while the Government would focus on policy preparation and establish a transparent
regulatory framework for the sector. A Petroleum Policy announced in November 1991 set the stage for
the deregulation of petroleum activities. GOP has also refined the review and approval process and
security package agreements for private power investments. These efforts culminated, in early 1995, in
the financial closure of the Hub Power Project (1,292 MW), which is being implemented by the private
sector on a Build-Own-Operate basis (para 16). In March 1995, GOP broadened the scope for private
sector involvement in power by introducing incentives for private investment in 500 kV transmission
lines, and in hydropower projects off the Indus River.
New Policy Developments
26.   Major features of the Government's subsequent Policy announcements are described in paras 27-
28 below.
27.   Pricing reforms introduced by GOP for enhancing the attractiveness of the sector for private
investments in fact exceeded the ESL-I1 targets. Under the Policy Framework and Package of Incentives
for Private Sector Power Generation Proiects in Pakistan, announced in March 1994, the Government
offered (in addition to duty exemptions, concessions and guarantees, and further streamlining of the
review and approval process) an attractive bulk tariff (US6.5 cents per kWh during the first ten years of
operation, with a levelized tariff of US 5.9 cents per kWh over the thirty-year contract period) for power
purchases from private generation projects. This Policy was very favorably received by private investors,
and following a large number of applications by private sponsors, the Government issued Letters of
Support to the sponsors of 34 such projects, with aggregate capacity in excess of 9,000 MW. Up to the
end of January 1996, financial closure had been reached for five of these projects with a total capacity
of 1,030 MW. A new Petroleum Policy, also announced in March 1994, enhanced the incentives for oil
and gas exploration, eliminated discretionary discounts on the well head price, and introduced specific
incentives for private investment in petroleum infrastructure (pipelines and storages) and in new
refineries. Concurrently, the Government has initiated the establishment of independent and transparent
regulatory frameworks for the power, natural gas and petroleum sub-sectors.
28.   Important institutional reforms were also introduced by GOP subsequent to ESL-II which
exceeded the ESL-II objectives. GOP initiated in 1991 a plan for restructuring and privatizing the power
sector, including the commnercialization and corporatization of WAPDA's assets and privatization of some
assets of WAPDA and KESC. This un-bundling of activities, along with an independent regulatory
framework, would substantially enhance the competitive environment, and promote autonomy and
accountability in the sector; the Bank is supporting the program through the Power Sector Development
Project (Loan 3764-PAK, US$230 million, approved in June 1994). Bids have been initiated for the
1,600 MW Kot Addu thermal power plant. GOP is also implementing (with Bank support under a
privatization program for SNGPL under Loans 3252-0-PAK and 3252-1-PAK (para 17); the Asian
Development Bank is supporting a similar program for SSGC. A program for the privatization of OGDC
has been initiated; the first phase, envisaging the conversion of OGDC into a Joint Stock Company under
the Companies Ordinance 1984, is expected to be completed by end of FY96.



-10-
E. Major Factors Affecting the Program
29.   Though there were a number of changes in Government during the implementation of ESL-II,
the deregulation and privatization program for the sector was supported consistently by successive
Governments. As a result, implementation was not significantly affected by the changes at the political
level. This continued support of the political leadership augurs well for the sustainability of the reform
program in the future.
30.   The investment component financed through the Bank Loan was delayed, and the Closing Date
had to be extended twice, by a total of three years. While the first extension (of two years, at the time
of approval of the Supplemental Loan) was mainly to allow for the implementation of investments
financed by this Loan, even this extension was inadequate for enabling the entities to disburse the
available funds. The investment targets for the Seventh Plan (in real terms) were thus not achieved in
a timely manner because of continued delays in procurement by the entities and the difficulties in
reforming the cumbersome procurement procedures of the entities.
31.   The envisaged level of private investment was not achieved during the Plan. This outcome was
essentially outside the Government's control, because it reflected mainly the reluctance of the international
financial community to provide additional financing (under limited recourse) for private investments in
Pakistan without stronger Govermnent guarantees, i.e., the obligations of the public sector agencies under
the security package for such investments.
F. Sustainability
32.   Experience under ESL-II indicates that the direction of the reform process has been in line with
expectations. Specifically, pricing reforms have enhanced the attractiveness of energy sector investments
in Pakistan. Measures adopted for enhancing operational and financial autonomy, including the
restructuring and privatization program, have received strong Government support; however, the
Government's initial efforts to privatize the gas utilities, through placement on the Karachi Stock
Exchange, were not very effective. The emphasis placed by successive Govermnents on the reform
program, particularly with regard to privatization and deregulation, indicates that policy reforms
undertaken during the last five years are likely to be sustained. A continued dialogue between GOP and
the Bank would further enhance the prospects for sustainability of the reform program in future years.
G. Bank Performance
33.   ProRram Design. The reform program was developed jointly by the Bank and GOP, following
extensive consultations during preparation, appraisal and negotiations. The experience under ESL-I was
kept in consideration, and the CIP for different sub-sectors was carefully worked out. A matrix of policy
issues was jointly prepared, with actions to be taken clearly identified. The program design was robust
and laid the foundation for concerted efforts by the Government.
34.   Program Appraisal. The reform program was appraised by the Bank in February 1989, when
a new Government had just taken over in Pakistan. Because of the successful implementation of ESL-1
and the strong commitment of the Government to the process of macro-economic adjustment, agreement
was reached by June 1989. The Bank exercised due diligence in appraising the program and in
determining the extent to which reforms could be implemented.
35.   Implementation Experience. Program implementation was facilitated by the continuity of Bank
staff assigned to supervise ESL-II and periodic discussions between Bank supervision missions, the



-11-
Government, and executing agencies. These discussions enhanced GOP's awareness of critical issues and
ensured a speedy resolution of problems. There were six full supervision missions, including the
completion mission, and over 204 staffweeks, including consultants input, were spent by the Bank in
supervising ESL-I1. The quality of consultants work is judged to be good throughout (Part II, Tables 10
and 11).
H. Borrower Performnance
36.   Commitment to Program Obiectives. The Government's strong commitment to the program
objectives resulted in a gradual liberalization of the sector during the Seventh Plan. Consequently, energy
prices were liberalized, and more market- oriented and transparent pricing regimes were introduced.
Actions were also taken to decentralize decision making, promote administrative and financial autonomy,
and further increase private participation in all phases of energy production, transport and delivery. The
privatization and deregulation of sector activities exceeded that envisaged. This outcome is primarily due
to the commitment of successive Governments to the objectives of the reform program.
37.   Actions Taken. Timin, and Scope. The policy to liberalize the sector was well conceived, and
policy declarations were made by successive Governments in a timely manner. The target dates for
specific actions were fairly ambitious and required revisions in some of the targets. Even with these
revisions, some slippages were observed. While policy objectives were clearly spelled out, the enabling
environment for deregulation of the sector was developed subsequently. For example, the regulatory
framework for the power sector is being established, while for other sub-sectors the process has been
initiated only recently.
38.   A number of projects for enhancing energy supplies were implemented. As a result, electricity
load-shedding (which reached its maximum in 1993) has declined, while natural gas shortfalls are also
expected to be reduced following the commissioning of the Dhodak, Qadirpur and Kadanwari gas field
facilities.
39.   Limited progress was achieved in rationalizing the structure of electricity prices. Domestic tariffs
were raised by a smaller percentage than industrial and commercial tariffs; similarly, flat tariffs for
agricultural tubewells and for tribal areas continue. GOP's reluctance to carry out these reforms to their
full extent probably reflects its concern over the likely impact of such reforms on household budgets.
40.   Procurement and Disbursements. Procurement of goods and disbursements were in accordance
with Bank guidelines, and no discrepancies were observed. The pace of disbursements was relatively
slow in the earlier years due primarily to the lack of familiarity of concerned officials with Bank
procurement procedures.
1. Assessment of Outcome
41.   Overall, implementation of the ESL-II program was highly satisfactory, and major program
objectives were achieved, particularly as regards the adjustment component.  One of the major
achievements was the annual agreement between GOP and the Bank on a CIP for the sector which was:
(a) a realistic balance between public and private investment; (b) consistent with macro-economic targets
regarding overall investment; and, (c) in line with the resources available for such investments. Regular
consultations between GOP and the Bank, which enhanced the Bank's perception of the imperatives of
the sector and enabled GOP to understand better the Bank's viewpoint regarding liberalization and private
sector involvement in energy development, also allowed GOP to develop and implement programs for
further liberalization of sector activities. Not only has GOP adopted an innovative vision for the sector



-12-
as part of its own strategy, it has been receptive to Bank advice based on the experiences in other
countries. This correspondence of views has improved the policy environment for the sector and
established the basis for enhanced private investmnents in future years.
42.   While the preparation of an umbrella policy loan (which could serve as the basis for investments
in all subsectors) had considerable merit, in retrospect, the design of ESL-11 was perhaps too complex.
It was therefore difficult for the Bank to achieve (i.e., at the time of second tranche release) the right
balance between the objectives of price rationalization and institutional reforms (which should in any case
be viewed as a long-term process) and the more pressing need for making the required resources available
for the CIP which was also a critical component of the program. ESL-II experience thus indicates that
agreements on policy reforms should be limited in number and clearly defined as to their intent and
priority; more explicit linkages between the priority actions and the availability of resources could, thus,
enhance the utility and leverage of tranche releases for ensuring and securing the implementation of
reforms.
43.   While most of the policy reforms were carried out, there have been delays in some of the
institutional development components. For example, the financial restructuring program for KESC was
not prepared and GOP decided in 1993 to privatize the utility as it was; the privatization program has,
however, been delayed. The financial restructuring program for OGDC (financial perfornance criteria
were to be adopted by July 1991) was implemented from FY93, following agreement under the Domestic
Energy Resources Development Project (Loan 3500-PAK, US$180 million, approved in June 1992).
Programs to strengthen environmental management capabilities have also been initiated only recently by
OGDC and WAPDA.
44.   Cofinancing was provided by JEXIM Bank. The recipients reported a number of difficulties in
utilizing funds available under both the JEXIM and Bank loans. Staff in the entities were relatively
unfamiliar with JEXIM and Bank procurement and disbursement requirements, which resulted in delays
in disbursements and non-utilization of a small part of the funds.
J. Future Oneration
45.   An Operation Plan was prepared and agreed with GOP during the completion mission (Appendix
A, Attachment 1). Involvement of the Bank in the energy sector in Pakistan is strong, and both new
lending and ongoing projects are linked to an agreed program and continuous policy dialogue with the
Government. The actions outlined in the Operation Plan will therefore continue to be monitored during
supervision of ongoing projects as well as preparation of new investment operations.
K. Lessons Leared
46.   Important Lessons. The ESL-I1 implementation experience provides important insights on factors
which contributed to its success as well as on areas where the design of the program could have
improved. The major lessons are summarized below:
(a) the design of a sectoral reform progran should involve extensive consultations with the
Govemrnent, as well as the potential beneficiaries. In the case of ESL-II these consultations
enabled GOP and the Bank to agree on a program that was realistic in scope and the phasing of
reforms, and which could be implemented within a reasonable time frame by GOP (para 8);



-13-
(b) the designation of a single agency (Energy Wing) to coordinate policy-making and implementation
activities under the Loan has facilitated timely decisions, as well as actions, by GOP and the
entities;
(c) a continuous dialogue and monitoring of the program by GOP and the Bank has helped in
developing a correspondence of views and consistency of policies and strategy. Additional
reforms implemented by GOP during the period, while representing primarily the Government's
priorities for the sector, also reflected the ongoing dialogue between GOP and the Bank;
(d) despite considerable efforts to strengthen the procurement and contract management skills of the
entities, delays in procurement continued to be observed. There may thus be a need for
preparatory and continuous training of staff in the executing agencies, in order to develop and
maintain the required procurement skills;
(e) the somewhat less than satisfactory progress in rationalizing the structure of energy prices
probably reflects GOP's reluctance to carry out such reforns without a more rigorous analysis
of the justification for these reforms and of their likely impact on household expenditures. ESL-
n experience therefore suggests the need for more intensive investigation of such issues before
any agreement on the scope and phasing of price rationalization programs is reached between
GOP and the Bank; and
(f) agreements on policy reforms should be limited in number, and more explicit linkages between
priority actions and availability of resources should be defined. This would enhance the utility
and leverage of tranche releases to ensure and secure the implementation of reforms.



-14-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN 11
(Loans 3107-0-PAK and 3107-1-PAK)
PART n - STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assements
A. Achievement of Obiectives      Substantial        Partial         Nelizible     Not Aoplicable
Macroeconomic Policies           (9)               0                O                 0
Sector Policies                 (V)                0                0                 0
Financial Objectives            (V)                0                0                 0
Institutional Development        (9)               0                0                 0
Physical Objectives              (/)               0                0                 0
Poverty Reduction                 0                0                0                (/)
Gender Concerns                   0                0                0
Other Social Objectives           0                0                0                (V)
Environmental Objectives          0                0                ()                0
Public Sector Management          0               (/)               0                (W)
Private Sector Development       (5')              0                0                 0
Other (specify)                   0                0                D                (/)
B. Project Sustainability           Likelv                  Unlikl                    Uncertain
(1)                      0                          0
C. Bank Performance               Satisadtorv              Satisfactory               Deficient
Identification                   (')                       0                         0
Preparation Assistance           (1)                       0                         0
Appraisal                        ()                        0                         0
Supervision                      ()                        O                         O
Highl
D. Borrower Performance          Saitor                   Saisfactor                  Deficient
Preparation                     (V)                        0                         0
Implementation                    n                       (5)                        0
Covenant Compliance               0                       (5)                        0
E. Assessment of Outcome         Sat-satory       Saisfaor        Unsaisctory    Uns--actorv
para 16                         (V)                0                0                0



Table - 2: Related Bank Loans and Credits
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN II (Loans 3107-PAR and 3107-1-PAKR
Credit/Loan No. & Title                     Purpose                                       Year of           Status             Co _ enta
Approval IFY)
A. Prtcedi3nq oDeqratio.a
Creitd   2 P3-PAK                       Upgrading capacity of transmission network            FY70    Closed  Completed with delay of five year.
WAPDA Power Project
Loan 1107-PAR                           Finance a time slice of investment program            FY75     Closed  Completed with four years delay; the project
Fourth Sui Northern                     of Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Ltd (SNGPL)                               contributed to expansion of SNGPL transmission
Gas Pipelines Project                   covering FY75-79                                                         system capacity from about 300 to 415 MMCFD
Loan 1208-PAN                           Finance part of 500 kV transmission system,           FY76    Closed  Successfully completed but with one
2nd NAPDA Power Project                 connecting hydro in north and thermal                                   year delay
WAPDA II                                generation in south
Credit 867-PAK                          Boost oil supplies from Toot; evaluate                FY79    Closed
Toot Oil and Gas Development            potential of Dhodak discovery; improve OGDC
Project                                 operation skills
Credit 968-PAK                          Finance 4-year tranche of program for dev.            FY79    Closed  Successfully completed but with
3rd rAPDA Power Project                 of secondary transmission                                                three years delay
Loan 2324-PAR                           Finance a time slice of investment program of         FY53     Closed  Completed with four years delay; the project
Fifth Sui Northern Gas                  SNGPL for FYS4-86; address policy issues                                 enhanced SNGPL's system capacity by about
Pipelines Project                       of gas price, allocation, financial position, etc.                       50 MMCFD
Un
Loan 2351-PAN                           Accelerate exploration for natural gas in             FY84      Closed  Completed with two years delay; the project
Petroleum Exploration Project           Pakistan and promote joint-venture exploration                           contributed towards appreciable increase in
by foreign and domestic oil companies                                   exploration activities during the late 1980's
Loan 2374-PAR                           Accelerate oil/gas production from Toot,  FY84                  Closed
2nd Toot Oil Development                improve OGDC's field development practices
Project                                 and institution-building
Loan 2499-PAN                           Finance 4-year tranche of program for                 FY85      Closed  Successfully completed but with three years
4th UAPDA Power Project                 development of secondary transmission                                    delay
Loan 25S2-PAR                           Finance GOP program for policy reform and              FY85     Closed  Successfully completed
Energy Sector Loan                      institutional development during 6th Five
Year Plan (FY83-00)
Loan 2553-PAR                           Support GOP's etrategy of increasing                  FYB5    Closed  Completed with two years delay; GOP was
Petroleum RemourceJ Joint               private mector investment for development of                             successful in substantially enhancing PS
Venturs Project                         the petroleum sector                                                     participation; 23 new JV agreements were
WAPDA V                                                                                                          signed by 1990
Loan 2556-PAR                           Assist WAPDA In reinforcement of ENV power            FY85      Closed  Completed with a delay of 3 years; Guddu-
5th UAPDA Power Project                 transmission network and reducing transmission                           Jamehoro section completed in August 1995
losses
Loan 2698-PAR                           Installation of 200 MU additional                      FY86     Closed  completted with two years delay
rot Addu Combined Cycle                 generating capacity at Kot Addu                                          PCR dated November 27, 1995
Project                                 Power Station
Loan 2792-PAn                           Finance program for the rehabilitation of              FY87     Closed  Completed with two years delay
Power Plant Efficiency                  seven power plants and addition of combined
Improvement Project                     cycle generation at two power plants
Loan 2842-PAR                           Improve operational efficiency at NRL by               FY87     Ongoing The balancing and modernization components
Refinery Energy Conservation            reducing energy consumption, increasing crude                            have been completed; Closing date extended
and Modernization Project               processing capacity, and modifying the                                   to June 30, 96 to allow for completion of
output mix to better match product demand                                captive power plant utilizing exhaust gases



Table - 2: Related Blank Loans and Credits
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN ZI (Loans 3107-PAs and 3107-1-PAR)
Credit/Loan No. & Title                     Purpose                                       Year of           status             Comments
Approval (Frl
Loan 2982-PAS                           Assist GOP in mobilizing Private Sector (PS)          FY89    Ongoing Implementation of PS projects was substantially
Private Sector Energy                   financing for energy investments and develop                            delayed during PY90-93; construction of Hub
Development Project                     institutional framework for sustaining                                   Power project is now proceeding satisfactorily
(PSBDP-I)                               PS investment/operations in the sector                                  Closing Date extended to Dec. 31, 1999 (tocorrespond
with PSEDPII)
B. Following operations
Loan 3147-PAK                           Assist WAPDA in extending 500 kV transmission         PY90    Ongoing being implemented
Transmission Extension and              system, and connect the Hub Power Plant
Reinforcement Project                   to the grid
UAPDA VIIS
Loan 3148-PAK/Credit 2073-PAK           Improve standard of living in rural areas by          FY90    Ongoing being implemented
Rural Ulectrification Project           extension of electricity supply to about 6000
new villages
Loan 3252-PAK                           Assist GOP in privatization of SNGPLI expand          FY91      Ongoing Being implemented
SNGPL Corporate Restructuring           its purification, transmission and distribution
and System Bxpansion Project            network demand management and institutional
development of SNGPL
Loan 3500-PAZ                           Accelerate development of hydrocarbons by PS           FY92    Ongoing Being implemented
Domestic Bnergy Resources               resources, delivery to consumers, enhancing
Development Project                     commercial orientation of public-sector
entities, and GOP regulation/policy-making
Loan 3764-PAK                           Finance part of UAPDA's FY95-99 investment plan   FY94          Ongoing Approved June 1994, and declared effective
Power Sector Development                for 500 kV secondary transmission and                                    April 11, 199S
Project                                 dirtribution system, and implement restructuring
and privatization program for WAPDA
Loan 3612-PAZ                           Replenish the PSEDF established under Loan             FY9S    Ongoing Loan declared effective on Jan 19, 1995
Second Private Sector Energy            2962-PAK for financing PS investments in energy
Development Project                     and infrastructure projects
IPSEDP-II)
Loan 3965-PAK                           Construction of the Ghazi-Barotha Hydropower           FY96    Apprvd. Loan not yet effective
Ghazi-Barotha Rydropower                Plant.  It includes:  (a) a barrage and ancillary               12/9S
Project (WAPDA XI)                      works near ahari village, (b) a 52 km long
concrete-lined power channel and its ancillary
works; and (cl a power complex and ancillary
works. The project also includes construction
of power evacuation facilities; implementation
of Environmental Management and Resettlement Action
Plans; and technical assistance for enhancing power
sector reforms and other institutional studies.



-17-
Table - 3: Project Timetable
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN Ii (Loans 3107-0-PAX and 3107-1-PAX)
Steps in project cycle            Date planned             Date actual/
latest estimate
------------------------------------------------------____ ---__ --------------__ -______
1.  Identification                -                        February 1987
2.  Preparation                  October 1988              November 1988
3. Appraisal                     February 1989             February 1989
4. Negotiations                  April 1989                May 15-19, 1989
S. Letter of Dev. Policy         June 1989                 June 4, 1989
6. Board Presentation            June 1989                 June 29, 1989
( -   -   ) Suppl. Loan      -                        June 21, 1991
7. Signinq of the loan           July/August 1989          December 8, 1989
) Suppl. Loan                                July 8, 1991
8. Loan Effectiveness            November 1989            March 8, 1990
( -   -  ) Suppl. Loan       -                        January 22, 1992
9. First Tranche Release         November 1989            March 8, 1990
10. Mid-term review              N.A.                     N.A.
11. 2nd Tranche Release          June 1990                December 1991
12. Project Completion           June 30, 1991            June 30, 1994
13. Loan Closing                 December 31, 1991 1/    December 31, 1994
J1/ Extended to December 31, 1993 along vith the approval of the Supplemental Loan
(Loan 3107-1-PAK)



-18-
Table - 4: Cumulative Batimated and Actual Disbursements
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN II (Loan. 3107-0-PAX and 3107-1-PAK)
(US$ thousands)
Fiscal Year/     Appraisal      Actual   Actual as t      Cumulative
Semester      Estimate                of estimate   Appraisal      Actual
FY1990
Jul-Dec            77500            0           .0't     77500            0
Jan-Jun            77500        89930        32.3*      155000       89930
FY1991:
Jul-Dec            47500        12320        36.81      202500      1022S0
Jan-Jun            47500        18600        43.51      250000      120850
FY1992:
Jul-Dec            28000        67880        67.9%      278000      188730
Jan-Jun           -             22340        75.9%      278000      211070
FY1993:
Jul-Dec           -             16050        81.7*      278000      227120
Jan-Jun           -              7730        84.5t      278000      234850
PY1994:
Jul-Dec           -              7430        87.2*      278000      242280
Jan-Jun           -              1110        87.6%      278000      243390
FY199S:
Jul-Dec           -             11120        91.0     278000       254510
Jan-Jun           -              8380        94.0     278000       262890
FY1996
Jul-Dec           -           (-) 680 j/      -        278000       262210
---------------------------------------------------------------__----------
Total               278000       262210
Amount Cancelled: US$15,791,033.65. US$7,823,089.03 was cancelled under Loan
3107-0-PAX on June 22, 199S, and US$7,207,590.11 under Loan 3107-1-PAK on January
26, 1995. Following the recovery of initial deposits in the Special Accounts under
Loan 3107-0-PAZ during July end August 199S, additional amount of US$680,355.51
was cancelled under Loan 3107-0-PAX in August 1995.
Date of last disbursement:        Loan 3107-0-PAX           August 24, 1995
Loan 3107-1-PAl          Jan. 26, 1995
_/ Remaining refund of initial deposit. made by the Bank in the Special Accounts.



-19-
Table - 5s Planned and Revised allocations and Utilization
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN 1I MLoanx 3107-0-PAl and 3107-1-PAX)
(USS Thouands)
Entity                            Appraisal         Revised           Actual
Major Contracts                         Estimate          Target           Accomplishment
I. Investment Comaonents
A. WAPDA:    Sub-Total                       57500.0         77140.0            68838.4
Distribution Operations (C&O)                                                    7504.7
Thermal Design & Development (DDTH)                                             18067.6
Hydel Plants (HYD)                                                               3376.5
Secondary Transmission & Grid (STG)                                             29111.6
Thermal Operations (THOP)                                                        2253.3
Others                                                                           8254.7
B. XSC:    Sub-Total                        17500.0         24000.0            24002.7
PLC Equipment-Lot A and its erection                                             546.4
PLC Equipment-Lot a and its erection                                             993.2
PLC Equipment-Lot C and its erection                                            2949.1
132 kV underground T/L and accessories                                         11575.2
132 kV overhead transmission line                                                 56.8
132 kV u/g oil-filled cable/accesesories                                        6274.8
Conductor:220 kV T/L XA 33-Baldia grids                                         1396.1
Others                                                                           211.1
C. OGC      Sub-Total                       27500.0         25960.0            22999.5
Casing and Accessories (10 contracts)                                           3542.9
Drilling Accessories (17 contracts)                                             1607.2
Seamless Line Pipe (4 contracts)                                                 429.7
Production Material (18 contracts)                                               585.9
Valves (7 contracts)                                                            1561.8
Lab. Equipment/Chemicals (19 contractg)                                         3134.2
Spares (58 contracts)                                                           6240.2
Pump/Generators (8 contracts)                                                   2231.7
Miscellaneous Contracts (17)                                                    3665.9
D. SNGPL:    Sub-Total                      1450.0           6000.0             5680.1
Ongoing works from BSL-I                                                         568.0
Distribution system                                                             1317.0
Transmission system                                                             2033.0
Pipeline construction                                                           1668.0
Contingencies                                                                     94.0
E. SSGC;     Sub-Total                       5000.0         19900.0            15790.7
Turbine Compressors                                                             6877.6
Pre-coated line pipe etc.                                                       3458.2
Other miscellaneous macerials/equipment                                         5454.9
PMDC/Others                                  3000.0             0.0                0.0
Total Investment Component                 125000.0        153000.0           137311.4
II. Adjustment Component                   125000.0        125000.0           124897.8
Total                                      250000.e        278000.0           262209.2



-20-
Table - 6: Electricity and Gas Tariffs, and Household Energy Expenditures
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN II (Loans 3107-0-PAK and 3107-1-PAK)
A. LEVELS OF ELECTRICITY TARIFFS
(Paisas/klNh)
FY89     FY90      PY91      FY92     FY93      PY94      ACGR
Residential:                                                                               FY9o-94
Low Cons. Slab ( I   50 kWh/mo)       49        51        54       61        76        s0    11.91%
Low Cons. Slab (51-150 kWh/mo)        56        63        67       75        95       102    12.80B
Med Cons Slab (151-300 KWh/mo)        59        71        81       91       117       130    16.32%
High Cons Slab (> 300 kWh/mo)        102       148       161      161       210       238    12.62*
Commercial:
Small scale (c 100 kWh)              1B5       236      256       287       317      419    15.43%
Large scale (Above 100 kWh)          203       256      278       311       341      451    15.21%
Industrial:
Small scale, 230/400 V (B-1)         117       155      168       189       219      289    16.85%
Large scale, 11/33 kV (B-3)           78       111      121       137       167      231    20.11%
D. GAS CONSUMER PRICBS
FY89     FY90      FY91     FY92      FY93      FY94     ACGR
Domestic:                                                                                  IY9 0-94
Low Income ( < 3.55 Mcf/mo.)       26.00    26.78    31.00    31.00    31.00    37.45         8.75*
Middle Income(3.SS-7.1 Mcf/mo)   30.50    27.56    34.10    34.10    34.10    44.04    12.43%
High Income ( , 7.1 Mcf/mo.)       35.02    33.56    38.75    38.75    38.75    52.73    11.96%
Commercial                         53.40    53.40    61.41    61.41    61.41    76.27         9.32%
Industrial:
General Industry                   47.45    47.45    54.57    54.57    54.57    67.77         9.32t
Cement                             47.45    47,45    54.57    54.57    54.57    67.77         9.32t
Fertilizer-feedstock               22.50    22.50    22.50    22.50    22.50    22.50        0.00%
Power:
Pipeline Quality                   47.45    47.45    54.57    54.57    54.57    67.77        9.32*
Sui-Raw                            12.33    19.61    25.39    30.68    39.66    56.34    30.48%
JUhndkot-Raw                       ll.S9    18.46    23.20    29.92    37.40    53.59    30.53%
Mari-Raw                           11.00    15.94    20.70    25.02    32.40    46.51    30.70%
C. OVERALL HOUSEHOLD AND FUEL EXPENDITURE
Units            Low     Medium    High    All House-  Low/High
Income  Income    Income  holds         Income
1990
Annual Budget/Expenditure            Rs/Year           13122   29175      85970   33016
Amnual Fuel Expenditure              Re/Year            2572    3651       5052    3541
Fuel Expenditure proportion             %              19.60   12.51       5.88   10.73
Electricity share in Fuel Budget        i               1.18    1.33       1.46    1.35
Gas share in Fuel Budget                %               0.19    0.37       0.41    0.36
Ratio: Fuel budget                                                                               3.33
Annual Elect price increase (1990-4)                   2 11.91   16.32    12.61
Annual Gas price increase (1990-4)    %                 8.75   12.43      11.96
1994
Electricity share in Fuel Budget        %               2.07    2.83       2.64
Ges share in Fuel Budget                %               0.29    0.66       0.72
Fuel Expenditure proportion             %              20.59   14.30       7.37
Ratio: Fuel budget                                                                               2.79



Table - 7: INVESTMENT PROGRAMS AND FINANCING PLANS (FYs 89-93)
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN II (Loans 3107-0-PAi  and 3107-i-PAR)
(Re Million)                                                                   Total Seventh Plan
FY89          F~~~       ~       ~~Y90  FY9,1        f,1                 F Y93                       (FY89-931                      FY94
Apprisal Actual  AppraiiaT Actual  Aporainal Actual  Apprai i Actual  AbOraisal Atual                                  _ Actual
I.  INV8STMENTS                  24383.0  22942.3  24189.0  25409 .0  27026.0  23383.9  26110.0  30580.3  25460.0  34199.5                  127768.0 136514.9                 44689.1
A. UAPDA
Generation
Nydel                          1168.0   1443.0   1517.0   1771.0   1940.0   2738.0   3220.0   3425.0   5500.0   2010.0                    13345.0  11387.0                  1251.0
Thermal                        6389.0   7804.0   5904.0   7929.0   6334.0   5426.0   5441.0  10195.0   3904.0  12170.0                    27972.0  43524.0                 16557.0
Transmission a Grid               3587.0   3061.0   4565.0   3963.0   5638.0   5554 .0   5316.0   7042.0   405S.0   6060.0                    23163.0  25680.0                  5231.0
Distribution                       820.0   1604.0    696.0   2168.0    700.0   2139.0    900.0   1207.0   1150.0   1896.0                      4266.0   9014.0                  1621.0
Rural Electrification             1237.0       0.0   1731.0              1800.0        0.0   2000.0   1912.0   2200.0   1413.0                 8968.0   3325.0                  2012.0
Sub-Total:                   13201.0  13912.0  14413.0  15831.0  16412.0  15657.0  16879.0  23781.0  16809.0  23549.0                    77714.0  92930.0                 26672.0
B. RISC
Generation                        4648.0   3391.4   4001.0   4043.9    772.0   1674.6           0.0      96.2    470.0    299.1                9891.0   9505.2                   872.5
Transmission                       559.0    450.0    367.0    552.3   1283.0    459.1    531.0    485 .9   1817.0    663.4                     4557.0   2610.7                  1409.2
Distribution                       160.0    608.7    320.0   1026.1    480.0   1261.5    720.0   1152.2    896.0   1199.3                      2576.0   5247.8                  1500.1
Others                               0.0   -176.6        0.0    -30.1        0.0     17.7       0.0      48.4       0.0      -9.3                 0.0   -149.9                    31.5
Sub-Total:                    5367.0   4273.5   4688.0   5592.2   2535.0   3412.9   1251.0   1782.8   3183.0   2152.4                    17024.0  17213.8                   3813.3
C. OGODC
Overall Investment                2873.0   2946.8   3037.0   2043.4   3423.0   2101.3   2971.0   2323.8   2628.0   3316.7                     14932.0  12732.1                  5451.2   i.
Sub-Total;                    2873.0   2946.8   3037.0   2043.4   3423.0   2101.3   2971.0   2323.8   2628.0   3316.7                     14932.0  12732.1                  5451.2
D. SNGPL
Project-S                         500.0    294.0        0.0    192.0        0.0     20.0       0.0      34.0       0.0       0.0               500.0    540.0                       0.0
Project-6(Phase-I)                473.0    288.0        0.0    136.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0               473.0    424.0                       0.0
Project-6 Phage-I1)                 0.0       0.0   1539.0        0.0   3262.0    S31.0   3399.0    757.0   2171.0   2024.0                  10371.0   3312.0                   2585.0
Other Project.                    978.0    507.0    508.0    736.0    392.0    870.0    322.0    674.0    110.0   1302.0                      2310.0   4289.0                   2337.0
Sub-Total:                    1951.0   1089.0   2047.0   1064.0   3654.0   1421.0   3721.0   1665.0   2281.0   3326.0                     13654.0   8565.0                  4922.0
B. SSGC
Transeission Pipeline              706.0    102.5    370.0    212.5    674.0    936.9    980.0    148.0    318.0    364.8                      3048.0   1784.7                  1410.7
Other AIwets                         0.0      30.0       0.0    112.7        0.0     41.5        0.0     20.3       0.0    143.1                   0.0    347.7                   123.0
Gas Distribution                   205.0      74.1    233.0    134.4    327.0    277.0    2S3.0    282.9    240.0    444.3                     1258.0   1212.8                    494.6
Ga. Distribution; Other              0.0      29.4       0.0      60.3       0.0     73.0       0.0    164.3         0.0    480.4                  0.0    807.4                   488.0
Meter Manufacturing Division         4.0       0.1       1.0       0.8       1.0       0.7      1.0      36.2       1.0       9.1                  8.0      47.0                   26.3
LPG Bottling Division               76.0       9.4       0.0       6.5       0.0     16.6      54.0        3.9      0.0      18.2                130.0      54.6                   22.9
0th. Capital Work in Progress        0.0    475.4        0.0    351.2        0.0   -754.1       0.0    371.9        0.0    375.4                   0.0    819.8                  1265.0
Sub-Total:                     991.0    721.0    604.0    878.4   1002.0    591.7   1288.0   1027.7    559.0   1855.3                      4444.0   5074.0                  3830.6



Table - 7: INVESTMENT PROGRAMS AND FINANCING PLANS (FY  8a9-93)
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN I                      And 3107-1-PA
(Re Million)                                             ~~~~~~~~~~Total Seventh Plan
FY89                FY90                FY91                FY92                FY9                          (FYS9-93)                     FY94
Appraisal Actual  ApPraisal Actual  Appraisal Actual  Aparai Aaisa  Actual                                    AvDraisal Actual                   Actual
II.  FINANCING PLAN               24383.0  22942.2  24789.0  25409.0  27027.0  23383.9  26109.0  30580.3  25461.0  34199.5                     127769.0 136514.9                  47191.1
A. NAPDA
Internal sources                   3942.0   2860.0   5699.0   1305.0   6030.0   6180.0   6024.0   7248 .0   6755.0   6676.0                      28450.0  24269.0                  4595.0
Foreign Borrowing                  6623.0   5187.0   5553.0   7625.0   7072.0   7590.0   6915.0  12983.0   6397.0  12067.0                       32560.0  45452.0                 14079.0
Borrowing through Budget            126.0    208.0    945 0        81.0   1071.0    116.0   1134.0    207.0   1134.0    186.0                     4410.0    79B.0                   1472.0
Others (Bonds/cons. cont. etc)  2510.0   5657.0   2216.0   6820.0   2239.0   1971.0   2806.0   1431.0   2523.0   3207.0                          12294.0  19086.0                    1472.0
Other Sources for Rural Elect.        0.0       0 .0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0  0   1912.0        0.0   1413.0                  0.0   3325.0                  4514.0
Sub-Total:                   13201.0  13912.0  14413.0  15831.0  16412.0  15857.0  16879.0  23781.0  16809.0  23549.0                       77714.0  92930.0                  29174 .0
B. KESC
Internal financing                  580.0    334.6    766.0   1827.1    117.0   1477.7    566.0   1392.8   1040.0   1987.4                        3669.0   7019.5                  2514.6
Foreign Borrowing                  2986.0   1581.6   2088.0   2087.7    830.0    756.8    269.0    374.0   1081.0    165.0                        7254.0   4965.1                   1298.7
Cash Development loan               132.0   1154.3    847.0         0.0    629.0        0.0    343.0         0.0    622.0        0.0              2573.0   1154.3                      0.0
Local Bank Loans                   1098.0    659.6    362.0   1338.6    156.0   1048.5           58.0      16.1    257.0         0 .0             1931.0   3062.8                      0.0
Customs Debentures                  571.0    543.4    624.0    338 .8    203.0    130.0          15.0        0.0    183.0        0.               1596.0   1012.1                      0 .0
Sub-Total:                    5367.0   4273.5   4687.0   5592.2   2535.0   3412.9   1251.0   1782.8   3183.0   2152.4                        17023.0  17213.9                  3813.3
C. OGDC
Internal sources                      0,0   1534.2        0.0   1189.8    925.0   1846.5   1181.0   1882.0   1135.0   2732.0                      3241.0   9184.4                   4853 .0
Foreign Borrowing                  1706.0    736.5   1708.0    484.7   1893.0    252.7   1585.0            440.4   1386.0    583.8                8278.0   2498.1                    597.9
Borrowing through Budget            302.0    400.3    624.0    114.3          0.0       2.1       0.0        1.4       0.0       1.0               926.0    519.1                      0.3   bj
Other local borrowing (Bonds)       865.0    275.9    705.0    254.6    605.0           0.0    205.0         0.0    108.0        0.0              2488.0      530.5                    0.0  )
Sub-Total:                    2873.0   2946.8   3037.0   2043.4   3423.0   2101.3   2971.0   2323.8   2629.0   3316.7                        14933.0  12732.1                  5451. 2
D. SNGPL
Foreign Loans                       434.0    293.0    758.0    111.0   1406.0    174.0   1261.0    296.0    689.0   1076.0                        4548.0   1950.0                   1098.0
Local Loans:                        389.0    110.0    360.0    340.0    885.0   1158.0    872.0    966.0    169.0    248.0                        2675.0   2822.0                   3652.0
Internal Cash Generation           1128.0    686.0    929.0    613.0   1363.0          89.0   1588.0    403.0   1423.0   2002.0                   6431.0   3793.0                    172.0
Sub-Total:                    1951.0   1089.0    -              . .u   3654.0   1421.0   3721.0   1665.0   2281.0   3326.0                   13654.0   8565.0                   4922.0
E.  SSGC
Equity                                0 .0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0                  0.0       0.0                  842.7
Foreign Loans                       445 .0    422.0    246.0    205.5    510.0    121.9    592.0    212.2    210.0    585.4                       2003.0   1546.9                    980.6
Local loans/leasing                   0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    135.0        0.0       30.1       0.0    238.2                   0.0    403.3                  2036.8
Self generation                     546.0    299.0    359.0    672.9    493.0    334.9    695.0    785.4    349.0   1031.7                        2442.0    3123.8                    -29.5
Sub-Total:                      991.0    721.0    605.0    878.4   1003.0    591.7   1287.0   1027.7    559.0   1855.3                        4445.0   5074.0                   3830.6



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Energy Sector Loan 11 (Loans 3107-0-PAK and 3107-1-PAK)
(As of NovemNber 1995)
Project Development Objectives:  S        Implementation Progress:  S
Coy.             Original      Revised
Agreement   Section       p    statu    Date           DtDbscription ot Covenant                                               Comments
Loan        3.05       12      C         Mar 31,       Sep 30,        Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the            The consultants, funded by USAID,
(a)                         1990          1991           Borrower shall:                                          submitted their report in June 1993,
and                          (appoint                                                                             which includes; (i) model formats for
Sched.                      cons.)                       a) not later than March 31, , 1991 complete a review  lease/concession agreements; (ii)
3                                                        of:                                                      recommendations for reform of the fiscal
CD       Mar 31,        Jun 30,                                                                 incentive framework; and (iii) proposals
1991          1992          i) the arrangements for the granting of coal              for the standardization of rules for
(compl.)                    concessions, including an examination of the             health and safety (in accordance with
contents of concession agreements, with a view to        internationally accepted standards)  The
ensuring consistency of such arrangements with           report was circulated for comment to the
similar arrangements for granting of oil and gas         Provincial Governments.
concessions; and
ii) the fiscal incentive framework for investments
in coal development, with a view to identifying
improvements needed to attract such investments by
l___________ the private sector.
Loan        3. 05      6,      C         Mar 31,                     b) not later than September 30. , 1991, complete a    Complied with.  The forestry master plan
(b)        11               1990                         forestry inventory, and on  the basis thereof,            of the Ministry of Food & Agriculture
and                          (appoint                    formulate a long term reforestation program.              has been completed.                               f
Sched.                      cons.)                                                                                                                                  Cj
3                 C
Sep 30,       Mar 31,
1991          1992
l _________                               (compl.)
Loan        3. 05      11      CD        Mar 31,       Sep 30,       c) not later than March 31, , 1991 complete a study   Complied with. The Bank under a Japanese
l   (c)                    1990          1991           to asses the imuact of higher aas Drices on the           Grant for ESL-I1, appointed consultants
l   and                      (appoint                    ex-factorY orices of fertilizer., and to identify         for the study in September 1992 who
Sched.                      cons.)                       possible investments in retro-fitting and changes in  submitted their final report in February
3                 CD                                     technology needed to improve the efficiency of gas    1994.
Mar 31,       Jun 30,       utilization.
1991          1992
l _________                               (compl.)
Loan        3.05       11      C         Mar 31,       Sep 30,       d) not later then March 31, , 1991, complete a study  The study was completed; the report
(d)                         1990          1991           to:  i) assess the potential for peak *havincof gas  indicated that there is no potential for
and                          (appoint                    consumvtion; and (ii) formulate a tariff structure    peak shaving in the identified field
Sched.                      cons.)                       that promotes peak shaving and prepare time schedule   (Dhulian) because of technical
3                 CD                                     satisfactory to the Bank for the implementation           constraints.
Mar 31,       Jun 30,       thereof.
1991          1992
l ________                                (compl.)                                                                                                                            l
Loan        3.05       11      C         Mar 31,       Jun 30,        e) not later than March 31, , 1991, develop and           The refinery simulation model, prepared
Loan   (e)  11    C         1990          1991           install in MPNR an oil refinerY simulation model to   with the assistance of consultants, was
aInd                         (appoint                    assist in assessing the imat ofaternative                 installed in the Ministry by January
Sched.                      staff and                              ronphostau  mxofrfie                            1995; and is being used for evaluating
3                           cons)                       2Perc.sum pro u        ts, and for this purpose, not later   refinery economics.  Two counterpart
CD                                    then March 31. 1990, appoint in MPNR two additional   professionals appointed by the Ministry
Mar 31,       Jun 30,       staff members with suitable qualifications and             worked with the consultants throughout
(insta        1992          experience                                                the assignment.
_________i model) d



Cow.              Original      Revioed
| Agre- ant   section    Typ   Status    bata            Data           Dacri OtI  of Covenat                                       e     t      :
Loan         3. Os      6       C         Mar 31,                       f) not later than March 31,   1991, complete a study  The study was completed.  Also, lists of
(f1        11                1990                          to eliminate the constraint# to enerqy c              on   energy efficient equipment were
a *nd                         (appoint                     in industry arising from existing tax,  industrial          developed  jointly with Central  0ard ofl
Sched.                        cons.)                       and trade legislation and, on the basis thereof, not  Revenue, for exemption of ouch equipment
3                  C                                       later than June 30, , 1991, establish an incentive          from import taxes and duties. However.
Mar 31,       Dec 31,        framework satisfactory to the Bank to promote such    an overall incentive framework to
1991          1991           energy conservation,                                        promote energy conservation has yet to
sltudy                                                                                  be established.
NC        compl.)
Jun 30,       Mar 31,
1991          1992
(establish
incentive
_________                     framework)
Loan         3 .06      1       C                                       The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be                  Complied with.
la)                                                        maintained record! and accounts ad a           r    ect
in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practice. the expgnditureg finaned out
of the proCeeds of the oan tfor the Adjustment
Program and for the goods and services provided
under the Investment Program for which the Borrower
is responsible.
Loan         3.)06      1. 9   C          Dec 31                        The Borrower shall:                                         Complied with.
(b)                          each year
i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Sect iionincluding those for                                                              N)
the Adiustment Program SAecal Account and the-P
Borrowr's InvestmenPorm  ecaAcutfr
eaoh fiscal Year auditePd, in accordance with
appr    at*e mu  ting principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank;
ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available but in
any   ca later thn six months  fter the end of
!!LicLeh..   crified copy of the reotf
the report of such audit by said auditors  of such
scope and in such detail *a the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and
iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
therefore, as the Bank shall form time to time
1reasonably request.



Cov                Original       Revised
Agreeent   Section _              Status    Date            Date           Description of Covenant                                       Comments
Loan         3. 06       1       C          Dec 31                         For all expenditures with respect to which                    Complied with.
(c)                           each year                      withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the
basis of Statements of Expenditure, the Borrower
shall:
i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine
such records; and
iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
included in the annual audits referred to in
paragraoh (b) of this Section and that the report of
such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation can be relied upon to support the
_____________  related withdrawals.
Program      4.01        1, 9   CD          Dec 31                         a) The Energy Sector Entities shall maintain records  Complied with. Some audit reports were
each year                     and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with    submitted to the Bank with delays, about
sound accounting practices their operations and               9 months after the end of each fiscal
financial condition in respect of the parts of the            year (as compared to the target of 6                  M
Investment Program for which they are responsible.            months)                                               (J1
b) The Enerqy Sector Entities shall:
(i) have their records accounts and financial
statements and those for their Special Accounts for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank;
and (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each_fiscal yeart  Al certified copies of
their financial statements for such Year as so
audited: and (B) the reports of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested.                               __l
Loan         3.07        11      C          May 31                         The Borrower and the Bank shall, not later than May    Complied with.  As part of thp annual
(a)                           each year                      31 in each year, beginning 1990, and at any time at    PSDP review, the Bank reviews the energy
the request of either party, review Progress                  sector investment program and financing
achieved in carryinq out the Investment Program and    plan with GOP.
the related f inancinq plan and the measures proposed
to be taken to continue to implement the Investment
Program. Prior to each such review, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comment
a report on the progress achieved in carrying out
the said Investment Program and financing plan, in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
loan         3. 08       12      c          May 31                         The Borrower shall not later than May 31 in each               Complied with.  Proposals received are
each year                     year beginning 1990, review with the Bank the                   at various stages of processing   'hl
progress made in processinq proposals received for             Government 1994 Policy provided f:rther
private sector investments in the energy sector, and   incentives for private power gef ratior:
identify the measures, if any, proposed to                     which have attracted subseant il
facilitate and expedite sulch processing.                      response from private investors.



Cov.              Original      Revised
Agreement   Section    Type   Statue   Date              Date           Dscription of Cov-nant                                     Comm nts
Loan         3 .09      12      CD        Dec 31,        Dec 31,        Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the              A study funded by UNDP and managed by
(a)                          1991           1992           Borrower shall in a manner satisfactory to the Bank!  ESMAP study was completed in July 1993.
a) not later than December 31, , 1991. formulate a    The Bank has provided the final report
household energy strate, together with an action           to UNDP, which consolidates the results
lplan for t8 implemeentaton;                               into a program of policy reforms and
strategy for the household sector, for
GOP consideration.
Loan         3.09       12      C         Mar 31,                       b) to that end, not later than June 30, , 1991,            A data base for supply and demand of
(b)                          1990                          deeo     aa  base on the supply and demand for             household energy has been established.
and                          (appoint                             ld e
Sched.                       cons.)
5                   ~~~~~~~~~~3
Jun 30,       Jun 30,
1991          1992
(compl.)                                                                    _
Loan         3.10       11      CP        Jul 1,                        Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the              Selected measures for rationalization of
1990                         Borrower shall take measures satisfactory to the            tariff have been taken. Evidence of
Bank to commence, not later than July 1, 1990, the         tariff adjustments that promote energy
rationalization ofYthet et                        ture,  conservationiand equity in energy
S                                                       including but not limited to, the in~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ troduciornc of  pricing is lImited.  For peak/off-peak
peak/off peak pricing of electricity for the three         pricing WAPDA announced a time-of-day
hundred largest industrial and other bulk consumers,  tariff and has installed 280 time-of-day
meters; however, the time-of-day tariff
has not been implemented as yet.
Loan        3.11        2,      C                                       The borrower shall in reeDect of WAPDA'. local cost   Complied with. WAPDA's investment
11                                             requirementa under its Investment Proqram for the           program is discussed with the Bank every
l  period FY90 through FY93:                               year, and tariff increases have been
___________________________    dequate to allow WAPDA to meet the 40%
a) cause WAPDA to finance such re uirements from the   ICG covenant (- with the exception of
funds Droduced by WAPDA from its internal sources          FY94, when the ratio fell to 281)
pursuant to0 Sectio 4.2och   rga  gemn  or
borrowed byPWAPDAJ  and
b) in the event of a short-fall orexpected short-
fall in such funds in any g ven fiscal year, cause
UAPDA to make uD the *hort-fall through an
aD22oDte levY to be charged by WAPDA on its sales
lof electricit; provided, however, that, without
limitation to the provision of Section 4.02 of the
Program Agreement, such levy shall not result in an
increase of more than 15% in the electricity tariff
for FY90 nor in an average annual increase of more
than lot in the electricity tariff over the period
FY89 through FY93, based on an assumed annual
inflation rate of 8S  over the same period.
Program     4.02        2       C                                       Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, IAPDA             Complied with.
hall produce, for each of its fiscal years
l  eginning with its fiscal ear ending on June 30,
1989. funds from internal sources equivalent to not
less than 40% of the annual average of WAPDA'.
l  ca.it  exDe!ndtures incurred, or expected to be
l  incurred forthatfiscal year, the previous fiscal
year and the next following fiscal year.
Program     4.03        2       c                                       Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, WAPFDA            ComPlied with, except in PY4  when the
shall not incur an debt unless  a reasonabl                 debtservice coverage ratio fell to 0.9
forecast -of th~e revenues and expenditures of WAPDA        times.
shows that the estimated net revenues of WAPDA for
each fica    rear d rin'h  em   ft edb    ob
incurred shall bee at leasdt 1 5tiesthe estimte
debt service reuirements of wAPDA in such Year on
__ ~~~~~all debt of WAPDA including the debt to be incurred__-v



Cov.              Original       Revised
Agreement   Section    Type   status    Dats              Date           Description of Covenant                                     Comments
Loan         3.12        11,    C          Jan 31,                       The Borrower shall, not later than January 31, 1990,   Complied with.
12                1990                          revise to the satisfaction of the Bank, the qas
lroducer pricing formula applicable to new gas
concesionsi  offshore aesrntdferJly 1.
1989, so as to ensure full parity with the border
price of fuel oil, less negotiated discounts for
geological and market conditions.
Loan         3.13        11     CP         Jun 30,        Apr 30,        Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the               The price of gas for households was
(a)                           1993          1995           Borrower shall:                                              raised in November 1994, to comply with
the revised target (i.e. go9  of parity
a) increase the price of gas supplhied t  households    with fuel oil border price by Sept 94);
so as to achieve soB  of parity with bthe  borde  drice  and in June 95.  However, following the
of fuel oil by, April 30, i994, 90% by September 30.    recent increase in world market prices
1994, and full parity by April 30, 1995 (originally    oe fuel oil, the average gas price tor
June 30, 1993);                                             households is presently between 75-501
of the border price of fuel oil.
Loan         3.13        11     C          Jun 30,                       b) effective July i, 1989, introduce                devalopment    The price of raw gas including the gas
(b)                           19 95                        surcharge on the sale of gas supplied8by producers           development surcharge has been
directly to the nower sub-sector, and thereafter            progressively raised to full parity with
annually increase such development surcharge so             the domestic price of fuel oil by June
that, by June_30  1995. the pricTo  such gas,               1995, through annual adjustments in June
including such development surcharge, has achieved          each year.
full paritv with the domestic pieo   ulol
lessdg   out   o  the gas transmission investments
made by the power sub-sector;
Loan         3.13        11     C                                        c) continue to maintain the Price of gas supplied as  Natural gas prices for industrial,
l   (c)                                                    fuel by the gas transmission and distribution                commercial and power sectors were raised
companies to 'the industtrial, commercial and power         in June 94, to ensure tull parity with
sub-s etors at  lea  at  full parity with the               the domestic price of fuel oil; and
domestic price of fuel.                                     again in June 1995, to maintain this
parity.
Loan         3.14        12     C          Dec 31,                       Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the                Complied with.
1989                         Borrower shall not later than December 31. 1989,
furnish to the Bank an action Plan satisfactory to
the Bank for the appraisal and development of the
oil and gas fields at Loti, Pirkoh, Nandpur, Dhodak,
Dakhni, Uch and Panjpir.
Loan         3.15        12     C          May 31                        Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the                Progress in private sector oil and gas
each year                    Borrower shall, not later than May 31 in each year,.  exploration is reviewed periodically; no
review with the Bank the progress made in                   areas are designated for exploration
despinating separate areas for oil and gas                   solely by OGDC or the private sector.
lexploration bv OGDC and bv Private Sector investors    OGDC is treated at par with the private
respectively.                                               sector for exploration and development
concessions/licenses
Loan         3.16        11     C          Dec 31,                       Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the                Complied with; the refinery pricing
(a)n90Borwrdhl                                                                                                           formula (developed without consultants
anhd.                                                                                                                    assistance  provided for in Schedule  3)
Sched.                                                     a) not later than December 31 in each of the years            was discussed with the Bank in FySou
1989 and 1990, review with the Bank the results of
the application oflthe ex-refinerv Pricing formula
for  etroleum  roducts introduced in 1988 for the
Pakistan Refinery LimTted, the National Refinery
________                                 Limited and the National Refinery Limited;
Loan         3.16        11     CD         Sep 30,        Jun 30,        b) not later than Sept 30, , 1991, revise as                 Complied with.  The processing fee
(b)                          1991           1992           necessary on the basis of such reviews, the                  formula was implemented for FYs 89-93;
e,x-refiner P_ricing formula for petroleum products          it has subsequently been revised toa
frtePakistan Refi'nery Limited, the National            formula based on import parity, and was
Refinery Limited and the Attock Refin,ery Limited,           extended to Attock Refinery in FY95.



Cov.               original       Revised
Agreement   Section               Status    Date            Date            Description of Covenant                                       CoientB
Loan         3.17        11       C                                         Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the                 complied with.
Borrower shall, on each occasion there is an
increase, in rupee terms, in the import price of
crude oil beginning FY90, promptly adjust the
domestic Prices of petroleum products so as to
recover from consumers the difference between the
import price of crude oil obtaining after such
increase and the import price of crude oil obtaining
at the time of the last preceding adjustment of the
domestic prices of petroleum products.
a         ~~Loan        3.18        6 ,      C          Dec 31,                       Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the                  An~ action plan was submitted at the time
11,                1989                           Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1989,             the loan was declared effective.
12                                               Peare and furnish to the Bank, for comments, an                However, the Bank has not been informed
action plan for:                                              of the investments actually undertaken
by way of retro-fitting and other eniergy
a) undertaking feasibility and detailed  engineering   conservation measures.
studies for retro-fitting and other energy
conservation projects for about twenty of the
largest industrial energy- consuming plants in the
public sector;
b) financing retro-fitting and other enerqv
conservation projects and related studies for about
twenty of the largest energy-consuming plants in the
private sector; and
c) formulating proposals for enera conservation
investments in the aqriculture, industrial,
transportation and construction sectors.
Loan         3.19         12      C          Dec 31,                        The Borrower shall:
(a)                            1989
a) not later than December 31, 1989, furnish to the    Complied with.
Bank, for its comments, an action plan for the
establishment of an oPerationallv indePendent power
distribution winq within WAPDA, and
Loan         3.19        12       C          Dec 31,        Jun 30,        b) ensure the establishment of such power                       Complied with.
(b)                            1991           1992           distribution wing under arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank, not later than December 31, , 1991.
Loan         3 .20        11,    NC          Mar 31,                        Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the                  GOP decided not to restructure KESC, but
and         12                 1990                           Borrower shall:                                                to privatize the utility.  Current plans
Sched.                         (appoint                                                                                      are to privatize KESC as an integrated
3                              cons.)                         a) not later than March 31, , 1991, p are and                  entity, but with provisions for
(No                                      furnish to the Bank an organizationa ilad financial    separating its generation and
longer    Mar 31,         Jun 30,        restructuring plan for KESC, satisfactory to the                distribution activities, as may be
app.)      1991           1992            Bank;                                                          required.
(compl.)
b)not later than December 31, 1989, establish an
inter-ministerial committee to oversee the
Dec 31,                       preparation of the organi2ational and financial
1989                          restructuring plan for KESC referred to in paragraph
. _________   _________   ______             ____________   ____________     (a)  of   this   section .



Cov.              Original      Revised
Agreament   Section    Type   Status    Date             Date           Description of Covenant                                     Coments
Loan         3.21        11,    C          Jan 31,                      Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, t9e                omlied wt   physical inventory and
(a)  12       1990                         ~~~~~~~~~Borrower shall, not later than January 31, 1990,   valuation of fixed assets, stores and
and                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~commence the  Dmlementaio of a -fnania           spares was carried out in FY90 and 91,
hd.                                                        restructurin plan forOGC  s1at  iafctry to the             and reconciliation Of book values with
Bank, provid ng,  nter-ali, for:                           the results of the physical inventory
i) the restructuring of OGDC's balance sheet by            was completed during FY93.
reconciling the book value of its current and fixed
assets with the results of a physical inventory and
valuation of such assets; and                              Updating of oil and gas reserves was
completed in FY93.
ii) the estimating of OGDC's oil and gas reserves in
order to provide a basis for determininig the current
value of OGDC's deferred exploration and development
expenditures and revising the amortization rates of
deferred costs of OGOC's successful oil and gas
exploration.
Loan         3.21       11      C          Jul 1,                       Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the               Complied with,
lb)                          1989                          Borrower shall. with effect from July 1, 1989 make
funds available to OGDC on a loan basis only aiincT
the (on-lending) terms and conditions set forth in
respect of OGDC in Section 3.02(a) of this
Agreement.
Loan         3.21       11      C         Jun 30,                       Except as the alank shall otherwise agree, and              OGDC's investment program has been fully
IC)                          1990                          subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this          funded.
Section, the Borrower shall make available from its
own resources the rfundso needed by OGDC for the
purposes of OGDC's Investment Program during  _Y90.
Loan         3.21       1       C         Mar 31,                       Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the               Complied with.  International auditors
(d)                          1990                          Borrower shall take all steps necessary to ensure           audited 0GDCms accounts for FY90 and 91
that internationally reputable_independent auditors    and highlighted weaknesses in OGDC's
acceptable to the Ban   i |l  be appointed , not la ter   accounting and record keeping systems.
than March 3i , 1990, to           t    audit in           A comprehensive Management information
accordance with  nternatln   account n  standards           System was subsequently developed by
and auditing principles of ?GDC's inancial                  OGDC (with consultants' assistance) to
operations for each of th            years 1990 and         overcome weaknesses in record keeping
1991.                                      ~~~~~~~~~~and accounting procedures identified in
the international audit.
Program      4.04       2,      CD        Jul 1.         Jul I,         a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, OGOC           Complied with.  Financial performance
11                19 90          1991          shall, effective July 1, 1990, begin to Scomly -with    criteria were agreed with OGDC under the
financia perfrmance criteria, satisfactory to the   Domestic Energy Resources Development
Borrower andr te Bank,u-c-has would, inter alia,            Project (Loan 3500-PAR) , and are being
enable OGDC to generate funds from interna2 surces    implemented. OGDC has achieved these
sufficient to cover a reasonal   roplortioan off            financial performance criteria during
OGDC'sret                           %C capital exp2enditur fo  eac  fscal year.  FYs 93 and 94.
b) Before April 15 in each of its fiscal years, OGDC
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by OGDC
and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it
would meet the requirements set forth in prar (a)
and shall furnish to the Bank a copy of ouch review
upon its completion.
C) If such review shows that OGDC would not meet the
requirements set forth in prar (a) of this Section
for OGDC's fiscal year covered by such review, OGDC
shall promptly take all necessary measures
(including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure and/or level of its gas prices) in order
to  eetsuc  reuirments.



l                  ~~~       ~       ~~~~Cov.  0rigtaln  RevisedE
AgreenF    Section              Btatue    Data           Date                                                                       LI ent
Loan         3 .22       12     CD         Mar 31,       Jun 30,        The Borrower shall, not later than March 31, 1990,    Complied with.  Rules were promulgated
1990          1991           promulgate rules,  satisfactory to the Bank,                in FY92.
providing inter alia, for the matters referred to in
Section 29 of the Oil Dnd Gas Develogment
Corporation Ordinance. 1961, as amended to the date
ot this Agreement.
Loan         3.23       12      C          Mar 31,                      The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,             Complied with.  PMDC, WAPDA and GoSindh
1989                         1999, furnish to the Bank an   tSon clan                    established the Lakhra Coal Development
satisfactory to the Bank for  t    develovment of the   Company ILCDC) in 1990, which assigned
central block of the Lakh-  -a  field  including           the development of the field to a
possible proposals for participetion by private            Chinese contractor.
_______-___      gector investors in such development.
Loan         3. 24      12      NC (no    Dec 31,                       The Borrower shall not later than December 31, 1989   Requirement waived by the Bank at the
longer    1989                         prepare and furnish to the Bank a    atrateqv               time the loan wae declared effective
applic                                  satisfactory to the Bank for the Drivatization of           (March 8, 1990)
-able)                                 SSGC.
Loan         3.25       12      c          Dec 31,                      The Borrower shall:  (a) not later than December 31,   Complied with.  The report was reviewed
(a1                          1989                          19a9, review with the Bank the recommendations of          with the Bank in March 1990.
the studv on the Promotion of accelerated coal
development carried out under the Bank-financed
-_______         __________                    Energy Sector Loan I (Loan No. 2552 PAR)i and
Loan         3 .25      12      C         Mar 31,                        (b) not later than March 31, 1990 and taking into          Complied with.  After establishment of
(b)                          1990                          account such recommendations, prenare and furnish to  LCDC (see comments on Loan Section 3.23
the Bank an action plan, mutually satisfactory, for   above). the development of the Lakhra
restructuring the iutitTutions responsible for              Coal field was assigned to a Chinese
exPloration, develoyment and production of coal             contractor.
.~~~~~~~~
Loan         3.26       11      C         Dec 31,                       The Borrower shall, in resDect of  rivate sector            Complied with.
1989                         eneray develo ment Dro ectc   adopt and announce not
iater than December 31, 1989, a Policy, satisfactory
to the Banki reaulasting the modes anld solurce  o
local cost fnancing available for *uhpro ecFU,
Loan         3.21       6,      C         Mar 31,                       Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the               Complied with.
(a)        12                1990                          Borrower shall, not later than March 31, 1990
prepare and furnish to thecBank an Bnvironmentalf
Action Plan (RAP), satisfactory to the Bank,  or the
energy sector providing, inter alia, for:
a) adoption by December 31, 1991  fj environmental         Complied with.  Notification issued by
CD        Dec 31,                       standards for protect Ion against agi eandwaEter            Environment & Urban Affairs Division in
_ l91                        pOllution;                                                  September 1993.
Loan         3.27       6,      C         Jul 31.                       b) adoption by July 31. 1990, of auid            for         Complied with.  Guidelines have been
(b)        12                1990                          assessment of the environmental impact ofenergy             issued.
_                                        producing activities;
Loan         3 .27       12     SOON                                    c) adoption of improved health and safety and                The proposed standards relate mainly to
(c)                                                        emergency management standards; an                          the coal sector, and their adoption is
contingent upon the provinces, agreement
with the recommendations of the report
referred to in Section 3.05 (a) above.
Loan         3.27        6,     SOON                                    d)  development of capabiity in th  key institutions  ComPli'tence by energy sector entities was
(d)        1inthe e!nergy se-ctortodelwithevro"na                                                                      limited to setting up environmental
issues.                                                     units or designating staff for such
units. Loan 3500-PAR (DEBRDP) provides
funds for strengthening environmental
management capabilities in OGDC, and a
slimilar program for NAPPA is being
implemented under the Power Sector
Development Project (Loan 3764-PAR)



Cov.             Original       tevijed
Agreement   Section       p    Statue    Date           Date           DOctiption of Covenant                                    Commente
Loan         3. 28      5       C         Jun 30,                      Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the             Complied with.
1990                         Borrower shall arranqe for selected contract staff
oositiona of the Energy Wing, Planning and
Development Division, to be converted to regular
eloe Positions of the aorrower on a permanent
Note: Except in the case of Section 3. 13 (a) , the revised fulfillment dates shown above have not been the subject of formal Loan agreement amendments, but are the dates agreed
at the time of release of the second tranche of the Loan.
Key
Covenant type
I      Accounts/Audit
2      Pinancial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3      F Flow and utilization of Project funds
4 I    Counterpart funding
S . Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
C   .  Environmental covenants
7   .  Involuntary resettlement
a      Indigenous people
9   - Monitoring, review and reporting
10  -  Implementation
11  .  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12  -  Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13  .  Other
status:
C   -  Covenant complied with
CD  .  Complied with after delay
NC  .  Not complied with                                                                                                                                                              LJ
SOON. Compliance expected in reasonably short time
CP  .  Complied with partially
NYD . Not yet due



-32-
Table - 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN II (Loans 3107-0-PAK and 3107-1-PAK)
Statement Number               Description, and comment on
and Title                        lack of compliance
The project was in compliance with all Bank policies.
Table - 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs 1/
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN II (Loans 3107-0-PAK and 3107-1-PAK)
Stage of Project             Staff
Cycle                     Weeks
1. Through Appraisal           260.3
2. Appraisal - Board            72.4
3. Supervision                 204.3
4. Completion                    7.2
TOTAL                          544.2
1/    Includes Consultant Trust Funds (about 41 staff weeks).
2/    As of end February 1996.



Table - 11: Bank Resources: Missions
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN 1I (Loans 3107-0-PAK and 3107-1-PAR)
Stage of Project            Month/        # of  Days in    Specialized    Performance Rating        Types          Remarks
Cycle                   Year       Person  Field    staff skills   Implement.    Dev.            of
represented     Status      Impact    Problems
1. Through Appraisal:
a. Preparation            Feb-Mar 87             2      21         1,2           N/A        N/A         N/A    Part of Supervision mission for other projects
b. Preparation            Aug 08-24, 87          2       16       2,12           N/A        N/A         N/A
c. Preparation            Nov 19-Dec 04, 87      5      16    1,3,4,5,13         N/A        N/A         N/A    ESL-II: only part of petroleum sector review
Sub-total                                     9      53
2. Appraisal - Board         Jan 14-Feb 12, 89    15        28  2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9    N/A         N/A         N/A    Joined by JEXIM Bank
3. Board - Effectiveness    Sep 14-Oct 02, 89       1      14          4            N/A        N/A         N/A    Mostly for supervision of petroleum projects
4. Supervision:
a. Full supervision S1   Feb OS-25, 90           4      21         1,6            1           1                Also undertook CIP review
b. Disbursement           Mar 26-Apr 03, 90      1        9        10            N/R        N/R          -
c. Full supervision #2   Jul 14-24, 90           3      11        1,3.4          N/R        N/R
d. Partial superv.  #3   Oct 30-Nov 11, 90       1      12        1,12           N/R        N/R          -      Energy Cons. component only; part of other work
e. Full supervision #4   Nov 05-27, 90           3      23        1,2,6          N/R        N/R          -     Review of Power Sector Investment Program
f. Discussions            Apr 22-May 21, 91      4      30        1,2,6          N/R        N/R          _     Overview of power projects; preparation of PSDP
g. Full supervision #5   Feb 18-Mar 04, 92       1      16          6             2           1      Financial
h. Discussions            Jan 24-Feb 14, 94      1      21          2            N/R        N/Rf                Overall review of power projects
i. Full supervision 86   Apr 20-30, 94           1      11          6             2          2       Financial
Sub-total                                    19     154
S. Completion                Dec 02, 94-            2      60        1,10           N/R        N/R          -
Jan 31, 95
TOTAL                                              46     309
Skills Codes!
1 - Energy
2 * Power
3 - Gas
4 - Petroleum
5 - Procurement
6 - Finance
7 * Economics
8 - Environment
9 - Legal
10 - Projects
11 - Construction
12 - Energy Conservation
13 - Drilling



-34-                                  PenWx A
Page 1 of 11
PAKISTAN
Second Enerav Sector Loan
(Loan 3107-PAX)
Imolementation Comnletion Report
Aid--Memoire
1.    A World Bank mission comprising Rashid Aziz (Bank Staff) and Waqar Raider
(Consultant) visited Pakistan during December 20, 1994 to January 31, 1995, to
prepare, and advise and assist the Government and the implementing agencies on
the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second
Energy Sector Loan (ESL-II, Ln. 3107-PAK).   This aide memoire presents the
mission's findings, which were discussed at a wrap-up meeting held on March 16,
1995 at the Ministry of Planning and Development, and incorporates the comments
received at that meeting. The aide memoire would be confirmed through a post
mission letter from the Bank's management. The mission would like to record its
appreciation for the courtesies and cooperation extended by the Ministry of
Planning & Development, Energy Wing; the Energy Sector Entities (ESEs) - Water
and Power Development Authority (WAPDA), Oil and Gas Development Corporation
(OGDC), Karachi Electricity Supply Corporation (KESC), Sui Southern Gas Company
(SSGC), Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited (SNGPL), Pakistan Mineral Development
Corporation (PMDC); and the State Bank of Pakistan during the mission.
A. Backaround and Oblectives
2.    In 1985 the Government of Pakistan (GOP) formulated, with Bank assistance,
a Long-term Energy Strategy (LES), to accelerate the development of energy
resources, and to address constraints that had impeded the execution of planned
investments during the early 1980s. The LES provided for the implementation of
structural and policy reforms over five-year intervals, in the areas of energy
investments and resource development; pricing, resource mobilization and demanc
management; and institutional development. To assist GOP in implementing the
LES, a series of Bank sector loans were envisaged; the first loan, the Energy
Sector Loan - ESL I (Ln. 2552-PAK) was approved by the Bank in 1985 for
supporting policy and institutional reforms during the Sixth Five Year Plan
(FY84-88); the second Loan, ESL-II (Ln. 3107-PAK) for continuing the process
during Seventh Five Year Plan (FY89-93) is the subject of the present ICR.
3.    The objectives of ESL-II were to (a) continue the sectoral adjustment
process outlined under ESL I, through a program of policies and institutional
reforms; (b) support the implementation of the Core Investment Program (CIP) of
the ESEs for FY89-91; (c) mobilize resources for the CIP by rationalizing energy
prices, integrating donor financing, mobilizing private sector (PS) financing,
and coordinating access to capital markets; and (d) support the macroeconomic
adjustment program by facilitating an adequate level of imports.
Loan Appraisal
4.    Loan Processing. Approval and Closinc Date.  The Loan, amounting to US$250
million, was appraised during February 1989; negotiations were held during May
15-19, 1989; and the Loan was approved by the Board on June 29, 1989. The Loan
and Program Agreements were signed on December 8, 1989, and the Loan declared
effective on March 8, 1990. The original Closing Date for the Loan was December
31, 1991.   Subsequently,  in response to the difficult situation confronting
Pakistan due to the Gulf war, the Bank approved in June 1991, a Supplemental Loan
(Ln. 3107-1-PAK) for US$28 million, to provide additional foreign exchange for
the CIP. At that time, the Closing Date was also amended to December 31, 1993,
to allow for completing these investments. Co-financing for the ESL-II program
was provided by the Export-Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM) through a Loan of USSS0
million, which was signed in May 1991. The Closing Date was extended by another



-35-
Page 2 of 11
year (to December 31, 1994) because of delays encountered in procurement and
disbursement actions on the investment portion of the Bank Loan.
5.    Tranching and On-lending arrangemer:s.  The Loan was to be made available
in two tranches; the first tranche (US$155 million) following compliance with the
conditions of effectiveness (expected by July 1989); and the second tranche
(US$95 million) following compliance with the conditions for second tranche
release (expected by July 1990). Allocations of the original Loan amount for the
investment component (to finance the CIP) and for the adjustment component (to
finance general imports) under the two tranches are shown in Table I below:
Table I: Oriainal Allocations by Comvonent and Entity
(million US$)
Tranche 1    Tranche 2        Total
Investment Component:
WAPDA                                      37.0          20.5          57.5
KESC                                       12.0           5.5          17.5
OGDC                                       17.0          10.5          27.5
SNGPL                                       9.0           5.5          14.5
SSGC                                        3.0           2.0           5.0
PMDC                                        0.5           0.0           0.5
Others                                      1.5           1.0           2.5
Sub-total                                  80.0          45.0         125.0
Adiustment Component:                      75.0          50.0         125.0
Grand Total                               155.0          95.0         250.0
Policy Reforms
6.      In accordance with agreements reached under the Loan, the following is
a listing of the main policy reforms that were to be implemented:
a.    Annual  review  of  WAPDA's  comnliance  with  the  Internal  Cash
Generation covenant; to ensure adequate tariff increases; and
rationalization of the electricity tariff structure.
b.    To pass increases in the CIF cost of crude oil to consumers, through
adjustments in consumer prices of Petroleum products.
c.    Adjustment of the natural gas prc.ucer pricing formula to raise the
producer price for new concessions in offshore areas to full parity
with the border price of fuel oil from October 1, 1989.
d.    Phased increase of the consumer vrice of natural gas for residential
users to full parity with the border price of fuel oil by June 30,
19931; for raw gas sales to the power sector to full parity with the
domestic price of fuel oil by June 30, 1995; for the remaining
sectors (except fertilizer) the prices was to be maintained at full
parity with the domestic price of fuel oil.
e.    Review with the Bank of the refinery pricinc formula for the coastal
refineries, and its necessary revision and extension to Attock
Refinery.
' This target date was subsequently revised to April 1995 (see para 17).



-36-                          Appendix A
Page 3 of 11
f.    Preparation of an Action Plan on ener v conservation, including (i)
feasibility studies on retro-fitting proposals for about 20 large
industrial plants, and financing such investments; (ii) formulating
proposals for energy conservation in key sectors; (iii) identifying
constraints on energy conservation arising from existing tax, trade
and industrial legislation; and (iv) establishing by June 30, 1991
an incentive framework to promote energy conservation.
g.    Preparation of an Environmental Action Plan including  (i) the
adoption of standards for protection against air and water
pollution, and guidelines for assessing the environmental impact of
energy-producing activities; (ii) development of environmental
management capacity within key institutions; and (iii) adoption of
improved health and safety, and emergency management standards.
7.    In addition, the Government agreed to carry out a number of studies in
order to develop and implement reform programs in specific areas. A complete
list of the agreements reached under the Loan, and the status of implementation
of the agreed actions, would be provided in Table 8, Part II of the ICR.
Core Investment Proaram
S.    Physical Targets.  CIP (FYB9-91) was expected to amount to about Rs. 94
billion (USS5 billion), of which about Rs. 77.2 billion (US$4.1 billion) was to
be undertaken by the public sector, and 17 billion (US$0.9 billion) by PS. These
investments were expected to be in the power sector (Rs 70.6 billion - US$3.7
billion equivalent); followed by oil and gas (Rs 22.6 billion - US$1.25 billion
equivalent); and the balance for coal exploration and development. For foreign
cost financing of CIP, ongoing and proposed Bank Loans were expected to
contribute Rs 12.1 billion (US$639 million), financing through ESL-II was to
provide Rs 2.4 billion (USS125 million); and the balance was to be provided by
other co-financiers.  Agreement was also reached between the Bank and GOP to
review the status of the investment program on a yearly basis.
9.    Procurement.  Procurement under the Loan were to be made in accordance with
Bank Guidelines, with contracts amounting to about US$102 million under the
investment component to be awarded through International Competitive Bidding
(ICB). Specialized well services and spare parts costing about US$19 million
were expected to be procured through Limited International Bidding (LIB). Direct
Contracting (DC) for foreign proprietary items was expected to amount to about
US$4 million. Procurement under the adjustment component of the Loan provided
for the import of all goods, with the exception of an agreed Negative List;
contracts exceeding US$5 million were to be procured through ICB.
Institutional Development
10.   The following agreements were reached with GOP on measures to strengthen
the operational capabilities and autonomy of key institutions in the sector:
a.    An Action Plan for establishing a separate Distribution Wing within
WAPDA was to be prepared by December 31, 1989, and the separate
Distribution Wing was to be established by December 31, 1991.
b.    Restructurinc of OGDC provided for (i) appointment of consultants to
prepare   a   financial   restructuring   plan;   (ii)   appointing
international auditors to audit accounts; (iii) establishment of.
financial performance criteria; and (iv) promulgation of rules under
OGDC Ordinance relating to the Board of Directors, management,
administration, accounts and audits.
c.    Recruitment  of  consultants  by  March  31,  1990  to prepare  an
Organizational and Financial Restructuring Plan for KESC.



-37-
Appendix A
Page 4 of 11
d.    Implementation of specific proposals for strengtheninc the Enercv
wing of Planning Division, and the preparation and submission to the
Bank of a StrateQv for the Privatization of SSGC.
11.   Implementation Arrangements.   -nergy Wing,  Ministry of Planning and
Development was the coordinating agency on behalf of GOP to ensure progress and
compliance with the agreements reached under the Loan. In order to ensure timely
and efficient disbursement for the CIP, special accounts for each entity with
initial deposits amounting to US$5 million in aggregate were to be established.
State Bank of Pakistan was responsible for collecting supporting documentation.
preparing and submitting withdrawal applications, and maintaining a Special
Account for the adjustment component of the Loan.
B.   Loan Imnlementation ExDerience
12.   Loan Effectiveness and Second Tranche Release.  There was a delay in GOP's
authorization for signature of the legal documents; consequently, the legal
documents were signed on December 8, 1989 (6 months after Board approval). The
Loan was declared effective on March 8, 1990, on fulfillment of the conditions
for effectiveness. As regards the Supplemental Loan (approved on June 21, 1991),
the legal documents were signed on July 8, 1991, and the Loan declared effective
on January 22, 1992 (after one extension in the target date). The second tranche
was expected to be released in mid-1990 following compliance with the agreed
conditions.   However, partly as a result of the delay in effectiveness, the
Government's request for second tranche release was deferred to mid-1991. Around
the same time, GOP instructed WAPDA to pay hydel profits to the provinces in
which the hydel generating  station was located.   Because this could have
adversely affected WAPDA's financial position, the Bank sought an assurance from
GOP that WAPDA's financial position would be protected in case it was required
to pay hydel profits. Following an exchange of letters between GOP and the Bank,
and the introduction of a surcharge to generate additional resources for WAPDA,
the second tranche was released by the Bank in November/December 1991.
13.   Allocation  to Enercy Entities Under the  investment Component.   The
allocation to the respective entities under the investment component (Table I
above) were revised by GOP, in light of the actual requirements. Following the
establishment of a separate company for the development of the Lakhra coal field,
the funds earmarked for PMDC (which were planned to be utilized for the
development of Lakhra could not be utilized since this company was not a
beneficiary under ESL-II.  The funds allocated for PMDC were also, therefore, re-
allocated to the other entities.
Imnlementation of Policy Reforms
14.   The Government has accorded high priority to the implementation of the
reform program agreed under the Loan.  The Bank was also requested by GOP to
provide assistance in the preparation additional reform measures, e.g. for the
producer price of natural gas and the incentive structure for private power
projects (paras 15-16), and the privatization program (paras 27-29), which have
been implemented over the past four years.   As a result, in some areas the
reforms actually implemented have exceeded the envisaged targets specified in the
Loan.
15.   Incentive Structure.   GOP has moved aggressively to address investor
concerns regarding the adequacy of incentives provided by the pricing regime for
investments in the sector. Specifically, agreement under the Loan provided for
the producer price of natural gas to be linked to the border price of fuel oil;
however, recognizing that the international price of fuel oil was depicting a
historical decline, and thus not providing adequate incentives for exploration
of natural gas in the country, GOP amended the formula and linked the gas



-38-                            Appendix A
Page 5 of 11
producer price to the international price of crude oil from early 1994. Further,
GOP also announced a decrease in GOP mandatory participation in new concessions,
and a reduction in income tax. The mission was informed that these amendments
have resulted in enhanced private sector interest in gas exploration, and almost
all of the available blocks of acreage offered by GOP for exploration had been
awarded by end-1994.
16.   Similarly, the major incentive provided to potential private investors for
power generation projects was a power purchase price based on an internal rate
of return of 1%. In early 1994 the Government announced a new policy framework
for private investments in power generation, which, in addition to substantially
simplifying the negotiation process, provides an attractive Bulk Tariff for the
purchase of power from private plants by WAPDA or KESC; an additional incentive,
in the form of a bonus over and above the Bulk Tariff, is also provided for
private projects,  along with other fiscal and financial incentives.   These
changes have been favorably received by potential investors, and a number of
proposals for private power generation projects have been received by the
Government during 1994.
17.   Pricing Reforms.  Implementation of price adjustments have been broadly in
line with agreements reached with the Bank, even though there. have been some
delays in these adjustments. Petroleum prices have been adjusted in response to
changes in world market prices (November 1990, March 1991 and June 1993); and
following the devaluation of the rupee (August 1993). Natural gas prices were
adjusted in April 1991. to align these to the domestic price of fuel oil.
However, electricity tariffs, natural gas or petroleum product prices were not
adjusted between March/April 1991 and June 1993; as a result, fairly steep
increases have been made during the past 18 months, in order to offset the impact
of delays in price/tariff adjustments on the financial position of the entities.
Specifically, in the absence of any adjustment in natural gas prices up to June
1993, the target agreed on gas prices for the residential sector was not
achieved. The Government therefore requested the Bank, in August 1993, for a
relaxation in the period to achieve the originally agreed parity. Agreement on
a revised date for full parity with the border price of fuel oil was reached as
part of the  1993  Public  Sector Adjustment  Loan  (Ln.  3645/Cr.  2542-PAK);
subsequently, natural gas prices were adjusted in June 1994, and again in
December 1994 (for residential consumers only) to comply with partially revised
targets. While Pakistan has generally been moving towards a petroleum pricing
regime that links domestic prices to import parity prices (e.g. for producer and
consumer prices of natural gas, the well head price of crude oil, and the final
consumer price of petroleum products) this feature was not extended to the ex-
refinery prices of petroleum products until FY93; even now, the package of
incentives offered for increasing private investment in refineries includes a
rate of return formula, which, as has also been observed in the past, is not
conducive to efficiency in the refining sector.
19.   Investment Program. The Government and the Bank have reviewed annually the
investment program for the sector, and agreed on a core program of projects to
be protected from budgetary cuts. Electricity tariffs have been periodically
adjusted to allow WAPDA to finance 40% of its investment program through ICG.
The mission has also received information on planned and actual investments, and
means of financing, by the energy entities during the period FY89-94.
19.   Rationalization of Energv Prices.   One of the key objectives of the
Government's reform program for the sector was to rationalize, and correct
distortions in the structure of energy prices, especially for promoting
efficiency in energy consumption. At an aggregate level, this objective required
periodic increases in energy prices, essentially to ensure that consumer prices
of energy products keep pace with changes in the real cost of supplies.
Rationalization of energy prices also required measures to reduce the distortion
in prices/tariff between consumer categories and sectors e.g. through larger
increases for the lower price slabs/consumer categories, so as to reduce the gap



-39-
Appendix A
Page 6 of 11
between the low and high tariff category slabs.   Table  II below presents a
summary of electricity tariffs for selected sectors during FY89-94.
TABLE II: Electricity Tariffs for Maior Sectors
A. LEVELS OF ELECTRICITY TARIFFS
(Paisas/kWh)
FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   ACGR
FY90-94
Residential:
Low Cons. Slab ( < 50 kWh/mo)  49    51     54      61     76      80   11.91%
Low Cons. Slab (51-150 kWh/mo)    56  63    67      75     95    102  12.80%
Med Cons Slab (151-300 KWh/mo)    59  71    81      91    117    130  16.32%
High Cons Slab (0 300 kWh/mo)    102    148    161    161    210    238   12.61%
CoemerciaL:
Small scale ( 100 kWh)       185    236    256    287    317    419   15.43%
Large scate (Above 100 kWh)  203    256    278    311    341    451   15.21%
Industriat:
SmaLL scaLe, 230/400 V (B-1)  117    155    168    189    219    289   16.85%
Large scalee 11/33 kV (9-3)  78    111    121    137    167    231   20.11%
B. TARIFF COMPARISON AMONG SECTORS
RATIO OF HIGH & LOW SLABS IN RESIDENTIAL TARIFFS:
High slab/Low slab (0-50 kWh)   2.08   2.90   2.98   2.64   2.76   2.98
High slab/Low slabC50-150 kWh)  1.82   2.35   2.40   2.15   2.21   2.33
RATIO OF RESIDENTIAL * COFOERCIAL TARIFFS:
SmaLt Coa/Low Resid.        3.78   4.63   4.74   4.70   4.17   5.24
Small Com/High Resid        1.81   1.59   1.59   1.78   1.51   1.76
Large Com/Low Resid.        4.14   5.02   5.15   5.10   4.49   5.64
Large Cam/High Resid        1.99   1.73   1.73   1.93   1.62   1.89
RATIO OF RESIDENTIAL I INDUSTRIAL TARIFFS:
SmaLL Ind/Low Resid.        2.39   3.04   3.11   3.10   2.88   3.61
Small Ind/High Resid        1.15   1.05   1.04   1.17   1.04   1.21
Large Ind/Low Resid.        1.59   2.18   2.24   2.25   2.20   2.89
Large Ind/High Resid        0.76   0.75   0.75   0.85   0.80   0.97
20.    Information provided to =he mission indicates that progress achieved todate
in meeting this objective has been limited.   For example, electricity tariff
increases were generally larger for the high tariff slabs/sectors than for the
low tariff slabs; consequently, the distortion between the lowest and highest
tariff slabs (both among sectors and for tariff slabs within the sector) has
widened over time. As shown in Part B of Table II above, the rate of increase
in tariffs during this period was larger for commercial a.d industrial sectors
(l5-2O0 per annum) than for residential sectors (12-16t per annum).  As a result,
the ratio of commercial tariffs to the low residential tariffs rose from 3.78 and
4.14 in FY89 to 5.24 and 5.64 in FY94; similarly, industrial tariffs rose to 3.6
and 2.9 times the low residential tariff in FY94, as compared to 2.39 and 1.59
times in FY89.   Within the residential sector also, the ratio of tariffs for the
highest slab (above 300 kWh) to the low tariff slabs (0-SO and 51-150 kWh/month)
has increased from 2.08 and 1.92 to 2.98 and 2.33, respectively.
21.   During  the  Loan  implementation period, no program was  initiated  for
eliminating the flat rate tariffs for agricultural tubewells and residential
consumers in the tribal areas, which are the lowest tariff categories in the
overall  tariff  structure.    As a result,  the tariff  structure  provides  no
incentives for curtailing unnecessary consumption, since additional electricity
consumption entails no additional costs, for these consumers. Similarly, the
applicability of the Fuel Adjustment Surcharge (FAS) was extended to residential
consumers (consuming less than 300 kWh per month) in 1991; however, the
applicable rate of FAS has not been changed during the past four years. As a



-40-                        Apdix A
Page 7 of 11
result, the objectives of reduction in the margins between low and high tariff
residential consumers was not fully achieved.
22.   A comparison of the structure of natural gas tariffs indicates that while
the distortion in tariffs (among sectors and for various slabs within the
residential sector) has not increased over time, there does not appear to have
been any reduction in these distortions. The mission advised the Government that
it would carry out a more in-depth review of the tariff structures during the
preparation of the ICR, in order to ascertain the progress achieved in
rationalizing the structure of energy prices.
23.   Studies.  There have been substantial delays in undertaking the studies
agreed under the Loan, and the time required for the selection and appointment
of consultants has invariably been longer than envisaged. In this regard, it
would not be unfair to say that the target dates were also, in most instances,
not very realistic, given the various processing steps that are required for
complying with the Bank's guidelines for consultant selection.   Information
provided to the mission indicates that:
a.    While feasibility studies on retro-fitting for the larger industrial
plants were carried out, financial constraints, precluded the
execution of most of the identified programs. The mission has not
been provided the details of measures that have been adopted to
streamline the tariff and tax structure and the incentive regime,
for promoting energy conservation.
b.    The Household Energy Strategy Study (HESS) was completed in 1993,
and a final report, containing recommendations for policy reform and
specific programs that could be carried out by GOP, was provided to
the Government in late 1994.  The Government needs to provide the
Bank its feedback on follow up actions and policy reforms which are
being considered for implementation.
c.    On the Environmental Action Plan;  i) standards for protection
against air and water pollution were adopted by the Government only
in late 1993 (as compared to the target date of December 31, 1991);
(ii) the development of environmental management capabilities within
the key institutions has been restricted to the establishment of
special units or cells, with little progress in developing
institutional capacity; (iii) the latest status regarding improved
health and safety, and emergency management, standards is not known;
and (iv) guidelines for environmental assessments for energy
projects are being enforced by the Environmental and Urban Affairs
Division, and by the entities, only partially.
Procurement of Ecuioment and Material
24.   Physical Achievements.  An amount of US$134.5 million has been utilized up
to April 1995 under the investment component.  WAPDA used US$66.9 million to
procure equipment and material for its distribution operations, thermal plants
design and development, hydel plants, substation and transmission lines, and for
its routine operation of thermal units. KESC used US$23.8 million to finance the
procurement of PLC equipment, 132 kV underground cable, and conductor for 132/220
kV overhead lines. OGDC has utilized US$22.33 million to finance the import of
drilling accessories, production material, seamless pipe, chemicals and other
spares. SNGPL used US$5.7 million to finance ongoing works from ESL-I, and to
procure equipment and material for transmission and distribution systems. and for
pipeline construction. SSGC have procured purification banks, and acquired other
material and equipment worth US$15.8 million. An amount of US$125 million was
fully utilized for financing the import of industrial raw materials, machinery
and equipments, chemicals and other general items, under the adjustment component
of this Loan.



-41-                            Appendix A
Page 8 of 11
25.   Procurement Delavs.  Principal reasons cited by the entities for the delays
in procurement were: (a) relative non-familiarity on the part of some agencies
with the Bank's procurement procedures; (b) late effectiveness and disbursement
of funds by JEXIM Bank; (c) difference in interpretation of Bank procurement
guidelines relative to t'- -e of other financiers, which caused confusion to some
entities; (d) lengthy apt  -al process for large contracts, especially in seeking
clarifications on technic.  specifications, unlimited liability clauses, etc; (e)
the Closing Date for the Loan, as well as conditions for eligible payments; and
(f) the entities' internal problems (ban on staff hiring, local currency
constraints etc); and (g) significant reporting requirements of Energy Wing.
26.   Disbursements.  The general imports component of the Loan (US$125 million)
was fully utilized by FY92; however, disbursements for the investment component
by end-FY92 amounted to US$86 million out of US$153 million. In the subsequent
two-and-a-half years, another US$41 mill-on was disbursed. After making eligible
payments up to April 199S, it is expected that about US$259.5 million would be
disbursed under this Loan, and about US$18.5 million would be cancelled.
Imnlementation of Institutional Develonment Measures
27.   Institutional Reforms in the Power Sector.  Institutional reforms agreed
for the power sector provided for the establishment of a separate power
distribution wing in WAPDA, and preparation of a financial and organizational
restructuring plan for KESC. The Government, however, accelerated the program
by announcing in mid-1991 a comprehensive strategy for the privatization of the
power sector, including the reorganization of WAPDA as a holding company with
independent corporatized subsidiaries for its generation, transmission and grid,
and distribution operations; and the privatization of selected WAPDA assets.
This restructuring and privatization program is being supported through the
Bank's Power Sector Development Project (Ln 3764-PAR, which was approved in June
1994).    Similarly,  the  Government  has  now  decided  to proceed with  the
privatization of KESC, which is a step beyond that envisaged under the Loan.
28.   RestructurinQ of OGDC.  The agreed plans are being implemented, albeit with
delays.  International auditors have audited OGDC's FY90 and 91 accounts, and
identified actions that need to be taken to improve OGDC's accounts and record
keeping procedures. International consultants are also developing a Management
Information System (MIS) for OGDC, which would be completed by mid-1995;
thereafter, international auditors are to be recruited to audit OGDC's balance
sheet in accordance with international auditing practices. Financial performance
criteria for OGDC were agreed under the Domestic Energy Resources Development
Project (Ln 3500-PAX, approved in June 1992). Independently, the Government has
initiated a program for the privatization of OGDC; the first phase of this
program envisages the conversion of OGDC into a joint stock company under the
Companies Ordinance 1984; consultants have been appointed to prepare the legal
framework and to identify the legislative and other actions that may be required.
29.   Privatization of SSGC.  In response to a request from the Government, the
Bank in early 1990 agreed to waive the condition for preparation of strategy for
privatization of SSGC. However, under a subsequent Bank operation (the Corporate
Restructuring and System Expansion Project, Ln. 3252-PAX, approved in August
1990), the Government agreed on, and is currently implementing, with some delays,
a program for the privatization of SNGPL; a similar privatization program is
being implemented for SSGC, and financed by the Asian Development Bank.
30.   Strengthening of Enerav Wing.  While some of the contract positions in
Energy Wing were converted to full time positions, and a Finance and Economic
Section was established, the mission was informed that only two Deputy Chiefs
were appointed, while the position of Chief for this Section was not approved.



-42-
Page 9 of 11
31.   Operational Plan.  The mission discussed with GOP an Operational Plan to
sustain the benefits realized through the implementation of the ESL-II program,
and to stimulate private-sector investments and participation in the energy
sector. Attached is the Operations Plan agreed with GOP.
32.   Client Evaluation.  As per the Bank guidelines, Energy Wing, Ministry of
Planning & Development would, in consultation with the beneficiary entities,
submit its own evaluation of the Loan, which would be included in the ICR. The
mission provided advice to the Energy Wing and the entities for the preparation
of the Borrower's evaluation report. It has been agreed that the Energy Wing
would submit its formal evaluation to the Bank by June 30, 1995.
C. Conclusions
33.   Implementation of the ESL-II program has been generally satisfactory, and
major program objectives have been achieved. This was partly due to extensive
consultations between GOP and the Bank during Loan preparation, and also during
implementation. These discussions have enhanced the Bank's perception of the
imperatives and needs of the energy sector in Pakistan. It has also enabled GOP
to understand better the Bank's viewpoint regarding liberalization of the sector,
and PS involvement in the future development of energy resources. Not only has
GOP been very receptive towards these views, it has also adopted these principles
as part of the Government's policy package for the sector. This correspondence
of views between GOP and the Bank has established the basis for substantially
enhanced private investment in the sector in the near future.
34.   While most of the policy reforms were undertaken as envisaged, there have
been delays in some of the institutional development components - for example,
the development of enhanced environmental management capacity in the ESEs has not
been achieved; the privatization programs of SNGPL and SSGC, and implementation
of the MIS for OGDC (which is a critical component of the restructuring program)
have not been completed by the agreed target dates. The mission views these
delays with concern, and would like to highlight the need for expediting the
completion of these institutional strengthening programs. Similarly, limited
progress has been achieved in the rationalization of energy prices and the
removal of cross-subsidies in the electricity and natural gas pricing structures.
35.   Co-financing was provided by JEXIM Bank; however, the recipient energy
entities reported a number of difficulties in utilization of funds available
under the JEXIM Loan.  As was also the case with the Bank Loan, staff in
different energy organizations were relatively unfamiliar with JEXIM Bank's
procurement and disbursement requirements which resulted in delays in
disbursements, and non-utilization of a small part of the funds.
Attachment: operations Plan



PAKISTAN  - Second  Energy  Sector Loan                                                Attachment  -  1
ESL II (Loan 3107-PAK)
OPERATIONS PLAN
ITEM               PRESENT STATUS AND FUTURE PLANS                              MONITORING INDICATORS                                       TARGET DATES
Loan               US$ 153 m. for investment component comitted. and            Submission of withdrawal applications by the                 Up to April 30. 1995
TtoTementat1on    US$ 126.7 m. disbursed up to December 31. 94; US$ 125    entities for goods supplied and services performed
m. disbursed for adjustment component. Entities to           by the Closing Date.
submit withdrawal appilcations for goods supplied and
services performed by Dec 31. 94 to the Bank by end-         Monitoring by Energy Wing.
April 95.
Polcey Reforms
Sector             Investment programs for the sector are reviewed by           Anriudi review', of sectur.II iiivesisterit progrdms by     Annudily (drourid April M.Iy)
Investment        GOP and the Bank annually. and agreement Is reached           GOP and the Bairk should continue to be carried out.
Prooram           on a CIP. which is protected from budgetary cuts.
GOP has also initlated. from FY94. preparation of a          GOP to annually update the Three Year Rolling Plan           Annually
Three Year Rolling Plan of priority projects and             for the energy sector. and review this with the
Investments in all sectors: the Rolling Plan is a            Bank.
basis for Identifying the Investment requirements in
future years. better programming of investments. and
allocation of public sector resources.
In view of the limits on availability of resources           The Task Force report should be reviewed with the           By June 30. 95.
for public sector investments. GOP has constituted a         Bank. and a more responsive format and process for
Task Force to review the PC-I process. In order to           project preparation and approval should be agreed.           Programs for development of
devise formats for the PC-I that are more responsive                                                                      improved project preparation
to requirements of Donors and GOP. and to streamline         In addition. the capacity of the key institutions to   capacity in key institutions to
project preparation. processing and approval                 better Identify projects and prioritized investments    be completed by June 30. 1996.
I______________  procedures.                                                     needs to be improved.
Ar 
XD
o 



ITEM              PRESENT STATUS AND FUTURE PLANS                              NONITORING INDICATORS                                       TARGET DATES
Pricing.           Electricity tariffs are adjusted periodically. to           ICG basis for electricity tariffs to be retained: In   Annual review of compliance by
Resource           allow WAPDA to linatice 402 of its average arnual           addition. the Bank and GOP are reviewing the option    WAPDA witlh ICG cuvenant: ROR
Hooilization       Investments thrOuyh ICG.                                    of Introducing a rdte uf return (ROR) covenant.             covenant to be introduced
and Demnd                                                                      wtich would be in line with GOP objectives regarding    following agreement betweeui  WV
Management                                                                     operation of WAPDA on conriercial lines.                    and the Bank.
Natural gas producer prices are set with reference to    Gas producer prices for new concessions to be set              Annual reviews by GOP and the
the world market price of crude.                            with reference to International crude prices.               Bank
Natural gas price for residential consumers Is to be        Gas price for residential consumers to be raised to    April 30. 1995: annual reviews
raised to full parity with the border price of fuel         full parity with border price of fuel oil: for other   thereafter.
oil by April 30. 1995; for other sectors the gas            sectors to be maintained at least at parity with the
price is tn be maintained dt leant at parity wit, ithe    dome-thl  price' ul Iu.I oil.
duti4slc price of fuel oil
Consisrier tirices ot petioleusii pirodutU, st: .  .ll.t. .   t-vitw IMIIIxr' WuAt'   his jt  l    products every       1l)drtely I'vww b)y GOI':
periodically. to pdss on any increases in import            quarter, and periodically adjust prices to pass on          discuss annrually with the Bdaik
costs to consumers.                                         increases/decreases In Import costs to consumers.
GOP accords high priority to energy conservatlon            Identify specific programs. and provide resources           Periodic review with Bank of
activities. and energy conservation and demand side         for financing energy conservation programs.                 loss reduction. DSM programs:
management programs (0SM) are being developed In all        Including measures for the reduction of losses in           funding through budgets of
key sub-sectors.                                            the production. supply and delivery of energy.              respective entities.
Institutional     Ongoing programs for enhancing operational autonomy          Progress of restructuring and privatization program         Annually. during supervision of
Develooment       and performance of key lnstitutions Include the              for WAPDA. SNGPL and other entities to be reviewed          ongoing projects.
restructuring and corporatization of WAPDA (to be           periodically with the Bank.
followed by privatization of some WAPDA assets):
privatization of SNGPL and SSGC: and preparation of
programs for privatizat on of other entities.
Independent regulatory agency for power sector is           Establishment of Regulatory authority for power             June 30. 1995.
being established, and preparation of program for           sector (as agreed under the Power Sector Development
establishing an independent regulatory framework for        Project - Loan 3764-PAK).
the petroleum sector has been Initiated.
Review progress on establishing regulatory framework   June 30. 199%
for petroleum sector with the Bank
Restructuring program for OGOC being implemented.           Progress in implementation of agreed restructuring          Annually, during supervision ot
including separation of technical services from E&P         program for OGDC to be discussed with the Bank.             Ongoing projects.
functions; preparation of MIS (to Improve record
keeping and auditing procedures). followed by the                                                                               /                                   la
appointment of independent international auditors:          Preparation of proposals for the privatization of           Review by June 30. 1995. and
and agreement on financial performa nce criteria,  n        OGDC to be periodically reviewed with the Bank.             periodic reviews thereafter.
privatization of OGOC. starting with the conversion
of OGOC into a Joint stock company under the                                                                                                                    o tn
Companies Ordinance 1984.



-45-
At)2ndix 8
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT                            Page 1 of 11
PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN II
Borrower's Evaluation'
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN-Il
LOAN NO.3107-PAK
IMiPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BORROWERS EVALUATION
PREPARED BY
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DISION
(ENERGY WING)
(OCTOBER, 1995)
This section has been prepared by the Borrower, and its contents ae not atributable to the World Bank. ibe Evaluation was pPId
by the Ministry of Planning and Development, Planning and Development Division, Energy Wing. and wu submitted to the Wodd
Bank under cover letter dated December 20, 1995 (No. 12 (45-4) Energy/PC09SJ. Only the ten-pe Evaluation is attched with tss
report; additional details and the full report are filed in the World Bank's Asia lnfofnation Center.



-46-
Appendix B
Page 2 of 11
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN-
IMPLEMENTAtION COMPLETION REPORT-BORROWERS EVALUATION
A.                                   PROJECT OBJECTIVE:
Energy Sector Loan-I (ESL-I) provided the basis of for preparation of the Seventh Five year Plan for
Energy Sector through studies that were undertaken, the formulation of LES, and the implementation of core
investment programnme(CIP) during FY86-88. The Bank-'s role in the preparation of Seventh Plan was to review
planning assumptions and ensure consistency.with the macro economic frame work and LES (Long Termn Strategy
for Development of Energy). The objective for the Seventh Plan were as:-
2)     Rtsource Develonment (a) accelemrte the exploration  and development of oil, coal gas, hydro and
renewable resources, (b) reduce energy imnports by increasing the use of indigenous fuels such as coal and gas;
and (c) increase in supply of power to meet the projected growth in demand, eliminate load-shedding and provide
rural areas the access to electricity.
3)     Pricine. resource molilization and demn_d ninnagernnt:
(a) rationalize prices to genexate funds for energy investmenets and provide incentive for conservation and
economic substitution among fuel and (b) increase the capacity of the public energy entities to self-finance their
investment programmRae, and in tum to reduce burden on the public e,xchequer, and domestic capital market; and
4) -  Institutiolial DMY.oDment:- (a) draw to a mruch grratcr dcgrc:, on thc financial rcsources and experites
of private sector (PS) for energy development and production and (b) improve the operational and investment
efficiencies of the institution in the sector.
5)     Investmenit Plin:- The on-going and new projects needed to meet energy demand during the Seventh five
Year Plan and ensure smooth transition to 8th Five Year Plan were identified and ranked in the descending order
on the basis of their economic rate of return. The financial requirement of each project selected was determined
by pbasing the expenditure and determining the sources of funds and optimally combining the bilateral and
multilateral sources, internal cash generation, allocation through PSDP and loans from the loacl and foreign capital
markets.
B.                                           DESIGN
6).            Tbe project was designed to address the following policy issues, and actions to be taken under the
Energy Sector. Adjustment Programme.
7)             Enerrv Investrnent:- Under ESL-I, the Govemment had outlined, in collaboration with the Bank,
CIP for the last three'years of Sixth Plan which comprised high priority projects to be completed or initiated during
that period. Similarly, the Govemment had developed a CIP comprising of on going and new projects whose
implementition was critical for the achievement of the targets for the period FY89-FY91 for each of the energy
sector entities covering (a) the project composition and timing (b) sources for foreign financing for each project and
(c) source for local financing with an indicative break down between internal cash generation, Government
contribution, local borrowing and foreing loans. An estimate was also developed for liklely investment by private
sector.
1



-47-
ADRendix B
Page 3 of 11
Resource Development
8)    HydroDover: The long term least cost power generation expansion plan called for, besides installation of
-Thermal Power Plants, development of an other 8700 MW of hydropower capacity by the year 2010.
9)     Coal:- In order to develop this natural resource, and to rnake full use of the development of energy s-ctor
leading to establishment of mouth of mine coal fired power plant by public/private sectors, the Government initiated
to design an action plan for development of central block of the LAkhra Cdal Field, which could involve the
participation of private sector. For this purpose Government was to appoint a consultant for review of the
rrangement for granting coal concessions, including an examination of the content of concession agreement, with
a view to putting them on equal footing with those of oil and gas.
10)    Oil and Gas:- In part the development of gas was constrained by low producer prices and transmission
bottlenecks. There were several discovered low quality gas field which remained undeveloped. In order to ensure
increased availability of gas, development of a monitormble action plan for the appraisal and development of already
discovered ficids at Pirkoh, Loti, Dhodak, Dakhni, Uch, Nandpur, Panjpir, werm planned.
.11)   Hlousehold Enerr - Household consitutes the largest single consumer category in the consumption of
energy in Palkistart, accounting for about 45% of total energy consumed in FY88. The optimal mix of modem ftiels
and biomass fuels in the&houshold consumption of energy required a better understanding of the factor which
determined the demand and supply of energy in the household sector. Since the existing data were inadequate for
policy formulation, the Government intended to develop a comprphensive data base and formulated an action plan
aimed at meeting future energy needs of the household sub-sector at Ilast cost. A consultant was also to be
appointed to compile  forestory inventory, in conjuction with the on going work and fonrulate a long term
re4orestation plan.
Pricing. Resource Mobilization and Demand Mlannwement
12)    Electricity Prices: Price of electricity was to be adjusted to comply with 40% self-financing of investment
plan from interl cash generation. Necessary measures were also envisaged for rationalization of structure of
electricity tariff, including to the introduction of peak/off-peak pricing.
13)    Producer Gas Prices: Linkage of the producer price of gas to thc border price of fuel oil, less negotiated
discount on geological and market condition of the concession concemed, had given encouraging response in shore
areas. In order to maintain the momentum of gas exploration and development, it was envisaged to revise this
formula to full parity with border price of fuel oil.
14) -    Coiiiiumer Gas Prices: In order to r:. '_alize the fuel prices, the Government envisaged to increased the
price of natural gas supplied to household so as to achieve full parity with the border price of fuel oil by June, 1993.
Further a development surcharge in the structure of the consumer prices for gas sold directly to power sub-sector
was to be introduced to raise the level of price to reach full parity with the domestic price of fuel oil by June 30,
1995. And for other economic sector the gas prices was to be maintained at least at full parity with domestic price
of fuel oil.
15)    Consumer Price or Petroleum Prodtct: The Govemment had adopted a policy of passing on any increase
in import price of POL product to the end consumers.
16)    Energv Conservation: The Government envisaged (a) to prepare an action plan aimed at (i) undertaking
detailed engineering and feasibility study for retrofitting for about 20 of the largest industrial energy consuming
plants in the public sector (ii) financing retrofitting and energy conserving investment and related studies for about
20 of the largest energy consuming plant in privatc sector and (iii) formulating proposal for energy conservation
2



-48-
Appendix B
Page 4 of I I
investment in agricultuire, industrial, transport and construction sector and (b) appointment of consultant for a study
aimed at eliminating the contraints to conservation arising from existing tax, indtstrial and trade legislation and on
the basis of thisstudy establishment by June 30, 1991, an incentive framework to promote energy conservation.
Inititutional Devdlonment
17)    From institutional point of view the following were agreed with the Bank.
18)    Institutional Develooment of OGDC:. From FY1990, OGDC's activities was to be funded through
Governments ADP only on loan basis and the OGDC was required to jenerate adequate funds from their own
sources, and borrow the rest from local capital market. A consultant was also to be appointed for restructuring of
OGDC. Mloreover, it was agreed to promulgate OGDC ordinance for improvement of OGDC's management
administration, account and audits.
19)    Renstructurin- of JKESC Preparation and implementation of an organizational and financial re-structuring
.plan of KESC through inter ministerial committec and (b) to recruit consultant to assist in developing and
organizational and funancial re-restructuring plan for I(ESC was agreed.
20)    Institutional Develooment for Enemy Planning:- The energy planning of the Planning and Devetopment
Ministry was a weak, area which was strengthened with the USAID assistance. In order to keep adequate experties
developed under USAID assistance, the following were envisaged:-
i)     All the contract personnel were to be regularized in the Govemcinen.
ii)    Finance and Economic Section will be established within Energy Wing and
iii)    A notification will be issued declaring Energy Wing as a part and pcrcel of the Planning and
-             . Development Division.
21)    Environmental Asoect: Preparation of an action plan for (a) adoption for environmental Standards for
protection against air and water pollution (b) adoption of guideline for assessment of environmental impact
resulting from encrgy producing activities (c) development of capabilities in key institition in the sector to address
environmental issues and (d) adoption of improved health and safety and emeragency management guidelines was
agreed.
C.                             IMPLEMiENTATION
22)     A total of US S 250 n.iltion was approved by thc Bank which was negotiated from May 15 to Mtay 19.
1983 signed on 8th December, 1989 and made effective on 8th March, 1990, out of which S 125 million was
dedicated for Balance of Payment support whereas $ 125 million was earmarked for investment programme. The
loan was supplemented by S 2S million which was approved by the Bank- in Junc, 1991, signed on 8th July, 1991
a.nd made cffcetivc ou 22nd January, 1992. Tle loan was co-financed with S 125 --llion frnm JFXINI Rank of
Japan. The investment portion of the loan was allocated initially to WAPDA, OGDC, SNGPL, K;ESC. SSGC.
PMSDC and Energy Wing.The following table shows the amou nt allocated to various energy sector entities:-
3



-49-
Appendix B
Page 5 of  1I
Tranche-I              Tranche-ll              Total
WAPDA                     42. 4:!                15.10                57.50
OGDC                      12 00                  11.00                23.00
KESC                      12.00..                11.00                23.00
SSGC                       3.00                  2.00                  5.00
SNGPL.                     5;10.:                9.40                 14.50
PMDC                       0.50-.                0.00                  0.50
ENERGY WING                0.50                  2.00.                 2.50
Total                     80.00                  45.00                125.00
BOD                       75.00 .     .          50.00                125.00
Grand Total              155.00                  95.00               250.00
23)    Tte loan was released in two tranches. The second tranch was released on December, 1991. The Energy
Wing of Planning and Development Division was the main co-ordinating agnecy for implementation of this loan.
24)     During the course of implementation, tome of the energy sector entities could not utilize their quota of
allocation, whereas allocation made to PMDC was surrendered due to the reason that the amount was allocated to
PMDC for investmehnt in Lakhra Central Block. 1lowever, LCDC was, later established and which was not the
beneficiary of the loan, therefore it was surrendered by PMIDC. The amount allocated to Energy Wiirg (S12.5
million) was also surrendered. The amount surrendered was re-allocated to other energy sector entities. Tie
following table shows the final allocation as it stoods on 31.12.1994:-
Trancbe-I Tranche-Il Additional Suppleimen- Total
Allocation tary Loan
WAPD^                 42.40            i5.10        8.14      12.0w           77.14
OGDC                   16.50           5.50         2.96       0.00           24.96
KESC                   12.00           11.00        2.96       0.00           24.00
SSGC                   3.00            2.00        (8.5)      16.00           19.90
SNGPL                  5.10            9.40        (1.6)       0.00           6.00
PMDC                   0.50            0.00         (0.5)      0.00           0.00
ENERGY WVING           0.50            2.00        (2.5)       0.00            0.0
Total                  80.00          45.00      000.00       28.00          125.00
BOP                    75.00          50.00         -           -
Grand Total           155.00          95.00         -         28.00         278.00
4



-50-
ADpendix B
Page 6 of I 1
25) -   he amount allocated to various energy sector entities was utilized for procurement of equipment/material
. for various project, transmission, distribution a'nd generation equipment by WAPDA, transmission and grid station
equipment by KESC,'drilling equipment and seryices by-OGDC, PLC equipment and payment of workl done under
ESL-I by SNGPL and for procuning of equipment for first facility project by SSGC.
26),  The loan was originally scheduled to be closed on 31-12-1991, which was extended twice upto 31.12.1994.
A total of US $ 259.482 million was disbursed upto April 30, 1995. Agency-wise, break-up of disbursement is as
follows.-
Total        Disbursement           Expected amount
Alocation       upto 31-12-94         to be lapsed
WAPDA                 77. 140             66.852                10.286
OGDC                  25. 960            22.319                 3.641
*KESC                 24. 00             23.838                 0.162
SSGC :19.A9O0                             15.791                4.109
SNGPL                  6. 000             5.680                 0. 32
PMDC -:                 -
RNERGY WING   -
B.O.P Support         125.000             125.000
Totali          278.000            259.480               18.518
27)    Disbursement in first year was slow, however it gained momentum in subsequent years. Slow disbursement
in the first year could be due to lack of knowledge of procurement procedure by the recipient agencies. However.
with the passage of time, the procurement procedure streatrlined and the entities were able to make fast
disbursements.
28)    Prncuren_ent Dclnvs: Principal reasons cited for procuremcnt delays were: (a) relative non-familiarity on
the part of some of the agencies wi;5 the Bank's procurement procedures; (b) late effectivcness and disbursement
of funds by JEXIM Bank; (c) di,'ference in interpretation of Bank procurement guidelines relative to those of som:
other co-financiers, which caused confusion to some entities; (d) iengthy approval process for large contracts.
especially in seeking clarifications on techmical specifications, unlimited liability clauses, etc; (d) the Bankls' Closing
Date for the lona, as well as conditions for eligible payments; and (f the entities internal problems.
IMPLEMENTATION OF POLICIES
29)    Tb:e Gnver-omnt had r-=-d a high priority to Uh- imF;lcmntation of Lte re'p,rogr.m agre ed under
the loan, the Bank had also assisted for the preparation of additional reforms measure which had becn impiemcented
over the period of past four/rive years. As a result, in some cases, the reforms actually implemented has exceeded
envisaged targets under tb: loan. The detaials showing agreed reforms with the Bank, alongwith  its status of
implementation is attached at Annexure-I. The nuain policy reforms which was undertaken underlthe loan are in
the following paragraphs:-
30)    Incenitive Stricture: GOP has nioved aggressively to address investor concerns regarding the adequacy
of incentives provided in the pricing regime for investmeits in the sector. Specifically, agreement o:a the producer
price of natural gas which was to be linked with the border price of fuel oil; however. gas price was linked to the
5



-51-
Appendix B
Page 7 of 11
international price of crude oil from  ary 4.   over the GOP         a Petroleum Policy in March, 1994
which gives incentives to jrivate sector investor  all the petroleum related field. Some of the incentives are a
follows where as the details may be seen at annexure-I-
Exploration and production sector:-;
i)    Procedure of security clearance has been streamlined and hp clearance are required for green a.
ii)   Introduced a new block award'orocess through competitive bidding for the work progreanure..
iii) -      ii applications for Exploration Uicences are to be decided within 60 days.
iv) Oil' and Gas installation in Baluchistan and Tribal Area has been exempted form the application of
Industrial Relation Ordinance 1969.
v)    Incentive' forLocil E&P Companies:-
a) A local E&P company investing a minimum of 5% during exploration phase will be assigned an
additional share out of the GOP's Working Initerest after Commercial Discovery. Provided,
however; that if two or more local E&P companies participate in a joint venture, then the GOP will
assign a Maximum of 5% out of its Working Interest to such companies on a pro-rta bais.
However, such E&P companies should neither be afriliated, associated, holding or subsidiary
companies of each other. Except for this and other incentives mentioned in this Policy, local and
'foreign E&P companies will be.treated equally.
b) LOCal* E&P companies will, on a case to case basis, be entitled during the exploration phase to
rceive foreign exchange against payment in Rupees to meet their day to day obligations under
Permits, Licences and PCAs. After Commercial Discovery, local E&P companies would be pa'd
upto 30% of their sale proceeds in foreign currency to meet their day to day operational
requirements. For project financing after Commercial Discovery, local E&P companies will be
required to make their own foreign exchange arrangements.
31)    The Policy announced by the Govemment achieved a very good response from investors and explorntion
licenses for 31 blocks have been granted by the DGPC up to 21-2-1995.
32)    Major incentive were provided to the potential private investors for power generation and was assured a
rate of return of 18% on equity. In March, 1994 the Government announced anew policy framework allowing a
-bulk tariff of US Cents 6.5/Kwh for the first two years for sale of electricity to WAPDA/KESC for Private Power
Generation. In addition a premium of US cents 0.25/Kwh based on the energy sold during 1st 10 years of the
project operation was allowed to all such power plant which was of more than 100 MW  capacity and are
commissioned by the end of 1997. The following main fiscal incentives were allowed to the private power
generations:-
i)    The private power companies are exempted from corporate income tax.
ii)   The companies are allowed to import plant and equipment without payment of customs duties, sales
tax, Iqra, Flood Relief and oth:r Surcharges as well as Import License Fee.
iii)   The companies have been allowed to register anywhere in Pakistan to avail reduction in stamp, tax
and registration fee for registration of loan documents by Federal Government.
iv)   Repatriation of equity alongwith dividends is allowed freely.



-52-
Appendix B
Page 8 of 11
v)    Exemption from income tax in Pakistan for foreign lenders tb such companies.
vi)   Although the GOP encourages participation of local investors in the po;ver sector, it is not.
mandatory, and foreign companisrinvestors are free to set up projects without local partners.
vii)   Tbe companies can obtain Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance (FERI) on standard terms from the
State Bank on the formign curreDcy loans contracted by them. The current premium rates of FERI
are icluded in the bulk tariff but ani change in FERI will be considered as a 'pass-through' item.
viii)  The companics have been exempted from the requirements of obtaining insurance only from the
National lnsurance Corporation (NIC) under NIC Act of 1976 if tbey are funded by multi-lateral
lending agencies like World Bank, ADB etc; Nowv private power companies can get insurance as
per requirements of lenders and utilities.
ix)   The power generation has been declared as an industry and the companics are eligible for all other
concessions which a:e available to industrial projects.
x)    The privaL- prties may rzie local and foreign .4i_  .. ... a  rdance with reguliaiuns applicable
to industry in gencral.
xi)   For local engineering and manufacturing companies, the present Statutory Revisionary Order (SRO)
555(1)190 has been made applicable to private.power plants.
xii)   Orders received by local engineering and manufacturing companies from privatc power companies
will be treated as an export for refinance under the State Bank Finance Scheme for Exports.
In addition, standard implementation agreement, power purchase agreement and fuel supply agreement has
been prepared. The Govemment has guarante-ed purchase of power by KESC/WAPDA for 15-30 years etc.
33)    Like Petroleum Policy, Power Generation Policy was also appreciiled world wide and was of tremendous
success. A total of 30 LOI/LOS was issued by PPIB for cumulative generation capacity of 7037.5 MVW.
34)        Pricinm Reforms: Implementation of the pricing reforns have been broadly in line with agreements
reached wtb the Bank, even thou,h there have been some delays in price adjustments. Petroleum prices have been
adjusted in response to changes in world market prices several times between July 1990 and August, 1993. Natural
gas prices were adjusted in July 1990 to align these to the domestic price of fuel oil. Similarly the prices of
electricity were also adjusted from time to time and it was more or less in confirmity with covenants agreed witi
the Bank. However, electricity tarriffs were not adjustcd between March/April 1991 and june 1993; as a result,
faily alcep incicases have" been made during the subsequent period. Tables at Annexure-lIl shows the price of
petroleum, gas and electricity respectively from 1988-89 to 1993-94.
35)        Rationnlizalion of EnereY Prices: For rationalization of the energy prices. the Govenmment has taken
the following action during past few years:
a) FAS has been applied to all the domestic consumers.
b) Agriculture consumer is required to pay PAS and metered energy charges.
c) Time of the day meter ar being installed for industrial consumers
7



-53-
ApDendix B
Page 9 of 11
d) .R'ppli control dtv.ces are being installed at the tubewells.
c) Gas pnce to aomestic consumer bas been increased to 73 % pari* with border price of fuel oil lqadinz
to,100% parity by April, 1995.
f) Gas' price to commercial and industrial consumers has also been increased to full parity with border
pricc of fuel oil.
FolUowing table-D gives the parity position.as on January 1995:-
TABLE-D
Category                Averge       Parity with   Parity with            Remarks
of.Consumer             tariff.      Domestic    border price
per MMCFT  price of       of fuel oil
fuel oil 
Domertic                47.00                        73%           C&F Price of US $ 89.00'
per ton for July-Dec, 1994
average.
Comrnmeiclal            76.27            111.6
Industrial              67.77     .      99%
Fertilizer              66.22            -
Power Sect6r            56.84            89%
36)    Studies: There have been substantial delays in undertaking the studies agreed under the loan. and the time
required for the selection and appointment of consultants has inevitably bere longer than envisaged, which may be
due to lengthy proucc.o'cal _:ir.g bids, its evaluation, select io, banks approval ctc. S:t  b; s:ep approval of the
Bank from TOR to final selection of consultants could be the main reason of delay, apart the agencies own
procdure. However, the following were done.
37)   Feasibilty studies on retro-fitting for the larger industrial plants were carried out. financial constraints have
precluded thc execution of mos: of tLhe identified programmes.
38)    The Environmental Action Plan; (i) standards for protection against air and water pollution were adopted
by the Government in late 1993 (ii) environmental management capabilties within the key institutions has been
developed though it was restricted to the establishment of special units or cells. Comprehensive program for
strengthening environmental management capabilities would be undertak-en under Loan 3500 PK from the Cank for
OGDC. Similarly programne for WAPDA is being implemented under the power sector development project loan.
Ciii) the latest status regarding improved health and safety, and emergency management, standards is not known:
and (iv) guidelines for environmental ssessments for energy projects are being enforced by the Environmental
Urban Affairs Division. and by the entities as much as possible.
39)    lnstitutional Reform for Power Sector: The institution>!!f- -^ -'arn agreed for the power sub-sector
provided mainly for the establishment of a separte power distribution wing within WAPDA, and prepatin of a
financial and organizational restructuring plan for KESC. The Government acted beyond the agreed action by
announcing in rid-1991 a comprehensive strategy for the privatization of the power sector, under which WAPDA
would be restructured into a holding company with independent corporatized subsidiaries for its Senertion.
8



-5rAppendix B
Page 10 of 11
tmsmission and grid, and distribution operations; the strategy also envisages the privatization of selected WAPDA
assets..Simnilarly, the Goverrnent has decided to prceed with the privatization of KESC.
40)    Restructurint of OGDC: The agreed plans are being implemented. International auditors were hired to
asudit.OGDC's :Y90 and 91 ccounts; the suditors'reports indentified actions that need to be taken to improve
OGDC's accounts and record keeping procedurcs. International consultants, have developed a cQmprehensive
Management Information System which was completed in July 1995. Financial performance criteria for OGDC
were igreed under the Bank's Domestic Energy Resources Development Project (Loai 3500-PAK). The Govemment
bali initiated a program for thc privatiaation. of OGDC; the first phase of this program envisages the conversion
of OGDC it6o a joint stock company udder the Companies Ordinance 1984; consultants have been appointed to
prepare the legal framework and to identify the legal and other, actions that may be required.
41)    Privariation of SSGgC In response to a request from the Government, the Bank in early 1990 agreed to
waive the condition for preparation of strategy for privatization of SSGC. Howevcr, subsequently the GovemmenL
ha decided to privatize SSGC and SNGPL. In this regard a regulatory authority is being established to oversee the
privatization process and to safeguard the interest of the Governnent, the consumer and the private sector.
42)    Sirengthenin. lfEie   Wino: Some of the contract positions in Energy Wing were converted to HItll
time positions'. A separate. Finance and Economic Section with two Deputy Chiefs and two Assistant Chiers are
alrady in placec
43)    Investment Pronrnm: The Government and the Lank have reviewed annually the investment program for
the sector, and agreed on a Core progmrn of projects and investments to be protected from budgetary cuts.
Electricity tariffs have been adjusted to allow WAPDA  to finance 40% of its investment pro.ram through ICG.
Following table show the sununarized position of PSDP allocatic,n and actual investment made by the cltities for
1988-94.
TABLE-C
(Rs.Million)
Name of Agency        Total PSDP                Actual               Higher Investment/
allocation             Investment              (Lower Investment)
WAPDA                 126333. 00             119602. 00                   (S. 3%)
KESC                  30S04.37                21027. 11                  (31.74%)
OGDC                  215S2. 72               18183.292                  (15.75%)
SSGC                   15330.509               8904.597                  (41. 9%)
SNGPL                    23.840               13487.000                  (43.43S.)
44)          The above table g,ves fairly good performance of the energy sector
during the period under discussion.
OPERATI0tTAL EXPERIE;ICE
45)     -        The loan was approved by the Bank's Board in June, 1989 and was
formally signed on December 8, 1989. Accordingly, there was a delay of about 6
months between Board's approval and signing  of the loan. This delay was on the
part, of the Government of Pakistan as the Government had to take approval of ECC
for the covenant to be agreed under the loan. However, the loan was declared
offective'at proper time on March 8, 1990, on the fulfillment  of conditions of
effectivenss.
9



Ap1pendix B
Page 11 of 11
need of    -During the implementation of the loan it was felt that there is a
'needof more quick disbursing loan for the reasona'ble  amourt. Accordingly, the
suplementary loan (3107-1) was conceived which was'approved by Board in June,.
47)          .As.mentioned at para 2.3 above, the loan  was distributed  in 2
tranches;. For. release of tranch  one condition- of effectiveness was -to be
fulfilled, whereas the release of second tranche was conditional on fulfillment
of some dated convenant agreed under the loan. The release of second tranche was'
*delayed on the request of Government'till mid of '1991.
LESSON LEARNED
48)      Through the implementation of ESL-1I, GOP and the beneficiary entities
have beon able to particiapte in the comprehensive and consistent development of
the  rnergy sector, with an appreciation of the requirements of different sub-
sectors, and implicationn for other sector/sub-sectors. A greater understanding
of the-sector.has developed among different entities, and the planning bodies,
which would go a long way in integrated planning in future.
49)        The-Planning bodies have also learnt on the policy implications for
attracting foreign and domestic investments, and for bringing about structural
reforms in the sector. This experience has enabled the Energy Wing and the
Planning Division to undertake at its own the structural reform process on a
ccntinuous basis.
50)        Lastly, through the import of equipment and material, GOP and the
energy entities have learnt about- the procurement process of the Bank, which
would be useful in the effective implementation of similar loans/credits in
future.
ICRESL2.IZH
10



-56-                           Appendix C
Page I of 2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN II
Cofinancier's Evaluation'
December 19, 1995
JEXIM's Comments on the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) of the Second Energy Sector Loan
In May 1991, the Export-Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM) made
available to Islamic Republic of Pakistan a loan amounting to Yen
equivalent of US$ 150 million in cofinancing with World Bank's ESL-II.
Of this total commitment, US$ 100 million equivalent were provided for
energy development projects executed by energy sector entities, and the
remaining US$ 50 million were provided for general imports to support
the macroeconomic adjustment program.  The procurement and
administration of JEXIM loan were carried out by the World Bank.
The execution of the loan faced some minor difficulties. The final
disbursement date of the loan had to be extended from October 1991 to
October 1993 due mainly to delay in the fulfillment of conditions
precedent to disbursement.  The pace of disbursement was initially
slower than expected because as many as six implementing agencies,
some of which had been unfamiliar with JEXIM procurement and
disbursement requirements before, were involved.  Despite these
difficulties the loan was almost fully disbursed by the end of the
extended disbursement period.
1 /   This section has been prepared by the Export-Import Bank of Japan, and its contents
are not attributable to the World Bank. The evaluation was submitted to the World
Bank under cover letter dated December 19, 1995; the original has been filed in the
the Asia Information Center.



-57-                         Appendix C
Page 9 of 2
ESL-II supported Pakistan's adjustment efforts in the energy sector
comprising mainly policy and institutional reforms and implementation
of the Core Investment Program (CIP), while also supporting the
country's macroeconomic adjustment program by facilitating an adequate
level of imports. As ICR indicates, the ESL-II program was well designed,
and the overall implementation of the program was generally
satisfactory. Major objectives of the program were achieved, although
with some delays.
ESL-II clearly made positive contribution to the enhancement of
the attractiveness of investments in the energy sector of Pakistan.
Particularly notable was its contribution to subsequent increase in
private investment in power.  Although, as ICR indicates correctly,
anticipated levels of private investment in that sub-sector were not
achieved during the program period largely due to the longer than
expected time required for securing financing arrangements for the Hub
Power Project, the reforms implemented under ESL-II paved the way to
further reforms, especially those on energy prices, which have
eventually made Pakistan one of the most attractive developing
countries for private investment in the energy sector.
Pakistan's privatization program which was initiated under ESL-II
for the energy sector has subsequently been expanded by GOP to cover
the financial and telecommunication sectors. The lessons from ESL-II can
make valuable contributions to the successful implementation of GOP's
privatization program in these sectors.









IMAGING
Report No.:        15412
Type:     ICR



