Page  1
                                                           April 19  1990
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
            Re:   Loan No. 3107 PAK
                  (Second Energy Sector Loan)
                  Amendment of the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
      We refer to the Loan Agreement (Second Energy Sector Loan) between
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower) and the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), dated December 8,
1989, and to the Program Agreement of even date therewith, among the Bank
and the Water and Power Development Authority of Pakistan (WAPDA), the
Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC), the Oil and Gas Development
Corporation (OGDC), the Sui Southern Gas Corporation (SSGC), the Sui
Northern Gas Pipelines Limited (SNGPL), and the Pakistan Mineral
Development Corporation (PMDC) (all collectively, the Energy Sector
Entities). We also refer to the letters dated February 21 from the Energy
Wing of the Borrower's Ministry of Planning and Development (EWPD)
requesting postponement of the date for submission to the Bank of the
action plan for Lakhra coal field development and the date for absorption
of EWPD's contract staff as regular government employees.
      We are pleased to inform you that the Bank, after due consideration
of the reasons therefor, has agreed to the above requests.  Accordingly,
the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:
1.    In Section 3.23, the date "December 31, 1989" is changed to read as
"March 31, 1991".
2.    A new Section 3.28 is added to read:
            "Section 3.28. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
      Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1990, arrange for selected
      contract staff positions of EWPD to be converted to regular
      employee positions of the Borrower on a permanent basis."
3.    In Section 5.01 (e), the words "absorbing selected existing
contract staff of EWPD as the Borrower's regular employees on a permanent
basis," occurring at the third through the fifth lines, are deleted.
      All the terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement, as amended
hereby, shall remain in full force and effect.
      Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing and
dating the enclosed copy of this letter and returning it to us.
Very truly yours,
                           Kudlapur G.V. Krishna
                              Acting Director
                           Country Department I
                Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
CONFIRMED:
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
Page  2
By    /s/ M. Hamid Hasan
      Authorized Representative
Date  July 14, 1990
cc:   Mr. Ashfaq Mahmood
      Senior Chief, Energy Wing
      Ministry of Planning and Development
      Islamabad, Pakistan
