Page  1
                                                           August 9, 1991
The Secretary to the
Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Islamic Republic of Pakistan
      Re:   Loan No. 3107 PAK
            (Second Energy Sector Loan)
            Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
      The Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower) and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the World Bank)
concluded on December 8, 1989, a loan agreement (the World Bank Loan
Agreement) for the Second Energy Sector Loan.  The World Bank Loan
Agreement, which provided the Borrower with a loan in the amount of two
hundred fifty million dollars ($250,000,000) equivalent became effective
on March 8, 1990. Subsequently, on July 8, 1991, the Borrower and the
World Bank concluded an agreement to amend the World Bank Loan Agreement
and to provide the Borrower with additional financing in the amount of
twenty-eight million dollars ($28,000,000) equivalent.
      The Borrower has also obtained from the Export-Import Bank of Japan
(the EXIMBANK) and other Japanese financial institutions (collectively
the Lenders) a loan for the same purpose and in an amount in yen
equivalent to one hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000) equivalent
under an agreement (the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement) concluded among the
Borrower, the EXIMBANK and the Lenders on May 24, 1991.  The Preamble to
the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement acknowledges that the Co-Lenders' Agreement
between the EXIMBANK and the World Bank dated May 24, 1991, pertaining to
the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement and the World Bank Loan Agreement, provides
that the World Bank shall, subject to the consent of the Borrower,
incorporate a cross-default clause in respect of the EXIMBANK Loan in the
World Bank Loan Agreement.
      Accordingly, we propose to you the following amendments to the
World Bank Loan Agreement:
1.    In Section 1.02, the word "and" appearing at the end of paragraph
(cc) is deleted, the "." appearing at the end of paragraph (dd) is
changed to ";" and the following new paragraphs are added:
      "(ee) "EXIMBANK" means the Export-Import Bank  of  Japan;
      (ff) "EXIMBANK Loan Agreement". means the Loan Agreement (Second
      Energy Sector Loan) entered into among the Borrower, the EXIMBANK
      and other Japanese financial institutions on May 24, 1991; and
      (gg) "EXIMBANK Loan" means the Loan provided under the EXIMBANK
      Loan Agreement."
2.    In Section 4.01, a new paragraph (e) is added to read as follows:
      "(e) (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
            (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of
                  the EXIMBANK Loan shall have been suspended, cancelled
                  or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
                  terms of the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement; or
            (B)   the EXIMBANK Loan shall have become due and payable
                  prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
            (ii)  subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if
                  the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
                  Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
Page  2
                  termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure
                  of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                  such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for.the Project
                  are available to the Borrower from other sources on
                  terms and conditions which are consistent with the
                  obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement."
3.    In Section 4.02, the word  "and"  appearing  at  the  end  of
paragraph (a) is deleted, the "." appearing at the end of paragraph (b)
is changed to a "; and" and the following new paragraph (c) is added to
read as follows:
      "(c) the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section 4.01
      shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (e) (ii) of that
      Section."
      Please indicate your agreement to the foregoing by signing and
dating the form of confirmation on the enclosed copy of this letter and
returning it to us.  Given its interest in this matter, a copy of this
letter will then be sent to the Export-Import Bank of Japan.
                               Sincerely,
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                             Arnold J. Clift
                             Acting Director
                          Country Department I
               Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
CONFIRMED:
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By
      Authorized Representative
Date
