Page  1
                                                        September 3, 1992
The Secretary to the Government
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad, Pakistan
The Chairman
Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation
House No. 13, H-9
Islamabad, Pakistan
      Re:   Loan 3107-PAK  (Second Energy Sector Loan)
Dear Sirs:
      We refer to the Loan Agreement (Second Energy Sector Loan) between
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower) and the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) dated December 8,
1989, as amended (the Loan Agreement), and to the Program Agreement
(Second Energy Sector Loan) of even date therewith (the Program
Agreement) among the Bank and Water and Power Development Authority of
Pakistan (WAPDA) and Karachi Electricity Supply Corporation (KESC) and
Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC) and Sui Southern Gas
Corporation (SSGC) and Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited (SNGPL) and
Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation (PMDC). We also refer to your
telex of July 2, 1992 and discussions held between the Bank and your
Ministry regarding reallocations to be made to the Public Sector Agencies
and Enterprises (as defined in the Loan Agreement) out of the portion of
the Loan allocated to the Investment Program (as defined in the Loan
Agreement) and elimination of PMDC from participation in such Program and
the Program Agreement.
      The Bank is pleased to inform you that, after due consideration, it
has agreed to amend the Loan Agreement as set forth in Part A below, and
to amend as set forth in Part B below, all subject to the continuing
obligations of the Borrower and its relevant agencies in respect of the
Investment Program as set forth in Part C below, and the effectiveness
conditions set forth in Part D below.
Part A.   Amendment to Loan Agreement
1.    The reference to "PMDC", wherever it appears, is hereby deleted.
2.    In Section 1.02 (p), the reference to Section "3.02 (a) (ii)" is
amended to read "Section 3.02 (a) (i)".
3.    In Section 1.02 (t), the reference to "paragraphs (u) through (bb)
of  this Section" is amended to read "paragraphs (u) through (z) of this
Section".
4.    Section 1.02 (v) is deleted.
5.    Paragraphs (w), (x), (y), (z) and (aa) of Section 1.02 are
relettered respectively as (v), (w), (x), (y) and (z).
6.    Paragraph (bb) of Section 1.02 is deleted and paragraphs (cc),
(dd), (ee), (ff) and (gg) of such Section are relettered as (aa), (bb),
(cc), (dd) and (ee).
7.    Section 2.02 (b) is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
      "(b) The Borrower shall, for the purpose of the Adjustment Program,
      open and maintain, and for the purposes of the Investment Program,
      shall cause each Energy Sector Entity referred to in Section 3.02
      (a) (i) of this Agreement to open and maintain, in dollars special
      accounts in the National Bank of Pakistan on terms and conditions
Page  2
      satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the
      Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
      Schedule 5 to this Agreement."
8.    Section 3.02 (a) (i) is deleted.
9.    Section 3.02 (a) (ii) is renumbered as Section 3.02 (a) (i) and the
opening paragraph thereof is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
      "(i)  in an amount equivalent to about $70,500,000 to WAPDA, in an
            amount equivalent to about $24,000,000 to KESC, in an amount
            equivalent to about $23,000,000 to OGDC, in an amount
            equivalent to about $14,500,000 to SNGPL, and in an amount
            equivalent to about $21,000,000 to SSGC, all under subsidiary
            loan agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and
            each of such Energy Sector Entity, under the terms and
            conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and
            which shall include:"
10.   In Section 3.06 (a), the words "and for the goods and services
provided under the Investment Program for which the Borrower is
responsible" are deleted.
11.   In Section 3.06 (b), the words "and the Borrower's Investment
Program Special Account" are deleted.
12.   Categories (6) and (7) in the Annex to Schedule 1 are deleted in
their entirety.
13.   In paragraph I (b) of Schedule 5, the words "in respect of the part
of the Investment Program for which the Borrower is responsible, an
amount equivalent to $250,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Borrower's Investment Program Special Account," are
deleted.
14.   In paragraph I (b) of Schedule 5, the word "and" shall be inserted
between the words "SSGC Special Account," and the words "in respect of
the part of the Investment Program for which SNGPL is responsible".
15.   In paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 5, the words "and in respect of the
part of the Investment Program for which PMDC is responsible, an amount
equivalent to $250,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the PMDC Special Account," are deleted.
Part  B.  Program Agreement
1.    All reference to PMDC, a party to the Program Agreement, is hereby
deleted wherever such reference appears.  Accordingly, PMDC is hereby
released of all its obligations, agreements, covenants and
representations under the Program Agreement and the Investment Program.
Part  C.  Continuing Obligations in Respect of the Investment Program
      Notwithstanding the amendment to the Loan Agreement and the Program
Agreement pursuant to Parts A and B above:
      (1)   the Borrower and its MWP, MPNR, EWPD, ENERCON, DOFMAC and
      EUAD (as such terms are defined in the Loan Agreement) shall
      continue to be responsible, inter alia, for executing their part of
      the Investment Program in respect of the energy, energy
      conservation and environment subsectors; and
      (2)   the Borrower, either by itself or through its relevant
      agencies or other entities, shall continue to be responsible, inter
      alia, for executing the relevant part of the Investment Program in
      respect of the coal subsector.
Part  D.  Effectiveness Conditions
      This amendment and release shall not become effective until:
Page  3
      (1)   it is executed by authorized representatives of the Borrower
      and PMDC in three counterparts and an original signed copy returned
      to the Bank; and
      (2)   evidence satisfactory to the Bank shall have been furnished
      to the Bank showing that:
            (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Borrower and
                  each of WAPDA, KESC and OGDC, respectively, have been
                  amended in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, including
                  an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Bank of
                  counsel acceptable to the Bank showing on behalf of the
                  Borrower, WAPDA, KESC and OGDC that such amended
                  Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized or
                  ratified by them and are legally binding upon them in
                  accordance with their terms;
            (b)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and
                  PMDC dated December 31, 1989, as amended, has been duly
                  abrogated by them in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
                  and
            (c)   the Borrower has obtained the consent of WAPDA, KESC,
                  OGDC, SSGC and SNGPL to the elimination of PMDC from
                  participation in the Investment Program and the Program
                  Agreement as set forth in Part B above.
      As the elimination of PMDC from participation in the Investment
Program and the Program Agreement pursuant to Part B above does not
increase the obligations of WAPDA, KESC, OGDC, SSGC and SNGPL under the
Program Agreement, no separate execution of this amendment and release is
being sought from them, except for the requirement set forth in Part D 2
(c) above.  Because of their interest in the matter, we are sending a
copy of this letter to their respective authorized representatives.
                            Very truly yours,
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         Manuel Penalver-Quesada
                             Acting Director
                         Country Department III
                            South Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By    /s/ Tanwir Ali Agha
      Authorized Representative
Date: November 14, 1992
PAKISTAN MINERAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
By    /s/ Safdar Ali Shah
      Authorized Representative
Date: November 3, 1992
cc:   The Chairman
      Water and Power Development Authority
      WAPDA House
      Lahore, Pakistan
      The Managing Director
      Karachi Electricity Supply Corporation, Ltd.
Page  4
      P.O. Box 7197
      Karachi-3, Pakistan
      The Chairman
      Oil and Gas Development Corporation
      M - 14 Markaz F-8
      Islamabad, Pakistan
      The Managing Director
      Sui Southern Gas Corporation,
      State Life Building No. 3
      Dr. Ziauddin Ahmed Road
      Karachi, Pakistan
      The Managing Director
      Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Ltd.
      P.O. Box 56
      Avari Plaza
      87, Sharhah-e-Quaid-e-Azam
      Lahore, Pakistan
