Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15594-JM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
JAMAICA
STUDENT LOAN PROJECT
July 1, 1996
Country Department III
Human and Social Development Group
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Jamaican Dollars (J$)
US$1.00 = J$39.7 (December 1995)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AFIs               Approved Financial Institutions
BOJ                Bank of Jamaica
CAST               College of Arts, Science and Technology
GOJ                Government of Jamaica
HEART              Human Employment and Resource Training Trust Fund
HRDP               Human Resource Development Programme
IBRD               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB                Inter-American Development Bank
JBA                Jamaican Bankers' Association
LIBOR              London Interbank Offering Rate
MIS                Management Information System
MOEYC              Ministry of Education, Youth and Culture
MOF                Ministry of Finance and Planning
PIOJ               Planning Institute of Jamaica
ROSE               Reform of Secondary Education
SESP               Social and Economic Support Programme
SLB                Students' Loan Bureau
SLC                Survey of Living Conditions
STATIN             Statistical Institute
UTech              University of Technology
UWI                University of the West Indies
WITCO              West Indies Trust Company



JAMAICA
STUDENT LOAN PROJECT
COUNTRY CONTEXT DATA SHEET .............................................                               i
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .............................................                               iii
1. BACKGROUND, ISSUES AND STRATEGIES .............................................                    4
MACROECONOMC ENviRONMENT .............................................                                4
OVERVIEW OF THE EDUCATION SECTOR .........................................                 .          4
EDUCATION FINANCING ......................................... 3
PRIVATE COSTS AND FINANCING OF TERTIARY EDUCATION .........................................           4
Existing Student Loan Schemes ...........................................                           5
Existing Scholarship and Grant Programs ..........................................                  7
GOvERNENT'S EDUCATION STRATEGY .........................................                              8
BANK'S ROLE AND STRATEGY ......................................... 8
LESSONS LEARNED ......................................... 9
2. THE PROJECT .........................................                                             10
PROJECT OBJECTIVES ......................................... 1 0
PROJECT COMPONENTS ......................................... 10
3. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .........................................                             14
PROJECT COSTS ......................................... 14
FINANCING PLAN ......................................... 15
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT ......................................... 16
IPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE ......................................... 16
PROJECT MANAGEMENT .......................................... 16
PROCUREMENT .........................................                                                17
DISBURSEMENT ......................................... 18
ACCOUNTI NG AND AUDITS ......................................... 19
PROJECT MONiTORING, SUPERVISION AND EVALUAnON .......................................... 19
STATUS OF PREPARATON .......................................... 19
5. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .........................................                                      20
6. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .........................................                              21
PROJECT BENEFITS .........................................                                           21
PROJECT RISKS ......................................... 21
7. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION .........................................                           22
8. ANNEXES ......................................... 24



ii
This report was based on the findings of preparation missions which visited Jamaica in January
and May 1995 led by Mr. Emesto Cuadra (LA3HR). A pre-appraisal mission in December 1995
and an appraisal mission in March 1996 were led by Ms. Jill Armstrong (Economist), LA3HR.
The appraisal mission included: Patrick Noonan (Financial Specialist, consultant); Reynaldo
Pastor (Lawyer, LEGLA); and William Gallagher (Systems Specialist, consultant). Errol
Graham, Patricia Shako-Daly and Sarah Adam from the Jamaican Resident Mission all made
significant contributions during project preparation. Margaret Grosh (Senior Economist,
PHRHD) reviewed targeting criteria; James Hanna and Cesar Fort (LA3PS) helped develop the
institutional framework and the sensitivity analyses; Aracelly Woodall (LA3HR) developed the
project costing module. Peer reviews were submitted by Nancy Mcinemey-Lacombe (AF2PE)
and Jamil Salmi (LA2HR). The project was prepared under the direction of Julian Schweitzer
(Chief, LA3HR) and Paul Isenman (Director, LA3).



iii
JAMAICA
STUDENT LOAN PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Government of Jamaica
Beneficiaries and
Executing Agencies: Ministry of Finance and Students' Loan Bureau
Loan Amount:       US$ 28.5 million
Terms:             Seventeen years including a five year grace period at the standard interest
rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans.
Commitment Fee:  0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Relending terms:   US$ 27.0 million of the Bank loan would be provided by the Borrower to
the Students' Loan Bureau (SLB). The SLB would relend the loan
proceeds to approved financial institutions (AFIs). The AFIs, in turn, will
onlend the proceeds of the loan to eligible students to finance their tuition
fees on similar terms and conditions as those between the SLB and the
AFIs. During the period students are in school and for a grace period of
6 months after leaving school, 15% fixed interest rate would be charged
annually and capitalized. During the repayment period, the average
passbook savings rate for deposits in Jamaican Dollars paid by
commercial banks in Jamaica plus 5 percentage points would be charged
and adjusted annually on January 1 st. The maturity of the loans would be
a maximum of 7 years, but could be shorter if mutually agreed by students
and AFIs. AFIs would receive a margin of 3.5% to cover administrative
costs.
Financing Plan:    See para. 3.6.
Project Identification
Number:            JM-PA-38700






COUNTRY CONTEXT DATA SHEET
Jamaica              Year  Source
A.    Contextual Country Data
1. Population Estimate (million)                 2.5                  1993  ESSJ, 1993
2. Average annual rate of population growth (%/6)  0.86               1993  ESSJ, 1993
3. GNP per capita (US$)                          1,420                1994  Atlas 1995
4. Average annual GDP growth rate                1.1%             1991-1994  WB, 1996
5. Urbanpopulation(as %oftotal)                  50.2                 1991  ESSJ, 1994
6. Total fertility rate (births per woman)       2.9                  1994  ESSJ, 1994
7. Infant mortality rate (per 1000 live births)  25.5                 1991  WB, 1994
8. Life expectancy at birth (years)              70.0                 1990  WB, 1994
9. Adult literacy rate (%)                       75.7                 1994  ESSJ, 1994
10. Total school age population (5-16)        600,000 (24%)           1994  ESSJ, 1994
B.    Labor Force Statistics
Overall employment rates, by industry
Manufacturing                             10%                  1994  ESSJ, 1994
Agriculture                               24%                  1994    "      "
Services                                  57%                  1994    "
Other                                      9%                  1994    "
Public/Private employment (% of total)
Public                                          9%                  1994  ESSJ, 1994
Private                                        49%                  1994    "      "
Informal                                       36%                  1994    "      "
Unemployment rates
Overall                                        15.4%                1994  ESSJ, 1994
Female                                    21.8%                1994    "
Male                                       9.6%                1994
C.    Specific Education Data
System Characteristics
Net enrollment rates
Preschool                                 85%                  1994/5 MOEYC
Primary (grades 1-6)                      98%                  1994/5 MOEYC
Lower Secondary (grades 7-9)              85%                  1994/5 MOEYC
Upper Secondary (grades 10-11)            45%                  1994/5 MOEYC
Tertiary                                  9.5%                 1992/3 Staff est.
Years to produce primary graduate              7.2                  1989  Glewwe, 1995
Daily attendance rate (primary)               70%                   1987  Glewwe, 1995
Financial Characteristics
Total public education spending
as%ofGDP                                   4.7%                1994/5 MOF
as % of total GOJ expenditure              8.5%                1995/6 MOF
as % of total expenditure net of debt     14.4%                1995/6 MOF



ii
Shares of Public Education Expenditure (%)
Preschool                                  3.2          1995/6        MOEYC
Primary                                  30.0           1995/6       MOEYC
Secondary                                28.6           1995/6       MOEYC
Tertiary                                 27.6           1995/6       MOEYC
Effectiveness Characteristics
CXC pass rates'
Math                                     23.6%          1994         ESSJ, 1994
English A                                35.6%          1994         ESSJ, 1994
Sources: ESSJ: Economic and Social Survev, various issues, PIOJ; WDR: World Development Report 1995,
World Bank; WB 1994: Jamaica: Health Sector Review, 1994; WB 1996: "Jamaica: Country Economic
Assessment", draft. Glewwe, P. et al., 1995, "An Eclectic Approach to Estimating the Determinants of
Achievement in Jamaican Primary Education," The World Bank Economic Review, Vol. 9, No. 2, pp. 231-258;
MOECY: Ministry of Education, Youth and Culture, 1995, statistics; MOF: Ministry of Finance, various budget
books.
' Proportion of students sitting the regional Caribbean Examination Council exam who attained general
proficiency (Grades I & II) required for entry to tertiary institutions or required for some types of employment.



STUDENT LOAN PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND, ISSUES AND STRATEGIES
MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
1.1   Jamaica is the largest English-speaking Caribbean country. Its population of 2.5 million (1993)
is growing at 0.86% per year and is roughly divided between urban and rural areas. In 1994, per capita
GNP was US$1,420. Jamaica is well-endowed with natural resources and possesses a well-developed
financial system. The economy is highly sensitive to international price and demand changes, and is
entirely dependent on imported oil for commercial energy consumption. The principal economic
activities are tourism, bauxite/alumina mining and processing, manufacturing, and, in terms of
employment, agriculture. Together, these sectors account for over half of the country's GDP and
employment, and over three-quarters of its foreign exchange earnings.
1.2  In the 1970s and 1980s, Jamaica went through a long period of economic decline and stagnation
coupled with macroeconomic instability and structural disequilibrium. At the end of the period, per
capita GDP declined by about 20% in real terms, inflation was running at more than 20% per annum,
the public sector was overextended, and the accumulated external debt was claiming over half of public
expenditures. In order to break this cycle, the Government that came into office in 1989 adopted a
reform program consisting of macroeconomic stabilization, structural adjustment, privatization and
rationalization of the public sector. An important feature of the adjustment process was to restore the
flow of funds to the social sectors, to reduce poverty and promote human capital development. Despite
strong reform efforts from mid-1993 and until mid-1995, growth in the 1990s has been slow (at about
1% p.a.) and there remain deep structural problems (notably the financial and public sectors and the
labor market, plus crime and violence). Growth has been uneven across sectors, with the continuing
decline in the manufacturing sector dominating minimal growth in others. Since mid-1995, the Jamaican
dollar has depreciated against the US dollar, and public sector surpluses have fallen, partly in response
to attempts to maintain the Jamaican dollar and sharply rising government wage settlements. Inflation
has shown signs of accelerating from a monthly average of 1% during the first six months of 1995 to
almost 3% per month during the period September to November, and 4.3% in December 1995, giving
an annualized rate in 1995 of 22%, nearly double government's target. Projected real GDP growth for
1995 is marginally positive. The Government's strategy is to continue with short-term macro
stabilization policies, while simultaneously enhancing growth prospects through rebalancing
public/private sectors, and reducing pervasive poverty.
OVERVIEW OF THE EDUCATION SECTOR
1.3   Because of the importance of education for sustained economic growth and poverty reduction,
the Government of Jamaica (GOJ) has assumed the role of principal provider and funder of education.



2
Declining government resources, however, have resulted in insufficient funds to ensure the standard of
education to which the government is committed to providing. Although extensive in its coverage,
Jamaica's education system is characterized by poor quality, significant inefficiencies and inequity in the
provision of resources and opportunities, particularly across socio-economic groups. Too many
students are leaving the formal education system with limited earning potential and without
qualifications necessary to fill the country's labor demands.
1.4   The Ministry of Education, Youth and Culture (MOEYC) manages and operates almost 1,400
public primary, secondary, vocational and tertiary institutions employing 20,000 teachers and serving
nearly 700,000 students. Primary school education is compulsory and coverage is nearly universal with
a 98% net enrollment rate. The ratio of girls to boys is even, and access across consumption groups is
relatively equal. However, quality varies greatly among primary and all-age schools as reflected by
differentials in repetition and examination pass rates. The high primary enrollment figures also mask
average daily attendance rates of 70% with the result that only 70% of students are functionally literate
at the end of Grade 6. Reforms are underway at the primary level to improve curriculum, provide other
inputs and revise the assessment system. At the secondary level, average enrollment drops sharply from
85% in Grades 7-9 to 45% in Grades 10-11. Secondary level education is provided in a stratified and
inequitable system characterized by wide disparities in the type and quality of programs offered.
Schools serving children from relatively wealthy families receive more and better quality inputs.
Presently, the government is undertaking a Reform of Secondary Education (ROSE) Program which
aims to improve the quality and equity of lower secondary education (grades 7-9), especially for those
from lower income groups.
1.5   Tertiary Education. Public tertiary education is offered by a diverse set of institutions
including the Mona Campus of the regional University of the West Indies (UWI), the University of
Technology (UTech--until November 1995 known as the College of Arts, Science and Technology),
eight teachers' colleges, six multi-disciplinary colleges, the College of Agriculture, Science and
Education, the Edna Manley College, and several small institutions. Total enrollment at higher
institutions increased from 18,370 in 1988/89 to almost 25,000 in 1992/93, representing approximately
9.5% of the relevant age cohort. Enrollment rates at the tertiary level are above the regional average of
7.8%, but below the average for middle-income countries (14%).
1.6   Access to higher education is constrained by two factors. First, the number of places is
insufficient. For example, UWI's social science faculty received 2,250 applications in 1994 for less than
500 places. The medical science faculty admitted 110 students out of 450 Jamaican applicants. The
number of qualified students wishing to pursue tertiary education can be expected to increase more
rapidly as a result of ROSE. The first cohort to receive the new secondary curriculum could enter
tertiary programs in about three years. Moreover, the Government has indicated that tertiary level
output needs to double in order to create and sustain an economic turnaround.
1.7   The second factor constraining access to tertiary education is the high private cost of tertiary
education (i.e. tuition, other fees, maintenance and books). Coupled with the fact that there are limited
financing mechanisms, these costs serve to restrict enrollment, particularly among students from low-
income families and rural areas.
1.8   UVWI. The University of the West Indies--a regional institution serving 14 Caribbean countries--
offers certificate, degree, diploma and postgraduate programs in the faculties of Agriculture, Arts and
General Studies, Education, Engineering, Law, Medical Sciences, Natural Sciences, and Social



3
Sciences. There are campuses in Jamaica, Trinidad and Barbados. Ninety percent of all students at the
Mona Campus in Kingston are Jamaicans. In 1992/93, there were approximately 6,300 Jamaican
students enrolled in first degree, higher degree, certificate and diploma programs (Annex I, Table 1).
Female enrollment is about 62% of the total. Since its inception, UWI has awarded approximately
18,000 first degrees, 3,300 certificates, 2,500 diplomas and 270 advanced diplomas to Jamaicans.
Jamaican undergraduates are heavily concentrated in social sciences, natural sciences and liberal arts,
while most advanced degrees are in social sciences, natural sciences and medicine. Social sciences,
especially public administration and management studies, dominate enrollments in certificate and
diploma programs.
1.9   The University of Technology (UTech) offers degree, professional, diploma and certificate
courses in eight departments: architecture, building, commerce, computing, engineering, institutional
management, science, and technical teacher training. The School of Architecture offers a masters level
program. In 1993/94, there were nearly 6,000 students enrolled in full and part-time programs at
UTech (Annex I, Table 2). The Commerce Department enrolls 35% of students followed by
Engineering (19%). Total enrollments of men and women are almost equal; however, 95% of the
engineering students are male while 70% of the commerce students are female. Enrollment during the
1980s exceeded projections. This was primarily the result of the growth in part-time and modular
programs which currently enroll about 56% of all students. The enrollment rate has slowed since
1990/91 as a result of financial and related capacity constraints rather than a decrease in the number of
qualified applicants.
1.10  Teachers' Colleges. There are eight teachers' colleges with a total enrollment of 3,500 in
1992/93. Approximately 10% of enrollment was in the Post-Certificate program under which practicing
teachers are upgraded to the Diploma level. Enrollment in teachers' colleges increased 28% between
1988/89 and 1990/91, but has slowed to a modest 4% to 5% since then. The number of places at
teachers' colleges is determined by the projected need of the teaching service and the Ministry of
Education's budget.
1.11  Multi-disciplinary Colleges. In 1992/93, five multi-disciplinary colleges enrolled
approximately 7,300 students in A-level and pre-university programs, professional, commercial and
vocational and community-oriented courses. Approximately 46% of enrollment is by part- time
students. Women account for 63% of full-time enrollments.
EDUCATION FINANCING
1.12 Reflecting the priority that the Government places on education, the MOEYC commands the
largest share of total government non-debt expenditure--14.4% in 1995/96. However, Jamaica's
increasing debt burden has adversely affected efforts to increase education's share of government
expenditure and inflation has eroded the value of education expenditures. In real terms, GOJ
expenditures on education in 1994/95 will barely exceed 1982/83 expenditures. Tight fiscal conditions
have resulted in declining and insufficient funds to ensure quality across all levels of the education
system. As a share of public expenditures, education has fallen from just over 13% in 1989/90 to 8.5%
in 1995/96. And, as a share of GDP, education spending has fallen from 7% in 1981 to an estimated
4.7% in 1994/95. Within education, the government's stated priority is basic education (Grades 1-9).
In terms of the allocation of resources within education, 33% of recurrent spending in 1995/96 was
allocated to preprimary and primary programs, 29% to secondary, and 28% to tertiary. However, over



4
the last three years, the share of tertiary has risen from 20% in 1993/94 to 28% in 1995/96. In per
student terms, in 1993/94 the GOJ spent J$2,177 for primary, and $4,325 for secondary students; for
tertiary students the expenditure was J$34,472 --fifteen times that of primary and almost eight times
secondary level per capita expenditures.
1.13  Even though tertiary institutions enjoy high administrative autonomy, they rely heavily on
government funding. In particular, the GOJ provides more than two-thirds of UWI's operating
expenses. However, the government has little ability to contain costs or impose fiscal discipline at UWI
because of the institution's regional nature; Jamaica is only one of 14 Caribbean countries represented
on the governing council. The GOJ has now taken a policy stance that it is no longer prepared to
finance UWI's overdrafts.' The Government also funds about 50% of UTech's budget, 84% of the
teachers' colleges expenses and two-thirds of the recurrent costs of multi-disciplinary colleges. Tuition
fees, fund-raising and research grants make up the rest of their operating budgets.
1.14  Although the public sector finances the bulk of expenditures for education, a significant source is
from students and parents. Until recently, this has been in the form of informal cost sharing at
secondary level and more formal cost recovery from students attending tertiary institutions. In the past,
inflows from these sources accounted for less than 5% of the MOEYC's recurrent budget. Due to tight
fiscal conditions and recognizing the need for mobilizing additional resources to raise the quality of
education, the MOEYC implemented a formal cost-sharing program at the secondary level in 1993/94.
Secondary schools are required to set and collect fees to cover non-salary recurrent expenditures;
government continues to pay school-level salaries.
1.15  At the tertiary level, the governmental university levy (the "Cess"), which was introduced in
1986 and set at approximately 7.3% of economic costs, was abolished in 1993/94. It was replaced by
fees collected directly by the institutions based on guidelines that fees cover approximately 15% of
economic costs. In subsequent years, however, economic costs were not adjusted for price and wage
increases, resulting in declining value of fees as a proportion of total economic costs (currently they are
about 10.7%). Beginning in 1996/97, further reductions in funding levels to tertiary institutions are
planned given additional expected fee increases. For UWI, proposed fees will cover 15% of economic
costs in 1996/97 for new students--equivalent to a doubling of current fees--and rising to 20% by
1997/98. Returning students will pay an increase in fees equivalent to 10.7% of economic costs.
PRIVATE COSTS AND FINANCING OF TERTIARY EDUCATION
1.16  Private costs of tertiary education include tuition, fees, books and maintenance (Annex I, Table
3). Students draw on a combination of private financing (family, relatives and personal savings),
student loans, scholarships and bursaries to meet the private costs of tertiary education. Approximately
75% of students attending the University and UTech seek some form of assistance to help meet a share
of tuition and other expenses. The two existing student loan schemes meet only a portion of the
expenses facing tertiary students: the government's Student Loan Bureau (SLB) scheme covers less
1 In 1994, the GOJ assumed responsibility on an exceptional basis for outstanding overdrafts and debts of the Mona
Campus and University Hospital of UWI for J$ 1,400 million (about US$42 million).



5
than half the present level of tuition fees, and only about 10% of total student financing needs; when
combined with the Banker's Loan Scheme, students can finance up to 40% of their total requirements.
Existing Student Loan Schemes
1.17 The Student Loan Bureau Scheme. A revolving Loan Scheme administered by the Students'
Loan Bureau began operations in 1970. Under the 1971 Students' Loan Fund Act, the SLB became a
statutory body authorized to make loans to Jamaican nationals pursuing courses of higher education at
prescribed tertiary institutions in Jamaica and overseas. A Students' Loan Council establishes policy for
the SLB.
1.18  The SLB has approved approximately 53,000 loans since it was established. The average
number of loans processed annually increased from 1,000 in 1970 to over 3,100 in 1993 (Annex I, Table
4). During the same period, the average loan increased from J$1,600 to J$9,000. However, the real
value of a loan in 1993 was less than one-tenth the value of a loan granted in 1970. The maximum loan
available from the SLB presently covers only 45% of fees at UTech, 40% at UWI, 28% at the teachers
colleges and 17% at other institutions. The SLB conducts assessments of financial need that determine
whether the student qualifies for a loan on income grounds and the amount of the loan (the course of
study and related fees are also taken into account). In 1989, approval was granted to over 95% of
applicants (with over 90% receiving the maximum), suggesting either some lack of rigor in evaluating
applications, self-targeting or a generous family income ceiling (US$12,000 equivalent).
1.19  The Student Loan Fund was intended to operate as a revolving fund maintained by investments,
repayments of beneficiaries and government contributions. The Fund has remained heavily dependent
on injections from Government and externally funded projects, including two IDB projects (in 1971 for
US$8.0 million and in 1976 for US$8.5 million)2 and by the World Bank's Education Program
Preparation and Student Loan Project (1987, US$3.5 million). In 1993, less than a quarter of inflows3
were derived from the proceeds of loan collections (see Annex I, Table 5). Over half of the SLB's
operating budget came from income on investments (32%) plus Government injections and externally-
funded projects (more than a quarter).
1.20  Three factors have impacted negatively on the sustainability of the revolving fund scheme:
interest rate subsidies; default rates; and, administrative costs. The fixed interest rate of 12% per annum
results in high interest rate subsidies. In addition to the initial interest-free period (ranging from 1-4
years), prolonged periods of high inflation have meant that the real interest rate charged has been
negative. For example, the annual average rate of inflation during 1970-1983 was about 20%. Higher
inflation since 1990 has exacerbated this, despite the doubling of the interest rate on student loans after
1987. Second, although the SLB was able to reduce the default rate from about 40% of loan
disbursements in the late 1980s to 28% in more recent years by use of vigorous collection efforts,
2 In 1971, the loan fund of US$8.0 million consisted of the IDB financing of US$4.7 and US$3.3 million from the
Government of Jamaica. In 1976, the SLB received the replenishment of loan fund from the 1DB loan of US$5.3
million together with the Government's contribution of US$3.3.
3 Net of the "Cess" which the SLB collected until 1993/94 on behalf of the Commissioner of Inland Revenue



6
default rates remain high.4 A third factor affecting the sustainability of the revolving scheme has been
the high share of administrative costs, which in 1994 accounted for just over 60% of loans disbursed
to students. The combination of these three factors has contributed to the decapitalization of the
revolving loan fund over time, necessitating fresh injections of government funds to continue the
program.
1.21   The high administrative costs and default rates can be partly attributable to the features of the
SLB. First, the SLB has a large number of staff (62 positions) given the annual number of new loans
processed (about 3,000) (Annex II, Chart A). Of the filled posts, five staff are on secondment from the
Bank of Jamaica. Although the staff complement is high, the SLB suffers from both vacancies of
critical staff and high staff turnover reflecting low salary levels.5 For example, the SLB has been unable
to attract a Systems Administrator or Financial Controller, arguably two of the most critical positions
given the functions of the SLB. The SLB has been also unable to retain an Internal Auditor. The lack
of these staff has resulted in the need to hire expensive consultants, usually billed on an hourly basis
(e.g. computer technicians, auditors). The staff the SLB is able to attract tend to be inexperienced (the
most glaring example is that the Data Processing Department is less than half staffed with non-computer
specialists running the system). A second major factor affecting the ability of the SLB to efficiently run
and monitor the Student Loan scheme is the weak financial information system. Recent reviews have
revealed that the computer system is not only obsolete, but is unable to handle the volume of work such
that loan accounts are maintained manually on green notecards. The system is unable to generate
accurate reports for such things as overdue accounts or loans in default; borrowers are also unable to be
told when the loan will be paid off or often, even it is has been.
1.22 The GOJ/Bankers' Association Student Loan Scheme. The maximum SLB loan covers only a
portion of fees and a fraction of the estimated total financing requirements of the student. In response
to the inability of the SLB scheme to meet the demand for student loans, a second student loan scheme
was launched in 1993 under the auspices of the Jamaican Bankers' Association (JBA) at the GOJ's
request; it is presently in its third year. The Bankers' Scheme consists of the following elements: (i) the
funding of loans through an Education Bond issued by the SLB and subscribed to initially by JBA
members and later other private companies; (ii) the management of the resulting trust fund by the West
Indies Trust Company (WITCO); (iii) loan processing by the SLB which determines eligibility and
recommends loans to banks; (iv) loan disbursement and collection by commercial banks; and (v) full
GOJ guarantee of principal and interest in the event of default (Annex II, Chart B).
1.23   The SLB issued an invitation for the GOJ-guaranteed Education Bond to the members of
Bankers' Association in an amount not to exceed J$100 million annually. The Bond carries a maturity
of 10 years, and a fixed interest rate of 15% for first three years and variable rate for the next seven
years (i.e. savings rate plus 5 percentage points). In addition to the guarantee against loan default, the
Government offered subscribing banks other incentives, including exemptions from incomes taxes on
interest income, transfer taxes and stamp duties.
4A recent Functional Review, (Nembhard & Associates, 1995) indicated that due to the method of calculating arrears
(expected revenue ninus actual receipts) plus the antiquated state of the computer system, a portion of collections
reflect over- and pre-payment rather than arrears reduction.
The functional review found that most salaries were well below comparable levels in both public and private sectors,
even though the SLB is able to offer non-civil service salaries.



7
1.24 The SLB entered into a Trust Agreement establishing WITCO as trust fund manager. As part of
this function, WITCO pays a 1% annual commission on the outstanding loan portfolio to the
commercial banks to defray administrative costs. At this point, it is not clear whether actual
administrative costs are, or will be covered by this commission, especially when serious collection
efforts commence. The SLB will execute the full government loan guarantee on behalf of the GOJ by
reimbursing the principal and interest on loan accounts in default (i.e. in arrears for more than 6
months).
1.25  Students submit loan applications to the SLB, which processes them and makes loan
recommendations to the bank of students' choice for final approval.6 There is no means testing for the
Bankers Scheme and students may apply to both schemes. Banks then disburse the loans directly to the
tertiary institution which pays students the remaining balance after deducting tuition and fees. Finally,
banks request reimbursement from WITCO for the amount of loans paid out. In 1993/94, the second
scheme mobilized and disbursed J$81 million (US$3.1 million) to 3,291 students, with an average loan
size of J$24,650 (US$948). The amount disbursed under this scheme is almost four times that of the
SLB.
1.26  While enrolled, the interest rate is fixed at 15% (up to three years), and converts thereafter to a
variable rate (i.e. the prevailing savings rate plus 5 percentage point spread). Unlike the SLB loans,
interest begins to accrue upon loan disbursement and is capitalized. Loan repayment commences upon
graduation with no grace period or if a student leaves school. The interest rate subsidy (at about 2%
assuming an inflation rate for the life of the loan at 20%) is substantially less than in the case of the SLB
loan. Since the scheme has just begun to collect loan repayments, it is not possible to accurately
determine default rates. However, it is expected that because of the commercial nature of this scheme
and its more efficient loan collection infrastructure, the default rate would likely be lower than that of
the SLB. Commercial bankers have indicated that they expect the default rate to be similar to other
unsecured consumer credit, which hovers around 4% of the outstanding loan portfolio. However, the
full government guarantee of principal and interest might create negative incentives for due diligence in
loan collection. Firm estimates of the administrative costs of this scheme are unavailable, but at a
minimum they include a handling fee of 1% of loan portfolio that is reimbursed to the banks from the
Education Bond fund, as well as incremental costs incurred by the SLB for processing the loan
applications (equivalent to approximately 0.5% of loan disbursements). The long-term viability of this
scheme is a serious concern because it was created by a somewhat ad hoc arrangement and
understanding (based largely on goodwill) between the Government and the Bankers' Association.
Existing Scholarship and Grant Programs
1.27  UWI and UTech administer scholarships, bursaries, grants and loans to assist students with
educational costs. Funding for about two-thirds of the scholarships and bursaries comes from the
private sector. In 1993/94, UWI awarded more than 60 scholarships and 80 bursaries worth
approximately J$4.8 million and UTech administered over 100 scholarships totaling about J$3 million.
For most of the scholarships, eligibility is based on varying combinations of academic achievement,
6 The SLB hires additional staff to process the GOJ/Bankers' loan applications. These incremental administrative costs
are subsequently reimbursed to the SLB by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Culture (MOEYC). In 1993/94, the
MOEYC reimbursed the SLB J$322,929 (equivalent to 0.5% of loans disbursed) and is expected to reimburse
J$495,478 in 1994/95.



8
need, extra-curricular activities, and interview performance. The Government awards a limited number
of performance-based scholarships to study at UWI on a competitive basis. The amount of each
scholarship varies, but most cover tuition plus a maintenance and book grant. In 1994/95, these awards
totaled J$3.6 million.
1.28  The University and UTech also administer small grants and short-term loans to students solely
on the basis of need with funds supplied by the Government's Social and Economic Support Program
(SESP) and institution-based welfare funds. The eligibility criteria for assistance at both institutions
include: enrollment in a full-time course; proof of inability to meet maintenance budget as attested to by
a minister of religion, Justice of the Peace, last school principal or employer; and good academic
standing except if lack of funds has contributed to poor academic performance. The financial assistance
schemes do not fund first-year students, as the grants and small loans are primarily a mechanism for
helping students cope with sudden changes in financial circumstances. As students in greatest need are
often those most reluctant to request assistance, both institutions rely on referrals of needy students by
wardens, lecturers, medical center staff and friends. In 1993/94, UWI disbursed 91 grants worth
approximately J$0.2 million and 182 loans worth about J$0.9 million. During the same year, UTech
disbursed J$ I million, mostly in grants. About 100 students participate in an Earn and Study Program
which provides jobs to students on campus for eight to twelve hours per week. The hourly rate,
currently J$30, is set so that students working eight hours can cover their lunch and bus fare.
GOVERNMENT'S EDUCATION STRATEGY
1.29        The Government's stated priority in the education sector is to provide a solid basic
education (i.e. Grades 1-9) to produce a literate, numerate and trainable population. Major reforms are
underway to improve the quality of both primary and lower secondary levels. In order to support this
priority area, the GOJ has indicated that over time it intends to increase the level of resources to basic
education by redirecting resources from tertiary education to lower levels where the social returns are
higher. A key element of this strategy is that budgetary subventions to tertiary institutions will be
reduced, as tuition fees are raised. In order to meet the increased demand for student loans, reform of
the student loan program is of high priority to the GOJ as a means to begin to rationalize the use of
resources in education, while at the same time contribute to the improvement of higher level human
capital development, and lay the foundation for future reforms in the financing of higher education (see
Letter of Sector Policy, para.2. 1 and Annex III).
BANK'S ROLE AND STRATEGY
1.30  Bank involvement in the proposed project is consistent with the Bank's country assistance
strategy: stimulating growth; reducing poverty and building human capital; and, improving
public/private sector balance. Reducing the government's share of financing of tertiary education by
sharing the costs with students and their parents is consistent with government's (and the Bank's')
strategy in the education sector. This would release public resources for priority areas within the
education sector (i.e. basic education). At the same time, the project would expand financial access to
higher education to students least able to afford the financial costs of tertiary education. Operationally,
7World Bank, 1995. Priorities and Strategiesfor Education: A World Bank Sector Review, Education and Social Policy
Department, March 31, 1995.



9
the Bank has already supported the Student Loan Bureau through an earlier project (Education
Program Preparation and Student Loan). The Bank is also providing major external assistance for the
government's Reform of Secondary Education Project (US$32 million). That project is expected to
expand the pool of students eligible for tertiary education, especially those from lower income groups.
LESSONS LEARNED
1.31  Since 1966, the Bank has supported five education projects in Jamaica totaling US$70 million.
In particular, the Education Program Preparation and Student Loan Project (US$8.3 million, effective
1988 and closed 12/94) supported the student loan program. With project proceeds the Government
transferred US$2.6 million to the SLB on a grant basis. In addition, the project sought to improve the
management and operation of the SLB and also provided computer equipment. While some
improvements were introduced during loan preparation (e.g. new procedural guidelines for loan
appraisal, aggressive collection strategies), an important agreement in the appraisal report, which stated
that the interest rate "should remain positive in real terms and in the long term cover normal costs of
operation", was not enforced during project implementation. In fact, it was not made an explicit legal
covenant, nor was it reviewed during Bank supervision visits (in part due to the rapid disbursement of
that component). As noted above, real interest rates were not maintained and contributed substantially
to low overall loan recovery rates and called into question the long-term financial sustainability of the
SLB's revolving student loan fund. In addition, administrative costs have been high and despite
improvements in the default rate due to the more aggressive collection strategies adopted as a result of
the project, (from 40% in the mid-1980s to 28% in 1989), non-performing loans (as estimated by the
SLB) are still high.
1.32  Experience worldwide with student loan schemes has tended to mirror the Jamaican experience.8
Heavily subsidized interest rates, high default rates and high administrative costs have resulted in low
recovery ratios. A common characteristic of many of these schemes is that they have been administered
by government ministries and agencies rather than by financial institutions such as banks. The
involvement of banks and other financial institutions can help make loan schemes more financially
sustainable, but the public sector must continue to bear some of the risk because banks are generally
unwilling to accept students' future earnings as collateral. Other requisites for sustainable schemes
include effective collection agents with incentives to minimize evasion and default and the maintenance
of positive real interest rates. The proposed project design has sought to address these problems and has
built in features which will help to increase the financial sustainability of a student loan scheme. The
commercial banks are involved in disbursing loans and will assume some of the repayment risk;
graduated payment schedules have been introduced to reduce both repayment burdens and default rates.
As opposed to the previous project, this project focuses only on student loans and hence supervision
will run the course of the project.
8 Albrecht, Douglas and Adrian Ziderman, 199 1. Deferred Cost Recoveryfor Higher Education: Student Loan
Programs in Developing Countries. World Bank Discussion Paper 137, Washington, D.C.



10
2. THE PROJECT
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.1    At its very broadest level, the project supports the government's objective of shifting public
resources towards levels of education where the social returns are highest; (i.e., basic education).
Specifically, the project would: (a) provide Jamaican students (especially the neediest) with adequate
financing options to pay for their share of higher education on an ongoing basis; (b) increase equitable
access to tertiary education and improve targeting of subloans; and (c) increase financial sustainability
and administrative efficiency of the SLB through a consolidated student loan program. (Annex III)
PROJECT COMPONENTS
2.2   The project would support: (i) the restructuring of the SLB to focus on loan approval,
improved loan targeting and impact evaluation; (ii) the expansion of a targeted student loan program
administered by the commercial banking system; (iii) the establishment of a Grant-in-Aid Fund for
students least able to pay; and (iv) the development and implementation of a public awareness
campaign to inform students and their families of policy changes with respect to cost recovery and
financing options for tertiary education, including the Grant-in-Aid program.
Component 1: Institutional Strengthening (US$2.6 million, including contingencies)
2.3   The future role of the SLB will be to process loan and grant applications, monitor the overall
loan portfolio to determine performance and impact of the new scheme, and in collaboration with the
MOEYC and tertiary institutions, implement a public awareness campaign. In addition, the SLB will
continue to manage its existing loan portfolio until it is collected.9 The SLB will no longer disburse or
collect student loans directly to students under the expanded scheme; nor, will it make individual grant
disbursements to students. These functions will be handled by approved financial Institutions and
tertiary institutions, respectively.
2.4   The project would improve the management efficiency of the SLB through restructuring its
organization and staffing. A new SLB organizational structure has been proposed which reflects the
revised mandate of the SLB and scope of work (Annex II, Chart C). Overall, the number of positions
has been reduced from over 60 in the present Bureau to about 25 full-time staff
2.5   The project would also strengthen operational procedures, particularly loan application
processing, means testing and targeting. An Operational Manual defining the operational procedures
for the SLB, including its linkages with commercial banks and tertiary institutions, targeting criteria, and
monitorable indicators has been prepared. As a condition of effectiveness, an Operational Manual must
be adopted by the Borrower and the SLB and a functioning management information system (MIS)
must be operating in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para. 7.2 (a)). A functioning MIS would be
capable of processing student financial assistance applications, determine their eligibility for subloans
and/or subgrants and be able to verify information from AFIs regarding the names of the students and
9 Given the low interest rate (12%) on existing loans and the proportion of delinquent loans that are overdue by more
than one year, the net present value of the existing SLB loan book is extremely low. Therefore, the SLB will
passively collect existing loans (e.g. maintain a collection window) in order to minimize administrative costs.



I1
the amounts of the corresponding Subloan Agreements and be able to generate an automated
withdrawal application request for reimbursement from the Bank's loan account.
2.6   As described below, it has been estimated that approximately one-third of tertiary students
would be eligible for student loans. However, the actual distribution of tertiary students by
consumption quintile is not known with complete accuracy. So although the means test would target
students from the poorest three quintiles (which on a national sample would represent 60% of the
population), it is not precisely known what proportion of tertiary students would be eligible. Therefore,
this component would support two rounds of a special survey of tertiary students (based on the
methodology to carry out the Survey of Living Conditions) to determine both the distribution of
benefits of the student loan and grant-in-aid programs by consumption quintiles, and the effectiveness of
the targeting and means testing conducted by the SLB (Annex IV). The first round would be conducted
in early 1997 based on the loan and grant applications received and reviewed during the first year of the
project.
2.7   The following inputs would be supported under this component: (i) technical assistance to
restructure the SLB; (ii) recruitment, hiring and training of staff, including local training in upgraded
procedures; (iii) technical assistance to prepare the Operational Manual and application forms and
support for their reproduction; (iv) upgrading of computer hardware and software for management and
financial information systems, including linkages with commercial banks; (v) support for studies,
including impact evaluation of which income groups are served by the loan program; (vi) technical
assistance for external mid-term and final evaluations; and (vii) one vehicle.
Component 2: Expanded Student Loan Scheme (US$ 27.0 million; including contingencies)
2.8  In order to assist students to meet increased private costs of tertiary education, this component
will provide funding for an expanded student loan scheme. The Bank's loan proceeds would be onlent
by the SLB to approved financial institutions (AFIs) (Annex V). Funds would then be onlent to tertiary
students deemed eligible by the SLB.
2.9   Sub-loan Processing. The SLB would no longer be responsible for the direct disbursement and
collection of student loans. Under the existing 1971 Students' Loan Fund Act, the SLB is not
empowered to enter into onlending operations with financial intermediaries, therefore, an amendment to
the Act is required in order to follow the structure designed by the proposed Project. As a condition of
effectiveness, an amendment to the Students' Loan Fund Act must be in full force and effect (para. 7.2
(b)). The SLB's function would be to receive and review a consolidated loan and grant application form
to determine eligibility on income grounds and ensure that students are in good academic standing. If
eligible, a loan equivalent up to 100% of tuition fees for the given area of study is reconmmended by the
SLB and the application is forwarded to an AFI of the student's choice. The AFI then disburses the
funds (a subloan) to the tertiary institution. Subloans are then consolidated by the AFI which then
obtains a loan ("Intermediary Loan") from the SLB on similar terms and conditions as those for student
sub-loans. In addition, AFIs would receive a 3.5% annual margin on the principal disbursed to cover
administration of the subloans. For all subloans, the government would provide a guarantee in the event
of death or disability for the period the student is in school and the 6 month grace period. For all loans,
the repayment length would be a maximum of 7 years. Shorter terms would be acceptable if mutually
agreed by the AFI and the borrower.



12
2.10 Repayment risk. The risk would be shared by the AFIs and the Government of Jamaica as
follows. For subloans with collateral found acceptable by the AFI (at the time of application), the AFI
would agree to assume the repayment risk once students have graduated plus 6-month grace period
(Class "A" loans). For students, who upon graduating find employment satisfactory to the AFI, the
repayment risk (Class "B" loans) would be assumed by the AFI for the remainder of the sub-loan's term
(Annex I, Table 6). Those not falling into Class "A" or "B" would receive full GOJ guarantee (Class
"C" loans), but the bankers would exercise due diligence in collection to maximize recovery.
2.11   Subloan interest rate. In determining the interest rate to be charged to students, the cost to the
Government of borrowing from the Bank, including exchange rate risk, and affordability in terms of the
debt burden were taken into account (Annex I, Table 7 and Annex X). The interest rate charged during
the in-school and grace periods would be 15% annually but capitalized. Once repayment begins, the
interest rate converts to the average savings rate for deposits in Jamaican Dollars paid by commercial
banks in Jamaica plus 5 percentage points, adjusted annually on January 1 st. The average passbook
savings rate has been relatively stable around 19%. With the spread, a 24% interest rate would
presently cover GOJ's cost of funds from the Bank (an effective rate of approximately 17%) plus the
3.5% margin to be paid to the banks. Compared to the average commercial bank lending rate (over
50%), the interest subsidy is substantial. However, there are two arguments for adopting the structure
as proposed. First, the loan scheme is targeted to the poorest students. Second, because the subloans
are disbursed directly to the tertiary institutions for fees, it is unlikely that there will be any leakages to
allow for this subsidy to distort the general credit market. During negotiations. agreement was reached
that the interest rate will be at average passbook savings rate for deposits in Jamaican Dollars paid by
commercial banks in Jamaica plus 5 percentage point spread. adjusted annually on January 1 st (para.
7. 1 (a)).
2.12  Targeting. Because of the substantial interest rate subsidy, the loans would be targeted to
students from poorer backgrounds, approximately one-third of the tertiary student population. Targeting
will rely on income data submitted on the application form. Income information will be collected using
the question format contained in the 1993 Survey of Living Conditions (SLC) as this format produced
valid income data. Information will be collected on earned and unearned income. To determine the
applicant's available resources, the applicant's projected education costs (i.e. tuition) and the education
costs of any siblings or dependents who are enrolled in secondary or tertiary institutions will be
deducted from total income. Available resources will be adjusted for household size. Cutoff points for
eligibility will be included in the Operational Manual. As noted above (para. 2.6), given the paucity of
information concerning the present composition of the tertiary student body on income grounds, the
evaluation study monitoring the distribution of loan beneficiaries during the first year of the project
would be used to make adjustments cut-off points. Thereafter, cut-off points for eligibility will be
adjusted annually for inflation.
2.13  This component would support: (i) funds to expand the Students' Loan scheme; and (ii) margin
of 3.5% per year to AFIs to administer student subloans during the period students are in school plus 6
months grace.
Component 3: Grant-In-Aid Program (US$8.5 million, including contingencies)
2.14  Although students from poorer backgrounds would be eligible to borrow under the student loan
program, there will be substantial opportunity costs to them (and their families) in extending their



13
education to the tertiary level in terms of foregone family income. Because subloans would not cover
living expenses, which are substantially more than tuition fees, mobilizing the remaining funds will be a
significant deterrent for poorer students. And, despite prospective higher earnings, students from poor
backgrounds may be reluctant to accumulate excessive debt. Therefore the project will also support a
targeted grant scheme for full-time UWI and Utech students only to help meet a share of outlays not
covered by subloans for students from low-income families. The component will provide funding for a
Grants-in-Aid program with overall administration by the SLB. Under the existing 1971 Students' Loan
Fund Act, the SLB is not empowered to provide grants to students, therefore, an amendment to such
Act is required in order to follow the structure designed by the Project. As a condition of effectiveness.
an amendment to the Students' Loan Fund Act must be in full force and effect (para. 7.2 (b)).
2.15  Student need would be assessed based on a comprehensive review by the SLB of the applicant's
overall financial requirements and available resources (including subloans, which would be mandatory
before students could receive a grant).' Targeting criteria would be an extension of those used to
determine subloan eligibility; students from the bottom consumption quintile (representing
approximately 10% of the tertiary student body at UWI and UTech) will be eligible for a grant. For
second and third year students, UWI and UTech would be consulted in selection of students. Subgrants
would cover approximately 25% of housing and maintenance costs and books. Actual disbursements to
students will be handled by UWI and UTech in the form of a block grant to be transfered by the SLB.
Students would sign for subgrants when disbursed by the tertiary institution.
Component 4: Public Awareness Campaign (US$0.4 million, including contingencies)
2.16 The project would support a public awareness campaign to disseminate information among
students, parents and the general public about policy changes for increased cost sharing and the options
available for meeting those costs. The project would support technical assistance to develop the public
awareness campaign, implement mass media campaigns and produce materials designed to: (i) explain
Government's policy regarding higher education; (ii) explain the operation of financial aid programs
(loans and grants); and (iii) promote understanding of the significance of debt obligations. In the first
and fourth years of the project, the evaluation survey will also provide feedback from students on their
experiences and satisfaction with the student loan program (Annex IV).
2.17 The SLB would have overall responsibility of the campaign, but would liaise with the MOEYC's
Tertiary Unit, the tertiary institutions, secondary institutions with prospective students and financial
institutions in terms of developing and disseminating the materials.
2.18  Project support would include: (i) local technical assistance to develop suitable materials
(consultants would work in conjunction with banks and tertiary institutions); (ii) supplies and
reproduction costs; (iii) rental of TV, radio, and newspaper spots; (iv) one vehicle and per diem travel
expenses for the SLB public relations person and MOEYC staff.
10 Exceptions would be made for poor students receiving scholarships or bursaries to cover tuition costs.



14
3. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
PROJECT COSTS
3.1    Project costs. Total project costs, including physical and price contingencies, are estimated at
US$38.5 million. Foreign exchange costs and local costs excluding taxes and duties amount to US$0.4
million (1%) and US$ 38.1 million (99%), respectively. Table 3.1 summarizes estimated project costs
by component. Annex VI provides a further breakdown of project costs.
Table 3.1 Project Cost Summary
(US$ millions)       %    % Total
Foreign  Base
Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange Costs
A. Institutional Strengthening       2.1    0.4      2.5    15.0   6.0
B. Student Loan Scheme              28.5            28.5      0.0   72.0
C. Grant-In-Aid                      8.1             8.1      0.0   21.0
D. Public Awareness Campaign and
Credit Education Program           0.4             0.4     2.0   1.0
Total Baseline Costs                39.2   0.4      39.6      1.0  100.0
Price Contingencies                 -1.1   0.0      -1.1      1.0   -3.0
Total Project Costs                 38.1    0.4     38.5      1.0   97.0
3.2    Basis of cost estimates. Project costs are estimated at December 1995 prices. Costs of
equipment and materials are based on agreed lists of items and on the CIF prices of the items procured
in the country. Costs of training, local and international consultants and other services reflect local or
international rates, where applicable.
3.3    Contingency allowances. There are no physical contingencies, while price contingencies
(averaging -3% of base costs) were estimated on the basis of expected annual foreign inflation
averaging 3.2% for the life of the project; and local price increases of 15% for 1996, 12% for 1997 and
1998, and 10% per year thereafter.
3.4   Incremental recurrent costs. Total incremental recurrent costs generated over the life of the
project life are estimated to be US$2.0 million, mostly generated by salaries for the incremental SLB
staff and by operations and maintenance costs of the new MIS. These costs will be financed on a
declining basis.
3.5   Foreign Exchange component. Direct and indirect foreign exchange costs are estimated at
about J$18.0 million (US$0.4 equivalent), including contingencies. The foreign exchange component
for the major categories was estimated as follows: student loans (0%); grants (0%); equipment (100%),
foreign consultants (100%) and training (5%).



15
FINANCING PLAN
3.6   Total project costs are estimated at US$38.5 million. A Bank loan of US$28.5 million would
finance 74% of total project costs excluding taxes. The loan would cover 75% of investment costs;
96% of foreign exchange expenditures (US$ 0.4 million) and 74% of the local exchange expenditures
(US$28.1 million). The Borrower will finance the remaining US$10.0 million. While the Bank loan
would fully finance the Student Loan Scheme component, the Borrower will be the sole financing of the
Grant-in-Aid Program component (Table 3.2). The Bank loan would be a single currency loan
denominated in US dollars, to be repaid in 17 years, including 5 years' grace at the standard interest rate
for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans.
Table 3.2 Financing Plan, by component
(USS million)
Govemment                                     Local
of Jaica   The World Bank    Total    For.  (ExeL
Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %   ExL  Tn)
A Institutional Strengthning    1.1  44.8      1.4  55.2    2.6  6.7  0.4       2.2
B. Student Loan Scheme            -    -    27.0  100.0    27.0  70.2     -    27.0
C. Grant-In-Aid                 8.5  100.0      -    -      & 5  22.0     -     8.5
D. Public Awareness Campaign and
Credit Education Program      0.4  97.6    0.0  2.4    0.4  1.1  0.0          0.4
Total Disbursement              10.0  26.0    28.5  74.0    38.5  100.0  0.4    38.1
3.7    Retroactive financing. Retroactive financing of up to US$2.8 million will be provided for
expenditures made under components A and D as shown in Table 3.2 in accordance with Bank
procurement guidelines after August 31, 1995. Disbursements made under the Student Loan Scheme
component will not be eligible. Retroactive financing is recommended to ensure that technical
assistance and upgrading of computer hardware and software for financial and management information
systems necessary for the timely implementation of the project begins with sufficient lead time.



16
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
IMLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
4.1   The proposed project will be completed in 5 years, however, most technical assistance and all
procurement will be completed within 6 months of Loan effectiveness and all recommendations for
procedural or organizational changes within SLB should be implemented within 6 months of Loan
effectiveness.
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
4.2   The SLB will be the executing agency and under existing legislation, the SLB reports to the
Student Loan Council which is comprised of between 9-1 1 members appointed by the Minister of
Finance. The Council in turn reports to the Minister of Finance (Annex II, Chart C). The SLB will have
overall responsibility for project implementation. It will directly execute: processing and approval of
subloans and subgrants; maintenance of the management information system for the subloans and
subgrants; administration of an on-going public awareness campaign; liaison with tertiary institutions.
During negotiations, a Project Agreement between the Bank and the SLB was discussed and agreed
(para. 7.1 (b)). The SLB will also ensure that budgetary, procurement, contracting, disbursement,
administrative, accounting, auditing and reporting requirements are carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement.
4.3   Key staff for the SLB have been identified and will be in place as of June 1, 1996. These staff
include: Executive Director, Manager of the MIS unit, and the Public Relations Officer. They will work
with GOJ staff and consultants to finalize the Operational Manual, adapt and install hardware and
software systems to administer the Student Loan Scheme, and begin to prepare materials for the public
awareness campaign. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the SLB will implement the
proiect in accordance with the agreed Operational Manual, which shall not be changed without the
Bank's consent (para. 7.1 (c)).
4.4   Institutional Linkages. The proceeds of the Bank loan will be transferred by the GOJ to the
SLB (on a grant basis) under a Subsidiary Grant Agreement in order to enable SLB to carry out the
activities under the proposed Project, including the activities under the expanded Student Loan Scheme
Component. With respect to the expanded Student Loan Scheme component, the SLB will onlend a
portion of the loan proceeds to each AFI under a Participation Agreement (the loan from SLB to a
Financial Intermediary will be called an Intermediary Loan). In turn, the Financial Intermediary will
onlend a portion of the proceeds of the Intermediary Loan to each eligible student under a Subloan
Agreement. As a conditions of effectiveness, the Borrower will: (a) execute the Subsidiarv Grant
Agreement between itself and the SLB: and (b) confirm that at least two Participation Agreements with
Approved Financial Institutions have been signed (para. 7.2 (c & d)).
4.5   For the Grant-in-Aid component, the SLB will disburse block grants to tertiary institutions
based on individual student grant awards. A subgrant agreement should be entered into by the SLB,
students and the tertiary institutions. Although tertiary institutions will disburse funds directly to
beneficiaries, students will sign the agreement on receipt of grant funds.



17
4.6    The SLB will liaise with secondary and tertiary institutions and the mass media to inform
students and their parents about the Students' Loan Scheme and Grant-in-Aid program. The SLB will
also liaise with tertiary institutions to validate student status to determine eligibility for both subloans
and subgrants. The SLB will report to the AFIs when the academic status of students changes.
PROCUREMENT
4.7    Procurement of goods under the proposed project will be carried out in accordance with
"Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January
1995 and revised in January 1996. The bulk of the loan proceeds (95%) will be handled through
Financial Institutions. Limited amounts of equipment and consultant services will be procured as shown
in Table 4.1. Under the Institutional Strengthening component computer equipment, estimated to cost
$150,000 or less in total, will be procured through Limited International Bidding (LIB) among all
international suppliers with service facilities in Jamaica. Vehicles estimated to cost US$30,000 or less
in total, will be procured using international shopping procedures. Other office equipment and supplies
estimated to cost $15,000 or less per contract and less than $25,000 in total will be procured using
national shopping procedures. Consultants will be selected and employed in accordance with the World
Bank "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published in August 1981.
Whenever appropriate, Bank-issued standard forms of contract will be used for consulting assignments.
Prior review would be required for all contracts awarded under LIB and for all consulting services
contracts regardless of their value.
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(US$ '000)
Category               Contract Value   Procurement Method    Contracts subject to
.   (Threshold) ~.                        3Prior Review
~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......... .... ............................................. g..................... ......... ...................................................... 
GOODS
Computers                 < 150        LIBE                     All
Vehicles                   <30         International Shopping  None
Other goods               < 15         National Shopping:      None
Price quotations from
at least 3 bidders
CONSULTING
SERVICES             .
Firms                  No threshold    Selection according to   All
Consultants Guidelines
Individuals            No threshold                            jAll



18
Table 4.1 Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements (in millions US$ '000)
Procurement Method
Consulting
ICB       NCB      Services     Other          N.B.F.    Total
Training and Seminars         -        -          -                         0.1       0.1
Equipment and Software                 -          -           0.1 1/         -         0.1
(0.1)                   (0.1)
Printing Materials            -                   -          0.01           0.1       0.1
Rental                        -        -          -                         0.1       0.1
Technical Assistance          -        -        0.5                                    0.5
(0.3)                                (0.3)
Subloans & Admin costs        -        -          -          27.0 2/         -        27.0
(27.0)                  (27.0)
Grants                        -        -                                    8.5       8.5
Recurrent Cost                -        -          -           2.0 2/                   2.0
(0.97)                  (0.97)
otal                                           0.5          29.2           8.8       38.5
(0.3)       (28.1)                   (28.5)
ote: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by The World Bank. Totals may not add due to r
1/ LIB for computers and software; International shopping for vehicles.
2/ Not subject to procurement.
DISBURSEMENT
4.8    The proposed Bank loan would finance about 74% of the total estimated project cost net of
taxes. Disbursement percentages for the various categories of expenditure are presented in Annex VI,
Table 4. For subloans, 100% of the amount onlent by an AFI to a student will be eligible for Bank
financing. The estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex VI, Table 5.
4.9    A Special Account in US dollars would be established and maintained to facilitate
implementation. Due to the rapid disbursements expected within the first months after Loan
effectiveness, a Special Account with an initial deposit of US$2.8 million would be opened for the SLB
in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. The SLB would be authorized on behalf of the Borrower
to sign applications for withdrawal to implement activities under the project.
4.10   Required Documentation. Disbursements for subloans, administration fees, training,
operational expenditures, and goods (other than computer equipment and software) costing less than
US$150,000 would be made on the basis of SOEs, for which supporting documents would be retained
in the SLB and made available to the Bank for review during the course of normal project supervision.
The SLB Executive Director will be responsible for submitting aggregated eligible expenditures under
each heading and for preparing withdrawal applications for submission to the Bank.



19
ACCOUNTING AND AuDrrs
4.11  During negotiations. agreement was reached that the SLB will maintain records and accounts for
each project component and consolidate them into the project accounts and SOEs (para. 7.1 (d)).
Expenditures under subloans (i.e. Component B) would be disbursed on the basis of statements of
expenditure (SOEs) submitted by the SLB. Supporting documentation will be maintained by the SLB
and made available to Bank missions and independent auditors as required.
4.12  Project accounts, including the special account and SOEs will be audited annually in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles applied by external private independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, with terms of reference for auditors and reports approved by the Bank. During negotiations.
agereement was reached that the audit reports would contain separate opinions regarding the existence
and reliability of the supporting documentation for disbursements based on SOEs (i.e. student loans)
(para. 7.1 (e)). During, negzotiations, agreement was reached that the Borrower select independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank to audit project accounts, and provide copies of the audited statements
to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 7.1 (f)). The cost of the consultant
services to be employed for the annual audits will be eligible for financing under the loan.
PROJECT MONITORING, SUPERVISION AND EVALUATION
4.13  The SLB will be responsible for the timely implementation, monitoring and evaluation of project
activities. Durine negotiations. the SLB and the Bank agreed on monitorable indicators (para. 7.1 (g)
and Annex VII). Agreement was also reached that the SLB will: (a) prepare and submit semiannual
project implementation reports to the Bank by April 30 and October 31 of each year: (b) carrv out.
alone with the Borrower and the Bank. an annual review of the progeress made in the implementation of
the project by May 31 of each year: (c) conduct a mid-term review of the project. along with the Bank
and the Borrower, by May 31. 1998: and (d) prepare the Project Implementation Completion Report.
including a plan for the future sustainability of the SLB (para. 7.1 (h)). Project performance indicators
(as specified in Annex VII) will be included in the annual reports in order to track the progress made.
In addition to annual reviews which would take place in May, interim visits (e.g. in November) would
continue to review the progress in the implementation of the project soon after disbursements have been
made to students at the start of the academic year (Annex VIII). The project would require about 15
staff weeks supervision in the first fiscal year (7 of which in the field) and 9 weeks thereafter (4 of which
in the field). Where possible use would be made of the social sector specialist in the Resident Mission.
STATUS OF PREPARATION
4.14   The Minister of Finance requested the project to respond to tuition increases at the UWI
effective September 1996. Accordingly, a Bank identification mission visited Jamaica in January 1995,
followed by a preparation mission in May 1995. A pre-appraisal mission in December 1995 confirmed
the participation of commercial banks. The project was appraised in March 1996 and negotiations were
held in June 1996. Loan effectiveness is estimated for August 1996.



20
5. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS & SUSTAINABILITY
5.1   The Bank loan will provide an initial injection to capitalize the student loan scheme for five
years. Analysis was done to determine whether it is costlier to the GOJ to administer a student loan
program compared to the government giving pure grants to poor students. The level of analysis focuses
on the net cost of the loan scheme as opposed to whether or not the program is fully sustainable (see
Annex IX for more detail). Examining the net fiscal impact of the program was considered appropriate
given that no student loan program could ever be fully financially sustainable (in the sense of being self-
financing) because of the offsetting effect of higher interest rates on default rates.
5.2   The net fiscal costs to the Government were estimated for extending student subloans to one-
third of tertiary students (about 5,000) over a five year period and compared to the expected tuition
revenues from that same group of students. The analysis showed that the annual cost of the student
loan program was less than the value of the fees that would be collected from the portion of students
receiving loans--thus releasing funds from the tertiary level that could be reallocated elsewhere in the
education sector. The net present value of the stream of costs for extending loans over a five year
period was also less than the net present value of the fees paid by the borrowing students. On a per
student basis, the net subsidy element to a poor student of a J$100,000 loan would be 30%, compared
to 100% (plus administrative costs) for a grant scheme and nearly 80% for the present student loan
scheme. The magnitude of the costs in part depends on the default rate. For example, under more
pessimistic assumptions (i.e. a default rate of 30% with inflation running at 20% annually), the subsidy
of the loan is 48%, substantially less than the present loan scheme. Nevertheless, containing the default
potential will be an important strategy in keeping net costs reasonable and containing the subsidy
element.



21
6. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
PROJECT BENEFITS
6.1   The project would: (a) create an enabling environment to mobilize greater private resources at
the tertiary level thus increasing government's ability to redirect resources toward basic education; (b)
contribute to human resource development by enabling more Jamaican students to pursue higher
education; which in turn will provide scarce professional skills in both the public and private sectors; (c)
increase access to higher education for students from lower socio-economic backgrounds; and, (d)
contribute to improved quality of education, as students are able to place more legitimate demands on
quality education commensurate with higher private costs.
PROJECT RISKS
6.1   The principal risk is the extent to which potentially high default rates would increase the cost of
the Student Loan Scheme to the Government. Commercial banks have agreed to accept the repayment
risk for a portion of students, namely those with adequate collateral at the time of application and those
students who after graduation had found acceptable employment. For all other students, the
government would continue to provide full guarantee. To reduce default rates of loans carrying
government guarantee, banks would treat these as any other commercial debt obligation and fulfill
minimum defined collection procedures before seeking recourse under the government guarantee.
Collection efforts will also be monitored by the SLB based on quarterly information provided by the
banks. Default rates would then be compared across participating banks. Should the default rate for a
single AFI greatly exceed that of the average of the participating AFIs, the SLB would retain the right
to revoke the certification of the AFI and suspend new student subloan commitments. To minimize
default from the perspective of the students, salary deduction orders would be requested by the banks
where possible. A disclosure waiver to publish the names of students in default and release their names
to credit bureaus would be sought by the banks when students sign subloan agreements. Lastly, in
order to reduce the burden of payments, subloan repayment schedules would be graduated.
6.2   A second risk relates to potential backlash from students and families, primarily those who are
no longer eligible for subsidized loans (given tighter and more narrow targeting). To address this, a
public awareness campaign is included in the project to explain to the general public and to parents and
students the government's policy on financing tertiary education.
6.3   Finally, as designed, the Student Loan Scheme involves the participation of the AFIs. In
addition, the SLB will also administer the grant-in-aid program. Therefore, the Students' Loan Fund
Act (which instituted the SLB and regulates its operations) must be amended to enable the SLB to carry
out the mentioned programs under the Project. As of today, such amendment has been approved by the
Borrower's Cabinet. However, to be in full force and effect, such amendment must be approved by the
Borrower's Parliament and signed by the Governor General. This risk may be minimized by the fact that
the current government has a majority in Parliament. Additionally, on June 27, 1996 the Bank has
received written assurances from the Minister of Finance and Planning that the amendment will be in full
force and effect by late July. The Bank has, however, required that the amendment to the Students'
Loan Fund Act be in full force and effect as a condition of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement.



22
7. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1   During negotiations, it was agreed that:
(a)   the interest rate will be average savings rate for deposits in Jamaican Dollars paid by
commercial banks in Jamaica plus 5 percentage point spread and that it will be adjusted
annually on January 1st (para. 2.11);
(b)   there will be a Project Agreement between the Bank and the SLB, the contents of which
are also agreed (para. 4.2);
(c)   the SLB will implement the project in accordance with the agreed Operational Manual,
which shall not be changed without the Bank's consent (para. 4.3);
(d)   the SLB maintain records and accounts for each project component and consolidate
them into the project accounts and SOEs (para. 4.11);
(e)   the audit reports would contain separate opinions regarding the existence and reliability
of the supporting documentation for disbursements based on SOEs (i.e. student loans)
(para. 4.12);
(f)   the Government select independent auditors acceptable to the Bank to audit project
accounts, and provide copies of the audited statements to the Bank within six months of
the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.12);
(g)   on the monitorable indicators (para. 4.13); and,
(h)   the SLB:
(i)   prepare and submit semiannual project implementation reports to the Bank by
April 30 and October 31 of each year;
(ii)   carry out, along with the Bank, an annual review of the progress made in the
implementation of the project by May 31 of each year;
(iii) conduct a mid-term review of the project, along with the Bank, by May 31, 1998;
and
(iv)   prepare the Project Implementation Completion Report (para. 4.13).
7.2   As conditions of effectiveness:
(a)   an Operational Manual must be adopted by the Borrower and the SLB and a functioning
management information system (MIS) must be operating in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 2.5);



23
(b)   amendment to the Student Loan Fund Act must be in full force and effect (paras. 2.9 and
2.14);
(c)   a Subsidiary Grant Agreement between the GOJ and the SLB has been executed (para.
4.4); and,
(d)   the GOJ will confirm that it has signed at least two Participation Agreements with
Approved Financial Institutions (para. 4.4).
7.3   Recommendation: Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$28.5 million at the standard interest rate
for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loan repayable on 17 years including a five year
grace period.



I



24
8. ANNEXES
Annex I: Statistical Tables
Table 1: Registration of Jamaican Students at UWI, Mona Campus, 1994/95
Table 2: Enrollments at Utech, 1993/94
Table 3: Estimates of Cost of Undergraduate Programs, UWI, Mona Campus, 1994/95
Table 4: Historical Data on the SLB Student Loans, 1970-1994
Table 5: SLB Source and Application of Funds, 1991-1994
Table 6: Employment of UWI (Mona) Graduates by Discipline, 1989-1993
Table 7: Starting Annual Salaries of UWI Graduated by Job Title, 1993-1994
Annex II: Organizational Charts and Terms of Reference for Key Positions
Chart A: Current SLB Structure
Chart B: WITCO Flow of Funds
Chart C: Proposed SLB Structure
Annex III: Letter of Education Sector Policy
Annex IV: Impact Evaluation Study, Terms of Reference
Annex V: Certification Criteria for Participation of Approved Financial Institutions
Annex VI: Project Cost Tables
Table 1: Project Components by Year
Table 2: Summary Accounts by Year
Table 3: Summary Account by Component
Table 4: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table 5: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Annex VII: Project Performance Indicators
Table 1: Input and Output Indicators
Table 2: Process Indicators
Table 3: Impact Indicators
Annex VIII: Supervision and Mid-Term Review
Annex IX: Fiscal Impact of Proposed Scheme and Altemative Interest and Default Rates
Annex X: List of Selected Documents Available in Project File



25
Annex I, Table 1: Registration of Jamaican Students at Mona Campus, 1994/95
Type of Degrees Awarded             |
Faculty               First degrees      Certifi. and diplomas Higher degrees       Overall
Full-time Part-time  Full-time Part-time   Full-   Part-time  Number  (%)
_______________              ~~~tim e
Arts & General Studies     833      397         9        0         54      124     1,417  21.2%
Education                  213         5       10        0         29      123       380   5.7%
Law                         44        0         0        0          0        0        44   0.7%
Medical Sciences
Medicine                 318         0        0        0         113      33       464   7.0%
Nursing                    3         2         8       0          0        0        13   0.2%
Natural Sciences
Preliminary              175        62        0        0          0        0       237   3.6%
Degree                   914       153        0        0         80       58      1,205  18.1%
Social Sciences          1,185      841        51     421         135     276      2,909  43.6%
TOTAL                    3,685     1,460       78     421         411     614      6,669 100.0%
(Row%/6)                55.3%    21.9%      1.2%    6.3%        6.2%    9.2%    100.0%  100.0%
Source: UWI, Mona Campus: Registration by Faculty and Country, 1994/95.
Note: The percentage share of full-time students is 62.7%.



26
Annex I, Table 2: Enrollments at UTech, 1993/94
Faculty           Full-time studies             Part-time studies                 Overall
Degree  Dip. & Cert. Modular  Day        Eve   Modular      Number  (%/6)
(summer) release
Building                16      268           64      111       0         0        459   7.7%
CSA                     37       79            0        0       0         0        116   2.0%
Commerce                 0      756          306      391     620         0       2,073   34.9%
Computer studies         0      167           67        0       0       459        693   11.7%
Engineering              0      424          102      275      23       323       1,147  19.3%
HFS                      0      265           15        0      168        0        448   7.5%
Science                  0      285          120        0      43         0        448   7.5%
Tech. education          0      324          237        0       0         0        561   9.4%
TOTAL                   53    2,568          911      777     854       782       5,945  100.0%
(Row%)               0.9%    43.2%        15.3%    13.1%    14.4%    13.2%    100.0%  100.0%
Source: College of Arts, Science & Technology, College Summary - Student Enrolment, 1993/94
Academic Year.
Note: The percentage share of full-time students is 44.1%, and the full-time equivalent enrollment for
1993/94 was 2880 students



27
Annex I, Table 3: Estimates of Annual Cost of Undergraduate Programs, UWI,
Mona Campus, 1994/95
Tuition and fees           Maintenance
Faculty                  Tuition &    Other fees   Books &    Housing          Overall
exam fees   & charges    incidentals  & meals         (J$)
Arts & Gen. Studies, B.A.
Day full time                 19,300      1,455        22,113     65,436        108,304
Evening part time              9,650       750         11,057       N/A          21,457
Education                      24,900      1,455        22,113     65,436        113,904
Law                            22,900      1,455        22,113     65,436        111,904
Medical Sciences
Med.-- Pre-clinical          33,200      1,455         22,113    65,436         122,204
Med.-- Clinical              49,900      1,455        22,113     86,100         159,568
Nursing                      22,100      1,455        22,113     65,436         111,104
Natural Sciences, B.Sc.
Full time                    28,900       1,455        22,113     65,436        117,904
Part time                     14,450       750         11,057       N/A          26,257
Social Sciences
Day full time                 16,800      1,455        22,113     65,436        105,804
Part time (evening)            8,400       750         11,057       N/A          20,207
Source: University of West Indies: Mona Campus, Estimate ofAnnual Cost of Undergraduate Degree
Certificate & Diploma Courses - 1994/95.
Note: Housing and maintenance costs are for those living at Residence Hall on campus



28
Annex I: Table 4: Historical Data on the SLB Student Loans, 1970-1994
Loan Approvals             Loan Disbursements"      Average Loan Size
of Approved Loans
Year      Number  (current (constantb/ 1994  (constant 1994    As % of  (current  (constant
of Loans  J$'000)     J$000)        J$'000)      Approved  J$'000) 1994 J$'000)
Loans
1970/71        467      744          70,188             --         --    1,594      150,295
1971/72       1,006    1,380        123,109             --         --    1,372     122,375
1972/73       1,002    1,491        126,204             --         --    1,488     125,952
1973/74       1,121    1,609        116,056             --         --    1,435     103,529
1974/75       1,129    1,055         59,950             --         --     934       53,100
1975/76       1,691    2,791        134,647             --         --    1,651      79,625
1976/77       1,838    3,758        165,865             --        --    2,045       90,242
1977/78       1,943    2,654        104,855             --        --    1,366       53,965
1978/79      2,346     5,267        154,414             --        --    2,245       65,820
1979/80       1,796    2,215         50,347             --        --    1,233       28,033
1980/81      2,192     3,070         54,671         51,726      94.6    1,401       24,941
1981/82      2,319     3,633         57,260         54,864      95.8    1,566       24,692
1982/83      2,576    4,466          65,599         60,648      92.5    1,734       25,465
1983/84      2,644    4,815          62,242         58,397      93.8    1,821       23,541
1984/85      2,677     5,100         49,716         47,066      94.7    1,905        18,571
1985/86      2,160     5,080         39,650         35,185      88.7    2,352        18,357
1986/87      2,394     7,747         54,271         51,663      95.2    3,236       22,670
1987/88      2,481     9,199         61,227         55,944      91.4    3,708       24,679
1988/89      2,528    10,856         66,437         57,451       86.5    4,294      26,281
1989/90      2,315    10,107         53,585         56,620      105.7    4,366      23,147
1990/91      2,593    13,533         57,939         50,390      87.0    5,219       22,344
1991/92      3,121    17,629         46,107         38,193       82.8    5,648       14,773
1992/93      3,179   22,703          35,682         29,219      81.9    7,142       11,224
1993/94      3,162    28,104         35,722         33,402      93.5    8,888       11,297
1994/95 c/    2,298   22,306        22,306              --         --    9,707       9,707
Sources: The Students' Loan Bureau, Twenty-FirstAnniversary, 1970-1991.
Peat Marwick & Co., Students'Revolving Loan Fund: Financial Statement, 1980-1993.
_/ Figures for loan disbursement are the amount of loan advances made during the financial year ending
on the March 31 of each year.
b/ Deflator time series (CPI) comes from the Ministry of Finance and Planning for 1982/83-1994/95,
which has been spliced with the CPI data from the IMF IFS for the earlier period.
c/ Loans processed as of October 1994.



29
Annex I: Table 5: SLB Source and Application of Funds, 1991-1994
Source and Application    1991    (%/6)    1992    (%/6)    1993    (%)    1994   (%)
of Funds                (million).fll                                  .       flho n ).
Sources
GOJ                           3.1    9.8        6.4  14.2        8.6  15.1      10.8  15.2
BOJ                           -1.9  -6.1        1.7   3.7        5.1    8.9      3.2   4.5
Income from Investment        9.0  28.9        12.4  27.3       18.4  32.2      25.9  36.6
Loan collection               8.9  28.7         9.9  21.7       12.9  22.4      14.8  20.9
Cess collection a/            4.4  14.2         7.2  15.7        5.0   8.8       2.2   3.1
Other Government              6.6  21.2         7.0  15.4        5.9  10.3      12.0  16.9
Others                        1.0   3.2         0.9   2.1        1.2   2.1       1.9  2.7
Total                        31.1  100.0      45.5  100.0       57.1  100.0     70.9 100.0
Applications
Students' loans              12.1  39.0        14.9  32.8       21.2  37.1      25.3  35.7
Cash balances and bank        7.6  24.6        12.3  24.8       14.9  26.1      14.4  20.3
deposits
Administrative expenses       4.0  12.9         5.7  12.7        7.2  12.5      15.7  22.2
Loan repayments (IDB)         3.1   9.8         6.4  14.2        8.6  15.1      10.8  15.2
Cess payments a/              3.2  10.4        4.5    9.9        5.6   9.8       1.0   1.4
Others                        0.9   3.4        1.7    3.7       -0.4  -0.7       3.6  5.1
Total                        31.1  100.0      45.5  100.0       57.1  100.0     70.9 100.0
Source: Peat Marwick & Co., Students' Revolving Loan Fund: Financial Statements, 1991-1994.
a/ The SLB acted as an agent of the Commissioner of Inland Revenue charged with the responsibility for
collection and payment to the Commissioner of the Cess imposed on sponsored students.



30
Annex I, Table 6: Employment of UWI (Mona) Graduates by Discipline, 1989-1993
Employment category              Employment distribution of raduates whose  lacements are known
by Faculty                           1989             1990              1991            1992            1993
Arts & General Studies
1. further studies                6    5.7%       18   16.5%        14    9.8%       9    4.5%        4    2.4%
2. govt. & stat. bodies          26   24.5%        7    6.4%        39   27.3%      34   16.9%       31    18.6%
3. teaching                      41   38.7/o      39   35.8%        50   35.0%      62   30.8%       55   32.9%
4. private enterprise            16   15.1%       21   19.3%        24   16.8%      54   26.9%       46   27.5%
5. self-emp/migrated/oth         10    9.4%       10    9.2%         4    2.8%       18    9.0%      18   10.8%
6. UWI                            0    0.0%        5    4.6%         2    1.4%       4    2.0%        2     1.2%
7. unemployed                     7    6.6%        9    8.3%        10    7.0%      20   10.0%        11    6.6%
Overall                         106  100.0%      109  100.0%       143  100.0%    201   100.0%    167  100.0%
Education                         67  100.0%       50  100.0%        50  100.0%      52  100.0%      37  100.0%
Medical Sciences
1. MBBS/Hospital Interns         63   79.7%       51   92.7%        50   92.6%      48   80.0%      46   82.1%
2. BSc. Nursing Education        16   20.3%        4    7.3%         4    7.4%       12   20.0%      10   17.9%
Overall                          79  100.0%       55  100.0%/o      54  100.0%      60  100.0%       56  100.0%
Natural Sciences
1. further studies                2    1.9%        8    7.3%        10    7.0%      11    5.5%       12    7.2%
2. govt. & stat. bodies          41   38.70%      31   28.4%        45   31.5%        1    0.5%      21    12.6%
3. teaching                      24   22.6%        9    8.3%        22   15.4%      28   13.9%       35   21.0%
4. private enterprise            39   36.8%       43   39.4%        29   20.3%       39   19.4%      58   34.7%
5. self-emp/migrated/oth          6    5.7%        8    7.3%         2     1.4%     22   10.9%       22    13.2%
6. UWI                            2    1.9%         1    0.9%        0    0.0%        1    0.5%       1    0.6%
7. unemployed                     3    2.8%        9    8.3%         8    5.6%       18    9.0%      11    6.6%
Overall                         117  100.0%      109  100.0%       116  100.0%      120  100.0%    160  100.0%
Social Sciences
1. further studies                3    2.8%        5    4.6%        14    9.8%      22   10.9%        9    5.4%
2. govt. & stat. bodies          46   43.4%       63   57.8%        75   52.4%      53   26.4%       54   32.3%
3. teaching                      12   11.3%        7    6.4%        14    9.8%      27   13.4%      20    12.0%
4. private enterprise            60   56.6%       70   64.2%       118   82.5%      97   48.3%    104   62.3%
5. self-emp/nigrated/oth          8    7.5%       13   11.9%         4    2.8%      24   11.9%       26    15.6%
6. UWI                            2    1.9%        0    0.0%         5    3.5%        3    1.5%       4    2.4%
7. unemployed                     3    2.8%        7    6.4%         8    5.6%      19    9.5%       17   10.2%
Overall                         134  100.0%      165  100.0%       238  100.0%    245  100.0%    234  100.0%
Source: University of West Indies: Mona Campus, Annual Report: 1992-93, Placement and Career Services.



31
Annex I, Table 7: Starting Annual Salaries of University and College Graduated by Job
Title, 1993-1994
Occupation/lnstitution/Faculty         Year       Range of Salaries  Average Annual Salary
Teaching Job
UWI        None educ. (arts)          1993                                    87,144
Education degree          1993                  --                120,078
Teachers'  Certificate                1993                  --                69,723
College    Diploma                    1993                  --                81,774
Medical Profession
UWI        Medicine                   1993                  --               212,766
Nursing                   1993                  --                102,344
Public Sector (research assistant, junior economist and other non-managerial positions)
Social Science            1994    280,000-305,000                292,500
Private Sector (management trainee)
Social Science            1994             650,000               650,000
Architect
CAST       Architecture (dip.)        1994            200,000                200,000
Engineer
UWI (St.   Engineering                1994            180,000                180,000
A)
CAST       Engineering (dip.)         1994            160,000                160,000
Program Analyst
Computer                  1994   243,000- 484,000                340,000
Lab Technicial
Natural Science           1994    200,000-270,000                235,000
Quality Control Officer
Natural Science, etc.     1994    370,000-464,000                417,000
Hospitality
Tourism, Hospitality      1994             300,000               300,000
Business and Finance (Marketing analyst)
Business, Finance         1994    263,000-470,000                400,0001
Note: The range of salaries estimated by staff of placement and counseling service of educational institutions
was much lower than the sample salaries by Peat Marwick or salary figures mentioned by staff of Jamaica
Employers' Federation. For instance, Placement and Career Services, UWI estimate the normal range of
start-up salaries for the 1994 graduates to be J$ 180,000-230,000, while the counselor of CAST put it
at the J$ 150,000-220,000.



32
Annex Il: Organizational Charts
Chart A: Present Student Loan Bureau
STUDENT LOAN BUREAU ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
EXECUTIVE]
T-'
P[IVATE1 
SECRETARY
FItNANCIAL                                           LOANS -                                                                CDLCLe                                 ____
CaNTrDLLja                                          ADNSNATOA                                                               AD4NIATO 
RUISIST. DJ )                                         (AmT DUI.)                                          
,vIM                                  2u LOANS
AOISMNISTATO                               OHIF-CR               LNOAL CLERKL
ASAD)                                     _                      L
I  DATAPOCANG                                              3   -                r                                                                 -------
ACCOUNTANTV                    orne I                                             LOAN DFIE I                                SR cOlLCTioN                                   INTERN AL AUDIO               UANOI
AEOL                                                                                  OFFICERCIL  OFXMi 
AlaRO                                                                             IRe  _  ou  )                                                                                (AO)                   lE1
l                _ X~~~ROE5JIND |             LOANLlNFA   IATiON |CD.EfO                                  U I COLLCEI 2 CWL*~IO CN TR                                                RUr  E V I   O 
ACONAN                         LizIIEI                         OFF'XEII O|E |i_|i                                   OFFICER    | OFFCS U|  OFFCERS Wl |mIS |         CN                  REGISTA      TI T I_ 
|  |  SUPV)  l            Z~~SN.UP)                    S IlY                  011                        PAR..    I   NS UPVI L| PUl.  ci*u |L L <   m7 |IW m                      u       ||
7 ' 1                      7---                                I                  FSMTOI                                                                                        r-   1mYILEW(
AVCU            S A                                                                         Lj  0F II  S 0Fl   |  LOAJS  ICS aoel E                                           | UNICOFI l       C        |     TT    || OOT   |
|   vuPvx   |  |  s^sssss   | |   <sun_  J I   sti> I                                                                                      UN u   a JI11)  cL      IsJ&
P114    (LERK)           OuR__          (IIU                   p/)                                                                                                                   (aNOr) N[m  CLRRRS   (CLRESUNO    US



33
Annex II: Organizational Charts
Chart B: Flow of Funds, WITCO
Schematic of the GOJ/Bankers' association Student Loan Scheme, 1994
Ministry of Finanoe and PlanningM
Miniistry ofEducatial and |
Cultuire
The Tertiary unit of
|  West bndies Trust Company  |                                  MOEC liai  wi1h
WITCO and oversees the
overall operation of loan
WITCO               Thebanks                                       schane
rcmburses the       subslibes to
banks for those     the Bond                  The SLB issues the
loans already                                 Education Bond vith the                      MOEC rimburwes to SLB
made                                          GOJ guaranteea and enters                    the cxpesea for loan
into a Trust Agrement                        proesiing
with WITCO
Commercial Banks                      '  Studets Lon
In case of loan default
the SLB executes the
\          Oo~Gcvernrnnt loan
guarantee provision
After review the                   The SLB processes loan      Students submit loan
banks make                         applications and sends      applications to the SLB
disbursements for                  the list of loan            with their choice of
approved loans to                  recommendations             preferred bank
tertary instiutions
Students make own
arrangements with
their bank for
repayment
Tertiry Institutions                        Students
L-0. Tertiary institutions pay students the
after-tuition loan balance
Indudes the 1% handling fee



34
Annex II: Organizational Charts
Chart C: Proposed Structure of Student Loan Bureau
STUDENTS LOAN BUREAU
PROPOSED ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTU
(MAY' 96)
MISTN TENOSSLOANCOUNCILE
EXIECUTIVE
DRRECTORI
S EXE SECRETARYT|YCLR
PUBLIC REL.          RESEACH   |          IrERNAL
OELC.R               OFFICER   |AUDIOR
PERSMm                             FNC                             ACCOUTN                              ME
ADMdWSMTIAON                     ASSISTAAVCE
I                               I                                                                    I
PER'/OFFIC                      MANAGER                        | MANAE                               MAN4AGER
ADMINSTRATIOR                                                            .
ADMIN.                                 l                          I                                 SY | STEM
ASSISTANr                                                 ACCOUNTANT    CLETOSANALYSTI
OFFICER         | DATA                 (Z)          OFFICER
TEL. COPERJ/                        (2              ENIRY CLERCK
RECEPITION            _                                 (3)I . .I
ANCILLARY |ACCCITN     COLLIECTIONSM
ASSISTANT |                                       LR  >| |CLERCIC (2)|






-35-
ANNEX III:    Letter of Education Sector Policy
ANIY REPLY OR SUBSEQUENT REFERENE            MINISTRY OF EDUCATION YOUTH & CULTURE
TO THIS COMMUNICATION SHOULD CE
ADORESSED TO THE PRMAMAET                       2 NATIONAL HEROES CIRCLE
aICROTnAY AND THE FOLLOWINO
FtEFERcENCEOUOTEVa.-                                  P.O. BOX 498,
NO____                                                  KINGSTON, JAMAICA
10th June,          19 96
Ms. Jill Armstrong
Population & Human Resources Division
Latin America amd Caribbean Region
The World Bank
1818 H. Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Ms. Armstrong
Re: Government of Jamaica Policy and Financing Education
1.    Cost-Sharing
The Government of Jamaica has embarked on a number of activities
aimed at improving the quality of the nation's education system.
The Government recognizes that most of the problems facing the
system can be attributed to the Inadequacy of the resources
available to the sector. However, Government's efforts to
finance education compares well with International norms hence,
sizeable increases In government expenditure on education will
not be feasible in the short term.
The Government has embarked on  cost-sharing scheme_. which form an
Integral part of Its policy on financing education. The schemes
now operate on the following bases:
I)    Government provides full support for Primary Educatlon;
iI)    Private participation through fee payment at the
Secondary and tertiary levels;
1ii)   Careful targeting accompanied by support schemes to
assist those who cannot afford to pay the full fees.
Support schemes will operate as follows:
a)     At the secondary level - Grants
b).... /Over



-36-
2.
b)     At the tertiary level - Loans and Grants
Iv)  Ensure efficeint use of all resources.
2.   Allocation of Government Resources
The prioritization of primary education and constraint on
Government allocation to the sector will require an allocation of
resources which maintains the viability of the system while
skewing resources to the basic levels. Government will therefore
pursue strategies which will re-allocate recurrent expenditures
within the the next ten years as follows:-
Early Childhood and Primary           50%
Secondary                             33%
Tertiary                               15%
With the proposed reduction In allocation to tertiary education,
Government will maintain a targeted students loan and grant
programme. The loan being negotiated with the World Bank will
be used to Initiate this programme.
Yours sincerely
Burchell Whiteman
Minister
BW::sm



37
Annex IV: Evaluation Impact Study
Terms of Reference
Objective
To determine:
* the distribution of benefits of the student loan and grant-in-aid programs by
consumption quintiles;
* the effectiveness of the targetting and means testing conducted by the SLB; and,
* the effectiveness of the public awareness campaign.
Methodology
The Survey of Living Conditions is a household survey which has been conducted each
year in November since 1988. Although the information collected through these surveys
has enabled the GOJ to estimate the population by consumption quintiles, it has not been
useful for estimating the distribution of tertiary students by such quintiles for the simple
reason that most students are not living at home when the survey is conducted. However,
using the core modules of the SLC, (expenditure data, durable goods, housing etc.), it is
possible to design a special module to assess:
o incidence of loans by consumption quintile
o incidence of grants by consumption quintile
o actual education costs and sources of financing for those costs, including the loan and
grant program, as well as other sources
- public awareness and knowledge of the loan and grant programs
* credit education
? transaction costs and consumer burden
- consumer experiences and satisfaction with different aspects of program operation
Using the SLC as a basis will allow the students' welfare to be compared with the existing
national distribution. This will make data interpretation relatively simple. It also greatly
reduces the costs by eliminating the need for most of the design and testing stages of an
instrument as well as the need for a control group.
Sample Composition
The sample of a minimum of 300 students should be drawn from each of four pools:
Group                           Sample Frame
All students or non-applicants  Registrars' lists
Rejected applicants             SLB
Accepted applicants             SLB
Grant recipients               SLB or registrar
It may be necessary to gather information on both the student's household and that of
his/her parents. This would certainly be the case for dependent students. It may also be
desirable to gather information on parents of independent students to determine whether



38
"independence" is being manipulated to qualify on income grounds for a loan. It is
assumed that for each student in the sample, two households would have to be
interviewed. Therefore, the total sample should consist of 2,400 interviews.
Implementation
It is proposed that the evaluation be carried out twice during the project. It should be
done in the first year, after the award of loans and grants. This would allow for
adjustments in procedures and thresholds early in the project to ensure that the there is not
either substantial leakage of loans to higher income groups or, under coverage of the
poorest students for either loans and/or grants. The evaluation would be repeated in the
fourth year, again after loan and grant decisions had been made, to assess how the mature
system was functioning. It is proposed that STATIN would carry out the data collection,
data entry and construction of the consumption aggregates. The design of the new
module and the analysis should be contracted out.
Timing
Round One: The design of the special module should be done as soon after project
effectiveness as possible. Following the award of loans and grants by September 1996,
fieldwork could be carried out in January/February 1997 with analysis to follow in March.
Incorporation of the findings of the evaluation should be done no later than May 1997 in
order in enable dissemination of any changes in thresholds or loan processing procedures
for the following academic year.
Round Two: As above, in the fourth year of the project.



39
Annex V: Certification Criteria for Participation of Approved Financial
Instituitions (AFIs)
Background
1.    Exposure of potential Financial Institutions for students loans is very low under the
current GOJ/Bankers' Scheme Student Loan Program. As Annex V, Table 1 shows, the
proportion of student loans as a share of both loans and assets is currently less than 1%.
2.    Assuming that students' expressed preference for banks in the expanded Student
Loan Scheme continues to be diversified among the handful of banks currently involved in
the GOJ/Bankers Scheme, and that these banks' asset base and total loan portfolio does
not grow, then by Year 5 of the project student loans as a share of assets remain below
3% for all banks. Even for the largest participating bank in the student loan market, the
share of student loans in total loans is only 7%.
3.    Under an ongoing World Bank supported project, Private Investment and Export
Development Project (Ln. 3720-JM, signed April, 1994), technical assistance is being
provided to the GOJ to improve currently weak reporting requirements for and financial
regulation governing Financial Institutions. The project also calls for legislation to be
updated to support these improvements. A dated covenent in this Project requires that
regulations to the Banking Act and the Financial Institutions Act be adopted and that the
Prudential Regulations be revised by March 31, 1997.
Certification Criteria
4.    Given the size of the student loan portfolio in any potential Financial Intermediary
and the current weakness of reporting requirements and the general paucity of data on
which to assess the financial soundness of Financial Intermediaries in great detail, the
certification criteria for AFIs for the Student Loan Program will be:
(i)   that the Financial Institution is in compliance with the Financial Institutions Act
(1992), the Banking Act (1992) or other laws and prudential regulations as determined by
the Bank of Jamaica. AFIs should also be current in meeting their obligation of having
their financial statements audited by external auditors. The SLB would have the right at
any time to revoke the certification of Financial Institutions found by the Bank of Jamaica
to be in violation of these Acts or regulations.
(ii)  the SLB also retains the right to revoke the certification of the AFI and suspend
new student sub-loan commitments should:
(a) the AFI not exercise due diligence in the collection of subloans in accordance
with indicators set forth in the Operational Manual; or
(b) the default rate expressed as the number student sub-loans (Class "C") exceed
the average of participating AFIs.



40
Annex V: Table 1 Selected Financial Institutions in
Current GOJ/Bankers Student Loan Scheme
...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Share of SL portfolio
under GOJlBankers
Scheme                                    66.0%                  21.0%                  10.0%              3.0%
Based on 1993
Portfolio
% of total loans                          0.6%                   0.2%                   0.3%              0.2%
% of assets                               0.2%                   0.1%                   0.1%              0.1%
Projected Year 5
Portfolio
% oftotal loans                           7.0%                   3.5%                   3.8%              3.0%
%of assets                              <3.0%                    1.0%                   1.0%            <1.0%



41
Annex VI: Project Cost Tables
Table 1: Project Components by Year
Totals Induding Contngencks (USS '000)
96/97   97/98   98/99   99/00   00/01    Total
A. Institutional Strengthenng
MamgementInfomationSystem         306.7    12.4    10.6    10.9    11.3    351.9
Reform Student Loan Bureau        493.1   384.5   409.5   405.8   449.9  2,142.8
Evauation and Monitoring              -    50.8       -    53.6        -    104.4
Subtotal Intitutional Strengthening    799.7   447.7   420.1   470.4   461.1  2,599.0
B. Student Loan Scheme            4,273.2  5,309.2  5,562.1  5,837.1  6,056.8  27,038.5
C. Grant-In-Aid                   1,596.7  1,650.6  1,688.3  1,742.1  1,782.9  8,460.7
D. Public Awareness Campaign and
CreditEducationProgram            119.5    73.6   101.3    77.7    45.3    417.4
Total PROJECT COSTS               6,789.1  7,481.2  7,771.8  8,127.4  8,346.1  38,515.6
Table 2: Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Induding Contlngencles (USS '000)
96/97    97/98    98/99    99/00    00/01    Total
L. Investment Costs
A. Technical Assistance
Local Consuitants              125.3    19.0    19.5    20.1          -    183.9
Foreign Consultants            192.9       -     16.2              34.6    243.7
Subtotal Technical Asstance      318.1    19.0    35.7    20.1    34.6    427.6
B. Training and Seminars          34.6    12.7    13.0    13.4    13.7        87.4
C. Equipment and Software        119.5     2.1        -        -       -     121.6
D. Printing Materials             39.3    15.2    41.6    16.1       2.7    114.9
E. Rental                         28.3    29.2    29.9    30.8    31.5    149.7
G. Subloans                    4,118.3  5,039.1  5,218.3  5,436.0  5,610.9  25,422.5
H Grants                       1,596.7  1,650.6  1,688.3  1,742.1  1,782.9   8,460.7
I. Fees                          154.9   270.1   343.8   401.1   445.9   1,615.9
J. Studies                          -    50.8         -     53.6       -     104.4
Total Investment Costs           6,409.6  7,088.9  7,370.5  7,713.3  7,922.3  36,504.7
IL Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                      368.5   380.9   389.6   402.1   411.5   1,952.6
B. Operation and Maintenance      11.0    11.3    11.6    12.0    12.3        58.3
Total Recusrent Costs             379.5   392.3   401.3   414.1   423.8   2,010.9
otal PROJECT COSTS              6,789.1  7,481.2  7,771.8  8,127.4  8,346.1  38,515.6



42
Annex VI: Project Cost Tables
Table 3: Summary Account by Components
Tota Induding Conthiginces
Awmnm
ultltuonal Stre ang                                  CunP
Reform                                          and
Mangen   Student Evauatin                                  C"rdit
Infomatio   Loem      and        Student                 Educatha
Systm   Bureau Monktorbig Lo  Sdheme Grant-In-Aid  Pro             Total
1. Investnent Costs
A. Tedical Assistuce
Local Consultants               73.7    19.7          -            -                     90.6    183.9
Foreign Consultants            101.5   142.2          -            -             -          -    243.7
Subtotal Techncai Asistac        175.2   161.8          -            -             -      90.6    427.6
B. Training and Seminars          22.3       -                -                    -      65.1      87.4
C. Equipment and Software        101.3    10.2          -            -             -       10.2    121.6
D. PrintingMaterials                 -    13.0          -            -             -     101.9    114.9
E. Rental                            -        -         -            -             -     149.7    149.7
G. Subloans                          -        -         -     25,422.5             -         - 25,422.5
H. Grants                            -       -          -            -       8,460.7         -  8,460.7
1. Fees                              -        -         -       1,615.9            -         -   1,615.9
J. Studies                           -       -      104.4            -             -         -    104A
Totl Investnent Coats             298.8   185.0       104.4     27,038.5       8,460.7     417A  36,504.7
IL Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                          -  1,952.6         -            -             -         -   1,952.6
B. Operafton and Maintenance      53.1      5.2         -            -             -         -      58.3
TotalRacrrentCoash                 53.1  1,957.8         -             -             -         -  2,010.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                351.9  2,142.8     104.4     27,038.5       8,460.7     417.4  38,515.6
Taxes                                -        -         -            -             -         -         -
Foreign Exchange                 226.7   152.3          -            -             -       10.2    389.2
Table 4:          Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Disbursement                        Amount of Loan                 % of expenditures to be financed
Category                            Allocated (US$)
(1) Subloans                                     25,000,000                          100%
(2) Goods                                            103,000                         5%o/o
(3) Consultants'                                     230,000                         50%
Services
(4) Training                                          70,000                         50%
(5) Operating                                      1,000,000   100%until withdrawals under this
Expenditures                                                  Category have reached an aggregate
amount of $400,000; 75% until
withdrawals under this Category
have reached an aggregate amount
of $750,000; and 50%  thereafter.
(6) Administrative fees                            1,500,000                         100%
(7) Unallocated                                      597,000
LOAN TOTAL                                       28,500,000



43
Annex VI: Project Cost Tables
Table 5: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements (USS million)
IBRD Fiscal Year and Semester       Quarter   Cumulutative   Percentage
1997
December 31, 1996                         3.0             3.0          10%
March31, 1997                             1.0             4.0          14%
June 30, 1997                             1.0             5.0          17%
1998
September 30, 1997                        3.7             8.7         30%
December31, 1997                          1.0             9.7          34%
March31, 1998                             0.5             10.2         35%
June 30, 1998                             0.5             10.7        37%
1999
September30, 1998                         3.8             14.5        50%
December31, 1998                          1.0             15.5        54%
March31, 1999                             0.5             16.0         56%
June 30, 1999                             0.5             16.5         58%
2000
September 30, 1999                        4.0            20.5         72%
December 31, 1999                         1.0            21.5         75%
March 31, 2000                            0.5            22.0          77%
June 30, 2000                             0.5            22.5          79%
2001
September 30, 2000                        4.1            26.6         93%
December 31, 2000                         1.0            27.6         96%
March 31, 2001                            0.5            28.1         98%
June 30, 2001                             0.4            28.5         100%
Assumptions:
Loan Signing Date                  August 1996
Effectiveness Date                August 1996
Project Completion                 December 31, 2001
Loan Closing Date                 June 30, 2002
Initial deposit into Special Account of US$2.8 million



44
Annex VII: Project Performance Indicators
Table 1. Input and Output Indicators for Project Implementation
Component/      Project Activity          Monitorable Indicator               Date (loan         Status
Subcomponent                                                                  covenants in bold)
A. Institutional  Reorganize SLB structure    New organizational chart and job
Strengthening              _              descriptions accepted
Hire staff               Hire critical staff
Hire remainder staff
Produce Operational      Operational Manual                  Condition of
Manual                                                       Effectiveness
Install new MIS/FIS      System fully functional             Condition of
Effectiveness
FTrain staff in MIS/FIS  All relevant SLB staff trained
Conduct Evaluation studies  Evaluation Survey of Year 1      Results by 5/1997
Evaluation Survey of Year 4        Results by 512000
Produce semi-annual                                          By Oct 31st and
reports                                                      April 30th
B. Student      Assess and Extend loans to  No.of loan applications           Annually, by
Loan            eligible students         No. of loans approved               October 3 Ist
No. of loans, by institution
No. of loans, by program of study
No. of loans, by gender
No. of loans, by bank
Average loan size
Average loan size, by institution
C. Grant-in-Aid  Assess and award grants to  No. of grant applications        Annually, by
program         eligible students         No. of grants awarded               October 31st
No. of grants, by institution
No. of grants, by program of study
No. of grants, by gender
=            _                 ~~~~~~~~~~~Average size of grants
D. Public       Promotion of GOJ's policy   No. of secondary institutions visited  Annually, by
Awareness       on tertiary education     No. of tertiary institutions visited  October 31st
Campaign        financing                 No. info pkg distributed to 20 schools
Education of sources of  No. info pkg distributed to parents
financial assistance     No. info pkg distributed to 30 instit
No. phone calls received
Frequency of airtime/May-August
Frequency of radiotime/May-August
Frequency of newspaper/May-August



45
Annex VII: Table 2. Process Indicators
Indicator      | Description     Date             Status
Financial Indicators
Loan approval   Loan             Annually
rate            applications
approved/loan
applications
received
Default rate     Percent of the    Annually,
number of Class  beginning April
A, Class B and   30, 1999
Class C loans
that are in
arrears for 60,
__ _ _ __ _ _   ________ _  180, 270  days  I_    I
Physical Indicators
Conduct First   Report on        By May 31,
Year Review     Evaluation       1997
survey and
recommend
_ adjustments
Conduct Mid-    Review in        By May 31,
Term Review     conjunction with  1999
World Bank
based on
monitorable
indicators
Public          No. of applicants  Years 2 and 4
Awareness       learning of loan   from Evaluation
campaign        program in 2    Study results
school         I_               I



46
Annex VII: Table 3. Impact Indicators
Policy Goal            Indicator                        Significance                        Acceptable Range            Frequency to
measure indicator
Reallocate        *  Share of recurrent     GOJ's policy goal is to shift a larger share of  Long-term target (2006)
resources toward     budget of the MOEYC   resources from tertiary (presently 28% of             Tertiary 15%
basic education      to tertiary education  recurrent education budget) to basic education      Secondary 33%                Annually
(grades 1-9).                                        Primary 50%
Bottom three consumption quintiles based on
Increase equity of  *  Share of loan recipients  national sample covers 60% of population;
access to tertiary   in bottom 3 quintiles  however, of tertiary student population this       75-80% for loans
education by                                share would be smaller. Given subsidy of loans,                                  Annually
poorer students                             intent is to target narrowly on poorest groups.
*  Share of grant         As above.                                                                        Annually
recipients in bottom 2                                                   85-95% for grants
quintiles
Increase efficiency  *  Turn-around time of  Maximum number of days from time
of Student Loan      loan application in SLB   application received in SLB (during peak
Program                                     period) to when application, if successful, is         < 3 weeks            Annually
forwarded to AFI, or unsuccessful student
notified.
Increase          *  Administrative costs   These three factors are key elements which  *  Admin costs < 5% (based on
sustainability of    *  Default rates       determine sustainability of loan scheme. Admin  3.5% to AFIs and 1% for SLB)
Student Loan      *  Interest rates         costs defined as portion of total value of loans    *  Default Rates < 10% of all  Annually
Program                                     outstanding; and real interest rates defined as  loans
inflation minus nominal interest rate.     *  Real interest rate > 0



47
Annex VIII: Supervision and Mid-Term Review
Supervision
*  Project Launch        October 1996 (I week)
Composition:
0 Team Leader
0 Facilitator
0 Disbursement Officer
0 Procurement Officer
*  Annual Supervision Mission    Each May (1 week)
0 Team Leader
0 Banking Specialist
0 Targetting Specialist (May 1997 to review distribution of beneficiaries and
effectiveness of targetting instrument; agree on adjustment to cutoff points)
*  Semi-Annual Supervision     Each November (2-3 days)
0 Team Leader
Mid-term Review                By May 31, 1998 (I week)
0 Team Leader
0 Banking Specialist
0 Targetting Specialist (May 1997 to review distribution of beneficiaries and
effectiveness of targetting instrument)



48
Annex IX: Fiscal Impact of Proposed Scheme and
Alternative Interest and Default Rates
This Annex analyzes the proposed project in terms of its fiscal impact in the
context of government policy of cost recovery at the tertiary level. It addresses the
question of whether it is costlier to the Govemment to administer a student loan program
compared to giving pure grants to poor students. The second section discusses altemative
interest rates considered during project preparation, while the third section presents a
sensitivity analysis of the impact of different levels of the default rates on the net cost of
the proposed program.
A.    Net Cost of the Proposed Program
The level of analysis focusses on the net cost of the loan scheme and not whether
the program is fully sustainable. Examining the net fiscal impact of the program is
appropriate given that no student loan program could ever be fully financially sustainable
(in the sense of being self-financing) because of the negative effect of higher interest rates
on default rates. The fiscal impact of two options--a loan scheme and a grant program--
are considered.
The net fiscal costs to the Government have been estimated for a ten year period.
The main cost factors of student loan programs are: (i) interest subsidies; (ii) default
rates; and (iii) administrative costs. Also included in the cost of the proposed student
loan program is the cost of borrowing from the World Bank to finance a five-year
injection of funds. Table 1 compares the cost of extending student loans to one-third of
tertiary students (about 5,000) over a five year period to the expected tuition revenues
from that same group of students. Under given assumptions', the cost of the student loan
program in each year is less than the value of the fees that would be collected from the
portion of students receiving loans--thus releasing funds from the tertiary level that could
be reallocated elsewhere in the education sector. The net present value of the stream of
costs for extending loans over a five year period is J$690.4 million; the net present value
of the tuition fees paid by the borrowing students is J$1,466 million. Even under more
pessimistic assumptions (i.e. inflation running at 20% annually and a default rate of
'Macro-economic assumptions include: Inflation at 15% over the next 10 years; for the devaluation of the
J$ it is assumed that the 7.5% interest rate on the WB US dollar loan translates into a 17% cost of
funds figure (assuming an average annual devaluation of 8.5% over the next 5 years); a discount
factor of 20% representing the opportunity cost of money.



49
30%), the net present value of the stream of costs (J$1,189 million) is still less than the
net present value of the stream of revenues.



50
Annex IX, Table I
Student Loan Project
Fiscal Cost of SL Program
(in millions, current J$)a
1996/97    1997/98   1998/99    1999/00  2000/01  2001/02  2002/03  2003/04  2004/05  2005/06
Expected Student Feesb
UWI                                   350        537       617        710      816       939     1079      1241     1428     1642
UTech                                 150        230       265        304      350       402      463      532       612      704
Teachers Colleges                      38         44         50        58       66        76       88       101      116      134
Multi-disciplinary                     47         54        62         71       82        95      109       125      144      165
Other                                  10         12        13         15        17       20       23       27        31       35.
Total Cost Recovery Revenues          595        876    1,007       1,158    1,332    1,532    1,762    2,026    2,330    2,679
of which from poorest 1/3            198        292       336        386      444       511      587       675      777      893
Cost of SLP to 113                     (5)      (114)     (257)     (298)    (330)    (436)    (322)    (115)        (74)      16
Net Revenues with SLP                 193        178        79        88       114
jNPV of Cost                           690
|NPV of Revenues from 1 /3C          1,466
Memorandum Items:
Ratio cost:revenues                    0.8       13.0      25.5       25.7     24.8     28.5      18.3      5.7      3.2      -0.6
Ratio cost: MOE recurrent              0.1        1.5       3.0        3.0      2.9      3.3       2.1      0.7      0.4      -0.1
MOE Recurrent Budgetd               6,500      7,475     8,596      9,886   11,369   13,074   15,035   17,290   19,884   22,866
Tertiary Recurrent Budgete          1,600      1,600     1,600      1,600    1,600    1,840    2,116    2,433    2,798    3,218
Tertiary (as % of total)               25         21        19         16       14       14        14       14       14        14
a. Inflation assumed at 15% throughout period.
b. UWI and UTech fees 15% of economic costs for 1996, rising to 20% in real terms in 1996 and constant
thereafter. All other fees kept constant in real terms over 5 years.
c. Net present values of disbursements to students over life of project.
d. MOE budget assumed to be constant in real terms.
e. Tertiary budget constant in real terms for 1996; constant in nominal terms for 1997-2000 and remaining constant in real terms through 2005.



51
The net costs per student of a J$100,000 loan are given in Table 2.2 Given the
assumptions, the loan program  would have a net subsidy (in terns of net present value) to
poor students of 30%  compared with 100%  subsidy element under a grant scheme, and
compared to nearly 80% under the government's present student loan scheme. Under the
more pessimistic assumption of higher inflation (20%) and default rates (30%), the
subsidy of the loan is 48%, substantially less than the present loan scheme.
i l l ~~~~~~~~Annex X, Table Z 2 
JAMAICA STUDENT LOAN
NET COSTS PERK STUDENT-
(In nominal is)
ASSUMPT IONS~
Discount rate                  20%
Interest rate
1st loan
2nd loan                   100,00
3rd Toan  |
Interest rate                  25%
Tnterest rate (study period)   X5%
Maturity                        10 years
Graduation rate               12%/0
Inflation rate                15%/
a            b            c             d                          f
Y9ear   Student Pmt GOJPMT-tot  RisK premium       DeTault    Adm. Costs  Adm. Costs   NetIoUst
to GOJ        WB                                      Banks         SLB
17%           0%           10%vo-       3.5h         1f       a-b-c-de-f
2                    17,000                                    3,500       1,161      (21,t661)
S                    19,733                                   4,6            34        2.
4  31,674  22,905                    ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~3,167  4,71 61,7(4)
7   4,00     4194                          445         4511_5 ~(77562)
8   49,840      39,606                        4,984       4,037          917         295
9       55,821 - -35,56552                                     3Z1158                  1,8
____                                  ~~~~~~~~~25U3U~~6,5
10 These9 per student costs ha0e beenZgrossed5up,to0arriveatthefiguresinthereeng-         30T
lScenario l: Pro posed Stucdent ILoan Sicheme                              30.01
= iScenario Il: Existing tStuaent Loan S-cheme                                  78.8|
lScenario 11l: intiation @_ 20%/, defa-ult 30%                             4.6
2 These per student costs have been grossed up to arrive at the figures in the preceeding Table.



52
B. Interest Rate Structures
During project preparation, consideration was given to an interest rate structure
that ideally would cover repayment of World Bank loan (including any potential foreign
exchange risk) and reflect a debt burden that is perceived to be, and is, manageable by the
borrowers. In determining an appropriate interest rate to charge students, it became
apparent that a trade-off exists between setting nominal interest rates high enough to
cover real costs and acheiving an acceptable debt burden. As Table 3 shows, as interest
rates increase, the burden on the student to repay becomes higher, in turn triggering a
likely increase in the default rate. In particular, two options of benchmarking the interest
rate were considered: Treasury Bills and average savings rate.
Option 1: Treasury Bill (TBill) Charging the students a market interest rate
based on some relationship with the Treasury bill was explored during project
preparation. The TBill has the advantage of offering an objective benchmark and reflects
local market forces, but is lower than local lending rates. The yield on 6-month TBills
jumped from 36% in November to 42.5% in December 1995; average commerical bank
loan rates rose from 53% to 55% over the same period. The TBill rate includes market
expectations regarding the inflation and devaluation risks, thus cost recovery (in terms of
cost of funds plus currency risk) should be achieved. The TBill, however, has wide
fluctuations, but could still be used as a benchmark by smoothing the fluctuations using a
six-month or annual moving average of the (6-month) TBill rate.
Although the T Bill rate would cover exchange rate risks and inflationary
expectations, it was not considered appropriate as a benchmark for student loans for
several reasons. At a time when Government is pursing an aggressive monetary policy to
mop up excess liquidity, it would not be fair to ask students, particularly those from poor
families, to bear the cost of the policy. Second, given that students will be faced with a
two-fold increase in fees, market interest rates may not be politically feasible, making
tertiary education appear even less accessible for students from poor backgrounds. High
interest rates may also discourage them from even applying for a loan. Finally, the initial
debt service burden of an interest rate (based on the TBill) of even 35% would be
equivalent to 26% of a reasonable initial salary of J$230,000, based on a flat repayment
plan (see Table 3). Under a graduated repayment plan, the initial burden drops to just
over 20%. Commercial bankers in Jamaica were of the opinion that the debt service
burden on student loans should not exceed a range of 17-18% of income. An official
from the U.S. student loan program noted that the rule of thumb in the United States was
that debt service burden should be in the range of 5-6%.3
Option 2: Average savings rate A second option that was proposed was the
average (passbook) savings rate plus a spread of 5 percentage points (the same rate
charged on the GOJ/Bankers' Scheme). It has the advantage of being relatively stable
3Personal communication, J. Davis, SALLIE MAE, December 1995.



53
over time--it remains at 18%, but runs a greater risk than the TBill rate of being negative
in real terms. In terms of debt service, an interest rate of say, 25% would give 20% debt
service burden assuming a flat repayment schedule. Under a graduated schedule, the
initial debt service burden falls to 15.8%.
Annex IX, Table 3 Initial Debt Service Burden, by interest and repayment
graduation rates
Repayment Graduation Rates
0%      12%      15%      20%      30%
20%    18.0%    13.6%    12.7%    11.2%     8.8%
Interest     25%    20.5%    15.8%    14.8%    13.2%    10.5%
Rates        30%    23.1%    18.2%    17.2%    15.4%    12.4%
35%    25.9%    20.8%    19.7%    17.8%    14.6%
40%    28.8%    23.6%    22.3%    20.4%    16.9%
C.    Default Rates
The principle risk of the proposed operation is the extent to which potentially high
default rates increase the cost of the loan program. Table 4 presents a sensitivity analysis
of the net cost under varying assumptions for default rates. A doubling of the default rate
from 10% to 20% results in a 30% increase in the net cost of the program.
Annex IX, Table 4: Costs of Alternative Default Rates
Default rates   NPV of Cost per J$100
5%                25.6
10%                30.0
15%                34.4
20%                38.8
25%                43.2
50%                65.1



54
Annex X: List of Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
Operational Manual
Job Descriptions, Key SLB Staff
Terms of Reference, Public Awareness Campaign
Functional Review of SLB, September 1995












IMAGING
Report No:      15594 JM
Type: SAR



