Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4070-JM
                            Project Agreement
                          (Student Loan Project)
                                 between
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                                   and
                           STUDENTS' LOAN BUREAU
                            Dated August 2, 1996
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 4070-JM
                             PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August 2, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STUDENTS'LOAN BUREAU (SLB).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Jamaica (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount equal to twenty eight million five
hundred thousand Dollars ($28,500,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that SLB agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this
Agreement;
     (B)  by the Subsidiary Grant Agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and SLB (as provided in Section 3.01 (c) of the Loan
Agreement), the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement will be transferred, on a grant basis, to SLB on the terms
and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and
     WHEREAS SLB, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set
forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                           ARTICLE II
Page  2
                    Execution of the Project;
                 Management and Operations of SLB
     Section 2.01.  (a) SLB declares its commitment to the objectives of
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to
this end, shall carry out the Project with the assistance of Eligible
Tertiary Institutions and MOEYC (as provided in paragraphs (d) and
(e) below), and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with
sound financial and technical standards and practices, with qualified
management and personnel, and in accordance with the Students' Loan
Fund Act, the SLB Regulations and the Operational Manual.
     (b)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above
and for purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, SLB shall: (i)
enter into a Participation Agreement with the corresponding AFI; and
(ii) onlend a portion of the proceeds of the Loan (allocated to such
Part of the Project) to such AFI through Intermediary Loans, all in
accordance with procedures and under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, including, inter alia, those referred to in Section I of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. SLB shall provide to the Bank a copy of
each Participation Agreement immediately after each such Participation
Agreement has been entered into.
     (c)  SLB shall exercise its rights under the Participation Agree-
ments in such a manner as to: (i) protect the interest of the Bank, the
Borrower and SLB; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement
and the Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of
the Project.
     (d)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above
and for purposes of carrying out Part C of the Project, SLB shall
provide, out of its own resources, grants (the Subgrants) to Eligible
Students under Subgrant Agreements to be entered into between SLB,
each Eligible Student and the corresponding Eligible Tertiary
Institution under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including those set forth in the Operational Manual.
     (e)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above
and for purposes of carrying out Part D of the Project, SLB shall
enter into an arrangement with the Borrower, through MOEYC, satis-
factory to the Bank.
     (f)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SLB shall not
assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any
Participation Agreement or any Subgrant Agreement or any provision
thereof.
     Section 2.02.  SLB undertakes that, unless the Bank shall other-
wise agree, Subloans shall be made in accordance with the procedures
and on the terms and conditions referred to in Section II of Schedule
1 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03.  (a) SLB shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports and maintenance, respectively) in respect of the
Project Agreement.
     (b)  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions
and without limitation thereto, SLB shall:
          (i)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
               Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six months
               after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
               agreed for this purpose between the Bank and SLB, a
               plan for the future operation and sustainability of
               the Project; and
         (ii)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
               views with SLB on said plan.
Page  3
     Section 2.04.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section
2.01 (a) of this Agreement, SLB shall maintain policies and procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, the
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof in accordance with the Project monitoring indicators set forth
in the Operational Manual.
     Section 2.05.  SLB shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Grant Agreement.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, SLB shall not take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning, terminating, waiving or
failing to enforce the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision
thereof.
     Section 2.06.  (a) SLB shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the Subsidiary Grant Agreement, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  SLB shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by
SLB of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Grant Agreement.
     Section 2.07.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section
9.07 of the General Conditions and Section 2.04 of this Agreement,
SLB shall not later than April 30 and October 31 of each year of
Project implementation, starting in 1997, prepare and furnish to the
Bank semi-annual progress reports of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank may reasonably request with respect to the progress made
by SLB in the carrying out of the Project during the six months
preceding the date of presentation of the corresponding report.
     Section 2.09.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section
2.06 of this Agreement, SLB shall review jointly with the Bank and
the Borrower not later than May 31 of each year of Project imple-
mentation, starting in 1997, the progress made by SLB in:
     (a)  carrying out of the Project; and
     (b)  achieving the objectives of the Project.  Each such review
shall also focus in discussing the corresponding progress reports
referred to in Section 2.08 of this Agreement.  As part of each such
review, the Bank may require that SLB prepare an action plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, to make adjustments in Project implemen-
tation.  If so, SLB shall prepare and furnish such action plan to the
Bank not later than thirty days after the conclusion of each such
review and shall thereafter carry out such action plan in accordance
with its terms.
                              ARTICLE III
                          Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01.  (a) SLB shall maintain  records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of SLB,
including separate accounts to reflect the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project.
     (b)  SLB shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
               and related statements) for each Fiscal Year audited,
Page  4
               in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six months after the end of each
               such year: (A) certified copies of its financial
               statements for such year as so audited; and (B) the
               report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
               and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
         (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records, accounts and financial statements as
               well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time
               to time reasonably request.
                               ARTICLE IV
                     Effective Date; Termination;
                     Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01.  This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 4.02.  This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of SLB thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify SLB thereof.
     Section 4.03.  All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE V
                      Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01.  Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses
so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
     For SLB:
          12 Ocean Boulevard
          Kingston Mall
          Kingston, Jamaica
          Cable address:
          'Reserve', Kingston
     Section 5.02.  Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
Page  5
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement
on behalf of SLB, or by SLB on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan
Agreement, may be taken or executed by SLB's Executive Director or
such other person or persons as such Executive Director shall designate
in writing, and SLB shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
     Section 5.03.  This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
                         STUDENTS' LOAN BUREAU
                         By /s/ Richard Bernal
                                               Authorized Representative
                              SCHEDULE 1
                Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
                  of Intermediary Loans and Subloans
Section I.     Intermediary Loans
1.    To qualify as an AFI and thus be eligible to enter into a
Participation Agreement and receive an Intermediary Loan, a financial
institution must satisfy the eligibility criteria and be selected
according to the procedures set forth in the Operational Manual, which
criteria must, inter alia, require that such financial institution:
      (a)  be in compliance with the provisions of the Financial
Institutions Act, the Banking Act and the Prudential Regulations;
      (b)  be current in meeting its obligation of having its financial
statements audited by external auditors; and
      (c)  exercise due diligence in the collection of Subloans in
accordance with the indicators set forth in the Operational Manual.
2.    Intermediary Loans shall be made in accordance with the pro-
cedures and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank which
procedures, terms and conditions must, inter alia, include that:
      (a)  (i)  Intermediary Loans shall be disbursed wholly in
                Jamaican Dollars; and
          (ii)  the amortization schedule of Intermediary Loans shall
                be expressed in Jamaican Dollars and the principal of,
                and interest on, Intermediary Loans shall be repayable
                in Jamaican Dollars;
      (b)  the interest rate of Intermediary Loans shall be, mutatis
mutandis, the interest rate set forth in paragraph 3 of Section II of
this Schedule; and
Page  6
      (c)  the principal amount of each Intermediary Loan shall be
repaid, irrespective of any default under a Subloan or Subloans made
from the proceeds of such Intermediary Loan.
3.    Participation Agreements shall, inter alia, contain:
      (a)  the obligation of the AFI to maintain compliance with the
requirements mentioned in paragraph 1 and 2 of this Section;
      (b)  the obligation of the AFI to transfer to the Eligible
Tertiary Institution the portion of the Intermediary Loan allocated to
the respective Subloan;
      (c)  the obligation of the AFI to: (i) maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting
practices, its operations and financial condition, including records
and separate accounts regarding its activities under Part B of the
Project; (ii) have such records and accounts, together with its
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements), for each Fiscal Year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied
by, independent auditors acceptable to SLB and the Bank; (iii)
furnish to SLB no later than four months after the end of each such
Fiscal Year: (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such Fiscal Year as so audited; and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors of such scope and in such detail as SLB shall have
reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to SLB such information and
documentation as required to allow SLB to comply with its obligation
under Article III of this Agreement;
      (d)  the obligation of the AFI to finance up to one hundred
percent of the Tuition Fees requested by the Eligible Student under
a Subloan;
      (e)  the obligation of the AFI to comply with the applicable
terms of the Operational Manual; and
      (f)  the right of SLB to suspend or terminate the right of the
AFI to use the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such AFI to
perform its obligations under the respective Participation Agreement.
Section II.    Subloans
1.    To qualify for a Subloan an Eligible Student must file a Subloan
application with SLB in accordance with the applicable terms and
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual and must meet the
criteria specified in such manual.
2.    (a) Subloans shall be disbursed in Jamaican Dollars; and (b) the
amortization schedule of Subloans shall be expressed in Jamaican
Dollars and the principal of, and interest on, Subloans shall be
repayable in Jamaican Dollars.
3.    The applicable interest rate on a Subloan shall be as follows:
(a) an annual fixed interest rate of fifteen percent per annum on the
amount of the Subloan withdrawn and outstanding from the date of the
Subloan Agreement until six months after the Eligible Student has
obtained his/her Tertiary Education Degree (interest shall be
capitalized each year during the referred timeframe); and (b) there-
after, the annual interest rate shall be a variable interest rate
equal to the average interest rate for savings deposits in Jamaican
Dollars (in effect each January 1 and as published by the Bank of
Jamaica (the Borrower's Central Bank)) paid by commercial banks in
Jamaica, plus five percentage points.
4.    The repayment of the principal of, and payment of interest on,
Subloans shall: (a) commence not later than six months after the
Eligible Student has obtained his/her Tertiary Education Degree; and
(b) be paid within seven years from the date in which the first
repayment is due as provided in the corresponding Subloan Agreement.
Page  7
5.    Each Subloan shall be made pursuant to a Subloan Agreement to
be entered into between an AFI and the corresponding Eligible Student
in accordance with the terms and conditions referred to in the format
set forth in the Operational Manual, including the right of the AFI
to declare the principal of the Subloan then withdrawn and outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the interest thereon
upon failure by such Eligible Student to perform his/her obligations
under the respective Subloan Agreement.
                              SCHEDULE 2
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     General
     Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     Procurement Procedures
1.   Limited International Bidding
     Computer equipment and software estimated to cost up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.   International Shopping
     Vehicles estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$30,000 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.   National Shopping
     Goods (other than vehicles, computer equipment and software)
estimated to cost $15,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $25,000 equivalent, shall be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines.
Part C:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts,
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to
the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the pro-
visions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement
of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions
of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract to be awarded under Part B.1 of this
Section the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
Page  8
     Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
