Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 4070-JM
                              Loan Agreement
                         (Student Loan Project)
                                  between
                                  JAMAICA
                                    and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated August 2, 1996
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4070-JM
                             LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August 2, 1996, between JAMAICA (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS  (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project;
     (B)  the Project will be carried out by the Students' Loan Bureau
(SLB) established by the Students' Loan Fund Act (as such term is
defined in Section 1.02 (r) of this Agreement) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to SLB the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agree-
ment; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and SLB;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Page  2
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the follow-
ing meanings:
     (a)  "Administration Fees" means the annual fee to be paid by
SLB to an AFI for administering a Subloan;
     (b)  "AFI" means an approved financial institution duly incor-
porated in Jamaica which is operating in Jamaica and meets the
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual;
     (c)  "Banking Act" means the Borrower's Banking Act of 1992, as
such Act may be amended in accordance with Section 3.07 of the Loan
Agreement dated April 26, 1994 entered into between the Borrower and
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Private Investment and
Export Development Project (Loan No. 3720-JM);
     (d)  "Eligible Student" means a Jamaican student enrolled in an
Eligible Tertiary Institution who meets the criteria set forth in
the Operational Manual to receive Subloans and Subgrants under the
Project;
     (e)  "Eligible Tertiary Institution" means an institution which
provides higher education to students and has been specified in a
list set forth in the Operational Manual;
     (f)  "Financial Institutions Act" means the Borrower's Financial
Institution Act of 1992, as such Act may be amended in accordance
with Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement dated April 26, 1994 entered
into between the Borrower and the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Private Investment and Export Development Project (Loan No.
3720-JM);
     (g)  "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year commencing on April 1
and ending on March 31;
     (h)  "Intermediary Loan" means a loan to be made by SLB to an AFI
with the proceeds of the Loan and pursuant to a Participation Agreement
to finance Subloans;
     (i)  "Jamaican Dollars" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (j)  "MOEYC" means the Borrower's Ministry responsible for
education;
     (k)  "Operating Expenditures" means expenditures incurred by SLB
in connection with the hiring of personnel and the operation and
maintenance of the goods to be acquired under Parts A and D of the
Project;
     (l)  "Operational Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the
Bank, to be adopted by the Borrower and SLB which sets forth, inter
alia:
          (i)  the criteria for making Subloans and Subgrants;
         (ii)  the criteria for selection of Eligible Students to
               benefit from Subloans and Subgrants under the Project;
        (iii)  the list of Eligible Tertiary Institutions;
         (iv)  the procedures and terms and conditions of  Intermediary
               Loans, Participation Agreements, Subloans, Subloan
               Agreements, Subgrants and Subgrant Agreements;
          (v)  the criteria and parameters to be applied by the AFIs
               in rating the employment of a student;
Page  3
         (vi)  the terms and parameters to be followed by SLB in the
               carrying out of its institutional restructuring;
        (vii)  the terms of reference for the carrying out of the
               impact evaluation studies;
       (viii)  the Project monitoring indicators;
         (ix)  the indicators referred to in paragraph 1 (c) of
               Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; and
          (x)  the procedures to be followed in the financing of
               Administration Fees, as such manual may be amended
               from time to time with the agreement of the Bank;
     (m)  "Participation Agreement" means an agreement to be entered
into between SLB and an AFI pursuant to Section 2.01 (b) (i) of the
Project Agreement;
     (n)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and SLB of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (o)  "Prudential Regulations" means all prudential regulations
and reserve and report requirements, applicable to financial
institutions in Jamaica, which have been issued by the Bank of
Jamaica (the Borrower's central bank) or any other authority having
jurisdiction with respect to such financial institutions, as such
regulations and requirements may be amended in accordance with
Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement dated April 26, 1994 entered into
between the Borrower and the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Private Investment and Export Development Project (Loan No. 3720-JM);
     (p)  "SLB Regulations" means the regulations to the Students'
Loan Fund Act dated March 16, 1983;
     (q)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (r)  "Students' Loan Fund Act" means the Borrower's Act dated
April 29, 1971, duly published in the official gazette (Legal Notice)
on June 30, 1971 which established SLB, as such Act will be amended
as provided in Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement;
     (s)  "Subgrant" means a grant to be made by SLB to an Eligible
Student as provided in Section 2.01 (d) of the Project Agreement;
     (t)  "Subloan" means a loan to be made by an AFI to an Eligible
Student with a portion of the proceeds of an Intermediary Loan;
     (u)  "Subgrant Agreement" means the agreements referred to in
Section 2.01 (d) of the Project Agreement;
     (v)  "Subloan Agreement" means any of the agreements to be
entered into between an AFI and the Eligible Student as provided
in paragraph 5 of Section II of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement;
     (w)  "Subsidiary Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SLB pursuant to Section 3.01
(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Grant
Agreement;
     (x)  "Survey of Living Conditions" means a household survey
carried out annually by the Borrower's Planning Institute of Jamaica
and the Statistical Institute of Jamaica to assess the living
conditions in Jamaica;
     (y)  "Tertiary Education" means the education provided by
Eligible Tertiary Institutions;
Page  4
     (z)  "Tertiary Education Degree" means the degree, diploma or
certificate granted by an Eligible Tertiary Institution to an
Eligible Student after such student has successfully completed the
required courses; and
    (aa)  "Tuition Fees" means the fees to be paid by an Eligible
Student to an Eligible Tertiary Institution in connection with the
provision of Tertiary Education.
                              ARTICLE II
                               The Loan
     Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount equal to twenty eight million five hundred thousand Dollars
($28,500,000).
     Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be paid) by an AFI on account of withdrawals made by an Eligible
Student under a Subloan to meet the reasonable cost of Tuition Fees
required by the corresponding Eligible Tertiary Institution in respect
of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and (ii)
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, services, Administration Fees
and Operating Expenditures required for Parts A, B and D of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
     Section 2.05.  (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate
plus LIBOR Total Spread.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
               including the  date of this Agreement to, but
               excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring
               thereafter, and after the initial period, each period
               from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but
               excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
         (ii)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
        (iii)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period,
               the London interbank offered rate for six-month
               deposits in Dollars for value the first day of such
               Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial
               Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date
               occurring on or next preceding the first day of such
               Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the
               Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
Page  5
         (iv)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:
               (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus
               (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such
               Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank
               offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
               deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrow-
               ings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund
               single currency loans or portions thereof made by it
               that include the Loan, as reasonably determined by the
               Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
     (c)  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the
determination thereof.
     (d)  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section
2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers
as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the
interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six months' notice to
the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the
expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank
during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said
modification shall not apply to the Loan.
     Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable on
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08.  The Executive Director of SLB (or such other
person or persons as such Executive Director shall appoint in writing)
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the pro-
visions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
                               ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project;
                      Use of the Proceeds of the Loan
     Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause SLB to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations of SLB therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable SLB to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above,
the Borrower, through MOEYC, shall enter into an arrangement with SLB,
satisfactory to the Bank, to assist SLB in the carrying out of Part D
of the Project.
     (c)  The Borrower shall transfer, on a grant basis, the proceeds
of the Loan to SLB under a subsidiary agreement (the Subsidiary Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and SLB, under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
     (d)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
Page  6
assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the
Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02.  The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports and maintenance,
respectively) shall be carried out by SLB pursuant to Section 2.03
(a) of the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.03.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section
9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall participate in
the annual reviews referred to in Section 2.09 of the Project
Agreement.
     Section 3.04.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.05.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the
Operational Manual.
                             ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01.  (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of state-
ments of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with
               sound accounting practices, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii) ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
               expenditures are retained until at least one year
               after the Bank has received the audit report for the
               Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the
               Loan Account was made; and
         (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) (i) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six months after the end of each
               such year the report of such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested, including a separate
               opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements
               of expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year,
               together with the procedures and internal controls
               involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
               support the related withdrawals; and
         (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
                                  ARTICLE V
                             Remedies of the Bank
Page  7
     Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  SLB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that SLB will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of SLB or for the suspension of its operations.
     (d)  The Students' Loan Fund Act or any provision thereof shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not
enforced so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the operations
or the financial condition of SLB or its ability to carry out the
Project or to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
     (e)  The SLB Regulations or any provision thereof shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced
so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the operations or the
financial condition of SLB or its ability to carry out the Project
or to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and
     (b)  any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) or (e) of
Section 5.01 this Agreement shall occur.
                             ARTICLE VI
                     Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and SLB;
     (b)  that the Operational Manual has been adopted by the Borrower
and SLB;
     (c)  that the SLB has installed the management information system
referred to in Part A.3 of the Project and that such system is
operating in a manner satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with the
parameters set forth in the Operational Manual;
     (d)  that at least two Participation Agreements have been signed;
and
     (e)  that the Students' Loan Fund Act has been amended in order
to enable SLB to carry out Parts B and C of the Project, and that such
amendment is in full force and effect.
     Section 6.02.  The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by SLB, and is legally binding upon SLB in accordance with
Page  8
its terms;
     (b)  that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and SLB and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and SLB in accordance with its terms; and
     (c)  that the amendment to the Students' Loan Fund Act referred to
in Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement is in full force and effect.
     Section 6.03.  The date October 31, 1996 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01.  Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement,
the Minister of Finance and Planning of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
     Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance and Planning
          30 National Heroes Circle
          Kingston 4
          Jamaica
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
               Cable address:      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    JAMAICA
                    By /s/ Richard Bernal
                                                Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Page  9
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                         Amount of the         % of
                        Loan Allocated      Expenditures
                        (Expressed in          to be
     Category               Dollars)          Financed
(1)  Subloans              25,000,000       100% of the amounts
                                            disbursed under a Sub-
                                            loan
(2)  Goods                    103,000       50%
(3)  Consultants'             230,000       50%
     Services
(4)  Training                  70,000       50%
(5)  Operating              1,000,000       100% until withdrawals
     Expenditures                           under this Category
                                            have reached an
                                            aggregate amount of
                                            $400,000; 75% until
                                            withdrawals under this
                                            Category have reached an
                                            aggregate amount of
                                            $750,000; and 50%
                                            thereafter
(6)  Administration         1,500,000       100%
     Fees
(7)  Unallocated              597,000
                           __________
     TOTAL                 28,500,000
                           ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "Training" means
expenditures (other than for consultants' services) incurred in
connection with the training activities to be carried out under
the Project, including the per diem and travel cost of the trainees.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $2,800,000, may be made in respect of Categories (2), (3),
(4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after August 31, 1995; and
     (b)  payments on account of a Subloan (under Category (1) of the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule) unless: (i) the Subloan has
been made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in Section II of Schedule 1 to
the Project Agreement; and (ii) the corresponding Subloan Agreement
has been signed by the respective parties thereto.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a)
contracts for goods (other than computer equipment and software)
costing less than $150,000 equivalent; and (b) Subloans, Training,
Operating Expenditures and Administration Fees as set forth in
Categories (1), (4), (5) and (6) of the table in paragraph 1 of this
Page  10
Schedule, respectively, all under such terms and conditions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                              SCHEDULE 2
                      Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are: (a) to provide adequate financing
to low-income students attending Eligible Tertiary Institutions; (b) to
increase equitable access of low-income students to Tertiary Education
and improve the targeting of Subloans; and (c) to improve the financial
sustainability of SLB and its administrative efficiency.
     The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Institutional Strengthening
1.   Carrying out of SLB's institutional restructuring and thereafter,
strengthening of SLB's institutional and operational capacity through,
the provision of technical assistance and training and the acquisition
and utilization of the goods required therefor.
2.   Carrying out of impact evaluation studies of students receiving
Tertiary Education (based on the methodology used to carry out the
current Survey of Living Conditions) to determine, inter alia: (a) the
allocation of Subloans and Subgrants among students by income level;
(b) the effectiveness of the targeting criteria under Part B of the
Project; and (c) the effectiveness of the public awareness campaign
carried out under Part D of the Project.
3.   Installation and operation of a management information system
satisfactory to the Bank within SLB, including the provision of
maintenance to such system.
Part B:   Students' Subloans
     Financing of Tuition Fees (to be paid by Eligible Students to
Eligible Tertiary Institutions) through the provision of Intermediary
Loans to AFIs for the purpose of making Subloans.
Part C:   Students' Subgrants
     Financing of subsistence expenses and learning materials to be
made and acquired, respectively, by Eligible Students, through the
provision of Subgrants.
Part D:   Public Awareness Campaign
     Carrying out of a nationwide campaign to inform the public with
respect to, inter alia: (a) the Borrower's policy on Tertiary Education;
(b) the technical operation of the Subloans and Subgrants under Parts B
and C of the Project, respectively; and (c) the legal implications of
debt obligations under Subloan Agreements.
                                 * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
                              SCHEDULE 3
                         Amortization Schedule
                                         Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (Expressed in Dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
     beginning February 15, 2002
     through February 15 , 2013                1,190,000
Page  11
On August 15, 2013                             1,130,000
_______________
*   The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be
    repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General
    Conditions.
                             SCHEDULE 4
                           Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services expenditures and Operating
Expenditures required for Parts A, B and D of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to
$2,800,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.
          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
               required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
               payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
               requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank
               shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
               Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount
               as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
               been shown by said documents and other evidence to have
               been paid out of the Special Account for eligible
               expenditures.
Page  12
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
or
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account; or
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  13
