Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER TF094521 GZ 
 
Trust Fund Grant Project 
Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the 
Palestinian NGO-III Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank) 
 
and 
 
NGO DEVELOPMENT CENTER 
 
Dated July 14, 2009 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER TF094521 GZ 
 
TRUST FUND GRANT PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 14, 2009, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
“World Bank”), (as Administrator of the Trust 
Fund for Gaza and West Bank) and NGO DEVELOPMENT CENTER (the “Project 
Implementing Entity”) (the “Project Agreement”) in connection with the Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement of same date between the Welfare Association (the “Recipient”) and 
the Association (the “Grant Agreement”).  The World Bank and the Project 
Implementing Entity hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I
 - 
STANDARD CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Grant Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Project 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Grant Agreement or the 
Standard Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II
 - 
PROJECT
 
2.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project.  To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project 
in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the Standard Conditions, and 
shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the World Bank and the Project Implementing Entity shall otherwise 
agree, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - TERMINATION 
 
3.01. 
The Project Agreement and all obligations of the parties under it shall terminate 
on the date on which the Grant Agreement terminates in accordance with the 
provisions of its terms and the Standard Conditions. 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE IV - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
4.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity
’s Representative is the Executive Director. 
 
4.02. 
The World Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
4.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Address is: 
 
NGO Development Center 
 
P.O. Box 2173 
 
Ramallah, West Bank 
 
Page  4
3
AGREED at West Bank, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
(as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank) 
 
By /s/ Dina N. Abu-Ghaida 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
NGO DEVELOPMENT CENTER 
 
By /s/ Ghassan Kasabreh 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section I
.
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Project Manuals and Plans 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that the Project will be carried out 
in accordance with the Project Operational Manual, the Financial and Administrative 
Manual of Procedures, the Procurement Manual, the Disbursement Plan and the 
Environmental Management Plan. 
 
2. 
Except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Project Implementing Entity 
shall ensure that no provision of the Project Operational Manual, the Financial and 
Administrative Manual of Procedures, the Procurement Manual, the Disbursement Plan 
and the Environmental Management Plan is amended or waived if, in the opinion of the 
World Bank, such amendment or waiver may adversely affect the carrying out of the 
Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
3. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that selection of NGOs and other 
beneficiaries under this Project and the implementation of Part 1 of the Project (as 
described in Schedule 1 of the Grant Agreement), sub-grants and sub-projects are carried 
out in accordance with the provisions of the Project Operational Manual, the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines and the implementation of Part 1 of the Project (as described in 
Schedule 1 of the Grant Agreement) and other terms and conditions agreed with the 
World Bank. 
 
B. 
Environmental and Social Safeguards
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that the Project is carried out and 
implemented in accordance with the Environmental Management Plan. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that no action is taken which shall 
prevent or interfere with the carrying out of any activities required under the 
Environmental Management Plan.
 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Page  6
5
Section II
.
Financial Management, Project Monitoring, Reporting, and 
Evaluation
A.
 
Financial Management and Audits 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that a financial management 
system is maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project are prepared and furnished to the World Bank not later than forty 
five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the World Bank. 
 
3. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have its Financial Statements for  
the Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07(b) of the Standard 
Conditions.  Each such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one 
fiscal year of the Project Implementing Entity. The audited Financial Statements for each 
such period shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
end of such period.
 
B. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, and Evaluation 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of   Section 2.06 of 
the Standard Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the World Bank. 
Each Project Report shall cover the period of six (6) months each calendar year, and shall 
be furnished to the World Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the 
period covered by such report. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall prepare the Completion Report in 
accordance with the provisions of the Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions.  The 
Completion Report shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date. 
 
 
Section III
.
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 
to the Grant Agreement. 
 
Page  7
6
Section IV
.
Procedures and Eligibility Criteria for the Selection of Sub-Projects 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall require an NGO applying for a Sub-grant 
to submit its proposal for a Sub-project in accordance with the procedures set forth in the 
Project Operational Manual.  
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall cause each NGO to: (a) ensure that 
proposals for Sub-projects meet the requisite terms and conditions set out in the Project 
Operational Manual; (b) ensure that NGOs meet the eligibility criteria set out in the 
Project Operational Manual and have the capacity to carry out, manage and maintain 
Sub-projects in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical and 
managerial standards; (c) approve each Sub-grant and, to that end, enter into a Sub-
project Agreement under which proceeds of the Grant will be made available to the NGO 
for the purposes of the Sub-project; and (d) monitor and evaluate the Sub-project in 
accordance with the guidelines set out in the Project Operational Manual.  
 
3. 
The Sub-project Agreement shall provide for rights adequate to protect the 
interests of the World Bank, the Welfare Association, and the Project Implementing 
Entity, including, to the extent that it shall be appropriate, the right to: 
 
(a) 
require the NGO to: (i) carry out the Sub-project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical and 
managerial standards; and (ii) maintain adequate records for the Sub-project; 
 
(b) 
require that all goods, works and services required for the Sub-project 
shall be procured in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Grant Agreement; 
 
(c) 
require that such goods, works and services shall be used exclusively in 
the carrying out of the Sub-project;  
 
(d) 
require the NGO to allow the Project Implementing Entity to inspect, by 
itself or jointly with representatives of the World Bank, if the World Bank shall so 
request: (i) the operations of the Sub-project; and (ii) any relevant records and 
documents;  
 
(e) 
require the NGO to make an in-kind or in-cash contribution to the Sub-
project, and to ensure adequate operation and maintenance of said Sub-project; and 
 
(f) 
suspend or terminate the right of the NGO to use the proceeds of the 
Sub-grant upon failure by the NGO to perform any of its obligations under the Sub-
project Agreement. 
 
