                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                                    Report No: 26216

                   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
               (TF-20383; TF-21206; TF-20716; TF-21746; IDA-30500)

                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$250 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                      ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                     FOR A

                SECOND SOCIAL ACTION PROGRAM PROJECT




                                  June 25, 2003




HUMAN DEVELOPMENT SECTOR UNIT
SOUTH ASIA REGION

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective January 1998)

                        Currency Unit = PK Rupees (Rs)
                              Rs. 1.00 = US$ 0.022
                             US$ 1.00 = Rs. 44.0
            At completion (June 30, 2002) US$ 1.00 = Rs. 62.54
                              FISCAL YEAR
                              July 1   June 30

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       Asian Development Bank
AG        Auditor General
AJK       Azad Jammu and Kashmir
AOPs      Annual Operational Plans
BHUs      Basic Health Units
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CBOs      Community Based Organizations
CFAA      Country Financial Accountability Assessment
DACs      Departmental Account Committees
DAOs      District Account Officers
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
DDOs      Drawing and Disbursement Officers
DERA      Drought Emergency Relief Assistance
DfID      Department for International Development
DHQs      District Headquarter Hospitals
DO        Development Objectives
DOTs      Directly Observed Treatment ­ Short-Course
EC        European Commission
EMIS      Education Management Information System
EPI       Expanded Program of Immunization
ESR       Education Sector Reform
FATA      Federally Administered Tribal Areas
FDs       Finance Departments
FM        Financial Management
FY        Fiscal Year
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GER       Gross Enrollment Rate
GoP       Government of Pakistan
GoS       Government of Sindh
HMIS      Health Management Information System
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
ICT       Islamabad Capital Territory
IDA       International Development Association
IMF       International Monetary Fund
IMR       Infant Mortality Rate
I-PRSP    Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
IUDs      Intrauterine Device

KPP        Khushal Pakistan Program
LACI       Loan Administration Change Initiative
LGO        Local Government Ordinance
LHVs       Lady Health Visitors
LHW        Lady Health Workers
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MCH        Maternal and Child Health
MMR        Maternal Mortality Rate
MOUs       Memorandum of Understanding
MSU        Multi-Donor Support Unit
MTR        Mid-Term Review
NA         Northern Areas
NAB        National Accountability Bureau
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NER        Net Enrollment Rate
NFC        National Finance Commission
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
NLG        Netherlands Guilders
NWFP       North West Frontier Province
O&M        Operations and Maintenance
ORS        Oral Rehydration Salt
P&D        Planning and Development
PA         Project Agreement
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PC1        Planning Commission Proforma No. 1 (Project Document)
PDP        Participatory Development Program
PFAAs      Provincial Financial Accountability Assessments
PFC        Provincial Finance Commission
PHED       Public Health and Engineering Department
PIFRA      Project to Improve Financial Reporting and Auditing
PIHS       Pakistan Integrated Household Survey
PSR        Project Status Report
PSU        Primary Sampling Unit
PTA        Parent Teacher Association
PWP        Population Welfare Program
QMRs       Quarterly Monitoring Reports
RHCs       Rural Health Centers
RWSS       Rural Water Supply & Sanitation
SACs       Structural Adjustment Credits
SAP        Social Action Program
SAPP 1     Social Action Program Project 1
SAPP II    Second Social Action Program Project
SBP        State Bank of Pakistan
SC         School Council
SMC        School Management Committee
SOEs       Statement of Expenditures
SWAPS      Sector Wide Approaches
TA         Technical Assistance
TA/DA      Travel Allowance/Daily Allowance

TB            Tuberculosis
TGM           Technical Group Meeting
THQ           Tehsil Headquarter Hospitals
TMA           Tehsil Municipal Administration
TPV           Third Party Validation
TT            Tetanus Toxoide
VBFPWs        Village Based Family Planning Workers
WUA           Water User Associations

                          Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
               Country Manager/Director:     John W. Wall
                Sector Manager/Director:     Michelle Riboud
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Tahseen Sayed

                                          PAKISTAN
                   SECOND SOCIAL ACTION PROGRAM PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
6. Sustainability                                                                21
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 22
8. Lessons Learned                                                               27
9. Partner Comments                                                              30
10. Additional Information                                                       33
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             34
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             42
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             44
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             45
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             49
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                50
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            51
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              53
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            54

Project ID: P037835                                                      Project Name: SOCIAL ACTION PRG II
Team Leader: Tahseen Sayed                                               TL Unit: SASHD
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                          Report Date: June 25, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: SOCIAL ACTION PRG II                                     L/C/TF Number: TF-20383; TF-21206;
                                                                                                     TF-20716; TF-21746;
                                                                                                     IDA-30500
   Country/Department: PAKISTAN                                                           Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (59%); Health (19%); General
                            water/sanitation/flood protection sector (9%); Sub-national
                            government administration (8%); Central government
                            administration (5%)
                  Theme: Gender (P); Education for all (P); Health system performance (P);
                            Other social protection and risk management (P)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    11/17/1995                                        Effective: 05/28/1998
   Appraisal:    08/29/1997                                            MTR: 10/01/2000
    Approval:    03/24/1998                                         Closing: 06/30/2003               06/30/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOP/Planning & Development Division; Provincial Line Departments
                      Other Partners:      Asian Development Bank (ADB); Department for International Development
                                           (DfID); European Commission (EC); and Netherlands Government

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Mieko Nishimizu                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               John W. Wall                                   Sadiq Ahmed
Sector Manager:                 Michelle Riboud                                Ralph Harbison
Team Leader at ICR:             Tahseen Sayed                                  Ian P. Morris
ICR Primary Author:             Shahid Hafeez Kardar and Task
                                Team


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:U

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:U

           Borrower Performance:U


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   U

                    Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Second Social Action Program (SAPP-II) was designed to continue support to the Government of
Pakistan's (GoP) Social Action Program (SAP) which was started in 1992. It also built upon the successes
and lessons learnt during the multi-donor supported SAPP-I (1993 ­ 1997). Under SAPP-II, IDA
contributed $213 million, while other donors contributed US$40 million, against the GoP contribution of
US$5 billion. SAPP-II was designed truly as a project to support the wider government program for social
sectors. At SAPP-I's inception, Pakistan's level of social development was low because of uncertain
political commitment to improve human development indicators, inadequate levels and composition of
funding, problems of gender disparities of access to basic social services, poor quality of service delivery,
weak institutional and management capacity, and issues of governance that influenced the siting of schools
and staff recruitment. To overcome these factors, the GoP initiated a broad-based social sector reform
program through the Social Action Program in 1992, supported by donors through the Social Action
Program Project (SAPP) I.

The justification for IDA assistance was to support GoP's reform program, to harmonize donors and reduce
the burden of multiple projects on Government. The Bank's current support for Sector Wide Approaches
(SWAPs) is based on the same justification. A learning ICR was conducted as the lessons of SAPP-II
should be instructive for the design of SWAPs in other countries.

The specific objectives of the multi-donor supported SAPP-II were to:

a)       build government capacity for planning, monitoring and implementing social service programs
b)       increase transparency and improve governance
c)       increase government expenditures on basic social services
d)       promote sustainability
e)       encourage NGO and private sector participation.

Assessment of Objectives:
The development objectives of the project were clear, important and appropriate to address the key
constraints to delivery of social services and to improve outcomes in the social sectors. The reforms
focused on institutional deficiencies that held back improvements in human development outcomes, and on
the policy framework required to enhance efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of services. These
objectives were also in line with the declared priorities of Government and consistent with IDA's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), which emphasized the need to improve social indicators as a means to achieve
poverty reduction. Moreover, the human development strategy articulated in GoP's Interim-Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) incorporates lessons learned from the SAP experience.

These objectives were pursued under the backdrop of a very complex program that aimed to bring about
change in the culture and way of thinking in the entire public service delivery system. SAP sought to bring
about institutional reform in a system where internal and external accountability was poor, and which
included over half a million demotivated and poorly trained teachers and basic health workers, around ten
to fifteen thousand demotivated and inadequately trained education and health department officials and
managers, and about thirty thousand poorly trained accounting clerks, financial officials and managers
handling several million SAP-related transactions manually. By contributing about 10% of the social
sector expenditures, the Project was not only attempting to influence the quality, but also the fiduciary



                                                     - 2 -

integrity of the remaining 90% expenditures. All of these objectives were aimed at improving service
delivery for almost several million families and their children across the four provinces of Pakistan. The
task of bringing about change and institutional reforms was gigantic to start with, and was made more
challenging in an overall environment which lacked capacity and accountability mechanisms. It was being
implemented during Pakistan's 'lost decade' of the 1990s.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Based on the inadequate progress in achieving project objectives as noted during the Mid-Term Review
(MTR), and based on a shift in Government's social service delivery strategy and decentralization of
responsibilities from provincial to newly-formed local governments, agreement was reached with
Government to restructure the project. With the shift in service delivery strategy to local governments, the
original project design was no longer suitable for provincial level program components. After project
restructuring, while the overall Development Objectives (DOs) remained the same, project support was
restricted to federal health, education, and population welfare programs, which had showed relatively better
outcomes and were not affected by the decentralization reform measures. The objectives were revised to
include Drought Emergency Relief Assistance (DERA). A portion of the undisbursed Credit was
reallocated to finance essential drought-related imports with the objective of restoring and improving the
productive capacity and incomes of drought-affected households, and to strengthen Government's capacity
to manage emergencies.

3.3 Original Components:
The original components of the $250 million SAPP-II project included:

Component                  Category                  Cost US$M                 % of Total
                                                     (Including
                                                     Contingencies)
Program Support (27        Policy, Physical,              $218.7 m                      88%
Subprograms)               Institution Building
Participatory              Policy and Other               $15.9 m                        6%
Development Program
Coordination, M&E          Project Management             $9.7 m                         4%
TA & Institutional         Institution Building            $5.7 m                        2%
Capacity Development

Under the Program Support Component, a sub-program was defined as a SAP activity in a Province or
Federally Administered Area. Since there were three SAP sectors and four provinces ­ there were a total of
12 provincial sub-programs. Similarly, there were 12 sub-programs in Federal Areas and three
sub-programs at the federal level, giving a total of 27 sub-programs that were to be funded under SAPP-II.

The objective of the Participatory Development Program (PDP) was to strengthen the participation of
NGOs and community-based organizations (CBOs) in the delivery of social services.

The Coordination and M&E component was designed to promote monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
capacity at the federal and provincial levels through the strengthening of the line departments, and to
support program monitoring through the Planning & Development (P&D) Departments, independent third
party monitoring (through the Auditor-General of Pakistan), and impact monitoring through the Pakistan
Integrated Household Survey (PIHS) undertaken by the Federal Bureau of Statistics.

The Technical Assistance and Institutional Capacity Development component was designed to support


                                                      - 3 -

capacity development in addition to those associated with the M&E component, particularly to provide
technical assistance (TA) and training to federal and provincial implementing line departments. A
Multi-Donor Support Unit (MSU) was established under SAPP-I to provide technical assistance (TA) to
Government. MSU, funded by several donors, was continued during SAPP-II. Additional bilateral donor
funds were also available to support the TA and capacity development needs of Government.

3.4 Revised Components:
Following project restructuring in June 2001, the Program Support component was restricted to the federal
education, health and population welfare programs, while assistance to the provincial and federal area
sector programs was withdrawn. PDP was also discontinued owing to the ineffective implementation of this
component. Due to the flexibility of the disbursement framework laid out in the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA), requiring annual notification of allocations, the PDP and provincial sub-program
components were not deleted in the DCA. Based on the restructuring agreement with Government, these
components were not financed after project restructuring. The M&E and technical assistance components
were kept intact after restructuring, although with reduced allocations. At GoP's request, a new component
for Drought Emergency Relief Assistance (DERA) was added. With this reallocation, the balance in the
IDA Credit and the trust funds was available to finance the restructured project in FY02. At the request of
Government, IDA agreed to close the project in June 2002.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Given the lessons learned from SAPP-I, the policy and institutional reform agenda and initiatives proposed
to address the issues were appropriate, well-directed and consistent with the objectives of the project.
However, the breadth of the program, the number of actions, innovations and new mechanisms and
institutional arrangements proposed for implementation during the project period made the project design
complex and formidable. From a standard project mode, the shift to implementing a program was
challenging. To this extent, it was unfortunate that the concerns expressed by the provincial governments
at the conclusion of SAPP-I about the complexity of a multi-sector, multi-province project were not
adequately factored in the design of SAPP-II.

One of the lessons learned from SAPP-I was that ownership was tenuously held at the provincial level
because provincial governments were not active participants in the project design and negotiation
processes. To address this during preparation of SAPP-II, workshops at the provincial and national levels
were held involving a large number civil society representatives, implementation staff and government
officials. However, generating political commitment and ownership of a reform program requires
consistent and continuing engagement with stakeholders in program preparation, design and
implementation. Subsequent events showed that more follow-up actions were required to create awareness
and build ownership to consolidate gains from the consultations and dialogue that took place prior to
finalization of the design of SAPP-II.

The project was over-designed from the point of view of provincial resources, and did not sufficiently
account for limited provincial capacities and time required to bring about far-reaching institutional reform
and behavioral change for large-scale public institutions (i.e. in over 100,000 schools and for over half a
million teachers). Given the time frame for project execution, the scope, geographic dispersion, proposed
interventions, targets for operationalizing initiatives and expected outcomes with regard to institutional and
governance issues were unrealistic. This was largely because of the over-estimation of the financial and
institutional capacity of provincial governments to implement the reform program and the expectation that
the project would provide the required capacity building support. The reforms had to be implemented
through existing government institutions and procedures, and were dependent on the capabilities and
jurisdictions of the various executing agencies, which possessed limited capacity. Moreover, the fiscal



                                                       - 4 -

stress experienced by the provincial governments following implementation of the 1997 National Finance
Commission (NFC) Award compounded their difficulties in meeting expenditure targets under SAPP-II.
The NFC is a constituted institution established every five years to determine the pool of tax and non-tax
revenues, and to determine the federal and provincial shares from this divisible pool.

It was also unrealistic to expect to reverse decades of neglect of indicators of social development,
re-prioritize allocations in budgets characterized by rigidities and induce institutional changes within the
time-frame of the project. The large number of sub-programs did not inevitably make the project unwieldy.
It was the additional requirements of five-year rolling expenditure plans; financing and procurement plans
for each sub-program; process and institutional changes; new policies, instruments and innovations for
service delivery improvements; and expenditure reimbursement mechanisms that made the task daunting.
As a consequence, the project was unnecessarily complicated for the provincial governments with hardly
any experience or capacity to meet these challenges within a tight implementation schedule. Although
SAPP-II was propagating and hoping to institutionalize a bottom-up approach, the mechanism of an
umbrella project tended to centralize decision-making.

Governance issues that undermined the achievement of objectives related to difficulties encountered in
introducing accountability mechanisms in isolation for a few sectors without modifying the overall service
delivery structure. Similarly, decentralization of powers could not be instituted in the social sectors alone in
an otherwise highly centralized system of administration, in which lower level government functionaries
were reluctant to exercise powers already delegated to them.

The priority emphasis placed on SAP sub-sectors meant that for provinces which were already resource
constrained additional budgetary resources for these sectors could only be made available at the expense of
other sub-sectors. This created intra-sectoral imbalances, e.g., between elementary and higher levels of
education, which would accentuate the issue of access at the secondary level.

The performance indicators for assessing accomplishment of objectives were reasonable and related to
program goals. However, there was an overload of indicators to evaluate performance and to chart the
progress of the mechanisms designed to achieve the project objectives. Consequently, the linkage between
project inputs and performance indicators and between objectives and outcomes was most unclear.

The design required preparation of a multitude of financial reports (including Quarterly Monitoring
Reports [QMRs], Statements of Expenditures [SOEs], and quarterly financial summaries a semi-annual
financial forecasts) and program financial statements. Of these, only the QMRs and the SOEs eventually
were prepared. Government manually maintained the accounting system and had limited human capacity
for generating such statements within the time-frame for submission. Financial statements could not be
prepared as envisaged in the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on Financial Management and, in the
end, SOEs were considered as financial statements. The manual tracking and documenting of several
million manual transactions to IDA standards was humanly impossible.

SAPP-II was appraised and became effective prior to the introduction of the Bank's Loan Administration
Change Initiative (LACI) guidelines. Hence, no formal financial management assessment was conducted at
the appraisal stage. While an MoU on financial management was agreed, which provided a schedule and
format for the dissemination of regular financial information, it could not be followed due to a lack of client
ownership and capacity at the provincial levels.

A reliable system for generating accurate financial information was not in place throughout SAPP-II,
largely because the design of the expenditure accounting and reporting system had not factored in the need


                                                      - 5 -

for separate SAP and non-SAP account heads. Consequently, field staff found it difficult, both
conceptually and procedurally, to segregate eligible SAP expenditures. As expenditure heads for
development and non-development/recurrent budgets are not the same, it made financial reporting less
intelligible and consistent. As a result, the accounting system failed to provide the needed reliable data to
ensure timely reimbursements and to facilitate efficient service delivery and effective monitoring and
evaluation. It unduly constrained the ways and means positions of provincial governments.

Whereas difficulties were encountered by the provinces in the functioning of the expenditure disbursement
mechanism, additional complications were introduced, including the requirement that SOEs be verified by
the Office of the Accountant General, a condition that was out of tune with institutional capacities at the
provincial and lower levels. Moreover, the incentive for line departments to prepare SOEs was weak in
light of the fact that allocations had already been made, and reimbursements against eligible SOEs would
flow to provincial exchequers.

Differing GoP and IDA procurement procedures led to a host of unresolved issues. The design was weak
in that it was not possible to have a SAP-specific financial management and procurement system, but
rather it would be an integral part of the overall system. Although the vast majority of procurement
contracts were below the threshold of US$200,000 for prior review, as mentioned in the DCA, ex-post
reviews carried out on a sample basis were still required. These requirements and all relevant information
on IDA procurement procedures could not feasibly have been communicated to all staff dealing with
government elementary schools and basic health units, as well as to the large number of executing agencies
implementing the education and health programs at the district level and below. Government procedures, as
specifically applicable to the program, along with other specific requirements of donors (e.g. preparation of
annual financial statements, statement of expenditures and Third Party Validation exercises), should have
been collated in the form of a manual/standard operating procedures, agreed upon by all the stakeholders
and properly disseminated at the start of the program to all levels of staff responsible for implementation of
the program.

Procurement training workshops were held, although late in project implementation. At the design stage,
IDA should have conducted a detailed dialogue on NCB procedures to reach agreement on a set of NCB
procedures acceptable to all. When SAPP-II was appraised, these references were not included in the legal
documents. Due to this lack of prior agreement, the Auditor General's Third Party Validation (TPV)
reports continued to cite non-compliance with IDA procedures and, in certain cases, with those of
Government. While procurement reviews were included in the third party review of governance issues, as a
part of the Auditor General's annual TPV reports, it was also important to include specific procurement
ex-post reviews in the project design. This was necessary in view of the large numbers of small
procurement actions below IDA's prior review threshold. These ex-post reviews should have been agreed
to, incorporated in the project design and funded by the project itself.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of the objectives of the project, including an assessment of the current status, are
described and rated below:

(i) Building government capacity for planning, implementation and monitoring of social service
programs
The achievement of this objective is rated Unsatisfactory for reasons given below:




                                                      - 6 -

SAPP-II aimed to enhance government capacity for planning and monitoring by requiring provincial line
departments to prepare Annual Operational Plans (AOPs), Quarterly Monitoring Reports (QMRs) and
estimated associated budgetary requirements. Planning sections of the line departments prepared AOPs and
the QMRs. These institutional arrangements for planning and monitoring were supported by instruments
such as the Education Management Information System (EMIS) and the Health Management Information
System (HMIS).

Planning capacity showed some improvement during the SAP years, as evidenced by the ability of the line
departments to prepare AOPs with limited support from outside consultants. Whereas SAPP-II introduced
discipline through the QMRs, accountability structures tend to become more diffused in a program
approach unlike a project in which targets are clearly defined and responsibilities can be fixed. Moreover,
little headway was made in the organizational restructuring and streamlining of management systems which
were required for service delivery improvements. The experience of the monitoring activities was mixed
because: (a) monitoring was largely reduced to a reporting exercise, rather than an action-oriented one for
the purposes of identifying timely corrective measures; and (b) the monitoring systems mostly generated
quantitative data and were not sensitive to the qualitative aspects of service delivery, which was the key
issue under SAPP-II.

Generally, audit reports were not submitted six months after closure of the financial year as required by the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA), and these were mostly submitted during the grace period. This
started to improve later in the project. The understaffed system was unable to manually prepare and
submit audit reports, which had been reviewed by the line department's Developmental Account
Committees [DACs], within six months of the end of each financial year.

Finally, Government implementation and monitoring capacity at all levels was constrained by critical gaps
in leadership and continuity of leadership, particularly in the line departments. The absence of strong and
stable departmental teams made it more difficult to implement the sector strategies and to deliver improved
services. However, during the last two years of the project, effort was made to provide more stable
leadership to line departments. Given such progress during the SAP years, the troubling situation over the
last two years in the area of government capacity has only worsened, now exacerbated by the enormous
capacity building needs at the district level.

(ii) Increasing transparency and improving governance:
The achievement of this objective is rated Satisfactory for reasons given below:

There was some progress on governance issues. While some areas were not adequately addressed during
the course of SAP, some elements of governance improvement measures were undertaken, were adopted
widely, and have become institutionalized at various levels of government.

Government-donor coordination was instrumental in the distinct improvement of site selection for facilities
and in merit-based recruitments of staff, these areas continued to be vulnerable to intervention. This was
further compounded by frequent staff transfers.

The Third Party Validation (TPV) exercises conducted during SAPP-II were useful to track progress of
governance reforms, particularly in the line ministries. While there was mixed acceptance of the TPV
survey results by departmental officials, TPV as a concept was appreciated and third party validation
began to be accepted as an appropriate instrument for certifying certain outputs. Line departments are now
often using this method to verify inputs and progress. Further, in the last couple of years provincial
governments have put in place measures to improve staff accountability, including systematic efforts to


                                                     - 7 -

monitor staff absenteeism. As a result, some provinces have been successful in reducing absenteeism in the
education sector. The effectiveness of supervision has remained weak owing to: (i) inadequate allocations
for travel allowances and per diems, and (ii) lack of administrative control of supervisors over the field
staff whose performance they were required to supervise. Overall, however, measures to improve
governance and transparency have been widely adopted.

(iii) Increasing government expenditures on basic social services and promoting fiscal sustainability
The achievement of this objective is rated Unsatisfactory for reasons given below:

GoP agreed to increase public expenditures on the social sectors from 2% of GDP to at least 2.4% during
the SAPP-II period, with a government contribution of between 1.8% to 1.9% of GDP per year, with the
donors providing the remaining 0.5% to 0.6%. Additionally, the protection of spending for SAP sectors
was a structural benchmark under the IMF Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility and the Extended
Fund Facility for 1997-2000.

As noted in Section 5.1, during SAPP-II implementation, Pakistan experienced severe fiscal stresses which
required expenditure compression to stay within IMF-guided limits for budget deficits. Nonetheless, the
social sectors fared better than what might have been expected in light of the squeeze on expenditures.
Defence spending declined from 5.2% of GDP in 1996-97 to 4.6% in 2000-01, compared with a fall in
education-related expenditures from 1.8% of GDP to 1.7% of GDP over the same period and a leveling off
of health and population spending at 0.6% of GDP. Health and population spending could be maintained
throughout this period, in part, because a significant proportion of expenditure was funded by federally-run
programs which were less susceptible to resource flow volatility than provincial governments following the
1997 NFC Award. As provincial fiscal crises worsened, allocations and expenditures on SAP sectors
declined during the last two to three years of SAPP-II. As a result, total allocations for SAP sectors
declined from 2.3% of GDP in 1997/98 to only 1.8% of GDP, with a smaller decline in expenditure from
1.7% of GDP to 1.5%.

                             SAP Allocations and Expenditures
                                                                       (Percent of GDP)


                                     1997/98      1998/99      1999/00       2000/01      2001/02
Allocations
   Total                                  2.3          2.3         2.1           1.9          1.8
   Foreign Aid                            0.3          0.4         0.3           0.1          0.1
   Govt. Contribution                     2.0          1.9         1.9           1.8          1.7
Expenditure
   Total                                  1.7          1.6         1.4           1.4          1.5
   Foreign Aid                            0.1          0.1         0.1           0.1          0.1
   Govt. Contribution                     1.6          1.5         1.3           1.3          1.4

Funds for recurrent spending (both salary and non-salary) were not commensurate with the number of
facilities, particularly schools, that had been established during SAPP-I. For example, very few teachers
were recruited or redeployed to make schools operational and line departments were unable to take on these
recurrent obligations to ensure the financial sustainability of quality-related interventions. Although
allocations for non-salary items were increased during SAPP-II, releases were usually delayed and often
not in line with the allocations because of resource constraints. In fact, according to an agreement with
donors, funds for approved sub-program activities were to be released to implementation agencies no later
than the fifteenth day of the beginning of each quarter. Despite this, success in securing timely releases



                                                       - 8 -

continued to be poor. To achieve expenditure level targets agreed with donors, governments often hastened
to spend funds released late in the fiscal year, yielding numerous audit objections.

In retrospect, projections to determine provincial capacities to sustain recurrent costs were either missing or
overly optimistic. Several large health and education investment projects came to a close during SAPP-II.
Provinces had to find a greater share of recurrent costs than originally envisaged, making the transition
from project financing to the regular recurrent budget more difficult. Overall, social sector budgets were
protected during SAP, despite tight fiscal constraints. In the last couple of years, allocations for education
and health have increased with pro-poor programs under PRSP and with provincial government reform
programs.

(iv) Encouraging NGO and private sector participation in the delivery of social services
The achievement of this objective is rated Marginally Satisfactory for reasons given below:

While the Participatory Development Program (PDP) was the major vehicle for promoting the role of civil
society for improving the delivery and quality of social services, other processes were undertaken to
encourage private sector and community participation in social service delivery. Over 100,000 School
Management Committees (SMCs)/Parent-Teacher Associations (PTAs) were established for primary
schools and Water User Associations (WUAs) were formed, indicating a trend toward increased
community involvement at the facility level.

The PDP component proved to be a non-viable mechanism to foster community and NGO participation,
mainly due to design problems. PDP was an initiative imposed by donors with little support at the
provincial level, stemming largely from concerns about providing grants to NGOs from borrowed funds.
Implementation of PDP was also hampered by delays in the selection process. In most cases, the selection
process was delayed for long periods of time at the provincial level, often reaching the national level two
years following the initial grant request. Complaints about the lack of transparency in the selection process
added to delays at the national level, leading to a virtual stalemate in implementation of this component.

Although SMCs/PTAs and WUAs were established, progress in achieving their stated objectives was
limited. This was partly because communities were not seen as key partners in the process, and partly
because of an under-estimation of the time required to foster, consolidate and institutionalize community
participation and to scale-up successful strategies and approaches for community mobilization. Despite the
lack of progress in institutionalizing NGO and community partnerships within line departments, some
expansion of partnerships with beneficiary communities did take place. These included training of PTAs,
the formation of community water users' groups and recruitment of community mobilization staff in the
RWSS sector.

As a result of the intense focus of SAP on emphasizing community involvement at the grassroots level, the
importance of community participation for improving service delivery is now gaining institutional
acceptance. Continuing support to SMCs by provincial governments is evidence of a realization of the
need for community involvement in the delivery of education services. Many government policies and
programs have emerged that emphasize public-private partnership and community involvement, including
the Education Sector Reform (ESR), Tawana Pakistan (a national girls nutrition program), the Khushal
Pakistan Program (KPP), and micro-finance sector work involving community organizations. SAP's
emphasis on NGO and community involvement has been widely accepted by Government over the last
couple of years as the standard practice for most development programs. While much remains to be done
to strengthen and institutionalize outreach programs through NGOs and communities, acceptance of
partnership with NGOs and communities has grown. It was unfortunate, however, that donors had begun


                                                       - 9 -

to withdraw from the program by the time provincial governments began to accept the importance of
community involvement for managing assets from public sector investments. While PDP did not work as
planned, SAP resulted in a policy shift towards community participation and NGOs.

Overall Summary:
For ordinary citizens expanded investments and active donor involvement did not fully translate into more
and better quality service delivery. An important reason underlying these weak outcomes was a failure to
functionalize all the facilities established during SAPP-I as a result of continued recruitment bans (resulting
in around 20% of health outlets being without a female health worker, and hundreds of closed schools due
to lack of teacher appointments), thus defeating the purpose of creating additional service outlets.

Outcomes were also poor owing to underutilization of service delivery outlets because of inappropriately
selected sites, poor maintenance of installed infrastructure, and an inadequate number and skill mix of staff
at the service centres. This was compounded by: (i) compression of expenditures to adjust for resource
shortfalls, (ii) lack of timely provision of complementary non-salary inputs, as well as equipment and
consumables critical to service delivery, and (iii) continued weaknesses in accountability mechanisms.
Nonetheless, the upgrading and repair of physical infrastructure in the education sector improved the
overall teaching and learning environment and contributed to better access.

Other factors that affected progress on project objectives included frequent transfers of key personnel and
poor progress on governance related issues and persistent absenteeism of service providers. Limited
financial and human resource capabilities in provincial governments also slowed reform progress, and did
not attract the degree of attention required to attain project outcomes, particularly for a program this large
and complex.

While there was mixed progress with some satisfactory ratings for the achievement of objectives, as
outcomes did not improve to a satisfactory level, overall performance of achievement of development
objectives is rated Unsatisfactory.

Despite the uneven progress on outcomes, for the first time in Pakistan's history SAP provided a
framework that brought together policy makers, managers and implementation staff of the social sectors
and pushed to the forefront of public discourse the need to accelerate social development. To that end,
SAPP-II had notable success in changing mindsets and in creating awareness about past neglect of social
indicators, especially in the sub-sectors of elementary education and primary healthcare. Expenditures on
the social sectors were accorded some degree of protection, even during periods of severe financial crisis,
with a focus on the operationalization of facilities rather than merely the establishment of new
infrastructure.

Other than SAPP-II's accomplishment in changing attitudes and focusing attention on the social sectors, its
positive impacts also include enhanced emphasis on improving service delivery through staff training and
checks on service provider absenteeism. Heightened emphasis on the provision of quality services created
an environment in which the structural framework for the local governments installed in 2001 was
designed. SAP's emphasis on the need to improve service delivery at the implementation level created a
rationale for the devolution of powers to local governments.

A realization also developed that the provision of additional funds is not a sufficient alone for ensuring the
implementation of a policy reform agenda. Institutional restructuring and strengthening are required to
buttress it. In particular, during the second year of the project, the findings of the Annual Audit Report and
identification of ghost schools and teachers in a survey conducted by the Government of Punjab alerted


                                                      - 10 -

both decision makers and donors to the continuing failure to enhance expenditure efficiencies and ensure
sustainable improvements in matters related to governance, accountability and transparency of operations.
To address this, SAPP-II initiated contract-based, facility-specific recruitment of teachers and health sector
personnel, as well as policy to induct female teachers for primary schooling.

In addition, initiatives like scholarships for girls and the provision of free textbooks for primary classes as
incentives for parents to send their children to school are now being funded by provincial governments from
their own resources. Another important contribution of SAPP-II was the establishment of PTAs and SMCs
through which communities were involved in the functioning of government-run primary/elementary
schools. Although the role of SMCs in the management of schools is somewhat peripheral in nature, their
formation and wider acceptance of a community role in the running of schools appears to be a sustainable
intervention under SAPP-II. Provincial governments have both continued to support these committees
financially as well as empowered them to utilize these funds.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Performance in outcomes by sector is discussed below.

SAP/SAPP is generally perceived to have failed in achieving its objectives in view of the poor outcomes
and continued poor delivery of publicly provided social services.

Education:
Outcomes for Education are rated Unsatisfactory for reasons given below:

Primary enrollment levels based on PIHS data remained relatively flat from 1998-99 to 2001-02, rising by
only one percentage point, from 71% to 72%, with the gross enrollment rate (GER) for girls constant at
61%, while for boys increasing from 80% to 83%. There was, however, a narrowing of the urban-rural
gap, with rural GER growing from 63% to 66%, and urban GER declining from 94% to 91%.

The net enrollment rate (NER) at the primary level for both rural areas and girls increased by one
percentage point, but fell by the same margin for urban areas and boys, thus keeping the national NER at
its 1998-99 level of 42%. Similarly, NER for the middle level of education remained constant at 16%, the
same as in 1998/99. Subsequent analysis done by GoP shows NER to be 52%. For the purpose of this
report, original data provided by the Federal Bureau of Statistics is being used.

SAPP-II introduced a number of good initiatives to improve the quality of and access to elementary
education, especially for the most disadvantaged. Some important measures that were undertaken to
achieve these objectives included the introduction of contract-based, facility-specific hiring of teachers,
adoption of a merit-based system of recruitment to improve teacher accountability, and teacher training to
promote quality education. Policy reform to adopt co-education and induct female teachers for primary
schooling during this period aimed to expand female access to education. Incentives for parents to send
their children to school, including free textbooks for primary students and scholarships for girls enrolled in
grades six to eight were also available in some areas to address demand side aspects of low participation,
poverty, and high opportunity costs.

The concepts and strategies launched by SAP have become a part of the policy debate on education, with at
least two provinces continuing to fund free textbooks and stipends to students from their own resources.
These interventions are increasingly accepted as promising instruments for enhancing enrollment and
retention of children, especially girls. While the potential of these initiatives is increasingly recognized,
provincial governments are grappling with the mechanisms and institutional arrangements for their effective



                                                       - 11 -

implementation.

Health:
Outcomes for Health are rated Marginally Satisfactory for reasons given below:

There was a marked improvement in core health indicators during the SAPP-II period. The infant mortality
rate (IMR) declined from 89 per 1000 births in 1998-99 to 82 per 1000 births in 2001-02, with a large
urban-rural gap of 23 percentage points, reduced from 27 points in 1995/96. The percentage of children
12-23 months who had been fully immunized improved slowly, increasing from 49% to 53% with a small
male/female gap. Immunization coverage of children increased in all provinces, except Balochistan, where
coverage fell from 34% in 1998/99 to 24% in 2000/01.

Antenatal care utilization grew modestly, increasing from 31% in 1998/99 to 35% in 2001/02, with a
persistent urban-rural differential (63%/26%). An increase in the use of antenatal care were observed
across all provinces. However, there was no change in post-natal care consultations. The proportion of
women who received at least one Tetanus Toxoid (TT) vaccination increased from 39% in 1998/99 to 46%
in 2001/02. However, only 38% of pregnant women received two doses of TT vaccine during their last
pregnancy. The proportion of women assisted by skilled birth attendants during their last pregnancy
increased modestly from 19% in 1998/99 to 24% in 2001/02.

The 2003 Health Management Information System (HMIS) report indicates a modest increase in the
utilization of first level care facilities from an average of 21 patients to 28 patients per facility per day.
The 2001/02 Pakistan Integrated Household Survey (PIHS) assessment of first level care health facilities
reported all Rural Health Centers (RHCs) (n=17), and 92% of the (87 out of 94) Basic Health Units
(BHUs) had female health staff.

As part of the programmatic policies, there was an increase in resource availability for the Lady Health
Workers (LHWs) program, immunization, HIV/AIDS control and TB Control. The increased allocations
were used to expand coverage for the LHWs program, ensuring regular availability of vaccines, expanded
health education activities of the HIV/AIDS program, and initiation of the TB control program using the
Directly Observed Treatment Short-Course (DOTS) strategy. There was also expansion of family
planning services through the health sector, although this was constrained by a lack of regular availability
of contraceptives. Improvements in the areas of malaria control and nutrition were limited.

Programmatic expansion resulted in improved program outputs. LHWs program coverage was expanded
from 25% to 50% of the population, with 62% of rural household having access to basic primary health
care and family planning services through LHWs. Evaluation of the LHWs program indicates that it has
had a significant impact in areas with improved access to basic services. Health outcomes, such as the
proportion of mothers who receive Tetanus Toxoide (TT) vaccinations, births attended by skilled birth
attendants and contraceptive use were considerably better in areas served by LHWs. Impact assessment of
the information education campaign of the HIV/AIDS program in 2001, in comparison to 1996 data,
indicates a major improvement in people's knowledge of HIV transmission and prevention measures, with
and an increase from 4% to 75%. Although the TB DOTS program was launched late in SAPP-II,
population coverage rose to 45% from 8%.

These advances indicate a shift away from tertiary health care in favor of preventive, primary and
secondary health care. The policy shift towards preventive health care is still being pursued in the new
GOP's 2001 Health Policy, which continues to focus on strengthening preventive health services, including
immunization, communicable diseases, such as malaria, TB, and HIV/AIDS, maternal and child health,


                                                       - 12 -

nutrition and family planning, and improving the quality of health care at the tehsil and district headquarter
hospitals.

Health outcomes and health care utilization continue to improve slowly. Improvement in indicators for
maternal health care was slow because change in the quality of related services was, at best, marginal.
Whatever positive results there have been for maternal care, can be partly attributed to an improved
availability of female health care providers, including LHWs. Despite higher investments, however
improvement in the availability of services by skilled birth attendants was nominal. It is misleading to
attribute the entire improvement in health indicators to the effectiveness of sub-program interventions, as
these indicators are also strongly influenced by factors such as educational levels, fertility rates, availability
of clean drinking water, etc.

Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (RWSS):
Outcomes for RWSS are rated as Unsatisfactory for reasons given below:

The rural water supply sector did not undergo any significant change over the period 1998-99 to 2001-02.
There was no increase in the percentage of households relying on piped water inside the house, although
there was a decrease in reliance on open sources of drinking water, with the use of hand and motor pumps
having increased from 65% to 70%.

There was hardly any change in sanitation practices in rural areas. The percentage of households relying on
covered and underground drains remained at a low 1%, while there was only modest improvement in access
to open drains, from 31% in 1998-99 to 33% in 2001-02. The availability of toilet facilities also improved
marginally. This facility was available to 37% of the rural population in 1998-99, which increased to 41%
in 2001-02.

SAPP-II improved consistency in the policy environment for the RWSS sector. The adoption of a uniform
policy at the outset ensured that all investments in rural water supply and sanitation, regardless of the
source of financing, were based on community organized schemes -- a fundamental departure from the
supply-driven approach prior to SAP. A moratorium continued to apply to the installation of new schemes
not designed using these principles, with the exception of the KPP schemes started in 2000. The effective
translation of a uniform policy into better access to clean potable water in rural areas was unclear.

There have been prevalent concerns that many water supply and drainage schemes ostensibly transferred to
communities, particularly mechanized drainage schemes, would eventually be abandoned and fall into
disrepair. The inability of provincial governments to rehabilitate schemes to deliver service levels
acceptable to communities impeded their transfer. In some cases of successful transfers, WUAs were
formed on the basis of official directives in the absence of substantive preparation and genuine participation
by communities. Neither situation bodes well for the future sustainability of functioning water supply
schemes.

Population Welfare:
Outcomes for Population Welfare are rated as Satisfactory for reasons given below:

The downward trend in fertility rates noted after SAPP-I was maintained during SAPP-II, with a decline
from 5.4 in 1996/97 to 4.8 in 2000/01. There was a gradual increase in awareness and use of family
planning methods during SAPP-II. Contraceptive use among married women increased from 93% to 96%.
The number of women currently using any family planning method increased from 24% in 1996/97 to 28%
in 2000/01. Contraceptive use has been increasing, but it still remains very low compared to other


                                                     - 13 -

countries in the region. Knowledge of family planning also improved in rural areas, from 91% to 95%.
Availability and access was improved through diversification of family planning sources through health
facilities (about 50% of health facilities provide family planning services), expansion of community-based
workers, and expansion of social marketing thorough private outlets and NGOs. The availability of
contraceptives in the population welfare centers was maintained. However, availability of adequate supply
levels in health facilities deteriorated as the Ministries of Population Welfare and Health failed to resolve
policy differences on the pricing of contraceptives and procedural requirements to issuing sales receipts to
replenish supplies.

There was little progress in implementing a broader reproductive health approach, despite development of a
National Reproductive Health agenda, through a joint effort by the Ministry of Health and Population
Welfare.

The most effective interventions were arguably those which brought about improvements in knowledge
dissemination to promote behavior change, with endorsement to permit method-specific messages through
mass media (except for those pertaining to condoms use). Increased availability and access to family
planning services through the LHW and Village Based Family Planning Workers (VBFPWs) programs,
and expanding social marketing interventions made services and supplies more accessible overall.

Participatory Development Program
While NGO and community participation in social sector service delivery was not increased effectively
through PDP implementation, the emphasis on increasing the involvement of NGOs and communities has
been accepted as standard in the policy frameworks (ESR, PRSP, etc.) of most major social sector
programs (see 4.1 above).

Coordination and Monitoring & Evaluation
The strengthening of line departments and P&D departments, independent third party monitoring through
the Office of the Auditor General, and impact monitoring through PIHS were key elements of the
monitoring & evaluation component. The TPV as an instrument to monitor governance issues was found
to be extremely valuable. The PIHS was very useful in monitoring of output and outcome data, and also
served as a major source of information and evaluation by donors and government at MTR. Line
departments' capacity for monitoring and evaluation was not developed extensively, although planning tools
(Annual Operational Plans) were introduced and made a regular part of the SAPP-II requirement.
Monitoring through quarterly monitoring reports was carried out regularly during SAPP-II. These
mechanisms were not institutionalized, however, and the building of capacities to plan, implement and
monitor remains as a major challenge for most line departments.

TA & Institutional Capacity Development
Technical assistance was designed to build the capacity of line and P&D departments, mainly through the
Imprest Accounts mechanism. This mechanism did not work, owing to delayed approvals of internal
government procedures for utilization of Imprest Accounts. These accounts became operational towards
the end of the Project. As a result, funds for TA went largely unutilized. Additional TA was provided
through the Multi-Donor Support Unit (MSU), which managed to provide assistance to line departments
and P&D departments on specific sectoral issues. The MSU was found by line and P&D departments to
be quite useful, although new capacities were not always successfully institutionalized.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable




                                                       - 14 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The federal and provincial SAP Secretariats were responsible for the coordination of SAP activities linked
to planning missions, handling administration, financing issues and monitoring. With the help of the MSU,
the personnel of these units were trained to carry out their duties, although capacity building gains were
frequently lost to staff transfers. The monitoring of actual program implementation by various line
departments was weak.

The capacity of the new organizations such as teaching institutions, district health management teams,
SMCs and WUAs, as well as the human capital for developing policy and for planning new instruments
and program interventions (particularly in health sector) were strengthened through a variety of parallel
initiatives funded through sector investment projects. However, some of the benefits of training to realize
project objectives were lost with the re-deployment and transfer of trained staff.

Limited progress was made in strengthening capacity and creating minimum critical mass in terms of the
number of personnel, their competence and skill composition, and in supporting the infrastructure required
to manage systems. The necessary financial management staff were recruited only after significant delays.
At MTR, there was realization of the need to review procedures for the use of Imprest Accounts to enable
timely and flexible use of funds for capacity building and monitoring and evaluation. While planning,
monitoring and evaluation capacities at the provincial level improved somewhat (as demonstrated in the
preparation of AOPs and, in some cases, the formulation of five-year rolling expenditure plans), they
remained particularly weak at the district level.

The continued lack of institutional capacity, which was a major handicap in the implementation of
SAPP-II, was partly because projects for capacity building and technical assistance under SAPP-II were
not processed by the provinces in time, and only a fraction were approved. This unduly delayed the
capacity development initiative under SAPP-II, which accounts for the fact that the majority of capacity
building activities took place towards the end of the project. This affected, in particular, the availability of
trained staff at the district level. For example, training for Drawing and Disbursing Officers (DDOs) in
financial management was carried out in the concluding phase of the project rather than at the beginning, as
it should have been, resulting in a less-than-anticipated impact on improving staff's skill and experience.
Part of the problem in building capacity was that, other than policy reforms to improve service delivery,
some management and institutional changes also required additional funding which provincial governments
could not provide.

Building ownership for reforms, and dissemination of SAP objectives and strategies to a wider government
and non-government audience should have been an important part of the program. As these were not part
of the mainstream program, there were negligible efforts to communicate the program's objectives and
strategies. The design of the program might have benefited from the incorporation of a communications
strategy, particularly for building ownership of the reforms prior to implementation. Such a
communications strategy would have helped to raise awareness and reduce the effects of institutional
memory loss stemming from constant staff turn over in key SAP-related departments. One donor agreed to
support development of a SAP communications strategy and to support awareness campaigns. However,
this was both a late and abortive entry which never took off as it could not be integrated into the
mainstream program.

The rating for institutional development impact is Modest. While there were problems in building



                                                       - 15 -

institutional capacities, particularly for planning and monitoring, SAPP-II gave rise to the foundations for
policy reforms and ownership of them. Community and NGO participation, devolved social service
delivery, and improvements in governance and transparency are three critical areas for social sector
programs which have become increasingly institutionalized over the past couple of years.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
A major constraint to the achievement of SAPP-II objectives, particularly with respect to governance and
program management issues was that the environment and the overall political and macro economic
situation that existed at the program design stage changed continuously during implementation. This period
was characterized by political instability, economic crisis, a severe drought, austerity measures stemming
from a resource squeeze and accountability drives launched in 1999/2000. The project became effective
shortly after Pakistan's nuclear test in May 1998, which resulted in sanctions against the country.
Provinces were faced with a severe financial crunch owing to a shortfall in revenue receipts (70% of the
difference between actual and projected revenues due to a decline in the tax ratio, and 30% due to a lower
than expected GDP) and lower than expected fiscal transfers from the divisible pool. Under the 1997 NFC
Award, resource flows to the provinces during the SAPP-II period were Rs.192 billion less than what they
would have been had the 1990 NFC formula been retained. The provincial governments also encountered
difficulties in financing expenditures upfront due to the GoP's fiscal deficit targets.

In addition, the proportion of expenditures eligible for reimbursement were agreed annually, thus creating
problems for provincial finance departments to understand the financing arrangements. They were unable
to factor in estimates of potential inflows on the recurrent side of the budget from donor reimbursements as
the ratios were agreed and finalized much later in the year. However, provincial line departments admitted
that the project had served as a useful instrument for protecting expenditures on the social sectors, even in
such adverse circumstances, and that without donor support allocations for SAP sectors may have been
significantly lower.

There was a funding hiatus between the last disbursement under SAPP-I and the first disbursement under
SAPP-II. Credit flows from social sector projects were tapering off and the volume of retroactive financing
that was available as a replacement was inadequate. This gap, and accompanying uncertainty, demotivated
the finance departments, especially since they were hard pressed to provide upfront funding for on-going
activities, and meet the fiscal deficit targets set by GoP. One of the reasons for a lack of provincial interest
in SAPP-II was provinces' belief that donor funding was inadequate to address the real resource
requirements. The donor reimbursement ratios, ranging between 6% to 8% were viewed as modest,
especially in view of the conditionalities that were attached to the funding. However, while the level of
external financing was perceived to have fallen short of expectation, provincial governments never spent
what they had committed to, particularly because they were in a fiscal bind and were unable to finance
expected levels of social sector expenditures.

Progress in achieving the desired outcomes in the social sectors was adversely affected by socio-cultural
factors whose influence cannot be reversed, but rather requires continuous and sustainable interventions
over a long period of time. For instance, although awareness of contraceptives among married women in
the age group 15 to 49 increased sharply from 38% in 1991-92 to 96% in 2001-02, there was a lower
proportional increase in actual use of such methods and instruments, from 24% to only 28% (Pakistan
Reproductive Health and Family Planning Survey). The gap between knowledge and practice/use continues
to be wide because of traditional socio-cultural resistance to family planning, and inadequate number of
outlets and female workers, and lack of female education. However, the utilization of family planning



                                                       - 16 -

services improved in urban centres because of the demand created through social marketing efforts.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government ownership of SAPP-II and its commitment to the objectives was built slowly, but remained
uncertain and generally weak throughout the duration of the project. In addition, formal donor supervision,
oversight and coordination arrangements contributed to the development of a perception that SAPP-II was
donor-driven, which further undermined efforts directed at creating domestic ownership of the program.
Resultantly, SAPP-II was often perceived as being donor driven with uneven awareness of its objectives
and proposed prescriptions at the provincial and lower tiers of government.

Whereas the importance of sensitizing the political leadership was apparent, there was a lack of a concerted
effort to strengthen and expand this awareness. Although policy dialogue played an instrumental part in
raising awareness of the need to attend to the low social indicators, it was largely confined to the
bureaucracy. Similarly, awareness of the program at the field level was restricted to the provision of
funding, with implementation staff having virtually no knowledge of the details of the program and its
objectives. Nevertheless, ownership improved in the last two years of the project with the establishment of
the Social Sector Committee for Cabinet under the stewardship of the Federal Minister for Education, with
the participation of provincial social sector ministers. This resulted in social sector issues being brought to
the forefront of policy discussions, although commitment to the reform agenda remained stronger at the
federal level. The ESR was framed under this context of ownership of the reforms.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The key factors that had a substantial adverse impact on implementation of SAPP-II and the
functionalization of service outlets constructed during SAPP-I were not sector-specific, but persistent and
common across sectors and geographical divisions of the country. Although the Government agreed that
recruitment bans would not extend to SAP sectors, in practice these restrictions were applied
indiscriminately, with the social sectors not exempt from their reach.

A lack of continuity of key staff negatively affected the level of commitment, the quality of leadership,
institutional memory and understanding of the program, making it difficult to hold anyone accountable,
thus disrupting reform efforts and compromising project implementation. The inability to ensure
meaningful community participation in service delivery, continuing governance issues, such as lack of
credible and effective arrangements to check staff absenteeism, and ineffective supervision and monitoring
systems impeded sustainable improvements in service delivery.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project appraisal document estimated the five-year cost of the program at over US$10 billion. Out of
this US$8 billion was estimated as Government financing and US$610 million (including ADB) was
committed through SAPP-II donor financing. In addition, approximately US$1.4 billion was forecast as
additional donor support, including disbursements from ongoing donor assisted projects, new project
assistance, and additional mobilization of donor funds. By the end of the program period, Government
expenditure on SAP was about 61% of appraisal estimates, and SAPP donor financing amounted to
approximately 66% of the committed amount. The financing gap was also due to a lack of new large donor
project assistance, estimated in the total program costs during appraisal, compounded by the fact that
several large ongoing donor assisted projects had closed by 2000.

SAPP-II project financing mechanism-SOEs, financial management issues, disbursements and
procurement:

There were two modes of funding, the SOE based reimbursement mechanism and Imprest Accounts for


                                                     - 17 -

capacity building and monitoring activities.

Donors provided finances retroactively through reimbursement of expenditures on activities that complied
with approved operational plans (there were hundreds of thousand transactions annually). Funding
mechanisms were designed to provide additional resources and ease such disbursements, thereby avoiding
problems of lack of counterpart funds encountered under project funding.

Financial management of the program was weak due to a lack of proper understanding, non-compliance
and delays in the implementation of the program arrangements for financial management, and the
organization of the financial management system around weak internal control mechanisms. The design
envisioned the use of adequately skilled government staff and was based on Governments' mainstream
systems for accounting, reporting and auditing. However, staff were either appointed late (and then
subjected to frequent transfers) or not appointed at all and often lacked an appropriate skill set. A lack of
proper accounting staff at the Provincial levels resulted in the absence of any analysis of financial
management issues, or the development and implementation of corrective actions. Consequently, the
requirements of the program such as preparation of annual financial statements, and SOEs were not
properly disseminated.

The set of sub-programs that would qualify for reimbursement were agreed each year, and the
understanding reached could not be fully communicated to lower levels on a timely basis. Rules, procedures
and instructions for using Imprest Accounts had not been prepared in advance and therefore these accounts
become functional only in the latter part of the project.

Additional specific points relating to financial management include the following:

Without the core issue of improved and timely recording of expenditures having been addressed, procedural
mechanisms for claiming reimbursements through SOEs complicated by a requirement that only the
Accountant General's Office verify expenditures and expectation that departmental staff, with limited
exposure to financial systems, decompose them into salary and non-salary components.

The main problems with SOEs related to: (a) the requirement that line departments reconcile SOEs with the
records of the Accountant General's office; (b) frequent revisions in their formats; and (c) difficulties in
obtaining monthly expenditure statements from hundreds of District Account Officers (DAOs). This
resulted in staff responsible for project implementation and technical managers spending a disproportionate
amount of time preparing SOEs, ensuring timely reconciliations and settling audit queries. Financial
management and capacity building through the recruitment of staff was severely delayed and took place
only toward the end of the program.

An unfortunate outcome of SAPP-II was that it became a victim of the audit procedures built into the
expenditure reimbursement mechanism. Part of the problem was that the audits were conducted in a
traditional manner. Staff were bound by prescribed classifications for the categorization of audit
observations. Resultantly, procedural lapses and misclassifications of expenditures were, at times,
categorized as irregularities and misappropriations. These audit report issues made administrators
extremely cautious in incurring expenditures, especially on new initiatives and on non-salary components.

The audit report submitted by the Auditor General (AG) of Pakistan for FY 1997/98 and FY 1998/99
identified a very large number of audit observations pointing towards major irregularities and
misappropriations. In the view of Government, these reports were hastily submitted to donors without
conducting proper Departmental Account Committee (DAC) meetings. The audit procedures are that draft



                                                     - 18 -

audit reports are discussed with line departments, and finalized on the basis of the review. Draft reports
were sent to donors. Due to the findings of these reports, and as a result of private complaints received by
the Bank, the Bank's Department of Institutional Integrity conducted an Integrity Assurance Mission to
Pakistan during April/May 2001. There was an apparent disconnect between the AG's office estimation of
ineligible expenditures, and the Mission's estimation. The Mission placed these observations well above the
1% estimated by the Government, the Mission's findings and recommendations were communicated to the
Government. The Government responded to the findings at two levels. First, it started system-wide
governance and financial management reforms, and second, has taken the necessary legal, disciplinary and
other actions to address specific identified cases. The Government has indicated that the quality of the
audit reports was affected by a lack of required audit follow-up with Departmental Account Committees
(DACs), and inability of the audit staff to differentiate between a departure from rules and procedures and
proven fraud cases.

SAPP was the first Bank project in Pakistan which financed a percentage of all government program
expenditures in the basic social services. Therefore, the issues which emerged during implementation had
wide raging impact, and actions have been initiated at various levels by both Bank and GOP to address the
systemic financial management issues which emerged during SAPP-II implementation.

Actions by the Bank:
From 1999 onwards, the Bank included a full time financial management specialist in the SAPP team, and
a separate mission on financial management issues was conducted in September 2000 which presented
specific recommendations to line departments and GoP for addressing systemic issues as well as those
related to expenditure reporting and verification.

The Bank also twice withheld disbursements (in 2001 and 2002) pending satisfactory and credible
resolution of financial management and audit issues. Disbursements were subsequently authorized based
on submission of verified Statements of Expenditure by Provincial Accountant Generals, submission of
SOE audit opinions and unqualified audit reports. Disbursements were made based on expenditures
reported by line departments and the Accountant General, and where there was a discrepancy between the
two figures, the Bank used the lower expenditure number for disbursements. To ensure that disbursements
were not financing ineligible expenditures, the Bank initiated recoveries by deducting the identified
ineligible expenditures from the overall expenditures submitted for reimbursements, and recoveries were
made for the full program period.

As weak public financial management is endemic throughout the public sector in Pakistan. The Bank
supported GOP's reforms under the Project to Improve Financial Reporting and Auditing (PIFRA) to
strengthen accounting and audit functions, and build public sector capacity. In addition, a Country
Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) was conducted, and two provincial PFAAs (Provincial
Financial Accountability Assessments) are underway. The Bank has also negotiated major financial
management reforms as a part of the two Provincial Structural Adjustment Credits (SACs) in Sindh and
NWFP, and two SACs for the GOP.

Actions by Borrower:
The Ministry of Finance initiated an intensive effort with the AG's office and all concerned SAP agencies
to conduct the pending DAC meetings to discuss the audit reports and take remedial actions. The
Accountant General's office was specifically asked to verify all expenditures submitted through SOEs,
with Auditor General confirming the authenticity of expenditures through submission of SOE audit opinion.
The Auditor General established two task forces for reviewing audit observations pertaining to SAP and
other foreign-aided-projects. Detailed reviews were conducted on each audit observation along with


                                                     - 19 -

supporting documentation. The subsequent annual audit reports contained less significant audit
observations pertaining to misappropriation and embezzlement.

The findings of the audit reports were also brought to the attention of the external accountability agency,
the National Accountability Bureau (NAB), which was established by the military government soon after it
assumed power in October 1999. Army monitoring teams were established to specifically take action again
misuse of funds and authority. NAB conducted detailed investigations based on the information provided
by the AG. Specific examples of action taken include initiation of disciplinary cases against more than
4000 teachers, launching investigations against at least fifty high profile cases, and conviction of three
ministers who were disqualified from holding public offices due to cases of illegal teacher appointments and
misappropriation of resources under a donor-assisted program.

More recently, a National Anti-Corruption Strategy has been developed with the assistance of the
Department for International Development (DfID). This strategy has been approved by the President and
Prime Minister. While these actions have been taken, significant work is still needed to build implementing
line departments' capacities, and to institute strong internal controls at all levels of government, and
especially in the district governments which are now directly responsible for social service delivery.

Some systemic financial management improvements which have come about after the SAPP-II experience
include: (i) regular reconciliation, consolidation and timely reporting of expenditure data, to expedite
appropriate financial reconciliations and setting of audit queries; (ii) timely follow up on audit
observations; (iii) setting up of internal audit units in each of the departments, as recommended by the AG,
as well as the Bank; (iv) appointment of properly skilled accounting staff in the line departments; and (v)
development of an FM manual to help provide important guidelines and procedures, including rules,
procedures and instructions for using Imprest Accounts.

Procurement:
Inadequate procurement capacity of implementing agencies to diligently follow IDA's procurement
procedures affected the overall quality and timeliness of procurement under the project. The Bank
conducted numerous procurement training workshops in which many project staff participated.
Nonetheless, the dispersed nature of the project and the large number of implementing agencies and staff
made wider interactions difficult. Additionally, the numbers involved several hundreds of procurements.
Capacity building through engagement of procurement consultants in each province was conceived in the
Project Appraisal Document (PAD), but did not materialize due to administrative delays and bottlenecks.
Most procurement, including all civil works, involved small contracts over widely dispersed geographical
areas, and was below the Bank's prior review threshold. Large procurement operations were confined to
pharmaceuticals and contraceptives which were procured through UN agencies, and large consultant
contracts were to be based on the Bank's policy for selection of consultants.

In the procurement of civil works, in particular, generic deviations were observed between Government's
procurement procedures and practices, as followed by the implementing agencies, and those of IDA. These
included the Government's procedure to restrict bidding only to contractors pre-registered with government
departments, and the use of a composite schedule of rates instead of item rates for inviting bids and
awarding contracts. While improvements for National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures were
specified in the PAD, these were not explicitly stated in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) as, at
the time of SAPP-II appraisal, it was not the practice to make such references in IDA legal documents.
These improvements were legally incorporated at a later stage in the project, during Project restructuring in
2001. In more recent IDA-financed operations, procurement capacity strengthening measures, including
the hiring of procurement consultants where required, are being explicitly agreed upfront during project


                                                       - 20 -

preparation. The required NCB improvements are now being clearly specified in the legal agreements to
eliminate any ambiguities, and to facilitate remedial actions by the IDA in event of serious deviations.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
A major constraint to the achievement of SAPP-II objectives, particularly with respect to governance and
program management issues was that the environment and the overall political and macro economic
situation that existed at the program design stage changed continuously during implementation. This period
was characterized by political instability, economic crisis, a severe drought, austerity measures stemming
from a resource squeeze and accountability drives launched in 1999/2000. The project became effective
shortly after Pakistan's nuclear test in May 1998, which resulted in sanctions against the country.
Provinces were faced with a severe financial crunch owing to a shortfall in revenue receipts (70% of the
difference between actual and projected revenues due to a decline in the tax ratio, and 30% due to a lower
than expected GDP) and lower than expected fiscal transfers from the divisible pool. Under the 1997 NFC
Award, resource flows to the provinces during the SAPP-II period were Rs.192 billion less than what they
would have been had the 1990 NFC formula been retained. The provincial governments also encountered
difficulties in financing expenditures upfront due to the GoP's fiscal deficit targets.

In addition, the proportion of expenditures eligible for reimbursement were agreed annually, thus creating
problems for provincial finance departments to understand the financing arrangements. They were unable
to factor in estimates of potential inflows on the recurrent side of the budget from donor reimbursements as
the ratios were agreed and finalized much later in the year. However, provincial line departments admitted
that the project had served as a useful instrument for protecting expenditures on the social sectors, even in
such adverse circumstances, and that without donor support allocations for SAP sectors may have been
significantly lower.

There was a funding hiatus between the last disbursement under SAPP-I and the first disbursement under
SAPP-II. Credit flows from social sector projects were tapering off and the volume of retroactive financing
that was available as a replacement was inadequate. This gap, and accompanying uncertainty, demotivated
the finance departments, especially since they were hard pressed to provide upfront funding for on-going
activities, and meet the fiscal deficit targets set by GOP. One of the reasons for a lack of provincial
interest in SAPP-II was provinces' belief that donor funding was inadequate to address the real resource
requirements. The donor reimbursement ratios, ranging between 6% to 8% were viewed as modest,
especially in view of the conditionalities that were attached to the funding. However, while the level of
external financing was perceived to have fallen short of expectation, provincial governments never spent
what they had committed to, particularly because they were in a fiscal bind and were unable to finance
expected levels of social sector expenditures.

Progress in achieving the desired outcomes in the social sectors was adversely affected by socio-cultural
factors whose influence cannot be reversed, but rather requires continuous and sustainable interventions
over a long period of time. For instance, although awareness of contraceptives among married women in
the age group 15 to 49 increased sharply from 38% in 1991-92 to 96% in 2001-02, there was a lower
proportional increase in actual use of such methods and instruments, from 24% to only 28% (Pakistan
Reproductive Health and Family Planning Survey). The gap between knowledge and practice/use continues
to be wide because of traditional socio-cultural resistance to family planning, and inadequate number of
outlets and female workers, and lack of female education. However, the utilization of family planning
services improved in urban centres because of the demand created through social marketing efforts.




                                                       - 21 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government ownership of SAPP-II and its commitment to the objectives was built slowly, but remained
uncertain and generally weak throughout the duration of the project. In addition, formal donor supervision,
oversight and coordination arrangements contributed to the development of a perception that SAPP-II was
donor-driven, which further undermined efforts directed at creating domestic ownership of the program.
Resultantly, SAPP-II was often perceived as being donor driven with uneven awareness of its objectives
and proposed prescriptions at the provincial and lower tiers of government.

Whereas the importance of sensitizing the political leadership was apparent, there was a lack of a concerted
effort to strengthen and expand this awareness. Although policy dialogue played an instrumental part in
raising awareness of the need to attend to the low social indicators, it was largely confined to the
bureaucracy. Similarly, awareness of the program at the field level was restricted to the provision of
funding, with implementation staff having virtually no knowledge of the details of the program and its
objectives. Nevertheless, ownership improved in the last two years of the project with the establishment of
the Social Sector Committee for Cabinet under the stewardship of the Federal Minister for Education, with
the participation of provincial social sector ministers. This resulted in social sector issues being brought to
the forefront of policy discussions, although commitment to the reform agenda remained stronger at the
federal level. The ESR was framed under this context of ownership of the reforms.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The key factors that had a substantial adverse impact on implementation of SAPP-II and the
functionalization of service outlets constructed during SAPP-I were not sector-specific, but persistent and
common across sectors and geographical divisions of the country. Although the Government agreed that
recruitment bans would not extend to SAP sectors, in practice these restrictions were applied
indiscriminately, with the social sectors not exempt from their reach.

A lack of continuity of key staff negatively affected the level of commitment, the quality of leadership,
institutional memory and understanding of the program, making it difficult to hold anyone accountable,
thus disrupting reform efforts and compromising project implementation. The inability to ensure
meaningful community participation in service delivery, continuing governance issues, such as lack of
credible and effective arrangements to check staff absenteeism, and ineffective supervision and monitoring
systems impeded sustainable improvements in service delivery.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project appraisal document estimated the five-year cost of the program at over US$10 billion. Out of
this US$8 billion was estimated as Government financing and US$610 million (including ADB) was
committed through SAPP-II donor financing. In addition, approximately US$1.4 billion was forecast as
additional donor support, including disbursements from ongoing donor assisted projects, new project
assistance, and additional mobilization of donor funds. By the end of the program period, Government
expenditure on SAP was about 61% of appraisal estimates, and SAPP donor financing amounted to
approximately 66% of the committed amount. The financing gap was also due to a lack of new large donor
project assistance, estimated in the total program costs during appraisal, compounded by the fact that
several large ongoing donor assisted projects had closed by 2000.

SAPP-II project financing mechanism-SOEs, financial management issues, disbursements and
procurement:

There were two modes of funding, the SOE based reimbursement mechanism and Imprest Accounts for
capacity building and monitoring activities.




                                                     - 22 -

Donors provided finances retroactively through reimbursement of expenditures on activities that complied
with approved operational plans (there were hundreds of thousand transactions annually). Funding
mechanisms were designed to provide additional resources and ease such disbursements, thereby avoiding
problems of lack of counterpart funds encountered under project funding.

Financial management of the program was weak due to a lack of proper understanding, non-compliance
and delays in the implementation of the program arrangements for financial management, and the
organization of the financial management system around weak internal control mechanisms. The design
envisioned the use of adequately skilled government staff and was based on Governments' mainstream
systems for accounting, reporting and auditing. However, staff were either appointed late (and then
subjected to frequent transfers) or not appointed at all and often lacked an appropriate skill set. A lack of
proper accounting staff at the Provincial levels resulted in the absence of any analysis of financial
management issues, or the development and implementation of corrective actions. Consequently, the
requirements of the program such as preparation of annual financial statements, and SOEs were not
properly disseminated.

The set of sub-programs that would qualify for reimbursement were agreed each year, and the
understanding reached could not be fully communicated to lower levels on a timely basis. Rules, procedures
and instructions for using Imprest Accounts had not been prepared in advance and therefore these accounts
become functional only in the latter part of the project.

Additional specific points relating to financial management include the following:

Without the core issue of improved and timely recording of expenditures having been addressed, procedural
mechanisms for claiming reimbursements through SOEs complicated by a requirement that only the
Accountant General's Office verify expenditures and expectation that departmental staff, with limited
exposure to financial systems, decompose them into salary and non-salary components.

The main problems with SOEs related to: (a) the requirement that line departments reconcile SOEs with the
records of the Accountant General's office; (b) frequent revisions in their formats; and (c) difficulties in
obtaining monthly expenditure statements from hundreds of District Account Officers (DAOs). This
resulted in staff responsible for project implementation and technical managers spending a disproportionate
amount of time preparing SOEs, ensuring timely reconciliations and settling audit queries. Financial
management and capacity building through the recruitment of staff was severely delayed and took place
only toward the end of the program.

An unfortunate outcome of SAPP-II was that it became a victim of the audit procedures built into the
expenditure reimbursement mechanism. Part of the problem was that the audits were conducted in a
traditional manner. Staff were bound by prescribed classifications for the categorization of audit
observations. Resultantly, procedural lapses and misclassifications of expenditures were, at times,
categorized as irregularities and misappropriations. These audit report issues made administrators
extremely cautious in incurring expenditures, especially on new initiatives and on non-salary components.

The audit report submitted by the Auditor General (AG) of Pakistan for FY 1997/98 and FY 1998/99
identified a very large number of audit observations pointing towards major irregularities and
misappropriations. In the view of Government, these reports were hastily submitted to donors without
conducting proper Departmental Account Committee (DAC) meetings. The audit procedures are that draft
audit reports are discussed with line departments, and finalized on the basis of the review. Draft reports
were sent to donors. Due to the findings of these reports, and as a result of private complaints received by


                                                     - 23 -

the Bank, the Bank's Department of Institutional Integrity conducted an Integrity Assurance Mission to
Pakistan during April/May 2001. There was an apparent disconnect between the AG's office estimation of
ineligible expenditures, and the Mission's estimation. The Mission placed these observations well above the
1% estimated by the Government, the Mission's findings and recommendations were communicated to the
Government. The Government responded to the findings at two levels. First, it started system-wide
governance and financial management reforms, and second, has taken the necessary legal, disciplinary and
other actions to address specific identified cases. The Government has indicated that the quality of the
audit reports was affected by a lack of required audit follow-up with Departmental Account Committees
(DACs), and inability of the audit staff to differentiate between a departure from rules and procedures and
proven fraud cases.

SAPP was the first Bank project in Pakistan which financed a percentage of all government program
expenditures in the basic social services. Therefore, the issues which emerged during implementation had
wide raging impact, and actions have been initiated at various levels by both Bank and GOP to address the
systemic financial management issues which emerged during SAPP-II implementation.

Actions by the Bank:
From 1999 onwards, the Bank included a full time financial management specialist in the SAPP team, and
a separate mission on financial management issues was conducted in September 2000 which presented
specific recommendations to line departments and GoP for addressing systemic issues as well as those
related to expenditure reporting and verification.

The Bank also twice withheld disbursements (in 2001 and 2002) pending satisfactory and credible
resolution of financial management and audit issues. Disbursements were subsequently authorized based
on submission of verified Statements of Expenditure by Provincial Accountant Generals, submission of
SOE audit opinions and unqualified audit reports. Disbursements were made based on expenditures
reported by line departments and the Accountant General, and where there was a discrepancy between the
two figures, the Bank used the lower expenditure number for disbursements. To ensure that disbursements
were not financing ineligible expenditures, the Bank initiated recoveries by deducting the identified
ineligible expenditures from the overall expenditures submitted for reimbursements, and recoveries were
made for the full program period.

As weak public financial management is endemic throughout the public sector in Pakistan. The Bank
supported GOP's reforms under the Project to Improve Financial Reporting and Auditing (PIFRA) to
strengthen accounting and audit functions, and build public sector capacity. In addition, a Country
Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) was conducted, and two provincial PFAAs (Provincial
Financial Accountability Assessments) are underway. The Bank has also negotiated major financial
management reforms as a part of the two Provincial Structural Adjustment Credits (SACs) in Sindh and
NWFP, and two SACs for the GOP.

Actions by Borrower:
The Ministry of Finance initiated an intensive effort with the AG's office and all concerned SAP agencies
to conduct the pending DAC meetings to discuss the audit reports and take remedial actions. The
Accountant General's office was specifically asked to verify all expenditures submitted through SOEs,
with Auditor General confirming the authenticity of expenditures through submission of SOE audit opinion.
The Auditor General established two task forces for reviewing audit observations pertaining to SAP and
other foreign-aided-projects. Detailed reviews were conducted on each audit observation along with
supporting documentation. The subsequent annual audit reports contained less significant audit
observations pertaining to misappropriation and embezzlement.


                                                     - 24 -

The findings of the audit reports were also brought to the attention of the external accountability agency,
the National Accountability Bureau (NAB), which was established by the military government soon after it
assumed power in October 1999. Army monitoring teams were established to specifically take action again
misuse of funds and authority. NAB conducted detailed investigations based on the information provided
by the AG. Specific examples of action taken include initiation of disciplinary cases against more than
4000 teachers, launching investigations against at least fifty high profile cases, and conviction of three
ministers who were disqualified from holding public offices due to cases of illegal teacher appointments and
misappropriation of resources under a donor-assisted program.

More recently, a National Anti-Corruption Strategy has been developed with the assistance of the
Department for International Development (DfID). This strategy has been approved by the President and
Prime Minister. While these actions have been taken, significant work is still needed to build implementing
line departments' capacities, and to institute strong internal controls at all levels of government, and
especially in the district governments which are now directly responsible for social service delivery.

Some systemic financial management improvements which have come about after the SAPP-II experience
include: (i) regular reconciliation, consolidation and timely reporting of expenditure data, to expedite
appropriate financial reconciliations and setting of audit queries; (ii) timely follow up on audit
observations; (iii) setting up of internal audit units in each of the departments, as recommended by the AG,
as well as the Bank; (iv) appointment of properly skilled accounting staff in the line departments; and (v)
development of an FM manual to help provide important guidelines and procedures, including rules,
procedures and instructions for using Imprest Accounts.

Procurement:
Inadequate procurement capacity of implementing agencies to diligently follow IDA's procurement
procedures affected the overall quality and timeliness of procurement under the project. The Bank
conducted numerous procurement training workshops in which many project staff participated.
Nonetheless, the dispersed nature of the project and the large number of implementing agencies and staff
made wider interactions difficult. Additionally, the numbers involved several hundreds of procurements.
Capacity building through engagement of procurement consultants in each province was conceived in the
Project Appraisal Document (PAD), but did not materialize due to administrative delays and bottlenecks.
Most procurement, including all civil works, involved small contracts over widely dispersed geographical
areas, and was below the Bank's prior review threshold. Large procurement operations were confined to
pharmaceuticals and contraceptives which were procured through UN agencies, and large consultant
contracts were to be based on the Bank's policy for selection of consultants.

In the procurement of civil works, in particular, generic deviations were observed between Government's
procurement procedures and practices, as followed by the implementing agencies, and those of IDA. These
included the Government's procedure to restrict bidding only to contractors pre-registered with government
departments, and the use of a composite schedule of rates instead of item rates for inviting bids and
awarding contracts. While improvements for National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures were
specified in the PAD, these were not explicitly stated in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) as, at
the time of SAPP-II appraisal, it was not the practice to make such references in IDA legal documents.
These improvements were legally incorporated at a later stage in the project, during Project restructuring in
2001. In more recent IDA-financed operations, procurement capacity strengthening measures, including
the hiring of procurement consultants where required, are being explicitly agreed upfront during project
preparation. The required NCB improvements are now being clearly specified in the legal agreements to
eliminate any ambiguities, and to facilitate remedial actions by the IDA in event of serious deviations.


                                                       - 25 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated as Likely for reasons noted below:

SAPP-II resulted in a few key policy shifts that have formed the backbone of several government initiatives
in the last couple of years. While outcomes during SAPP-II were lower than expected and implementation
less than satisfactory, a large number of initiatives and reforms - and ownership of these reforms - have
become entrenched because of the emphasis that SAP placed on these issues. The continued emphasis
SAPP-II placed on improvement of service delivery at the implementation level through decentralization
influenced and provided the rationale for devolution of powers to the local level. The focus on community
participation and NGO involvement in service delivery that SAPP-II continuously highlighted has become
an integral part of several important public programs and policies, including the PRSP, ESR, and the
Khushal Pakistan Program, as well as several micro-finance initiatives that have emerged. Many of the
changes supported through SAPP-II could be considered as irreversible as is evident by the fact that most
initiatives commenced under SAP are being promoted by national policy frameworks such as the PRSP and
ESR, and are being pursued by provincial governments. After SAP, PRSP provides the strategic
framework for social sectors, and is strongly anchored on social sector programs and related pro-poor
expenditures. At the national level, the ESR, while taking a sector wide approach, continues to focus on
the SAP policies, including priority for girls' education, role of communities, and building public private
partnerships for service delivery. In the health sector, the GOP's Health Policy 2001 maintains the policy
shift in favor of preventive health care. Further, the reforms that were introduced under SAP have now
been taken on in the provincial reform programs, with emphasis on protecting investment for health and
education, supported through provincial SACs (in Sindh and NWFP) and a possible education sector
adjustment program in Punjab. After the closure of SAPP, these provincial governments have significantly
increased their education budgets, and are also fully financing programs aimed at increasing girls'
enrollments. The unsatisfactory rating on achievement of outcomes is based on past performance, whereas
the likelihood of sustainability is forward-looking.

SAPP-II was a five-year program but by the third year, implementation had become uneven and problems
as mentioned above were emerging. Donors began to retreat, and the program was not continued till its full
completion. Even over a five year period, it would not have been realistic to expect notable improvements
in social sector outcomes. Improvements in the social sectors take time and any kind of measurable impact
requires a long-term process of investment and reform.

SAPP-II did contribute towards the institutionalization of the reforms and policy shifts mentioned above,
with the cautionary note that it is too early to give a judgment on the continuity of the financial support for,
and institutionalization of, such reforms at the local government level. This is partly because institutional
reform tends to be a slow and long process, and instituting governance reforms is particularly difficult in
societies struggling to change ingrained attitudes and practices and revamp institutional structures that have
acquired a high degree of permanence over the years. In the end, success and sustainability will hinge
critically on the devolution being able to improve accountability systems of service delivery and address
issues pertaining to adequacy of allocations, access and quality.

Sustainability of SAPP-II has to be rated against the backdrop of these reform programs, the progressive



                                                      - 26 -

policy shifts and frameworks, and ownership by government of these reforms. Therefore, sustainability is
rated Likely, even though the development outcomes are rated as unsatisfactory -- since the latter reflects
the absence of tangible improvements in outcomes by the end of the SAPP implementation period. If the
current reforms are continued in letter and in spirit, one should see improvements in human development
outcomes in the medium term.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Since SAPP-II supported GOP's entire basic social service delivery program, there were no transition
arrangements to regular operations as required in investment projects. The issue is being addressed here in
relation to the key policy dimensions which are being continued even after closure of SAPP-II. GOP's
PRSP is strongly anchored in social sectors and focuses on increased the social sector expenditures. The
political commitment at the highest levels is also evidenced in the incorporation of SAP objectives and
policies in the ESR, and in Provincial Reform Programs.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Learning from the experience of SAPP-I, Bank preparation intensely focused on developing stakeholder
ownership and participation during project preparation. Lending development was technically sound, and
the preparation team not only engaged with the provincial governments, but also conducted several
stakeholder workshops involving district and local officials of the line departments. Workshops were also
conducted with civil society representatives to develop the Participatory Development Program (PDP).
However, no full-time financial management specialist was involved during the preparation stage. The
subsequent number of issues in implementation of the MoU governing financial management may have
been reduced if there had been more extensive technical focus and dialogue on financial management issues
during project preparation. The number of people in preparation missions, sometimes more than forty IDA
and other donor mission members, overloaded government's capacity, and wrap-up meetings could not be
used for conducting policy dialogue and reaching policy agreements.

The preparation for SAPP-II commenced in 1996, with the expectation that SAPP-II would be in place by
1997, soon after closure of SAPP-I, in order that it would retroactively finance any gap period. However,
SAPP-II became effective only in May 1998, and there was a full one-year gap in donor financing.
Although retroactive financing was included in SAPP-II, there was a considerable funding hiatus and the
full financing gap could not be surmounted. A second gap emerged as a result of different preparation
timetables of two major financiers, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and International Development
Association (IDA), where ADB's SAPP-II project was made effective in late 1996, while the IDA project
became effective in 1998. This complicated financing arrangements after the closure of SAPP-I, and taxed
Government's capacities due to separate preparation schedules of the two multilateral agencies.

7.2 Supervision:
Typically, three supervision missions per year were undertaken to supervise SAPP-II: (a) to review the
draft Annual Operational Plans (AOPs) for the following fiscal year in time for agreements to be
incorporated into the budget preparation process; (b) to take decisions on the eligibility of the Annual
Operational Plans, and to resolve any outstanding program or budgetary issues; and (c) mid-year to review
implementation progress. Supervision activities were generally well-planned and comprehensive in terms
of identifying issues to be resolved and actions to be initiated. Supervision missions left behind daunting
array of actions that provincial governments, suffering from limited capacity and frequent changes in
leadership, were expected to undertake.




                                                      - 27 -

From the start of the project, supervision missions repeatedly flagged implementation issues, including a
lack of a shared vision on SAP; poor governance; weak implementation capacity; inadequate allocations for
non-salary components; delays in the release of funds; staffing delays; rapid turnover in leadership
positions; non-merit based criteria for staff appointments and deployment; staff absenteeism; failure to
appoint qualified counterparts; lack of progress on capacity building and PDP initiatives; and weaknesses
in financial management and procurement procedures. Reviews tended to focus more on budget issues and
tracking processes and inputs, than on quality aspects. Nevertheless, issues relating to service
delivery(with the expectation that these would eventually influence outcomes) started to be raised,
particularly in the latter part of SAPP-II.

The PIHS, HMIS and EMIS were the main sources of data for the health and education indicators. The
PIHS served as the main instrument for evaluating the impact of SAP, while the results of TPV exercises
and financial audits were used to track progress on governance and financial management issues. The
PIHS was conducted in alternate years during the SAPP-II period (1998-99 and 2001-02), as originally
planned, and its results were well utilized for analysis, especially at the time of the Mid-Term Review
(MTR). The utilization of HMIS and EMIS data for monitoring purposes was at best nominal. Moreover,
since the program and annual target indicators were not specified, it was not clear how the achievement of
goals was being assessed. In the absence of specified targets, even regular monitoring of indicators would
have only had limited success in evaluating program performance and determining the extent to which
sector performance was adequate to ensure continued disbursements.

Supervision missions were often large and unwieldy, with each donor (irrespective of the level of their
financial contribution to the program) represented. Often micro, project-specific or narrowly-based
sectoral issues were raised, many of which were viewed by Government counterparts as superficial in
relation to the larger program objectives. The Aide Memoires left with government were enormous, partly
owing to the wide scope of the program, and failed to prioritize issues, actions and targets. The
un-prioritized list of detailed actions for follow up became formidable because of the sheer number of tasks
to be performed, and the difficulty of line departments to absorb and respond in light of their limited
capacities.

In the absence of desired level of political commitment to the program, donors appeared to have assumed
greater operational and a leadership roles for resolving issues, rather than demanding a clearer
demonstration of commitment from Government. Additionally, interactions with Government focused on
tactical rather than strategic issues and discussions with government tended to gravitate around sector
specific issues in part due to the multi-sectoral nature of the project. These factors unintentionally shifted
focus away from policy reforms and cross-sectoral issues, critical for sustainable social delivery
improvements, to tracking expenditures in SAP sectors, reviewing procurement procedures, preparing
AOPs, and evaluating the effectiveness of instruments to achieve the expected outcomes.

Financial management monitoring started to be addressed by supervision missions as of May 1999 with the
involvement of financial management staff. This enhanced supervision team's understanding of IDA's
financial management and reporting requirements. Supervision teams did not include an expert on
institutional issues at any time during the project, although the centerpiece of SAPP-II was institutional and
governance reforms for improving the efficiency and effectiveness of social service delivery.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Whereas SAPP-II was conceived as a policy instrument for program lending it was implemented in project
mode and supervised by Bank staff as a project.




                                                      - 28 -

Most government officials regarded the role of the donors as helpful and constructive. Major issues
identified by provincial functionaries on the role of the donors pertained to: (a) large and frequent missions;
(b) demanding procedures and reporting requirements; and (c) rigid enforcement of procurement and
financial management procedures that resulted in some issues remaining unresolved. One concern of
Government was that donors did not point out the severity of the problems that they were encountering until
too late - virtually at the time they decided to pull out. This perception is not misplaced as up to the time of
the MTR, IDA had not indicated that it would take formal remedial or other actions if improvements in the
identified areas continued to remain unresolved even though disbursements were suspended in a few
areas/sectors showing poor progress. At MTR GoP launched a major initiative to establish local
governments under the Devolution Program, thereby shifting service delivery responsibility to them. Due
to this change of strategy for the delivery of social services from provinces to districts, poor outcomes in
the provincial programs and lack of clarity on new institutional arrangements led to IDA's decision to fund
only the federal education, population and health programs, and halt the financing of provincial programs.
The rationale for this was the heavy dependence of these programs on external funds and their relatively
better progress and outcomes and implementation. This decision violated the spirit of SAPP-II to operate in
the provinces.

When it had become evident that owing to political and macro-economic uncertainties that Government
would not be able to allocate adequate funding for non-salary expenditures, IDA did not revise its strategy.
Rather, it continued to try to obtain commitments on expenditures, which was unrealistic, given the
financial constraints of provinces. While allocations were declining and progress on outcomes on a number
of strategic interventions was uncertain, IDA continued to disburse funds, despite SAPP-II having qualified
as a problem project. IDA neither changed its strategy nor considered sanctions involving the suspension
of financial support until specified agreed outcomes had been achieved. In retrospect, sanctions should
have commenced earlier than FY01. During the early years of the project, IDA was reluctant to exercise
its leverage by withholding disbursements. During the latter years of the project however, IDA withheld
disbursements because of non-compliance with financial management covenants.

There was little evidence to support the project ratings in the Project Status Reports (PSRs). PSRs
continued to give satisfactory ratings on compliance with legal covenants (with the exception of financial
covenants which were given unsatisfactory ratings), although recruitment bans continued to be applied to
the social sectors and progress in securing timely releases continued to be poor. This divergence was not
explained satisfactorily, although the PSR ratings did become more realistic during the latter part of the
project.

Donor Coordination:
Coordination of donor efforts was carried out by IDA. At the request of GoP, donor coordination
commenced from the SAPP-I period during the early nineties, and continued throughout SAPP-II.

During implementation, while core coordination was restricted to SAP financiers, there were efforts
especially at the end of missions to present mission findings to other donor partners. Within the SAPP
donor group, IDA, the ADB and bilateral donors worked as cohesive teams. While there was internal
coordination, this sometimes did not appear as such to Government. During the early period of SAPP-II,
each province had large donor-assisted investments projects, including projects supported by the two
multilateral agencies. Often dialogue under the projects did not link up effectively with SAPP-II, and
counterparts were unable to distinguish between the program and projects.

While donor coordination ensured policy consistency and complemented monitoring and supervision
efforts, coordination became complicated because each donor, irrespective of the size of its financial


                                                      - 29 -

assistance, wanted to be an active participant in the project and its supervision. As a result, it often became
difficult to maintain a common, cohesive, donor stance. For instance, there was lack of clarity on
compliance criteria for expenditures eligible for reimbursement; IDA would classify some expenditures as
non-compliant which ADB would consider as eligible.

Multi-donor supervisory missions repeatedly raised issues related to service delivery, they placed focus
more on budget issues, tracking processes, input mechanisms and instruments to attain ends, than on issues
of quality and outcomes. IDA continued to reimburse expenditures even after SAPP-II was identified as a
problem project, allocations to the social sectors were declining, and progress on a number of strategic
interventions was deemed unsatisfactory. IDA neither realigned its strategy nor did it consider the use of
sanctions involving the suspension of financial support until specified outcomes had been achieved. The
realignment of strategy occurred late (i.e. after MTR) when the project was restructured. During the same
period, IDA also withheld disbursements on two occasions due to non-compliance on Financial Covenants.
Overall, Bank performance has been rated unsatisfactory, although a ranking of marginally satisfactory
may be appropriate.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
During the latter period of SAPP-I, Government requested continued donor support through a follow up
operation. High-level committees were established by Government to develop ownership for the program,
including Chief Minister's Committees in the provinces. During the SAPP-I period, the program was
reviewed at the Cabinet level under the Social Sector Advisor to the Prime Minister. Line agencies began
an intensive process for preparing sector strategies and accompanying rolling sector financing plans, with
support from donors and MSU. The first program development mission was conducted in May 1996. By
the time the pre-appraisal mission took place in December 1996, the government had changed. This
affected the pace of preparation due to staffing changes and cabinet changes at the federal level. Despite
these political and accompanying staffing changes, the momentum for preparation was maintained and
sector departments continued not only with preparation of their annual operational plans, but also
developed sector strategies. During this preparation period, the MoU for conducting Third Party
Validation Surveys (TPV) on governance issues was signed. Borrower performance during the preparation
phase was satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The coordinating agency at the federal and provincial levels were the Federal Planning and Development
Division (P&D) and Provincial Planning and Development Departments respectively. A key gap in these
arrangements was the lack of direct role of federal and provincial finance ministries. In addition, the
Federal Bureau of Statistics (FBS) was responsible for conducting the Pakistan Integrated Household
Survey (PIHS), and the Auditor General for conducting the annual Third Party Validation Surveys (TPV)
on governance issues, as well as submission of annual audit reports.

The federal and provincial P&D departments were responsible for coordinating line departments, and for
monitoring implementation. Federal and provincial steering committees were responsible for overall
program review and monitoring, based on information provided in the QMRs. QMRs became routine
reports with many significant data gaps and therefore could not be used as effective monitoring tools. The
P&D departments' own capacities could not be strengthened to effectively manage this large program, as
the capacity development program envisioned under the project never got fully underway due to procedural
and approval delays. A critical aspect of the program, efficient financial management and tracking of
expenditures, could not take off due to a lack of qualified accounting staff in these departments.




                                                     - 30 -

External tools to monitor governance and impact were produced in a timely manner. During the first two
years, TPV reports were not fully acknowledged by line departments, and it was only toward the end of the
program that they were reviewed seriously, for the purpose of taking corrective actions. While
SAPP-specific TPV surveys have ended, different provinces have agreed to conduct these surveys using
their own resources, as a tool to monitor the impact of their programs. An important success of the
program was institutionalization of the PIHS, started during SAPP-I. PIHS was effectively used to
monitor program impact during the MTR, when performance was assessed in relation to progress on
outcome indicators. Even after closure of the project, PIHS is being financed by Government, and is
continuing with changes incorporated in view of the requirements of PRSP monitoring indicators.

SAP required stability in the overall governance environment. This was not the case due to frequent
political change. There were periods, especially from 2000 onwards, when the federal government
commenced serious implementation reviews through the Social Sector Cabinet Committee (SSCC), with
active engagement of both federal and provincial government representatives. Subsequent decisions to
restructure SAPP were taken through these deliberations. Overall, implementation performance remained
uneven during different periods of implementation, ranging from marginally satisfactory to unsatisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
In the provinces and federal areas, SAP was implemented through the departments of education, health,
public health and engineering (for RWSS), and population covering all elementary education, basic health,
population and RWSS programs. These departments historically managed these programs and the sheer
size and scope of the regular program was not new to them. The new aspects were the sector-wide reforms
which were initiated by SAP which stressed the system. Donor requirements (e.g. preparation of annual
operational plans, quarterly monitoring reports, SOEs, etc.) additionally stretched their limited capacities.
While support for capacity building was included in SAPP-II, it never got fully off the ground due to delays
in establishing Imprest Accounts, and later, delays in obtaining approvals for the capacity building
programs. During the latter part of the program, the energies of the line department staff were diverted
towards resolution of audit related issues. These staff lacked financial management expertise, yielding
further capacity constraints and diverting attention away from their primary tasks.

Throughout SAP, donors interacted with provincial line departments, yet with limited or no interaction with
district officials responsible for day-to-day implementation. District officials were rarely briefed on SAP,
consequently, they did not clearly understand its objectives. While planning capacities improved through
the preparation of annual operational plans, monitoring within departments and at a more macro level
through the coordinating Planning & Development Departments remained uneven. This resulted in more
extensive donor oversight through missions, and donors were often perceived as micro managing the
program.

Implementation progress varied during different phases of implementation, and was largely dependent on
the leadership within each department and on the teams engaged in monitoring implementation. During
different periods, the performance of a sub-program improved significantly, and was considered
satisfactory due to stable and able leadership. Yet, the same sub-program might regress when such
leadership was lacking. Frequent transfers of line department secretaries, especially in the education sector,
negatively effected program implementation.

Overall, implementing agency performance is rated unsatisfactory, although a more realistic rating would
be marginally satisfactory as there were periods when, as noted above, implementation performance,
especially in the larger sub-programs, was satisfactory.




                                                    - 31 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Provincial governments were not fully attuned to a program approach as most of their previous interactions
with donors had been on more specific investment projects. This, compounded by the fact that line
departments function as compartmentalized entities, contributed to SAPP-II not being perceived as a
program. Partly because of this, inter-departmental and inter-agency coordination remained a problem
throughout the project and led to implementation delays.

The program was not viewed holistically. Sectors were viewed independent of one another and interventions
were not introduced as parts of an overall, comprehensive strategy using an integrated approach. Failure to
ensure integration of SAP sectors in a geographical area meant that cross-sectoral factors and linkages
between departments were not sufficiently accounted for. The coordinating agency in the planning and
supervision of SAP was the Planning and Development Department, which lacked adequate information on
expected resource flows. The Finance Department, being better informed on resource availability, should
have been more engaged board during the project design and implementation stages.

Weak procurement capacity in implementing agencies for following IDA's procurement procedures
affected the quality and timeliness of procurement. Provinces, however failed to engage procurement
consultants to help implementing agencies carry out project procurement more effectively in accordance
with IDA procedures. The Auditor General's office was initially not fully aware of IDA procurement
procedures - a weakness that compounded problems since AG representatives would highlight procedural
deviations that were not deviations from IDA's procurement procedures (e.g. IDA procedures do not require
that small contracts procured under National Shopping procedures be advertised), while other practices
(e.g, negotiations with the lowest bidders) were accepted by Government, but were violations of IDA's
procedures. IDA subsequently provided procurement training to AG staff assigned to the Project.

Borrower performance in SAPP-II is rated unsatisfactory, although a fairer assessment would assess
government performance as uneven for overall rating of marginally satisfactory. As noted earlier,
Government launched a number of positive initiatives, such as contract-based, facility specific recruitment
of service providers, adoption of co-education and a decision to recruit female teachers at the primary level.
Provincial governments also introduced innovative approaches for increasing enrollments, such as the
provision of scholarships for girls and free textbooks for elementary students. These initiatives are now
being funded by the provinces' own sources. However, it remains to be seen whether these approaches and
policy decisions will be continued by district governments. Factors within the control of Government, such
as recruitment bans, the delayed release of funds, and high turnover of key personnel undermined progress
towards project objectives.

8. Lessons Learned

Institutional Reform & Complexity of Program
1. Complex programs such as SAPP-II that aim to bring about gigantic institutional reform take a long
time to implement. A longer implementation time-frame, greater perseverance and stronger donor
coordination are needed to move to scale on successful `pilot' interventions and innovations and to
undertake fundamental institutional and governance reforms that require, almost as a prerequisite, changes
in orientation and mindset, attitudes, work ethics, and even political culture. The low levels of achievement
under SAPP-II provide yet another example of the failure of umbrella projects, especially those involving a
multi-sector and multi-provincial operation. Such projects are scattered in their scope. It is inherently
difficult to ensure a degree of focus that can be attained in designing programs and projects that are
province-specific and relevant to their stage of development.




                                                     - 32 -

2. The technical and political difficulties of implementation tended to be under-estimated, which resulted in
over-optimism about the pace at which success could be achieved. Failure to fully recognize that political
considerations can overwhelm technical and capacity issues and can result in programs being designed and
supported even when probability of success is low. It instills a more relaxed approach to implementation.
This factor partly explains the continued funding under SAPP-II, despite poor progress on governance
issues. If political factors are well-defined, then the process of program design, its appropriateness and the
likelihood of its success will not only be transparent but will also enable a clearer crafting of roles,
responsibilities and accountabilities, of both borrowers and donors.

3. The agenda should not be overloaded. When implementation capacity is weak, project designs should be
simple and modest in their scope, involving fewer components and executing agencies. This extensive
agenda detracted focus from the core reforms, particularly of the institutional variety, that were critical for
sustainability. Perhaps this was partly owing to the narrow specialization of some mission members and
their lack of experience of issues connected with institutional reforms and program/policy-based lending.

4. Excessively detailed policy conditionalities, especially when Government's track record was weak or
doubts persisted concerning ownership, are unlikely to have made implementation of the program more
effective. This suggests that the specific structure of conditionalities and proposed actions are less
important than the underlying political commitment to the core policy and institutional reforms. Moreover,
experience from other lending operations in Pakistan suggests that there is no clear, unambiguous evidence
concerning the effectiveness of prior actions. Proposed prior actions may not significantly influence
program/project implementation, in the absence of strong and coherent integration in the program design.
Creating and sustaining ownership requires that: (a) the program be underpinned by prolonged dialogue
prior to design finalization; and (b) stability and continuity of key personnel. If political factors are well
understood and sufficiently accounted for in the program's design, then the program's appropriateness and
likelihood of success will be greater. This will also allow for a clearer delineation of roles, responsibilities,
and accountabilities for both borrower and donor(s).

5. Not only is it difficult to apply conditionalities to complex institutional issues that are generally critical
for achieving longer term sustainability, institutional reforms in the social sectors are difficult to implement
in isolation without addressing the issue of poor governance and without undertaking fundamental
institutional reforms in the government as a whole. It is important to address and fix governance issues
before large scale program expansions. In a major program such as SAP, reforming institutions and
behaviors required a framework and teams with aligned visions to steer change. Government's programs
after SAP, i.e., PRSP, ESR, and provincial reform programs, have benefitted from this lesson as seen in
efforts to build stakeholder consensus.

6. SAP was able to introduce new alternative instruments and institutional arrangements to improve
governance without straining already scarce public resources. It addressed the issue of accountability of
service providers to service recipients by institutionalizing community participation in service delivery.
Although achievement of this objective was only partial, the concept of community involvement remains to
date in the institutional structures being designed for public service delivery. Longer-term donor
commitment to support advocacy, and mobilization efforts will help strengthen community involvement.

7.   The lessons learnt from SAPP-II experience in the area of financial management have been
successfully applied in the case of the DERA project, and have led to a wider recognition of financial
management issues in other programs.

Capacity Issues


                                                       - 33 -

8. Over optimistic assessments of Borrower capacity result in the formulation of objectives which are too
ambitious. This erodes the credibility of both borrowers and donors by establishing programs with a weak
design, on the one hand, and reforms which are carried out unevenly and haltingly, on the other. It takes
time to build adequate institutional capacity to take successful initiatives to scale, and this needs to be
adequately factored into the program design.

9. Capacity building is difficult to undertake in a multi-sector and multi-province project like SAPP-II. It
requires consistent and effective leadership to implement a well-conceived and appropriately sequenced
action plan, and the transfer of skills requires a minimum level of qualification and professional
competence in the part of counterparts.

10. Implementing agencies' financial management capacity should be comprehensively assessed during
project design and a baseline level of capacity should be in place prior to start of programs and projects.
Additionally, Government staff responsible for incurring expenditures (e.g. Drawing and Disbursing
Officers) should be provided regular training and other capacity building support.

11. Procurement capacity strengthening measures should be explicitly agreed during appraisal and put in
place as early ads possible in the project preparation phase.Measures for improving National Competitive
Bidding procedures should also be agreed upfront and incorporated in the legal agreement. There is also a
need to harmonize procurement procedures and use common bidding documents to avoid borrowers being
overly burdened by having to satisfy the requirements of different sets of procedures of donors and
government. The Bank has already taken steps in this regard.

Coordination, Management and Monitoring Issues

12. Since additional budgetary allocations were critical for service delivery improvements and considering
the importance placed on financial management and sustainability issues, much more coordination and
dialogue is required with Ministry of Finance and the provincial finance departments.

13. Continuity in supervision mission teams with an appropriate skill mix and adequate time for
conducting field visits can reduce frequent and, at times, inconsistent changes in strategies and priorities
and enhance capacity.

14. Instruments such as the PIHS strengthen knowledge of the sector and provide rich data for analyzing
and understanding household behaviors. The regularity of household surveys and the use of the data have
been a significant success of the program. Additionally, the use of third party validation has been
extremely useful in verifying program inputs and for monitoring progress in governance areas.

Future Support for Social Sector Reform

15.     An important lesson of SAP is that sector policies can be better supported through adjustment
lending which has higher visibility, and where additional resources can be leveraged through policy changes
in support of agreed outcomes. The Bank has drawn lessons from both the negative and positive aspects of
the SAP experience, and is supporting national and provincial reforms through structural adjustment
programs which include strong human development reforms. The Bank is also examining the possibilities
of providing support to social sectors through sector adjustment operations. The financing mechanism
should provide the line departments/provincial governments an incentive through the availability of
additional funds or through upfront funding.


                                                     - 34 -

16. Structural adjustment is more suitable for policy and macro adjustments and governance reforms.
Investment gaps in physical infrastructure and institutional capacity, both in hardware and software, may
be better filled by investment projects to support field level activities. Enhancing the effectiveness of
Structural Adjustment Credits (SACs) requires complementary sectoral and project lending to strengthen
capacities (say for policy formulation, planning and monitoring and evaluation) critical for improving
sectoral outcomes.

17. To avoid intra-sectoral imbalances future sectoral lending could be a hybrid of program and project
lending that is predicated upon an integrated overall investment strategy for the sector, and an action plan
that incorporates an appropriate sequencing scheme for the different sub-sectors, as opposed to the
sub-sector approach of the SAPPs.

18.      Respecting the autonomy of the new local governments, a Social Development Fund could be
established at the provincial level that district governments can draw upon by satisfying criteria that
promote national or provincial policies and goals pertaining to the social sectors. Such an institutional
mechanism could be a resource pool, funding from which would be distributed either as tied grants or
incentive based performance grants.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The ratings by the Borrower on SAPP-II are summarized below:

Performance Rating
l Outcomes                                  Un-satisfactory/modest
l Sustainability                            Likely
l Institutional Development Impact          Modest
l Bank Performance                          Satisfactory with qualifications
l Borrower Performance                      Satisfactory with qualifications

Background:
The Government of Pakistan's Social Action Program (SAP), started in 1992, was supported by donors in
two phases through Social Action Projects I and II (SAPP-I and SAPP-II). The program showed
improvements in both outcomes and expenditures during the first phase. During the second phase, from
1997 onwards, the program was supported through the multi-donor SAPP-II. Government tried to
maintain its expenditure levels, although there were shortfalls after 1998 when the country faced an acute
financial crisis. In addition, expected additional donor financing could not materialize. There were also
shortfalls out of the committed donor funds under the multi-donor SAPP-II arrangements. Despite resource
constraints, provincial governments tried their utmost to maintain expenditure levels for SAP sectors, often
at the expense of other sectors which, during the later years of SAPP-II, became difficult for the provinces
in view of multi-sector demands. However, implementing agencies maintained their focus on the priority
sectors, especially education.

Assessment of Development Objectives:
There were modest improvements in outcomes in the health sector, while improvements in the population
outcomes were better. However, the education sector, where the bulk of expenditures took place, did not
show commensurate improvements in outcomes, especially enrolments, although the gender gap in primary
education enrolments did decline during this period. Despite these modest improvements in outcomes in the



                                                      - 35 -

social sectors, there was an overall positive impact of the program.

POSITIVE IMPACTS
l For the first time in Pakistan's history, SAP and SAPP-II brought together policy makers, managers
    and implementation staff from the social sectors. It brought the importance of social sectors to the
    forefront. It was successful in changing mind-sets to a significant extent and in creating a good degree
    of awareness of the importance of investing in the social sectors.
l The multi-sector framework enabled all stakeholders to examine social sectors in a holistic manner.
l Strong emphasis was placed on the need to improve service delivery through staff training and to curb
    absenteeism, despite the fact that this could not be converted into actions at the appropriate levels.
l It helped in conceptualizing as high priority the need to develop institutions and restructure systems as
    opposed to the provision of additional funds.
l Contract-based recruitment of teachers and health sector personnel, and benefits of mixed schools and
    community schools were established as good initiatives.
l Issues of governance were highlighted and absenteeism was reported by surveys conducted by
    provincial governments with the assistance of Army Monitoring Teams, and corrective measures were
    taken to rid the system of these negative attributes.
l Scholarship and free textbooks were provided for elementary classes as an incentive for parents to send
    their children to school. Provincial governments, even after the withdrawal of donors, are following the
    incentive policies developed under this program, using their own resources. Furthermore in Sindh, this
    program has been extended to urban areas.
l Teacher-training courses were developed during SAPP-II to improve education quality. These are still
    being implemented by the provincial governments.
l PTA's and SMC's performance is rated fairly high. Provincial governments have not only supported
    these committees financially, but have also empowered committees, for example funds for school level
    procurement continue to be provided at the school committees level, setting new positive trends.
l Provincial departments feel that SAP played a pivotal role in protecting funds from cuts in an
    environment when the Finance Division had sufficient justification for imposing cuts, such as during
    the financial crisis and severe drought 1998-02.
l Most importantly, expenditures for on the social sectors were accorded some degree of protection in
    spite of severe financial crises, political instability, external shocks and serious macroeconomic
    problems.
l Enhanced emphasis on improving service delivery through staff training and checks on absenteeism of
    service providers were started.
l Corrective actions taken by provincial governments, and which continue to be taken even after the
    project has ended, on the report of the Auditor General of Pakistan in matters related to governance
    accountability and transparency of operations.
l Policy decisions to adopt co-education and induct teachers for primary level schooling.


Due to the rigidity of the program it took some time at the start to gauge the ground realities, which were
later made more apparent through reviews. Dialogues were useful in making required corrections.

Major Factors affecting implementation and outcomes
(a)      The ICR highlights the following general factors:

Lower outcomes were also due to inadequate management, inappropriate selection of sites, poor
maintenance of infrastructure, inadequacy of skilled staff, frequent transfer of key personnel, uneven
location of service outlets, non-merit based recruitment of staff, absenteeism of service providers, lack of
political ownership at the local level and limited financial and human resource capabilities in provincial


                                                       - 36 -

governments. The monitoring system did not go beyond reporting exercises and was not sufficiently results
oriented. Corrective measures were not taken adequately and in time. It generated quantitative data, but
did not highlight accuracy and qualitative aspects. Since funding was not upfront, the flow of financial
resources was neither smooth nor need-based, and delays occurred in the delivery of funds at points where
procurement was to take place or salaries paid. Finally, documentation needs were founded upon on a
weak local level system.

However, responsibility of unsatisfactory performance (SAPP-II) is a joint one by donors and GOP.
Clearer identification of capacity constraints needed to be made upfront. Low levels of donor support for
SAPP, at around 6-8% of expenditures, was perhaps disproportionate to GOP's financial support to the
program. This provided inadequate incentives. Among many reasons for unsatisfactory performance of
SAPP-II given in the ICR, one thing is missing, i.e. insufficient evaluation carried out to derive lessons
from SAPP-I due to a lack of time. Some of the consultants hired to do this either did not perform
adequately or were recruited too late due to bureaucratic problems. This should have been noted in the
report.

(b)     Donor Related Factors:
Three supervision missions were undertaken to supervise SAPP-II. The objectives were to review the draft
Operational Plan for the fiscal year, issues related budget, eligibility of operational plans, and to resolve
program and budgetary issues. In the middle of the year, supervision missions were conducted to review
implementation status. The focus of the missions was on expenditures.

     - Supervision missions were well planned and comprehensive in so far as identifying the range of
        issues but were ineffective in addressing the key strategic ones. Because of inadequacies of
        provincial governments, frequent changes in leadership and governance issues resulted in making
        the supervision mission' task more difficult and a fresh start had to be made frequently.
     - Issues to address the trends in outcomes, such as learning assessment and movement on
        institutional and governance reforms, remained largely in the background. This resulted in delayed
        formulation and enforcement of financial management system, which was not only complicated,
        but also changed continuously due to a lack of capacity to run it efficiently at the operational level.
     - Supervision missions worked at the provincial level, and did not conduct adequate assessment of
        service delivery improvement, or direct interaction with district and field level staff.
     - Moreover, partly owing to the wide scope and dispersed nature of country-wide service facilities,
        Aide Memoires were comprehensive, but not sufficiently internalized by implementing partners.
        This led to confusion in setting priorities for addressing issues, and agreeing on doable actions and
        targets.
     - IDA did not put adequate emphasis on the implementation of capacity building activities at the
        field level. Resultantly, implementation of them took place at the tail end of the project period;
     - The perception was that the MSU played a supervisory and oversight function.

SUSTAINABILITY:
Several policy areas which emerged during the SAP period, and which also were part of SAPP-II, are being
continued after the closure of SAP/P. After SAP, the PRSP provides a strategic framework for
development of the social sectors, with a strong social sector focus as expenditures on basic social services
are considered to be pro poor. The PRSP is also anchored on achievement of the Millennium Development
Goals.

In addition, the concerned governments are continuing important polices started during SAP. These include
a focus on girls primary and elementary education; special incentives such as free textbooks and


                                                     - 37 -

scholarships for girls; sustained increases in social sector spending over the past two years, especially in
education; involvement of communities in the education sector through parent teacher associations and
school committees; continuation, with government financing, of important health programs such as LHW,
EPI, AIDS; reforms to improve financial management; continuation of quality programs such as teacher
training programs; commencement of a national education assessment program; and continuation of third
party assessments by provincial governments. An important part of the SAP reforms was decentralization,
which could not be implemented as envisioned. However, a similar agenda is now being advanced by the
Government under the devolution reform process, with the establishment of local governments and the
transfer of basic social service delivery responsibility to district governments. In view of all these efforts,
it is expected that service delivery and outcomes will improve over the coming years. In view of these
considerations, sustainability is considered likely.

LESSONS LEARNT:
l The agenda should not be overloaded. Project designs should be simpler and more limited in scope,
     with fewer components and implementing agencies.
l Political factors should be well defined, as should the identification and assessment of risks at the time
     of program formulation.
l The time frame for implementation of the program should be longer to account for the fact that
     SAPP-II introduced into the system a number of new innovations, mechanisms and the institutional
     arrangements for provincial governments, which had limited capabilities in an environment of uncertain
     political commitments.
l Institutional reform cannot be achieved simply by applying conditionalities without addressing the core
     issues, i.e. governance and fundamental institutional reform.
l Capacity building requires consistent and effective leadership to implement a well conceived and
     appropriately sequence action plan.
l A social development fund could be established as an alternative institutional mechanism at the
     provincial level so that district governments can accomplish their goals more easily. Funding would be
     distributed as tied grants or incentive-based performance grants.
l SAPP-II was an umbrella project with multi-sector, multi-province and multi-donor coverage and
     inputs. To ensure a greater degree of focus, the project should have been province specific and relevant
     to the situation of a province with more emphasis on outcomes.
l The provincial finance departments should have been fully on board, especially for recurrent budgets.
l Procurement capacities should be strengthened at the project preparation phase. NCB requires
     improvements and there is a need to harmonize the procurement procedures and the use of common
     bidding documents.
l Training is a key input in all cases and at all levels to make better use of financial resources. It is the
     person behind the delivery of service that counts, particularly in education where the teacher is the key
     determinant of quality.

(b) Cofinanciers:
The European Commission (EC) and the Department for International Development (DfID) state that the
ICR comprehensively covers their observations. Both EC and DfID agree to co-own the report.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Consultations were conducted in the context of the preparation of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
and the Poverty Assessment Report, and by partner donors such as DfID, and the outcome of these
deliberations has been incorporated in the ICR.

10. Additional Information




                                                      - 38 -

N/A




       - 39 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
Total enrollment government schools (1-5) -- 53                            42
male, female, total
Combined government and non- government 71                                 72
rate (1-5) -- male, female, total
Gross middle (6-8) enrollment rates          40                            41
Children aged 10-18 years that left school   15                            15
before completing primary level
Infant mortality rate                        89                            82

1. End of Project
2. From PIHS 2001-2002
Output Indicators:
                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
Education
Number of Primary Schools                                                  127,709
Number of Middle Schools                                                   12,984
Enrollment in Primary Schools                                              9,555,929
Enrollment in Middle Schools                                               2,524,558
Number of Teachers in Primary Schools                                      373,000
Number of Teachers in Middle Schools                                       96,000


Health
Number of Lady Health Workers                                              73,448
Number of Lady Health Visitors                                             5,845
Number of Basic Health Units                                               5,230
Number of Rural Health Centers                                             541


Population Welfare
Number of Family Welfare Centers                                           3,219
RHS A Centers                                                              25


1End of project
Annex 1: Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix




                                                        - 40 -

Table 1: Net Enrollment Rates at the Primary Level
                                                 Net Primary Enrollment Rates (%)
                                            1998-99                            2001-02
                                  Male        Female      Overall    Male       Female  Overall
                 Urban              54          57         56         57          58     57
Punjab           Rural              44          35         40         44          38     41
                 Overall            47          40         44         47          43     45
                 Urban              63          57         60         56          50     53
Sindh            Rural              37          21         29         41          25     33
                 Overall            47          35         41         46          34     40
                 Urban              59          49         54         59          51     55
NWFP             Rural              45          27         37         47          31     39
                 Overall            47          30         39         48          33     41
                 Urban              58          51         54         55          41     49
Balochistan      Rural              42          25         34         36          21     29
                 Overall            44          28         36         39          24     32
                 Urban              58          56         57         57          54     56
Pakistan         Rural              43          30         37         43          33     38
                 Overall            47          37         42         46          38     42
Source: PIHS 2001-02
1. Enrollment in katchi is excluded
2. Original figures have been used for 2001-02

Table 2: Net Enrollment Rates at the Middle Level
                                                  Net Middle Enrollment Rates (%)
                                            1998-99                            2001-02
                                  Male        Female     Overall     Male       Female  Overall
                 Urban              27          26         26         24          32     28
Punjab           Rural              18          12         16         16          12     14
                 Overall            21          16         19         18          18     18
                 Urban              29          27         28         22          27     24
Sindh            Rural              14           3          9         12          4       8
                 Overall            20          13         17         15          12     14
                 Urban              24          17         21         25          21     23
NWFP             Rural              15           5         10         15          6      11
                 Overall            16           7         11         16          8      12
                 Urban              23          13         18         19          13     16
Balochistan      Rural              9            5          7         10          2       6
                 Overall            11           6          9         11          4       8
                 Urban              27          25         26         23          29     26
Pakistan         Rural              16           9         13         15          8      12
                 Overall            19          13         16         17          14     16
Source: PIHS 2001-02
1. Original figures have been used for 1998-99 and 2001-02




                                                     - 41 -

Table 3: Access to Primary Schools in Rural Areas (2001-02)
                                     Percentage of rural households with school within their community

       Type of School                In the    Within     Within 2-    Within      Within      Over 20
                                      PSU     0-2 Km         5 Km      6-10 Km      11-20
                                                                                     Km          Km

Govt. Primary school for girls         67         7           12          5            5          3
Govt. Primary school for               85         6            5          2            1          1
boys
Pvt. Primary school for girls           7         6           12          15          16          44
Pvt. Primary school for boys            7         6           13          15          15          44
Pvt. Primary school (co-edu.)          30         6           12          15          16          21
Source: PIHS 2001-02

Table 4: School Quality Indicators
                       School Infrastructure                               % of Schools in Sample
Adequate building                                                                    33
Furniture                                                                            51
Textbooks                                                                            23
Drinking water                                                                       52
Toilets                                                                              48
Electricity                                                                          32
Separate girls toilet (co-ed facilities)                                             16
Source: PRHS (2001) Poverty Assessment Report, World Bank

Table 5: Teacher Absenteeism
                         Schools with no      Teacher attendance in schools with classes being held (%)
                        classes being held
                               (%)             Total teachers       Male teachers       Female teachers

Punjab                          3.5                 75.3                 77.6                 72.6
Sindh                          28.6                 77.5                 87.3                 11.1
NWFP                           22.7                 90.8                 94.3                 80.6
Balochistan                    25.0                 85.0                 90.6                 36.4
Pakistan                       16.5                 81.2                 86.2                 68.5
Source: PRHS (2001) Poverty Assessment Report, World Bank

Table 6: Main Reasons for Never Attending School (2001-02)
 Main Reasons for Never                    Boys of Age 10-18                  Girls of Age 10-18
     Attending School               Urban       Rural     Pakistan     Urban        Rural      Pakistan
Too expensive                          53        36           40          33          25          26
Child not willing                      22        30           29          11           6          7
Too far away                           2         10            8          3           15          14
Had to help with work                  5          5            5          1            2          2
Parents/elders disapproved             1          3            3          36          36          36
Had to help at home                    1          2            2          3            5          5
Education not useful                   1          1            1          1            1          1
Other                                  15        12           13          12          10          10
Source: PIHS 2001-02




                                                       - 42 -

  Table 7: Main Reasons for Leaving School (PIHS, 2001-02)
   Main Reasons for Leaving               Boys of Age 10-18                 Girls of Age 10-18
             School                Urban        Rural    Pakistan      Urban      Rural      Pakistan
  Child not willing                  39          49         46          28          24          25
  Too expensive                      35          26         29          24          17          19
  Had to help with work               8          6           7           2          2            2
  Had to help at home                 1          4           3           7          8            8
  Parents/elders disapproved          4          2           3          16          18          17
  Education completed                 1          0           0           1          1            1
  Too far away                        0          2           2           1          7            6
  Other                              11          11         11          20          22          21
  Source: PIHS 2001-02
1

Table 8: Percentage of Children Aged 12-23 Months that have been Fully Immunized (based on record and recall)
                   Children Aged 12-23 Months (At Least One Immunization % )
                                      1998-99                      2001-02
                          Male       Female      Both       Male         Female         Both
  URBAN                    64          63         64          70           71            70
  AREAS
  Punjab                   62          68         64          72           80            76
  Sindh                    66          54         60          66           63            64
  NWFP                     82          74         77          81           57            70
  Balochistan              51          52         51          34           37            36
  RURAL                    47          42         45          48           45            46
  AREAS
  Punjab                   56          47         52          52           50            51
  Sindh                    31          24         27          39           26            33
  NWFP                     49          54         51          52           57            55
  Balochistan              35          29         32          22           21            22
  OVERALL                  52          47         49          53           52            53
  Punjab                   57          52         55          57           58            57
  Sindh                    42          35         38          49           40            45
  NWFP                     52          56         54          56           57            57
  Balochistan              36          32         34          24           24            24
 Source: PIHS 2001-02


Table 9: Infant Mortality (Per 1000 Live Births)
                                                         1998-99                    2001-02
                                                     (1995-97 Period)          (1997-99 Period)
All Pakistan                                                89                        82
Urban                                                       73                        65
Rural                                                       95                        88
Male                                                        90                        84
Female                                                      89                        81
By Mother's Education*
        No Education                                        90                        89
        Class 1-4**                                         56                        80
        Class 5-9                                                                     61
        Class 10 or more                                                              49
Source: PIHS 2001-02



                                                    - 43 -

* Figures for 1998-99 have been taken from Poverty Assessment Report (Table 3.10)
** For 1998-99, the category "class 1-4" contains percentage for "some education" in Table 3.10 Poverty
Assessment Report

 Table 10: Female Health Care (Related to Childbirth) ­ 2001-02
                                                                       1998-99                2001-02
 Pre-natal Consultation (%)
 All Pakistan                                                             31                     35
 Rural                                                                    22                     26
 Urban                                                                    60                     63
 Delivery Occurred at Home (%)
 All Pakistan                                                             82                     78
 Rural                                                                    89                     86
 Urban                                                                    61                     55
 Delivery Unassisted by Trained Personnel (%)*
 All Pakistan                                                             40                     37
 Rural                                                                    43                     44
 Urban                                                                    25                     20
 Post-natal Consultation (%)
 All Pakistan                                                              9                     9
 Rural                                                                     6                     6
 Urban                                                                    17                     16
 Source: PIHS 2001-02
 *This category includes: Family member/relative, neighbor, TBA, LHW and other

 Table 11: Selected Characteristics of Government Health Facilities (2001-02)

 Characteristic of Health Facility                                   Facility
                                      Dispensary          RHC              BHU              All Three
 % of facilities with no female
 staff                                      53              0                7                  21

 Average number of patients
 during past week                           14             82               43                  38

 % of facilities with electricity           47             88               83                  72
 % of facilities with stock of:
 Oral re-hydration salts                    69             82               76                  75
 Contraceptives                             20             47               59                  46
 Anti malaria                               80             88               85                  84
 Vaccines                                   29             94               71                  60
 Source: PIHS 2001-02




                                                      - 44 -

Table 12: Access to Health Facilities in Rural Areas (Community Questionnaire)

          Facility               Percentage of rural households with facilities present in their village
                                 Punjab          Sindh        NWFP       Balochistan         Pakistan
Government hospital                  3              1           3               0                2
Government dispensary               11             16           11             19                12
Private hospital                     5              3           1               1                4
Private dispensary                  13             16           11              3                13
Private practitioner                21             22           30              6                22
Rural health centre                  4              5           13              4                6
Basic health unit                   18             11           33             12                18
MCH center                           4              3           11              0                5
Family welfare centre                9              3           10              0                8
FP mobile service unit              18              1           9               0                12
Village FP worker                   29             16           27              1                24
Community health worker              6              4           4               0                5
Immunization camp                   16              3           21              2                13
Lady health worker                  80             36           44             21                62
Trained Dai                         34             33           38             10                33
Source: PIHS 2001-02

Table 13: Knowledge and Use of Contraception
(Married Women, Age 15-49)
                              Knowledge of                   Ever Use                Currently Using
                           Contraceptives (%)           Contraceptives (%)         Contraceptives (%)
                          1998-99        2001-02        1998-99    2001-02       1998-99         2001-02
All Pakistan                 93             96            23          26            17              19
   Rural                     91             95            17          21            12              14
   Urban                     99             99            39          40            29              31
Source: PIHS 2001-02

Table 14: Mean Number of Children Ever Born (Married Women, Aged 15-49)
                                                           Mean No. of Children Born
                                                  1998-99                            2001-02
All Pakistan                                         4.2                                 4.1
   Rural                                             4.2                                 4.1
   Urban                                             4.1                                 4.0
Source: PIHS 2001-02




                                                      - 45 -

Table 15: Water and Sanitation (Pakistan-Overall)
                                                         1998-99                   2001-02
Drinking Water:
         Piped indoor                                      22                        22
         Tap outside house                                 4                          3
         Hand/motor pump*                                  57                        61
         Open source (river, pond)                         18                        14
Drains:
         Underground                                       14                        14
         Covered                                           2                          2
         Open                                              34                        35
         None                                              50                        49
Toilet:
         Yes                                               54                        57
         No                                                46                        43
Source: PIHS 2001-02
1. Piped indoor-Tap in house
2. Open source-Dug well, River/Canal/Stream and other
3. Hand pump/M. pump includes handpumps both inside and outside, motor pump and tubewell outside the
house

Table 16: Water Supply and Sanitation (Pakistan-Rural)
                                                         1998-99                   2001-02
Drinking Water: Piped indoor                               9                          8
                Tap outside house                          3                          2
                Hand/motor pump*                           65                        70
                Open source (river, pond)                  23                        20
Drains:         Underground                                1                          1
                Covered                                    1                          1
                Open                                       31                        33
                None                                       68                        66
Toilet:         Yes                                        37                        41
                No                                         63                        59
Source: PIHS 2001-02
1. Piped indoor-Tap in house
2. Open source-Dug well, River/Canal/Stream and other
3. Hand pump/M. pump includes handpumps both inside and outside, motor pump and tubewell outside the
house

Table 17: TPV Results
                                                 Compliance Percentage
                        Recruitment          Procurement        Absenteeism        Site Selection
Round I
March 1998                   72%                 59%               50%                  49%

Round II
March 1999                   95%                 54%               40%                  59%

Round III
March 2000                   62%                 50%               30%                  81%

Round IV
March 2001                   64%                 36%               31%                  62%




                                                   - 46 -

Fig.1: Results of TPV Exercises

                     Results of the Last Four Rounds of TPV


                  100   95
                   90                                         81

                   80 72    62
                                                                  62
                   70        64                            59
                   60              5954 50    50         49             1998
                   50                     36     40
           Percent 40                               3031                1999

                   30                                                   2000
                   20                                                   2001
                   10
                   0
                     Recruitment Procurement Absenteesim   Site
                                             Monitoring  Selection
                                               System




                                                  - 47 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
          Project Cost by Component               Appraisal   Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                  Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
                                                 US$ million  US$ million
Program Support (27 Sub Programs)                   8427.6            5171           61%
Participatory Development Program                      47.1               0           0%
Coordination, M&E                                      28.8             4.1          14%
TA & Institutional Capacity Development                16.9             1.1           6%
Total Baseline Cost                                8520.4            5176.2       60.75%




                                                 - 48 -

  .



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    Percentage of Appraisal
       Component              Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                           Bank     Govt.       CoF.    Bank       Govt.       CoF.  Bank   Govt.   CoF.
Program Support (27 Sub   218.70  8045.80      163.10   213.00    4918.00     40.00  97.4    61.1    24.5
Programs)
Participatory Development 15.90     0.00       31.20     0.00       0.00       0.00  0.0     0.0     0.0
Program
Coordination, M&E          9.70     0.00       19.10     1.00       3.10       0.00  10.3    0.0     0.0
TA & Institutional         5.70     0.00       11.20     0.20       0.90       0.00  3.5     0.0     0.0
Capacity Development
DERA                       0.00     0.00        0.00    29.80       0.00       0.00  0.0     0.0     0.0




                                                 - 49 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

NA




                                      - 50 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              May 1996                  6    SOC.SECTOR TEAM LEADER
                                             (1); EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1) HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                             POPULATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); SOCIAL SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)
              June 1996                 6    SOC.SECTOR TEAM LEADER
                                             (1); EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1) HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                             POPULATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); SOCIAL SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)
              November 1996             7    SOC.SECTOR TEAM LEADER
                                             (1); EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1) HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                             POPULATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); SOCIAL SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                             FIN. MGT SPECIALIST (1)

              December 1996             7    SOC.SECTOR TEAM LEADER
                                             (1); EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1) HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                             POPULATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); SOCIAL SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                             FIN. MGT SPECIALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              January 1997              7    SOC.SECTOR TEAM
                                             LEADER (1); EDUCATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1) HEALTH
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             POPULATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                                             SECTOR SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC.
                                             (1); FIN. MGT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)

              10/11/1997                7    SOC.SECTOR TEAM LEADER
                                             (1); EDUCATION SPECIALIST



                                              - 51 -

                            (1) HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                            POPULATION SPECIALIST
                            (1); SOCIAL SECTOR
                            SPECIALIST (1);
                            PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                            FIN. MGT SPECIALIST (1)


Supervision
           08/04/1998




           12/09/1998




           05/17/1999    9  SOC. SEC. TEAM LEADER (1);     S    S
                            EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                            HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                            POPULATION SPECIALIST
                            (1); SR. SOCIAL SECTOR
                            SPEC (1); HR SPECIALIST (1);
                            SOC. SECTOR SPECIALIST
                            (1); PRINCIPAL ECONOMIST
                            (1); FINANCIAL MGT.
                            CONSULT (1)
           08/15/1999    5  SOCIAL SCTR TEAM LDR (1);      S    U
                            SR SOC. SECTOR SPEC. (1);
                            SR. EDUCATION SPEC. (1);
                            PRINCIPAL ECONOMIST (1);
                            FINANCIAL MGT SPEC. (1)

           02/22/2000    10 SOCIAL SECTOR TEAM LDR
                            (1); SR SOCIAL SECTOR
                            SPEC. (1); SR EDUCATION
                            SPEC. (1); SR. ECONOMIST
                            (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                            (1); FIN. MANAGEMENT
                            SPEC. (1); PRINCIPAL HD
                            SPECIALIST (1); PRINCIPAL
                            ECONOMIST (1);
                            COMMUNITY
                            DEVELOPMENT SPEC. (1);
                            PROGRAM ASST. (1); SR.
                            WATER & SANITATION
                            SPECIALIST (1)



           05/23/2000    10 SOCIAL SECTOR TEAM LDR         U    U
                            (1); SR SOCIAL SECTOR
                            SPEC. (1); SR EDUCATION
                            SPEC. (1); SR. ECONOMIST
                            (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER



                            - 52 -

                     (1); FIN. MANAGEMENT
                     SPEC. (1); PRINCIPAL HD
                     SPECIALIST (1); PRINCIPAL
                     ECONOMIST (1);
                     COMMUNITY
                     DEVELOPMENT SPEC. (1);
                     PROGRAM ASST. (1); SR.
                     WATER & SANITATION
                     SPECIALIST (1)




10/23/2000 Mid    12 TASK TEAM LEADER/SR.          U    U
Term Review          SOCIAL SECTOR SPEC. (1);
                     LEAD SPECIALIST (1);
                     OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                     SR. ECONOMIST (1); SR.
                     EDUCATION SPECIALIST (2);
                     SR. HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                     REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH
                     SPECIALIST (1); PRINCIPAL
                     ECONOMIST (1); FINANCIAL
                     MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                     (1); SR. WATER &
                     SANITATION SPECIALIST (1);
                     SR. COMMUNITY
                     DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                     (1)



03/15/2001        7  TEAM LEADER/SR. SOCIAL        S    U
                     SECTOR SPEC. (1); HEALTH
                     SPECIALIST (2); SR.
                     EDUCATION SPECIALIST (2);
                     OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                     FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                     SPEC. (1)

09/15/2001        8  TASK LEADER (1); SR.          S    U
                     HEALTH/REPROD.SPEC (1);
                     SR. EDUCATION SPEC. (1);
                     SR. PROCUREMENT SPEC.
                     (1); LEAD, HD (1); SR.
                     HEALTH SPEC. (1); SR. FIN.
                     MGT. SPEC. (1);
                     DISBURSEMENT ANALYST
                     (1)

02/12/2002        7  SR. EDUC. SPECIALIST (3);     S    U
                     SR. HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                     CONSULTANT (1); LEAD
                     OPERAT. OFFICER (1); LEAD
                     HUMAN DEV. SPEC. (1)



                     - 53 -

 ICR
               01/30/2003             8     SR. EDU. SPECIALIST (2);
                                            SR. HEALTH SPECIALIST
                                            (1); SR. ECONOMIST (1);
                                            SR. FIN. MG. SPEC (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (2); SR.
                                            WATER & SANITATION
                                            SPECIALIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           267.0                         759.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                  116                           343
  Supervision                          343.0                        2079.6
  ICR                                      20                          100
  Total                                  746                        3282.1




                                            - 54 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 55 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 56 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

A review of Selected RWSS Transferred to, Operated and Maintained by the Communities (October 1998)
Aide Memoires : SAPP-II Preparation Mission (1996 - 1998)
Aide Memoires : SAPP-II Supervision Missions (1999 ­ 2002)
Country Assistance Strategy, 2001 (World Bank Document)
Current Demographic Situation Sector Problems and Issues and The Way Forward ­ Population Sector in
Pakistan (October 2001)
Devolution in Health Progress and Prospects ­ Local Government Ordinance 2001 (October 2001)
Education Sector Reforms ­ Action Plan, Ministry of Education, Government of Pakistan (2001)
Health Policy, Ministry of Health, Government of Pakistan (2001)
Household Income Expenditure Surveys, Government of Pakistan
Including the Poor in the PRSP process by Consulting the Poor at the Grass Roots - Rural Support
Programme Network (RSPN), supported by DFID (2003)
Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, Government of Pakistan (2001)
Memorandum and Recommendation of the President for the Sindh Structural Adjustment Credit, World
Bank (2002)
Memorandum and Recommendation of the President for the NWFP Structural Adjustment Credit, World
Bank (2002)
Pakistan Integrated Household Survey (PIHS), Federal Bureau of Statistics
Pakistan Poverty Assessment Report, World Bank Report
Pakistan Rural Household Survey (PRHS), Government of Pakistan
Project Appraisal Document, Second Social Action Program Project, World Bank Document (1998)
Project Status Reports, World Bank
Reports of Federal SAP Secretariat, Planning & Development Division, Government of Pakistan (2000 -
2001)
Reports on Provincial Stakeholder Workshops (Punjab, Sindh, NWFP)
Report on Workshop with Senior Government Officials at the Federal Level
Seminar Report on: Pakistan National Symposium on International Experiences with Decentralization and
Education, World Bank (Quetta, June 2001)
SAP Management and SAP Institutional Arrangements (November 2000)
SAPP-II Mid-Term Review ­ Performance Indicators 1991-1999 (Final Reports - all provinces and areas)
- Oxford Policy Management
Third Party Validation: Report on Governance Issues, Government of Pakistan (March 2001)

Multi-Donor Support Unit (MSU) Reports:
Analysis of the Last Four Rounds: Third Party Validation (TPV) Report: Governance Issues (March 2001)
Analytical Papers ­ Analysis of Reimbursements under SAPP-II (May 2000)
Bunyad (NGO) Report on School Management Committees, Punjab
Case Studies of School Management Committees conducted for all provinces (World Bank Study)
Current Status, Issues and Future Strategies ­ Water Supply and Sanitation in Pakistan (October 2001)
Elementary Education in Pakistan ­ Current Status, Issues and Future Strategies (October 2001)
Governance in the Social Sector in Pakistan ­ Analysis, Issues and Recommendations (October 2001)
Report of National Technical Group Meeting (TGM): Devolution and Decentralization: Implication for the
Education Sector ­ February 2001, Islamabad
Report of the Participatory Development Program (PDP) Awareness Seminar - Sukkur (MSU Report)
SAP Report on TGM on Devolution and Decentralization: Implication for the Education Sector (June
2001)
SAP Sector Statistics 1992/93 ­ 1998/99 (April 2000)


                                                  - 57 -

Seminar on Community Participation in School Education (December 1998)
Staff Turnover in SAP Implementing Department (May 2000)
Strengthening School Councils in Punjab (MSU Report)
Strengthening School Management Committees in Sindh (MSU Report)
Technical Group Meeting (TGM) Report on Community Participation in Support of Strengthening District
Health Systems (March 2001)
Workshop Report on Strengthening School Management Committee in Sindh (January 2002)




                                               - 58 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

During 2000 ­ 2003, several beneficiary assessment surveys and dialogues with the community were
conducted by the Bank, the Government, civil society organizations and other donors such as DfID. These
were conducted in the context of preparation of the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PRSP) including the DfID supported consultations conducted by the Rural Support Network: grassroots
consultations for preparation of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS); Bank's Poverty
Assessment Report; Case studies for assessing role and functions of School Management Committees
(SMCs) etc. The findings of these surveys and consultations were used to assess the impact of SAP from
the beneficiary perspective.

SAPP-II was not a stand alone investment project, and was focused on improving access and quality of the
social services delivery provided through the public sector. The communities consulted highlighted the
responses of the ordinary citizen and rural poor. The breakdown of governance was critically noted in
these consultations where poor felt marginalized from the limited or no access to government. The
communities expressed their priorities for human development, especially education and health. One major
community demand was for water, especially during the time when there was a drought situation in the
country ­ especially in Sindh and Balochistan provinces. But overall education was the number one
priority, followed by health care. In almost all beneficiary consultations, the condition of government
facilities was considered very weak, with many facilities cited as being non functional due to lack of staff,
especially teachers and health workers. Lack of female facilities, and women's limited access to health and
pre and ante natal care was consistently raised as an issue. It was evident from these consultations that the
decade of SAP (supported by donors through Social Action Program Projects I and II) did not lead to
visible improvements in delivery of these basic social services pointing towards the urgent need to not only
fix service delivery but also to fix the underlying systemic governance issues.

Three key aspects stand out in these diverse consultations and dialogue:

a)       Interestingly, while the rural poor expressed low confidence in the quality of public service delivery
they still have high expectations that Government will and should provide these services, and there is high
demand for quality education and health services. This demonstrates the urgency of fixing basic service
delivery, which is as important a need now as it was when SAP was put in place in the early nineties.

b)       The services meant for the poor are not in fact reaching them, and there is very little, if any,
recourse that the poor have to reach out to the decision makers. In this respect, there was some hope that
the local governments, being closer to the people, would improve service delivery conditions.

c)       The importance of community involvement, through local community groups/organizations was
considered critical for achieving greater accountability in the system. In case studies conducted for SMCs,
it was evident that support organizations play a significant role in helping communities to mobilize and in
empowering them.

The range of beneficiary consultations and dialogue with communities is available in several reports listed
in the section on documentation consulted.




                                                     - 59 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

Executive Summary of Federal and Provincial Focus Group Workshops

Introduction
To facilitate the preparation of a Learning ICR for SAPP-II, focus group discussions were held with policy
makers at the federal level and district officials and field-level staff (doctors, teachers, LHWs, Lady Health
Visitors [LHVs] and community mobilization staff) from Punjab, NWFP and Sindh. The purpose
underlying these deliberations were to assess the successes and failures of SAPP-II in achieving its
objectives, review the progress in improving social service delivery, determine the sustainability of
initiatives launched under SAPP-II, identify the reasons for sub-optimal performance of various
sub-programs, evaluate project impact on governance and institutional reforms and elicit the views of
policy makers and implementation staff on donor management and supervision of the project. This
summary tries to encapsulate the direction, content and tenor of this dialogue, which provided useful
insights for incorporation in the ICR.

1. Impact of SAPP-II on Trends in Social Indicators and Outcomes

Impact of SAP
Participants generally agreed that SAP had been successful in focusing government attention on designing
efficient and sustainable water supply systems, and on improving the health indicators through recognition
of the primacy of preventive health care in contrast with the greater emphasis on curative health services in
previous health programs of the government. Participants appreciated SAP's focus on the provision of
elementary education and noted that while there had been some improvement in the delivery of educational
services, overall education outcomes were not up to expectations. However, while there had been some
improvement in the delivery of social services, the benefits that had accrued were not commensurate with
the investments made and the funds expended on the program. The appointment of female staff (especially
that of female paramedics) in health facilities was perceived to be a major reason for enhanced access.

Participants reported that during SAP the teaching environment had greatly improved as a result of the
upgrading of physical infrastructure ­ involving electrification of schools, construction of additional
classrooms and the provision of missing facilities (such as boundary walls and latrines). District level
officials regarded the provision of drinking water as a basic public service and appreciated SAP's focus on
the rural water supply sector. However, some were of the opinion that adequate attention had not been
given to the importance of water quality and the provision of sewerage related infrastructure which resulted
in health problems related to water borne diseases.

Awareness and Ownership of SAP Objectives
There was a perception that ownership of SAPP-II remained weak, largely because of frequent transfers of
administrators and the failure to appreciate the need for continuously building ownership through sustained
dialogue. Awareness of SAPP-II objectives and scope was believed to be particularly poor at the district
level

To ensure the achievement of SAP goals and enhance effective implementation, most respondents
emphasized the need for an ongoing concerted effort to generate understanding of the social sector reform
agenda and associated objectives at all levels of government.

Teachers and district officials supported recent initiatives like girls' scholarships and free textbooks, and
reported that these interventions had been relatively successful in inducing a change in parental attitudes



                                                     - 60 -

towards education. In their opinion, parents regarded scholarships/cash rewards as the most powerful
incentive for sending their children to school.

Intra-sectoral Imbalances
Some stakeholders highlighted the issue of intra-sectoral imbalances created by SAPP-II. In their view the
enhanced focus on elementary education and primary health care was achieved at the expense of the higher
education and tertiary health care services, which, for instance, accentuated the issues of limited access to
education at the secondary level for those graduating from elementary grades.

Coordination between line departments
It was generally accepted that coordination between the line departments remained weak throughout
SAPP-II.

Coverage of health services
Although some participants were of the opinion that there had been a marked improvement in the coverage
of primary health services during SAPP-II, district officials and field level staff were of the view that since
a significant proportion of the health facilities were located at long distances from settlements it was
difficult for some communities to gain access to health services. Hence, despite greater awareness of the
importance of primary health care among the target population, the utilization of health facilities continued
to be lower than what had been hoped for.

Several field personnel reported significant progress made in enhancing awareness and in the use of family
planning methods. As a result, fertility rates had declined. District and field-level staff reported a
substantial increase in immunization coverage and a perceptible decrease in the IMR and MMR. These
positive trends in the health indicators were attributed to recruitment of female staff and LHVs at BHUs,
and their improved presence at the health outlets and better, albeit moderate, availability of medicines and
supplies.

Field staff maintained that Lady Health Workers had played an instrumental role in convincing expectant
mothers of the need for ante-natal care and reported increases in the percentage of women receiving
ante-natal care services at the health facilities. Lady doctors and LHVs were of the opinion that there was a
gradual increase in the proportion of deliveries conducted by trained personnel.

2. Progress in Addressing Cross-Sectoral Issues

Sustainability
Although direct financial assistance to PTAs/School Management Committees/Councils from provincial
governments continues to be available after devolution, district officials felt that it was too early to pass a
judgement on the sustainability of the SAPP-II focus on social sectors and on enhanced allocations for
non-salary inputs. Concerns were expressed on the durability of some initiatives and institutions such as the
PTAs/SMCs/SCs and Water User Associations.

Most field level staff and district officials claimed that barring a minority of need-based schemes that
communities would continue to maintain, the balance, particularly the mechanized drainage schemes, would
eventually be abandoned. These were considered unsustainable since the communities did not have the
financial wherewithal to bear the high electricity tariffs.

Some participants felt that SMCs may either be wound up or may wither away if funding was discontinued
by the provincial governments, since district governments did not have adequate resources to fund SMCs.


                                                      - 61 -

Institutional capacity
It was generally accepted that line departments did not have adequate planning, implementing and
monitoring capacity. This capability was particularly weak in matters related to financial management. Nor
had this capability been developed on a timely and durable basis under SAPP-II. Resultantly, the same
problems occurred repeatedly. Based on SAPP-II experience, these capacities were being improved.

Monitoring
District officials and field staff were of the view that effective monitoring required the provision of
transportation facilities or travel and per diem allowances (TA/DA) for district level supervisory staff.
They maintained that lack of transportation or inadequate budgetary provisions for TA/DA payments to
supervisory staff had constrained their oversight functions.

Sustainability of Water Supply Schemes
District officials of one province maintained that notwithstanding the moratorium on new rural water
supply schemes that was in operation for the most part of SAPP-II, those implemented under KPP and
other programs continued to add to the stock of rural water supply systems executed without community
participation. This had made it difficult to transfer the O&M responsibilities to the beneficiary
communities.

Staffing

Contract-based Recruitment
Participants agreed that the recruitment of local teachers on facility specific contracts had improved the
functioning of primary schools. However, some were of the view that since pay incentives for contract
employees were inadequate and their career paths and prospects uncertain, they feared that these teachers
would be de-motivated, which would affect the quality of service provision.

Transfers
The frequent transfers of key officials responsible for the planning, implementation and supervision of
SAPP-II adversely affected program performance through loss of consistent leadership, institutional
memory and understanding of project objectives.

Ban on Recruitment
Owing to the continued ban on recruitments many posts essential for operationalizing constructed facilities
remained vacant for long periods, although, under SAPP-II the social sectors were exempted from these
bans. District officials were of the opinion that the lack of qualified staff in rural health facilities in
particular was severely restricting access to health-care. In their view, doctors needed to be recruited on
more attractive pay packages to serve in the rural areas.

Decentralization
Participants from the federal and district governments recognized SAPP-IIs positive impact on
decentralization of administrative functions to lower tiers as they regarded devolution as a more powerful
institutional arrangement for improving the quality of services in the SAP sectors of education and health.

District and implementation staff claimed that Tehsil Municipal Administration (TMAs) did not have
adequate technical capacity to maintain the water supply schemes handed over to them. Participants noted
that the TMAs were not adhering to the uniform policy in the RWSS sector and hence expressed their
concerns on post devolution sustainability of community participation in designing, implementing and


                                                      - 62 -

managing water supply schemes.

Lack of flexibility in utilization of funds
District officials reported that, on the one hand, the implementation agencies had not been empowered by
the provincial government to re-appropriate funds from one budget head to another and, on the other hand,
lack of funds had made it difficult to carry out repairs and maintenance of the existing stock of
infrastructure.

Third Party Validation (TPV) Exercises
Participants expressed doubts about the quality of, and the manner in which, Third Party Validation
exercises were conducted and claimed that the results of the validation assignments were not reported
objectively.

3. Social Sector Budgets and Timely Availability of Funds

Release of Funds
The delays in the release of funds to lower-level field formations and executing agencies affected
implementation. There were also inadequate budgetary allocations for repairs and maintenance and other
non-salary inputs (for consumables). They also reported that the flow of development funds for the
construction of new infrastructure was now better.

4. Community Participation in Delivery of Social Services

Education
Participants generally held the view that the effectiveness of SMCs was constrained by their inability to
hold teachers accountable for chronic absenteeism. Education Department staff maintained that teacher
absenteeism continued to be a problem because of the lack of accountability of teachers to SMCs.

Some district officials and field level-staff noted that SMCs established during SAPP-II had played a
meaningful role in improving the infrastructural facilities and in the availability of instructional materials.
District officials from Sindh reported the efforts of SMCs to create ownership of educational facilities
among communities and claimed that through the efforts of these committees the enrollment of girls at
primary level had increased and interference in the functioning of schools had been reduced.

They considered it was unrealistic to expect community members (most of whom were illiterate) to take an
active interest in the management and supervision of schools when appropriate steps had not been taken to
educate them about their roles and responsibilities as members of these committees. They attributed this
low turnout to lack of community interest, especially rural females, in managing schools and their inability
to take time out from their pressing daily schedules.

Field staff also expressed their concern on the restrictions faced by SMCs on the utilization of funds. They
were of the view that SMCs should have greater flexibility on the use of funds allocated to them. At
present, these funds can be used for repairs and maintenance of school buildings and purchase of
instructional materials. Some participants were of the opinion that the SMCs should be empowered to use
these funds for hiring teachers on contract.

Health
Participants were of the opinion that the role of communities in monitoring delivery of health services
would always be limited owing to their inability to devote time for such activities. District officials stated


                                                      - 63 -

that the health committees had not been particularly successful in supervising service delivery. The
members were more interested in matters related to staff postings and transfers. Field staff also stated that
wherever such committees had been formed, they had greatly facilitated their work. They reported that the
health committees established with the efforts of Lady Health Workers had membership of religious
leaders, school teachers, mid-wives and these comprised community members who were willing to work
voluntarily to enhance awareness and promote use of primary health care services and family planning
methods.

5. Participatory Development Program (PDP) and NGO-Government Collaboration in Social Service
    Delivery

Some policy makers were of the view that the targeted timeframe for institutionalizing the involvement of
NGOs in service provision was ambitious. The effectiveness of the participatory approach was also
undermined by the attitude of the provincial line departments as they viewed NGO participation in the
delivery of social services as an encroachment on their functional domain. District officials also raised
concerns about the lack of flexibility in the views of donors on the concept and manner of community
participation through NGOs.

6. SAPP-II Project Financing Mechanism-SOEs, Financial Management Issues, Disbursements and
    Procurement

Statement of Expenditures
Several participants dwelt at length on the difficulties encountered in preparing SOEs. They complained
that although donors were only meeting a small share of total government expenditure on the SAP sectors,
inordinate time and effort was taken up by activities connected with the submission of SOEs for
reimbursements.

Financial Reporting
The financial accounting and reporting mechanisms continued to remain weak. SAP coordinators faced
difficulties in disaggregating expenditures by category (salary/non-salary) to be able to appropriately
classify SAP expenditures for finalizing reimbursement claims.

Procurement
The procurement rules of donors were not fully understood and confusion remained throughout SAPP-II.
Field staff complained about donor inflexibility with respect to procurement rules, claiming government
procedures were equally efficient and more cost-effective.

7. SAPP-II Management and Donor Supervision

Some participants remarked that donor supervision missions tended to focus on disbursement issues rather
than on institutional reform objectives of SAPP-II. Participants criticized donor micro-management of the
project and highlighted the inadequate emphasis placed by donors on the monitoring of performance
indicators and on the assessment of outcomes.

Many participants were of the opinion that whereas both government and donors wanted to enhance
expenditures on the social sectors they were not paying enough attention to the identification and resolution
of problems constraining effective project implementation. Some district officials also reported that since
funds had not been allocated for acquiring land for setting up new schools, there were several cases where
notables of the village/community, who had donated the plot, interfered in the running of the school creating


                                                     - 64 -

operational difficulties.

Some district officials were of the view that donors (or consultants hired by them) ought to have monitored
program execution by undertaking field visits and by regularly consulting district and field level staff. This
would have enabled removal of bottlenecks, thereby ensuring timely resolution of implementation problems.




                                                    - 65 -

- 66 -

