Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
NETHERLANDS GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 3050 PAK
TRUST FUND NUMBER TF021206
Netherlands Grant Agreement
(Second Social Action Program Project – Population Welfare)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
Provided by the Minister for Development Cooperation of the Netherlands
Dated July 16, 1999
NETHERLANDS GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 3050 PAK 
TRUST FUND NUMBER TF021206 
NETHERLANDS GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 16, 1999, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
(hereinafter referred to as the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, 
acting as Administrator (hereinafter referred to as the Administrator) of a Grant 
provided by the Minister for Development Cooperation of the Netherlands (the 
“Minister”).
WHEREAS, the Recipient has requested the assistance of the International 
Development Association (hereinafter referred to as the Association) and the Minister 
to finance part of the Second Social Action Program Project described in Schedule 2 to 
the Development Credit Agreement dated May 28, 1998, between the Recipient and the 
Association (hereinafter referred to as the Development Credit Agreement).
WHEREAS, in consideration of the above-mentioned request, the Minister has 
agreed to make available to the Recipient on a grant basis the sum of Dutch Guilders 
five million (NLG 5,000,000) (hereinafter referred to as the Netherlands Grant) and 
has, pursuant to the letter of agreement dated December 8, 1998 between the Minister, 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International 
Development Association (hereinafter referred to as the Administration Arrangement), 
appointed the Association as Administrator of the Netherlands Grant for the purpose of 
providing assistance to the Recipient for the Project (as hereinafter defined).
WHEREAS, the Association, as Administrator as hereinbefore mentioned has agreed 
Page  2
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to extend the Netherlands Grant to the 
Recipient upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the 
“General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreement” of the Association, 
dated January 1, 1985, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth 
herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof:
(a)
the term “Association”, whenever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Section 6.02 (e) thereof, means the International Development Association 
acting as Administrator of the Netherlands Grant pursuant to the provisions of the 
Administration Arrangement, except that in Sections 6.02 and 7.01 the term 
“Association” shall also include the International Development Association acting in 
its own capacity;
(b)
the term “Borrower” wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Recipient;
(c)
the term “Development Credit Agreement”, whenever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(d)
the term “Credit”, whenever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Netherlands Grant hereunder;
(e)
the term “Credit Account”, whenever used in the General Conditions or in 
this Agreement means the Grant Account, an account opened by the Association in its 
books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the Netherlands Grant is 
credited;
(f)
the term “Project” means the Project for which the Netherlands Grant is 
extended, as described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement dated May 28, 
1998 and as the description thereof may be amended from time to time by agreement 
between the Association and the Recipient;
(g)
Section 4.01. shall be modified to read:
“Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in Dutch Guilders 
provided, 
however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Netherlands 
Grant have been paid or are payable in another 
currency, the Administrator shall purchase 
such currency with the proceeds of such 
withdrawal”; and
(h)
Sections 2.01 (10), (11) and (14), 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.02, 4.03, 
4.04, 4.06, 6.02 (a) (i), 6.02 (f), 6.05, 7.01, 8.01 (a), 9.02, 12.01, 12.02, 12.03, 
12.04 and 12.05 of the General Conditions are deleted.
Section 1.02. Whenever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; and the term “Dutch 
Guilders” and “NLG” means the currency of the Netherlands.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions herein set forth or referred to, a grant in an amount of five million 
Dutch Guilders (NLG 5,000,000) or such other amount as may be agreed from time to time 
during Project implementation.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Netherlands Grant may be withdrawn from the 
Page  3
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development 
Credit Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the 
Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Netherlands Grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, Articles III, 
IV and V and Schedules 1, 2, 3 and 6 of the Development Credit Agreement are hereby 
incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as if they were fully 
set forth herein, it being understood that all references in such Articles III, IV and 
V and Schedules 1, 2, 3 and 6 to the “Association” shall be deemed to be references to 
the Association, as Administrator on behalf of the Minister, all references to the 
“Development Credit Agreement” shall be deemed to be references to this Agreement and 
all references to the “Credit” shall be deemed to be references to the Netherlands 
Grant.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination; Representation
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon signature.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Recipient and the 
Administrator hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 4.03. The representative designated in Section 7.01 of the Development 
Credit Agreement shall be the representative of the Recipient for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.04. The addresses specified in Section 7.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement shall be the addresses specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 4.05. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development Credit 
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 5.01. In accordance with the Administration Arrangement, the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be transferred to the 
Minister. The Recipient accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to 
the Recipient to that effect, the Minister shall, ipso facto, from the date specified 
in such notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator 
under this Agreement as if the Minister had been an original party to this Agreement, 
without any further action or formality required on the part of any party, and from 
such date the Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as a party 
under this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Islamabad, Pakistan, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  4
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ Sajid Hasan
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator on behalf of the
Minister for Development Cooperation of the Netherlands
By /s/ Zoubida Allaoua
Acting Country Director, Pakistan
