Page  1
November 29, 1999
Secretary Economic Affairs Division 
Government of Pakistan 
Islamabad, Pakistan
Dear Sir:
PAKISTAN:
   Credit No. 3050-PAK
   (Second Social Action Program Project)
   Amendment of Development Credit Agreement
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic of 
Pakistan (the Borrower) and the International Development Association (the 
Association) and the Project Agreement between the Association and Balochistan, 
Punjab, Sindh, North West Frontier Province (the Provinces), and Azad Jammu and 
Kashmir (AJK) and the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA), both dated May 28, 
1998.  We also refer to the European Community’s Agreement with the Association for 
the provision of a grant (the Grant) to finance health and population welfare sectors 
of the Project, in addition to the education sector.
Accordingly, the Association is pleased to inform you that, after due 
consideration, it has agreed to amend paragraph 3(d) of Schedule 1 to the Development 
Credit Agreement, as follows:
The phrase “…education sector” at the end of the paragraph  is replaced 
by the phrase 
“…education, health or population welfare sectors;”
In view of their interest in the matter, copies of this letter are being 
furnished to the Provinces, AJK, and FATA.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and dating the 
enclosed form of confirmation and returning it to us.  This amendment letter will 
become effective when it has been fully executed by the parties hereto.  All other 
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement remain unchanged.
Very truly yours,
By /s/ Abid Hasan 
Acting Country Director, Pakistan  
South Asia Region
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ Nawid Ahsan
Addl. Secretary in charge Economic affairs Division 
Government of Pakistan
Date: February 24, 2000
c.c
A.
For Provinces:
1.
The Additional Chief Secretary
Planning and Development Department
Government of Balochistan
Quetta, Pakistan
Page  2
2.
The Chairman
Planning and Development Board
Government of Punjab
Lahore, Pakistan
3.
The Additional Chief Secretary
Planning and Development Department
Government of Sindh
Karachi, Pakistan
4.
The Additional Chief Secretary
Planning and Development Department
Government of North West Frontier Province
Peshawar, Pakistan
B.
For AJK
The Additional Chief Secretary
Planning and Development Department
Government of Azad Jammu and Kashmir
Muzaffarabad, Azad Jammu and Kashmir
C.
For FATA
The Additional Chief Secretary
Planning and Development Department
Government of North West Frontier Province
Peshawar, Pakistan
