                                               Document of
                                            The World Bank

                                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                         Report No: 31584

                              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                          (SCL-43510 TF-22644)

                                                   ON A

                                                   LOAN

             IN THE AMOUNT OF DEM74 MILLION (US$40.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                  TO THE

                                         REPUBLIC OF CROATIA

                                                  FOR A

                      RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT FOR EASTERN SLAVONIA,
                                   BARANJA AND WESTERN SRIJEM




                                               May 31, 2005




Infrastructure and Energy Sector Unit
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
 official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective )

                        Currency Unit = Croatian Kuna (HRK)
                               HRK 1 = US$ 0.175
                                US$ 1 = HRK 5.72

                              FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1-   December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BOD       Biological Oxygen Demand
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CROMAC    Croatia Mining Action Center
ERP       Emergency Reconstruction Project
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization
FRR       Financial Rate of Return
GEF       Global Environment Facility
GCR       Government's Completion Report
HV        Hrvatske vode (Croatian Waters)
KEC       Karst Ecosystem Conservation Project
MOE       Ministry of Environment
MSP       Medium Size Project
NGOs      Non Governmental Organizations
NPV       Net Present Values
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
RoC       Republic of Croatia
UNTAES    United Nations Transitional Administration for Estern Slavonia, Baranja and
          Eastern Srijem
WWCs      Water and Wastewater Companies
WWTP      Wastewater Treatment Plant




                       Vice President:   Shigeo Katsu, ECA
                     Country Director    Anand K. Seth, ECCU5
                      Sector Manager     Sumter Lee Travers, ECSIE
                   Task Team Leader:     Manuel Mariño, ECSIE

                                          CROATIA
                                  EAST SLAVONIA REC


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report Summary                                    30
Annex 9. Grant for Kopacki Rit Weland Management Project Completion Report       35
Annex 10. ICR Mission, Aide-Memoire                                              49
Annex 11. Map Section: General Map of the Project Area                           56

Project ID: P048983                                             Project Name: EAST SLAVONIA REC
Global Supplemental ID: P059754 (To be Determined)              Supp. Name: KOPACKI RIT WETLANDS (GEF MED
                                                                SZ)
Team Leader: Manuel G. Marino                                   TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                              Report Date: May 31, 2005


1. Project Data
                 Name: EAST SLAVONIA REC                                    L/C/TF Number: SCL-43510
   Country/Department: CROATIA                                                        Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                               Region

       Sector/subsector: Flood protection (68%); Sewerage (30%); Central government
                         administration (2%)
                Theme: Pollution management and environmental health (P); Rural services
                         and infrastructure (P); Conflict prevention and post-conflict
                         reconstruction (P); Water resource management (S); Biodiversity (S)


  KEY DATES                                                            Original                Revised/Actual
          PCD: 09/26/1996                                  Effective: 12/07/1998               01/06/1999
     Appraisal: 02/26/1998                                     MTR: 03/01/2000                 11/07/2003
     Approval: 06/18/1998                                   Closing: 06/30/2003                12/31/2004



   Supplemental Name: KOPACKI RIT WETLANDS (GEF MED SZ)                     L/C/TF Number: TF-22644

       Sector/subsector: Flood protection (60%); Sanitation (30%); Central government
                         administration (10%)
                Theme: Water resource management (P); Pollution management and
                         environmental health (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P);
                         Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (P); Biodiversity
                         (S)

  KEY DATES                                                            Original                Revised/Actual
  GEF Council:                                             Effective: 06/14/1999               06/14/1999
     Appraisal:                                                MTR:
     Approval: 11/06/1998                                   Closing: 09/01/2003                12/31/2003

   Borrower/Implementing Agency:      CROATIA GOVERNMENT/HRUATSKA VODE; CROATIA
                                      GOVERNMENT/ULICA GRADA; CROATIA GOVERNMENT/1000 ZAGREB;
                                      CROATIA GOVERNMENT/CROATIA
                   Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Anand K. Seth                                  Arntraud Hartmann
Sector Manager/Director:   Sumter Lee Travers                             Motoo Konishi
Team Leader at ICR:        Manuel G. Marino                               Susan Rutledge
ICR Primary Author:        Xavier Chauvot De Beauchene


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                                           Rating                             Rating (Supplemental GEF)
                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                      Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Context:

The preparation and design of the Project took place in a context of post-conflict, and political and social
sensitivity: (i) until mid-January 1998, the Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem areas of Croatia
(the Project area), located close to the border with Serbia, were under the executive authority of the United
Nations Transitional Administration for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem (UNTAES); (ii) the
reintegration of Croat and Serb populations in the local administration was underway, under high
surveillance, and (iii) it was extremely difficult for Croatian Government officials to conduct detailed
evaluation of the needs and state of the infrastructure, because of the access restrictions to the Project area,
lack of data, and extensive mined areas, particularly around the infrastructure to be rehabilitated under the
Project. When the Government initiated its urgent reconstruction program, the Project area, which was the
scene of most of the conflict between the Yugoslav and the Croatian army, had been deserted by its
population. Agriculture activities had stopped and vegetation covered and clogged most drainage canals.
Pumping stations and flood protection dikes suffered from lack of maintenance, partial destruction and
mining. In response to this situation and challenges, the Government declared the area for "special care"
and substantial funds were allocated to finance minesweeping, reconstruction, return of refugees and to
support the recovery of agriculture production.

The Republic of Croatia (RoC) joined the World Bank and the International Development Association in
1993. World Bank assistance focused initially on helping the country with post war reconstruction. The
Emergency Reconstruction Project (ERP), approved in 1994, was the first Bank-financed Project to the
RoC. It addressed the most urgent infrastructure reconstruction needs in regard to housing, power, water
supply and sanitation, transport, agriculture, health and education, in war damaged areas, then under the
control of the Government. Investments in the water sector consisted of repairing water supply networks
and rebuilding water supply treatment plants and other facilities destroyed during the conflict. The Eastern
Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem reconstruction Project, which this ICR reviews, was developed to
complete and expand the investments made under the ERP. (Annex 11 presents a map of the Project area).

Objective:

The project development objective was to repair and rebuild war-damaged water sector infrastructure
(including the clearing of landmines), which was critically needed to restart the local economy (and in



                                                           - 2 -

particular, local agriculture) of Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem. The Project also aimed to
mitigate the negative environmental impact likely to be caused to the adjacent nature park by the restart of
local agriculture.

This objective was to be achieved through the rehabilitation of critical flood protection infrastructure and of
agricultural drainage systems in Baranja and Eastern Slavonia; the completion of the Vinkovci municipal
Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP), started prior to the war, and the extension of the related wastewater
collection system; the demining of all construction sites; and the development and strengthening of the State
Directorate for the Protection of Nature and Environment, and of the Kopacki rit Nature Park.

Assessment of Objective:

The objectives of the Project were clear, focused and reflected the essential priorities set forth by both the
Croatian Government and the World Bank through its first Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). They were
consistent with the Government's urgent economic strategy to rebuild the Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and
Western Srijem areas, focusing on the reconstruction of essential infrastructure as the instrument to restart
the economy of the area and encourage the return of refugees and displaced persons to their homes. While
focusing on CAS top priorities, which called for "the rebuilding of war-damaged infrastructure", the
objectives remained general to allow flexibility in the response to a quickly evolving context. Through the
inclusion of environmental protection, the objectives developed an integrated approach combining strategic
infrastructure investments and investments consistent with the commitment of Croatia towards the
protection of the Nature Park and the Danube river, as a recent signatory to the Danube Convention. Given
the circumstances at the time of project design, the objectives were realistic in terms of (i) building on
demonstrated capacity of the implementation agency; and (ii) recognizing the strong time constraints and
related risks and the extreme political and institutional difficulties that Croatia, and the Project area in
particular, faced.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The currency of the Loan was originally the Deutsche Mark and later the Euro. Therefore, references to US
Dollars in this report have to be understood as US Dollars equivalent. The total Project cost was estimated
at US$61.1 million equivalent, of which, US$40.6 million was to be funded by a Bank Loan and US$20.5
million was to be provided as counterpart funding from RoC. The project comprised four components.

Component I. Flood Control and Drainage (US$37.8 million equivalent, 62% of total costs)

·       Flood Control. The Project was designed to finance critically needed investments to repair and
rebuild the Drava river bank protection infrastructure. Once completed the level of protection against
floods would be raised to a period of return of one in a hundred years, as originally designed, in compliance
with Croatia's commitment to Hungary under the Danube river Flood Control plan. Based on Hrvatske
vode (HV) estimates, because of destruction that occurred during the war and lack of proper maintenance
during and after the war (suspected presence of landmines and restricted access to the facilities), the level
of protection had a period of return of only ten years at Project start. According to the Food and
Agriculture Organization (FAO), both the area inundated and the risk that one of the flood protection dikes
would collapse, increased by ten percent every year.




                                                     - 3 -

·        Drainage. In addition to the rehabilitation of the flood control infrastructure, the Project was
designed to finance the cleaning and repair of the primary and secondary drainage networks and the
rehabilitation of associated pumping stations. These networks drain a total area of 155,000 hectares in both
Baranja and Eastern Slavonia areas, of which 110,000 hectares were of arable land before the war.

Component II. Wastewater Management (US$16.1 million equivalent, 27% of total costs)

·        Collection and treatment facilities construction. To address the lack of treatment of domestic
wastewater and eliminate an important source of pollution of the Bosut river, the Project would finance the
rebuilding of the Vinkovci WWTP, which was under construction before the war, but was totally destroyed
at the end of it. The Project would also finance the extension of the sewerage system from 65% to 85% of
the population.

Component III. Clearing of Landmines (US$5.0 million equivalent, 8% of total costs)

·        Minesweeping of construction sites. To address the suspected presence of landmines, on or around
flood protection and drainage system, the Project was to finance the verification and, eventually, the
clearing of landmines prior to the repair of the flood and drainage system.

Component IV. Nature Protection (US$2.2 million equivalent, 3% of total costs)

·        Improvement of Nature Protection management, equipment and facilities. This component would
finance the development of a comprehensive management plan and monitoring program for the Kopacki rit
Nature Park to mitigate possible negative impacts of the expected restart of local agriculture. It would also
finance the rehabilitation of Park facilities and provision of equipment to give the Park's Management
Office the means to improve its performance, ensure monitoring and develop services to provide long term
environmental protection for the area on a sustainable manner. The component would also provide
technical assistance to strengthen institutional capacity of both the State Directorate for Nature Protection
and the Nature Park Management Office, responsible for the implementation of that component.

Overall responsibility for the Project was given to HV, the leading public institution responsible for the
management and investments in the water and flood protection sectors in Croatia.

Assessment of Project design and component:

The project design included credible means to achieve the project objectives. The design was simple and
clearly formulated, and reflected the priorities of the RoC. It succeeded in maintaining the focus on a
limited number of activities under direct responsibility of the Agencies in charge of their implementation.
HV's implementing unit had demonstrated expertise, efficiency and extensive experience in implementing
parts of the previous World Bank financed projects. Development of agreements on the use of funds among
Government organizations and on the implementation arrangements started early in the design process and
included lessons learned from the previous projects. One of the lessons learned was to include an interim
review to give flexibility to the design and allow the reallocation of uncommitted funds, early in the Project
lifetime, so that the Project could be adapted to the situation encountered in the field.

The component I, the most important in size, was well designed. By allowing safe return into production of
the inundated agricultural land, the Project was expected to have a significant impact on the local economy.
As all areas were suspected to be mined, the real state of the infrastructure could not be fully assessed



                                                      - 4 -

during preparation. Therefore, to be on the safe side, the design reserved eight percent of the estimated
work contract values to eventually finance consultant services for design studies. The drainage part of the
component dealt with the rehabilitation of primary and secondary drainage networks, under the direct
responsibility of HV.

The component II was also well designed. The main needs for water supply had been addressed as part of
the ERP, thus the project focused on improving wastewater treatment in one of the largest cities in the area
­Vinkovci­(about 50,000 inhabitants), where pollution problems were more important, and on extending
the associated sewerage network (although Osijek was larger, dilution capacity in the Drava river, where it
discharges, made it a lower priority).          Additionally, documentation was ready to allow speedy
implementation of Vinkovci's treatment plant contract.

Reaching agreement on the implementation arrangements of component III was a critical aspect of Project
design. Building on the lessons learned from the ERP, mine clearing contracts were included as a
sub-contract of the civil works contracts. This approach improved contractors' security, timely
implementation and increased competition in the selection of the mine clearing companies. Additionally, as
part of the design, HV was given overall responsibility for procurement of these combined contracts, in
cooperation with mine clearing authorities for the prequalification of firms and quality assurance. This had
an important positive impact as it minimized the consequences of the transfer of responsibility for mine
clearing from the Ministry of Interior to the newly established Croatia Mining Action Center (CROMAC).

The component IV, though small in size, added value to the overall Project design by developing an
integrated and coordinated approach. The monitoring program to be developed would quantify potential
negative effects of the expected restart of agriculture in the surroundings of the Park. In parallel, the
management plan would propose concrete measures to minimize them, in an efficient and concerted way.
This component would build on the results of the national biodiversity strategy that was developed at the
time of preparation. In addition, it allowed involvement of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) through
a medium size project for the Kopacki rit Wetland Management. This GEF grant was developed as an
integral part of this component and is thus treated as such in this ICR. For specific information, please
refer to the completion note for this grant, attached in Annex 9. Additional preparation time would have
been necessary to further clarify the roles and responsibility of the State Directorate for Nature Protection,
the project unit in the Kopacki rit Nature Park and HV in regard to the implementation of this component
of the Project and of the GEF grant. Despite the limited time, this component was properly designed.

The risk assessment in the PAD seems to have overlooked some aspects and presents inconsistencies. The
overall risk rating of the Project was indicated as high, primarily due to the regional political risk, however,
none of the critical risks identified refer to such risk or are rated "H". In particular, the risk of failure of
the reintegration process possibly leading to a restart of the conflict is not mentioned, though it was
probably the most important at the time of Project preparation. In addition to three negligible risks, the
project identified five moderate risks: (i) delays in placing agricultural land protected from flooding into
production due to, for instance, shortage of agricultural inputs or land ownership issues; (ii) wastewater
facilities not needed due to loss of population in local area; (iii) complications arise in the clearing of
landmines; (iv) lack of counterpart funding for the nature protection program; and (v) availability of
appropriate technology for minesweeping. Out of the three negligible risks, two were linked to the capacity
of HV to select qualified staff for the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and to follow Bank procedures,
and one to the selection of qualified contractors in the procurement process. The proposed mitigation
measures are rather vague. They relied, to a great extent, on the national solidarity for the reconstruction of
the Project area, on implementation arrangements and on the capacity of HV to consult with all
stakeholders to ensure that appropriate measures are taken by the Government. HV's leading position and


                                                      - 5 -

the high degree of collaboration between Government agencies to ensure efficient reconstruction of the
Project area allowed potential problems to be adequately addressed. Therefore, the overall design is rated
satisfactory.

3.4 Revised Components:
The design of the Project components was not revised. However, during implementation, additional
investments were included to use the unallocated and uncommitted funds.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory. The quality at entry is rated satisfactory based on the strength of (i) consistency of objectives
with the priorities of both the RoC and the Bank; (ii) incorporation in the Project design of successful
experience and lessons learned, in particular under the ERP; (iii) demonstrated capacity and leadership of
the implementing agency, and (iv) realistic, targeted and well defined project design, which, subject to some
limitations in terms of monitoring and evaluation arrangements, addressed institutional constraints while
allowing flexibility and developing appropriate implementation arrangements.

The PAD documented the Project and its background particularly well, and assessed the benefits
adequately. The Project focused on necessary physical investments to support the restart of agriculture, the
primary engine for growth in the Project area. In addition, the return of agricultural land to production and
improving access to sanitation services were properly selected as key factors to encourage the return of
refugees, another priority of the Croatian Government. However, benefiting from its position and
experience, the Bank could have included mechanisms to better monitor that potential risks would be
properly mitigated through the measures developed by the Government. In addition, Project design should
have incorporated more emphasis on implementation arrangements and sharing of responsibilities in the
management of component IV.

The only safeguard triggered by the Project was the OP7:50 "Project in International Waterways."
However, because the Project aimed to rehabilitate drainage and wastewater collection and treatment
infrastructure to the originally designed level, its implementation was not expected to adversely change the
quantity or quality of the water flows of the Drava and Danube rivers. On the contrary, positive impact on
the quality of the water discharged was expected as a result of component II. For these reasons, the Project
fell under the exception to notify the riparian countries. Additionally, as the ROC is a member of the
International Convention for the Protection of the Danube River, riparian countries were informed about
the Project through Danube Commission. Since the repair and reconstruction to be financed under the
Project were expected to replace previously existing facilities with minimal environmental impact, no
Environmental Impact Assessment was prepared for the Project.

In summary, the objective of the Project was appropriately focused, and the project design was clear and
achievable.     The Project responded effectively to the need for reconstruction of war-damaged
infrastructure, while mitigating possible negative impacts on the environment. Safeguards policies were
adequately addressed during preparation. Additional attention could have been given by the Project team to
the identification of critical risks and the monitoring of associated mitigation measures.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Highly Satisfactory. The project is rated highly satisfactory as it achieved and exceeded all its objectives.
All performance targets have been met and significantly exceeded, although over a somewhat longer period
of time (6 years) than the 4.5 years originally envisaged. Also, the Project has already proven to have



                                                      - 6 -

significant developmental impact. The most important objective of the project was to protect agricultural
land in Baranja and Eastern Slavonia from floods and inundations. Flood protection dikes and levees along
the river Drava were repaired and drainage of the Project area was significantly improved through the
clearing of the primary and secondary canals and the rehabilitation of main pumping stations. The positive
impact of the Project can best be seen as the newly rebuilt infrastructure successfully faced a 40 year flood
in 2003 and no inundation of agricultural land was reported in the Project area.

The important savings made throughout the Project life (please refer to section 5.4.b for details) gave it a
stronger environmental orientation. Consistent with the flexible character of the Project, the uncommitted
funds were used to finance additional investments under each component, and in particular the development
of wastewater collection and treatment facilities. Despite its small size, component IV has proven to have
had a much stronger impact on the local economy than originally envisaged: the number of visitors reached
and exceeded prewar levels, and internally generated revenues already cover 50% of the Park operations
expenditures. Moreover, the management plan developed by the Nature Park Kopacki rit was the first of
its kind in Croatia. In the process of getting the plan endorsed and approved, the Nature Park management
office contributed to develop a legally endorsed institutional framework for such plans. It had therefore a
strong demonstration effect as management plans are expected to be developed in other Nature Parks in
Croatia. Assessment of component IV is slightly hindered by the choice of the performance indicator that
was agreed to for this component. Indeed, the indicator - Percentage of change in the populations of
indicator species in Kopacki rit - requires that population of indicator species be actually monitored and
regularly counted; which has no direct link with the achievements of outcomes of the Project.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Table 1: Summary:
       Component            Appraisal           Appraisal        Actual (EURm)           Rating
                         estimate (US$m     estimate (EURm)
                              eq.)
I    Flood                    37.8                 33.4               25.3                 HS
     Protection and
     Drainage
II   Wastewater               16.1                 15.0               15.5                 HS
     Management
III  Clearing of              5.0                  5.5                11.3                HS
     landmines
IV   Nature Park              2.2                  2.6                 2.5                HS
     TOTAL                    61.1                 56.4               54.6


Component I (Flood Protection and Drainage). This component is rated highly satisfactory. The main
achievements under this component were the repair of the 120 km of levees and the clearing of 600 km of
primary and secondary canals, representing increases respectively of 120% and 152% over the targets set
at appraisal. Using the savings, additional 20 km of levees were repaired in Eastern Slavonia and 204 km
of canals were cleared, mostly (about 80%) in Eastern Slavonia. During Project implementation, arable
land gradually returned to agriculture production, showing a good coordination between the advances under
the Project, the mine clearing and the decrease of groundwater level. Before the end of the Project, the
increase in hectares under cultivation was not only the 9,600 protected from flooding, but also the
additional 30,000 hectares that experienced high groundwater levels before the Project started. If properly
accounted for, the Project contributed to protect about 40,000 hectares, roughly 36% of the 110,000 arable
hectares in Baranja and Eastern Slavonia, exceeding the original targets.




                                                     - 7 -

Component II (Wastewater Management). This component is rated highly satisfactory. Achievements
under this component include the rebuilding of the Vinkovci WWTP and the extension of the main
wastewater collector allowing to increase sanitation services from 65 to 85% of the population, as
originally planned, but also the reconstruction of Beli Manastir WWTP and the extension of four
wastewater collection systems serving nine municipalities (see details in Table 2), thus greatly exceeding
the original objective.

The implementation of this component experienced some delays. The original date set in the PAD for the
completion of the Vinkovci WWTP was June 30, 2002. These delays were the consequences of two main
factors, first the decision to transfer financial responsibility for the repayment of the ERP from the
Government to the municipalities, and second the decision to change the design of the WWTP. Vinkovci
WWTP has only recently started its normal operation. First results in terms of decrease of BOD are
satisfactory and the quality of discharged water complies with the quality standards.

Under the ERP, the Municipality of Vinkovci benefited from investments in water supply treatment and
network infrastructure which were to be repaid from the state budget for this area of special care. As this
budget was running low, the central Government decided in November 2002 to require the municipalities to
reimburse their share of the investments financed under the ERP. In addition, the Government decided to
cap the capacity of municipalities to borrow, consequently delaying the capacity of Vinkovci to borrow the
amounts as foreseen under this Project.          As an additional condition to ensure sustainability of the
investments and to limit the tariff increase for loan repayment, the Bank required that a proper financing
plan was prepared, detailing how the investments financed under the two projects would be repaid and the
impact of such repayments on the tariffs.

In the meantime, all documentation had to be prepared and authorization obtained to reflect the change in
design of the WWTP. Consequently, all conditions were fulfilled and the contract was procured in June
2003.

As it benefited from the reallocation of the uncommitted funds, a number of activities have been added to
this component of the Project in June 2003 and the following results have been realized.

Table 2:
Activities added to the component II and associated targets, as reflected      Actual Achievements
in the Loan and Project Agreements dated June 24, 2003.
Reconstruction of the WWTP in Beli Manastir                                    Completed
Extension of 3 km of collectors in Nustar and                                  3 km
8 km in Ivankovo in Eastern Slavonia, as part of wastewater collection systems 8 km
under the responsibility of Vinkovci Water and Wastewater Company.
Construction of a new WWTP in Nustar                                           Financed through
                                                                               counterpart funding
Extension of 5 km of wastewater collection system in Antunovac,                5 km
11 km in Sarvas in Eastern Slavonia,                                           7.5 km
8 km in Bilje, Darda and Kopacevo in Baranja, and                              5 km
connection of these networks to the Osijek's collection system.
Construction of a new WWTP to serve Bilje, Darda and Kopacevo (9,000           Connected to Osijek's
people equivalent)                                                             network instead
Extension of the wastewater collection system in Vukovar, in Western Srijem.   Completed
Extension of the wastewater collection system in Ilok, in Western Srijem.      Completed




                                                        - 8 -

Almost all additional activities have been fully implemented during the last year and a half of the Project,
significantly increasing the achievements under this component in comparison to the objectives and targets
set at appraisal. Additionally, all wastewater collection system extensions will be completed by the end of
2005. The new WWTP to serve Bilje, Darda and Kopacevo was expected to be a constructed treatment
wetland with ecological benefits to the area. After further analysis, it was decided to connect these three
municipalities to Osijek, where a WWTP is expected to be constructed soon, thus avoiding effluent
discharges in the Nature Park. To date, Bilje has already been connected to the Osijek sewage network
using Project funds. Darda and Kopacevo are expected to be connected in 2005. Concerning the
construction of a new WWTP in Nustar, additional counterparts funding were obtained from the State
Budget, increasing the level of savings under the Project. Construction is advanced as civil works have been
already completed, equipment is being installed, allowing the plant to start operating later in 2005.

Component III (Clearing of Landmines). In accordance with the important increase in the works carried out
under component I, outputs under this component are significantly higher than planned at appraisal: 6
million square meters were verified and eventually cleared. This represents 3 times the 2 million square
meters planned at appraisal, for slightly more than twice the price originally estimated. Aggregated actual
costs of components I and III compared to the estimates at appraisal reveal that both physical and financial
objectives have been significantly exceeded. Component III is rated highly satisfactory. Please refer to
Annex 2 for details.

Component IV (Nature Protection). This component has been rated highly satisfactory. Achievements
under this component have far exceeded the objectives set at appraisal. Through this component, the
Project set the basis for modern environmental management of the Kopacki rit Nature Park, with the
rehabilitation and construction of Park management facilities and with the preparation of a Management
Plan for the Nature Park. Thematic studies, financed under the Project, were carried out to set the basis of
the Management Plan and propose concrete restrictions measures to ensure the protection of the Park
against pollution, in particular in regard to agricultural practices in the park surroundings. The
Management Plan was developed in a participatory way. Extensive communication and public hearings
were organized to present the results of the thematic studies and to discuss the proposed restriction
measures. Results of such consultations were incorporated in the final version of the document, which has
been finalized in December 2003. The Management Plan was then reviewed and endorsed by several
Ministries, including the Ministry of Environment, and the Ministry of Agriculture and Water. Because it is
the first management plan for nature parks in Croatia, procedures for public disclosure and official
approval had to be drafted. This process took significant time because of the transfer of the directorate for
Nature Protection from the Ministry of Environment to the Ministry of Culture after the November 2003
parliamentarian elections. Procedures have now been drafted, public disclosure is taking place and the
document is scheduled to be ratified by the Parliament in the coming weeks.

Other achievements under this component include the training of Park rangers and staff of the management
office, the development of a GIS-based fauna and flora monitoring program, the rehabilitation of Park
management facilities and the purchase of a tour boat. Additionally, a Visitor center has been constructed
and a bio-ecological station including a research center and education facilities has been developed in the
Tikves Castle. The population of a number of species, including indicator species, has increased during the
Project life and new species, essentially migratory birds, can now be observed from time to time in the
Park.

In summary, achievements under the Project have reached and exceeded the targets set at appraisal for the
output indicators: length of levees repaired; length of drainage canals cleared; number of pumping stations
rehabilitated; reconstruction of Vinkovci wastewater treatment plant; length of sewage collectors laid;


                                                     - 9 -

Kopacki rit management plan prepared; Kopacki rit management facilities constructed; and Kopacki rit
monitoring program operational. The Project design succeeded in ensuring that responsibilities for each
component lay with the entities having the biggest stake in making it successful. This approach has proven
to be efficient, flexible and capable of restructuring the Project to implement a number of additional
activities within a limited amount of time.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The economic assessment during appraisal was based on a cost benefit analysis conducted by experts from
the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations. This analysis focused on the flood
protection and drainage component and its expected benefits. Project benefits identified at appraisal were
(i) protecting about 24,350 hectares of agricultural land from floods and destruction of crops while
providing greater safety to the population, infrastructure and houses, (ii) improved drainage of about
30,000 ha of rich agricultural land in Baranja and Eastern Slavonia, which were affected by high water
table; and (iii) the restoration and return to cultivation of about 9,600 hectares of inundated arable land
though the increase in the level of protection against floods from a return period of one to ten years to one
to a hundred years. For the two sub-regions, the analysis generated an average economic rate of return
(ERR) of 16% (20% for Baranja and 12% for Eastern Slavonia, respectively) and a Net present Value
(NPV) of $14.5 million ($12 million for Baranja and $2.5 million for Eastern Slavonia, respectively).


At Project completion, the economic results were re-estimated utilizing the FAO model (see Annex 3);
however, due to data limitations, it was not possible to carry out separate analyses for Baranja and Eastern
Slavonia. Instead, the estimation was carried out based on aggregated data for the two areas as a whole. On
this basis, the re-estimated ERR is 20%and the NPV US$17.5 million. While these results have to be
treated with caution since they are based on aggregated data, it seems fair to conclude that the economic
results projected at appraisal have largely been achieved. This is supported also by other indicators such as
increases in productivity and economic margins on agricultural products.

The benefits described above are the quantifiable benefits; in addition, there were non-quantifiable benefits
to the population in the area from (i) return to normalcy in daily living; (ii) the removal of the threat to
personal safety, and (iii) reduction in hazards to health from uncollected and untreated wastewater. Other
benefits not included in this analysis are those related to the restart of the Park activities, the increased
number of visitors and associated benefits on the local economy. Eight full time employees are now
working for the Park, in addition to part time employees during the tourist season. An important increase of
the tourist accommodation capacity in the Park surroundings have also been reported, as well as the
development of eco-tourism activities and the increased direct sales of local wine producers and farmers
neighboring the Park.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
A Financial Rate of Return (FRR) was not calculated at appraisal and has not been estimated at Project
completion.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Modest.     The Project was designed primarily to restore critically needed infrastructure facilities;
institutional development was not a significant objective. Nevertheless, the Project has contributed to some
institutional development. The development of the Kopacki rit Nature Park as an entity able to generate
significant revenues during its first year of real operation is a significant achievement. The Management
Office of the Park managed to control its expenses through a good human resources policy, a rigorous
operational management, and the development of a number of marketing activities with a strong cost



                                                    - 10 -

recovery focus. Important evidence of the good management is the generation of important income through
the hunting fees, the increase of the number of visitors to the prewar levels much sooner than expected, and
the capacity to attract funds from other international institutions. Another important aspect of the
development impact is the preparation of the first management plan for nature parks in Croatia and the
development of procedures for review and endorsement and public consultations within the Ministry of
Culture. This comprehensive high-quality document developed with a high focus on the participation of all
stakeholders in the review is expected to have a strong demonstration effect on other Nature Parks in
Croatia.

The Project also contributed to further develop HV's capacity to directly manage World Bank projects. HV
built on the experience it acquired during the ERP and demonstrated its efficiency in all aspects of Project
management, in particular in procurement. Investment and O&M of flood protection and drainage
infrastructure is the major activity of HV. It has comprehensive knowledge of the strengths and weaknesses
of the existing systems and how to best operate them, based on the climatic events encountered. Thus,
investments under the flood protection and drainage component were carried out in a remarkable technical
and cost efficient manner, taking into account the sensitivity of the infrastructure in regard to a possible
flood event.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
No major factor outside the control of government or implementing agency and negatively affecting the
implementation and outcome were identified.

An important factor affecting Project implementation was the drop of unit prices of civil works and mine
clearing costs. The cumulated effects of these unit prices drop and good procurement practices resulted in
important savings, allowing to finance a number of additional activities out of the Project funds.

The privatization process of the very large publicly owned farms called "agrokombinats" has started with
Bilje agrokombinat. Even though it is one of the best performing in the area, the process collapsed as not
enough potential bidders participated in the tender. It is expected that another attempt will take place during
2005.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government succeeded in making available appropriate level of equipment, fuel and inputs (seeds
fertilizers, etc.) to allow a timely restart of the local agriculture. This is reflected in the substantial
increases in productivity and production for most major crops in the area. Moreover, coordination among
Government agencies and with local authorities in regard to mine sweeping was instrumental to encourage
the return to cultivation of the arable land improved under the Project.

The unexpected decision of the Government to transfer the responsibility for reimbursing the ERP to the
municipalities that had benefited from it, coupled with the capping of the municipalities's capacity to
borrow, generated significant delays of sanitation investments in Vinkovci.

Multiple changes in the Government organizational structure generated delays, in particular in the
endorsement process of the management plan for the Kopacki rit nature park. Procedures for public
disclosure of such document were specifically developed by the Ministry of Environment to allow its
endorsement and official approval. Following the November 2003 elections, responsibility for the
Directorate for Nature Protection was transferred to the Ministry of Culture, which had different
requirements in terms of public disclosure. Consequently, new procedures had to be developed, generating



                                                     - 11 -

delays. Government restructuring also affected HV, which was transferred from the Ministry of Public
Works and Construction to the Ministry of Agriculture and Water. However, the overall effects of these
changes were limited to minor delays in implementation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

HV demonstrated its strong commitment towards the Project and this enabled it to reach and exceed all
performance targets set at appraisal. HV developed the right level of responsibility sharing between its
central and local offices and the participating municipal Water and Wastewater Companies (WWCs),
especially on contract procurement and supervision. Moreover, though sharing of roles and responsibilities
between HV, the State Directorate for Nature Protection and the Park Management Office, efficient
coordination and extensive collaboration took place in a successful manner. Furthermore, despite difficult
relations between HV and the Croatian mine clearing authorities at Project start, HV was able to develop a
positive cooperation leading to an efficient processing of the contracts including minesweeping.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total actual cost of the Project remained consistent with the appraisal estimates. However, the
breakdown by components, presented in Annex 2, reflects the important savings made under component I
and the extra costs under component III, generated by the additional outputs. The cost breakdown by
sub-regions reveals that, under component I, a greater proportion of the savings have been reused to finance
additional investments in Eastern Slavonia, bringing the actual costs for this sub-region to the level
estimated at appraisal. Additionally, the aggregated actual costs of components I and III compare to the
appraisal estimates.

During loan negotiations, it was agreed that the physical contingencies would be set to 20% of the works
program as opposed to the usual 15%, to increase the flexible character of the Project.

With the decline in unit prices and high efficiency in Project implementation, important savings were made;
these resulted in about Euro 10 million that remained uncommitted after all contracts were procured. The
most important savings were achieved in components I and II

a) Euro 5 million were saved out of component I

·       At appraisal, costs of consultancy services were estimated as percentage of the investments. During
        implementation, a detailed assessment of the actual status of hydro technical facilities became
        possible. It revealed that the damage to the infrastructure could be repaired to bring it back to
        design condition on the basis of the existing documentation. Thus, about Euro 1.5 million were
        saved compared to the planned costs of consultancy services for developing new design
        documentation.
·       Similarly, a detailed assessment of the Paulin Dvor pumping station, the most important in Eastern
        Slavonia, revealed that the pumps could be rehabilitated and the building could be repaired,
        resulting in saving Euro 1.5 million. In addition, the purchase of four mobile pumps avoided the
        need to rehabilitate smaller pumping stations, while allowing greater flexibility in operation.
·       Applying International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures for civil works on drainage canals
        and including competitive selection by the bidders of the sub-contractor in charge of mine clearing
        increased competition and significantly reduced unit prices. For these reasons, about Euro 2
        millions of savings were realized on foreseen prices.

b) Euro 5 million were saved out of component II



                                                     - 12 -

·        Given the state of the Vinkovci WWTP site at the end of the conflict and taking into account the
         advances in wastewater treatment technology, it was decided to abandon the initial design (1988)
         and to develop a new design based on modern and affordable technology. In addition, procurement
         of the contract under an ICB procedure with post-qualification of the best bidder resulted in the
         reduction by half of the contract value, saving Euro 5 million.

The Government and the Bank agreed to include additional wastewater investments in the main urban
centers of the Project area (see section 4.2) to utilize uncommitted funds. These new activities were
included through amendments in the Loan and Project Agreements. Despite the fact that the type and size
of contracts changed, adjustments in the aggregated amounts per procurement method stipulated in the legal
documents were not included in the amendments. This represented an obstacle to commit the entirety of the
Loan proceeds, as time to implement the additional investments by the revised closing date (December 31,
2004) was running out. At the closing of the Project, Euro 1.4 million (4%) of the loan proceeds remained
uncommitted.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Highly likely. In order to secure a high level of sustainability, responsibility for Project implementation has
been given to the entity (HV) with the most interest in proper operation and maintenance of the
infrastructure while involving the entities having the biggest stake in making it successful.

Flood Protection and Drainage. Through the central and local offices of HV, the Government was assigned
highly experienced personal, best suited to ensure efficient operation and maintenance of the investments.
Financing of the O&M is covered by the catchments fee collected by HV and about HRK 16 million are
allocated yearly to the Project area for that purpose. Additionally, the catchments fee is expected to be
increased to allow for the repayment of the Loan. The sustainability of this component is rated highly
likely.

Wastewater management. Participating WWCs were closely involved in the preparation of the technical
documents and in the supervision of the works, in collaboration with HV. In the case of Vinkovci, the tariff
surcharge established for the purpose of the repayment of the ERP has been maintained to provision for
Loan repayment. Management efficiency and development of O&M capacity within the Vinkovci WWC
has been taken care of in two ways. On the one hand, HV included, as part of the contracts, provisions for
training of the WWC staff on efficient O&M of the works or equipment procured. On the other hand, HV
provided immediate and informal assistance on specific aspects, including efficient technical and financial
management. In a more formal way, HV organized hands-on training on water quality standards, analysis
and monitoring in their laboratories.

In the municipalities that joined the Project later, training did not take place to the same extent. HV
identified important training needs in some of these WWCs, in which the lack of qualified personnel and the
difficult financial situation of the WWCs are sometimes preventing the hiring of qualified staff. Even
though time constraints did not allow developing full training of WWCs staff during the Project, immediate
and direct support was provided and will continue to be provided by HV on specific problems. Based on
HV's extensive experience, this is considered to be an appropriate solution to guarantee sustainability of
the investments financed under the Project.

Overall, the sustainability of this component is rated likely.




                                                     - 13 -

Nature Protection. Sustainability of component IV was predicted to be uncertain in the PAD, which did
not estimate any expected level of revenue, indicating that "some revenues will likely be available for
payment of O&M expenses". However, due to efficient management and marketing efforts from the Park's
management office, the first financial results are noteworthy, and far exceeded expectations. Revenues
collected in 2004 by the Park allowed it to cover half of the O&M costs of the Park for the same year.

Primary sources of revenues are the fees for hunting and access fees from visitors. Although it can be
argued that this success is an initial reaction to the reopening of the Park, and may not be lasting, the
cultural importance of hunting and the important population of the main hunting species - red deer and wild
boar - could provide a reasonable base level of income to the Park, should the number of visitor drop in the
future. In addition, the Park has an important impact on the local economy, which contributes to its
long-term sustainability. In particular, the Park managed to obtain the participation and support of the local
communities and businesses around the Park. It also managed to develop partnerships with schools,
universities and the scientific community for the organization of visits and learning events. Furthermore, the
Government is committed to provide necessary technical and financial support. Therefore the sustainability
of the Project is rated highly likely.

Based on the above, the overall sustainability of the Project is rated highly likely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
HV, on behalf of the Borrower, has coordinated the preparation and the completion of Operations Plans, in
collaboration with the Park management office, the participating WWCs and the CROMAC. These plan
detail measures taken or to be taken to ensure technical and financial sustainability of the investments
financed under the Project. They also include performance monitoring indicators of such measures. These
plans have been submitted to the Bank for its review. Comments have been provided, and final versions of
these documents are expected prior to the finalization of this ICR. Under component II, all facilities have
been formally handed over to the respective WWCs and are operating satisfactorily since then.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The performance of the Bank team during project identification, assistance to the Borrower in
project preparation and project appraisal was satisfactory. Project identification responded to the priorities
of the Croatian Government and the Bank to improving the restart of the local economy through critical
infrastructure repair and addressing its potential consequences on the environment and the Danube River.
The Project was prepared by the ROC in 6 months (from "Begin preparation" to Board approval dates), in
a large part, due to the efficient and effective assistance given by the Bank team. The appraisal document is
a clear, straightforward, yet thorough document. All relevant technical, institutional, environmental and
social issues were appropriately addressed commensurate with the Project's size and scope, the critical time
constraint and the specific post-conflict situation. The implementation arrangements were overall well
thought out and procurement arrangements were simple and well designed. Additional efforts could have
been made to deepen the risk analysis and develop adequate mitigation measures and monitoring
mechanisms to ensure that agricultural areas were effectively returning to cultivation.

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory. The Bank's performance during supervision is rated satisfactory for the following reasons:
(i) adequate reporting of project implementation progress; (ii) timely, comprehensive and realistic Project
Status Reports (PSRs); (iii) the quality and timeliness of advice and assistance provided to the Borrower;



                                                       - 14 -

and (iv) the regular and appropriately staffed supervision missions and correspondence with the Borrower.
A mid-term review took place in early 2003 and focused on determining how best to use the remaining
funds. The Project closing date was extended two times, to allow the completion of the on-going works and
the implementation of additional contracts.         During the first 18 months, the Project experienced
implementation delays due to lack of clarity in the sharing of responsibility in the procurement of the
demining contracts and the long time to get clearances from the CROMAC. The Bank team played an
instrumental role in getting the agreement to delegate more responsibility to HV in regard to procurement
and to develop competitive selection of the demining companies within the procurement of the civil works
contracts. In addition, the Bank team effectively managed to offer useful technical advice, to field frequent
missions with the requisite skill sets, and to respond in time to all requests.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. On balance, the Bank's performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Highly Satisfactory. Project preparation, including all aspects of the design and relevant sectoral issues,
was of high quality. The leading role of HV, the commitment of the Ministry of Finance and the quality of
the collaboration among Government agencies and with the Bank was exemplary. In spite of the difficult
context and the unclear status of Eastern Slavonia, the Borrower managed to prepare the Project in six
months. Additionally, the Borrower contributed adequately to Bank missions.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. The overall responsibility for the Project was given to HV. Project implementation involved
five Government Agencies, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Public Works, Physical Planning and
Construction (through HV), the Ministry of Interior, through the CROMAC, the State Directorate for
Environment and Nature Protection and the Kopacki rit Nature Park.

The few difficulties encountered at the beginning of the Project, in regard to the sharing of responsibilities
for the procurement of the mine clearing and for the practical organization of procurement for component
IV, were promptly and adequately resolved. Under the leadership of HV and based on its comprehensive
experience and efficiency in dealing with Bank procurement, it was agreed that HV would be responsible
for all procurement aspects, while technical specifications would remain with the relevant entities. All
counterpart funding from the ROC, HV and the Municipalities was provided in a timely manner

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Highly Satisfactory. HV has performed highly satisfactorily in implementing all aspects of the project.
Procurement has been carried out in an exemplary manner. All reporting has been timely and of adequate
quality. Core staff in HV has remained the same throughout the Project. Implementation arrangements took
place in a satisfactory manner both between HV and the WWCs and between HV and the Park. In
particular, HV provided them with informal support and assistance throughout the Project life, allowing for
a smooth transition and experience sharing on management aspects. The collaboration between the Bank
and HV has been excellent throughout the Project. In parallel with the implementation of this Project, the
Government of Croatia and HV developed a programmatic approach to develop wastewater collection and
treatment in coastal cities in Croatia. This comprehensive Program has been submitted for financing by the
Bank through an APL, which first phase is currently being implemented through the on-going Coastal
Cities Pollution Control Project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:




                                                     - 15 -

Highly Satisfactory. On balance, the Borrower's performance is rated highly satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

·        The denomination of the Loan in Deutsche Mark (DEM) and then in Euros helped mitigating
the exchange rate risk. At the time, the Croatian Kuna exchange rate was fixed to the DEM. In addition,
the DEM was then the main currency used in international contracts in South Eastern Europe, as the Euro
is now. Denominating the Loan in the currency in which major contracts are procured helps limiting the
exchange rate risk. Given the evolution of the exchange rate, in 2003 and 2004, when about Euro 30
million were disbursed, the denomination of the Loan in USD would have generated important losses.

·        Combining infrastructure and nature protection components increases synergies through the
development of integrated approaches. Linking in one operation direct infrastructure investments to their
possible consequences on the environment has important demonstrative and positive effects to build
ownership in the country and in the region. However, it needs a strong coordination and clear responsibility
sharing between institutions, and, eventually, a more important Bank involvement.


·        Treating Mine Clearing activities as part of a regular civil work contract increases
transparency and financial efficiency. Competitive selection of such activities within civil works contracts
increased competition and contributed to reducing prices significantly. Moreover, the inclusion of demining
as part of regular civil works contracts ensured timeliness in implementation.

·        The Bank should promote flexibility as an incentive to efficient Project management. The
quality of procurement and the knowledge of Bank procedures by experienced teams contribute to increase
competition and efficient financial management, eventually, translating into the generation of savings.
Introducing flexibility in Projects to allow the use of potential savings needs to be coupled with the
identification of an implementing agency that has adequate autonomy and expertise to make good decisions
about the use of such savings. Giving sufficient flexibility should also include the possibility to improve the
Project implementation arrangements, e.g. to provide the appropriate level of delegation of supervision of
the works to the final beneficiaries, thus facilitating experience sharing and smooth transfer of the assets for
a higher long-term sustainability.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
HV has submitted the Borrower's Completion Report, on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. The full text
of the report is included in Annex 8. No further comments have been received from the Government on the
final report.

(b) Cofinanciers:
The Project was co-financed by the GEF through a middle-sized project for the Kopacki rit Wetland
Management. The US$750,000 GEF grant financed complementary investments to the Nature Park
Kopacki rit, in addition to the ones financed under the Nature Protection component. The completion note
of this activity is attached to this ICR in annex 9.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NGOs with an interest in the Project were regularly consulted during project preparation, implementation
and for this completion report. This interest was essentially focused on the Nature Protection component
and the preparation of the management plan, which included extensive public consultation.




                                                      - 16 -

10. Additional Information

The Bank's team who worked on this project consisted of the following members:
·     Manuel G. Mariño (Lead Water and Sanitation Specialist/TTL)
·     Salim Benouniche (Senior Procurement Specialist)
·     Jacque Bure (Consultant)
·     Xavier Chauvot De Beauchene (Water and Sanitation Specialist)
·     Joseph Paul Formoso (Senior Finance Officer)
·     Stjepan Gabric (Consultant)
·     Michael Gascoyne (Senior Financial Management Specialist)
·     Takao Ikegami (Senior Sanitary Engineer/Procurement Specialist)
·     Irina Kichigina (Senior Counsel)
·     Maria Teresa R. Lim (Program Assistant)
·     Richard MacEwen (Senior Sanitary Engineer/TTL)
·     Njeri Muhoho (Financial Analyst)
·     Kishore Nadkarni (Senior Financial Analyst)
·     Jan Post (Environmental Specialist)
·     Stan Peabody (Lead Social Scientist)
·     Susan Rutledge (Program Team Leader)
·     Vladimir Skendrovic (Consultant)
·     Roberto Tarallo (Financial Management Specialist)




                                                - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Percentage of project (constructions          100%                                          100
contracts) completed                          (100%)
Percentage of Project funds disbursed         87%                                           94%
                                              (100%)                                        (97%) *
Percentage of reduction of BOD from plant     85%                                           85%
discharge site at Vinkovci **                 (85%)
Increase in hectares under cultivation in the 9,600                                         9,600
project area                                  (9,600)
Percentage of change in the populations of    85%                                           8%
indicator species in Kopacki rit              (No significant decrease in the populations of
                                              indicator species)

Note: End of Project projections at appraisal are shown in parentheses underneath each item.
* At the end of the Project, about 3% of the Project funds remained uncommitted (4% of the loan proceeds)
** This indicator has been stated in PSRs as "Percent of population connected to Vinkovci sewerage network"
Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Length of levees repaired                     120                                           120 ***
                                              (100 km)
Length of drainage canals cleared             600                                           600 ***
                                              (396 km)
No. of pumping stations rehabilitated         15                                            15
                                              (15)
Reconstruction of Vinkovci Wastewater         Completed                                     Operational and satisfying water quality
Treatment Plant ***                                                                         standards
Length of sewage collectors laid              N/A                                           43.5 ***
                                              (20 km)
Kopacki rit management plan prepared          100%                                          100%
                                              (100%)                                        Management Plan is in the process of being
                                                                                            endorsed by the Government.
Kopacki Rit management facilities             N/A                                           100%
constructed (Construction of blinds,          (100%)
fishponds and other park management
facilities) ****
Kopacki Rit monitoring program operational    N/A                                           100%
and purchase of monitoring and supervisory    (100%)
equipment ***

1 End of project
*** The number and the extent of construction contracts under the project have been extended to be able to use the
savings made.
Therefore the work carried out as part of these contracts exceeded by far the investments foreseen at appraisal.
**** All or parts of these indicators were not included in the monitoring indicators agreed at negotiations.




                                                                - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


Project Cost by Component (in  million)
               Component                     Appraisal           Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                              Estimate              Estimate            Appraisal
                                          Total (WB-financing)  Total (WB-financing) Total (WB-financing)
Flood Protection and Drainage              33,39 (22,95)         25,33 (16,41)        76 % (72%)
Wastewater Management                      14,97 (9,75)          15,45 (11,49)       103% (118%)
Clearing of Landmines                       5,52 (3,94)          11,30 (6,77)        205 % (172%)
Nature Protection                           2,56 (1,18)           2,49 (1,71)         97% (145%)
Total Baseline Cost                       56,44 (37,82)
Physical contingencies
Price contingencies
          Total Project Costs              56,44 (37,82)         54,57 (36,40)         97% (96%)
    Total Financing Required




Project Cost breakdown for Components I and III (in  million)
               Component                     Appraisal           Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                              Estimate              Estimate            Appraisal
                                          Total (WB-financing)  Total (WB-financing) Total (WB-financing)
Flood Protection and Drainage ­ Eastern    16,06 (11,03)         15,89 (10,10)         99% (92%)
Slavonia
Flood Protection and Drainage - Baranja   17,33 (11,92)           9,44 (6,31)          54% (53%)
Flood Protection and Drainage - TOTAL     33,39 (22,95)          25,33 (16,41)        76 % (72%)
Clearing of Landmines - Eastern Slavonia    2,76 (1,97)           7,01 (4,20)        254% (213%)
Clearing of Landmines - Baranja             2,76 (1,97)           4,29 (2,57)        155 % (130%)
Clearing of Landmines - Total               5,52 (3,94)          11,30 (6,77)        205 % (172%)
Flood Protection and Drainage & Clearing   38,91 (26,89)         36,63 (23,18)         94% (86%)
of Landmines - TOTAL




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) ( million)
                                         Procurement          Method
   Expenditure Category          ICB*        NCB              Other**         N.B.F.        Total Cost
1. Works        Price           30,42        14,8              0,29                          45,51
                                (18,41)     (8,88)            (0,19)                         (27,48)
2. Goods                         5,91                          0,39             0,59          6,89
                                (5,91)                        (0,39)                         (6,30)
3. Services                                                    4,04                           4,04
                                                              (4,04)                         (4,04)



                                                - 19 -

4. Miscellaneous


   Total                             36,33              14,8             4,72          0,59          56,44
                             WB     (24,32)             (8,88)          (4,62)                      (37,82)
* Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. all costs include contingencies.
** Includes civil woks and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
costs related to (i) managing the project; and (ii) re-lending project fnds to local government units.



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) ( million)
                                                    Procurement        Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB              NCB             Other         N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works             Price            25,89             15,00           0,49                         41,38
                                     (15,53)            (9,01)          (0,29)                      (24,83)
2. Goods                               8,41                             0,14           0,98           9,53
                                      (8,41)                            (0,14)                      (8,55)
3. Services                                                             3,21           0,45           3,66
                                                                        (3,02)                      (3,02)
4. Miscellaneous


   Total                              34,30             15,00           3,84           1,43          54,57
                              WB     (23,94)            (9,01)          (3,45)                      (36,40)




                                                          - 20 -

Project Financing by Component (in  million)
                                                                             Percentage of
     Component            Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate      Appraisal
                        Bank    Govt.     Total.   Bank   Govt.      Total   Bank    Govt.
Flood Protection and
Drainage ­ Eastern
Slavonia                 11,03      5,03    16,06   10,10     5,79     15,89   92%     115%
Flood Protection and
Drainage - Baranja       11,92      5,41    17,33    6,31     3,13      9,44   53%      58%
Flood Protection and
Drainage - Total         22,95     10,44    33,39   16,41     8,92     25,33   72%      85%
Clearing of
Landmines - Eastern
Slavonia                  1,97      0,79     2,76    4,20     2,81      7,01  213%     356%
Clearing of
Landmines - Baranja       1,97      0,79     2,76    2,57     1,72      4,29  130%     218%
Clearing of
Landmines - Total         3,94      1,58     5,52    6,77     4,53     11,30  172%     287%
Wastewater
Management                9,75      5,22    14,97   11,49     3,96     15,45  118%      75%
Nature Protection         1,18      1,38     2,56    1,70     0,78      2,49  145%      57%

Total Baseline Cost      37,82     18,61    56,44   36,40    18,19     54,57   96%      98%
Physical contingencies
Price contingencies
    Total Project Costs
       Total Financing
              Required




                                            - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

                                   Cost-Effectiveness Summary

Background: The main components of the project were (i) flood protection and drainage, (ii)
demining, including for agricultural land, and (iii) wastewater collection and treatment. The
project exceeded its physical targets in respect of all three components. The ensuing economic
benefits to the population in the project area include an increase in well-being from (i) the return
to normalcy in daily living, (ii) the removal of the threat to personal safety, and (iii) reduction in
hazards to health from uncollected and untreated wastewater. These benefits cannot be easily
quantified. The overall economic benefits of the project therefore go far beyond the quantifiable
benefits based on the increase in agricultural production and incomes. In regards to this, it was
recognized in the appraisal document that, while the investments in infrastructure under the
project were necessary conditions for achieving these outcomes, they were not sufficient
conditions in themselves as achievement of the outcomes was also dependent upon satisfactory
progress in the overall enabling environment including the Government's policies in regards to
land ownership, and marketing and pricing of agricultural inputs and outputs. It was further
recognized that these would not be covered under the project which would focus primarily on
ensuring that the required infrastructure was put in place.

Estimates at appraisal: These focused primarily on the costs-benefits to be derived from the
expected increase in agricultural production and agricultural incomes. Based on studies carried
out by FAO, separate economic analyses were carried out for the Baranja and Eastern Slavonia
components, and the economic costs and benefits were aggregated to calculate Economic Rates
of Return (ERR) and Net Present Values (NPV) using a 10% discount rate. The economic
benefits were obtained by replacing financial prices with economic values in the crop models and
by projecting cropping patterns for the two scenario "with project" and "without project". Given
the greater flood vulnerability of Baranja, a probabilistic approach was used in regards to the
occurrence of a major flood and its impacts, with and without the project. By running the model
100 times, the expected (or average) result was estimated to result in an ERR of 20% and an
NPV of US$12 million. For Eastern Slavonia, the ERR was estimated at 12% with an NPV of
US$2 million. The more modest economic results in the case of Eastern Slavonia were attributed
largely to the negative impact of sugarbeet production for which the economic value was assessed
to be negative. For the two areas combined, the ERR was estimated at 16.2% and the NPV at
US$14.5 million.

Re-estimation of economic benefits: At project completion, the economic results have been
re-estimated utilizing the FAO model and, subject to data limitations, updating the model inputs
for the actual results during implementation up to 2004 and projections from 2005 onwards. Due
to data limitations, it was not possible to carry out separate analyses for Baranja and Eastern
Slavonia; instead the economic results are re-estimated based on aggregated information for the
two areas together. On this basis, the re-estimated ERR is 20% and the NPV US$17.5 million at
a discount rate of 10%. The higher ERR and NPV as compared to those estimated at appraisal
are due to higher than projected productivity, and to changes in cropping patterns and in relative
prices, but the results need to be treated with caution given the aggregation of data for the area as
a whole. Nevertheless, it would seem fair to conclude that the economic benefits projected at


                                                - 22 -

appraisal were achieved.


Achievements over the period of project implementation: At appraisal, quantifiable benefits
were assessed for the flood and drainage component alone. In regards to this component,
physical targets were exceeded at project completion. Consequently, the component is expected
to have achieved the appraisal expectations of: (i) in Baranja, protecting an estimated 24,350 ha
of agricultural land from floods from destruction of crops together while providing greater safety
to the population, infrastructure and houses; (ii) evacuation of water from inundated lands in
Baranja (6,000 ha) and Eastern Slavonia (3,600 ha); and (iii) improving drainage in another
30,000 ha of land leading to increase in crop productivity. For the combined area, substantial
increases in production and productivity per hectare were achieved over the period 1998 to 2004
for the main agricultural outputs. These are summarized in the table below:

     Item        Cultivated area      Production (tons)       Productivity         Output prices
                       (ha)                                     (tons/ha)            (HRK/ton)
                  1998      2004       1998       2004       1998        2004      1998      2004

 Wheat           57268      53179     289579     321204       5.06       6.04      1100      1000

 Maize           63852      73562     417024     662058       6.53       9.00       600       800

 Oilseeds        18383      17819      40772      49893       2.35       2.80      2470      1350

 Sugarbeet       10223      9643      438595     501436      42.90       52.00      270       250

 Animal          10541      13269     156571     270687      17.35       20.40      350       800
 fodder



Productivity increases ranged from a high of 38% for maize to 18% for animal fodder, with that
for the other outputs falling between these two values.

Comparison of current to appraised end-of-project results: These are summarized in the
following table:




                                               - 23 -

  Item       Productivity     Cultivated area (ha) Economic margins   Economic benefits
               (tons/ha)                               (HRK/ha)           (000 HRK)
          Appraisal  Current  Appraisal   Current  Appraisal Current  Appraisal Current
          estimate   estimate estimate    estimate estimate  estimate estimate  estimate

Wheat       6.4         6.0    29168       24084    1943      1481     56673     35668

Maize       7.2         9.0    31286       32421     714      1066     22338     34560

Oilseed     2.6         2.8    7974         8337    2330      2500     18579     20842

Sugarbeet   45.0       52.0    7049         4632    -7954     -8721   -56068    -40396

Animal      5.0         7.1    8851         5558    1175      1910     10400     10616
fodder

Fallow                         8193        17489
land

Total for                      92521       92521                       51922     61290
all crops




                                         - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              12/03/97                  8    TTL, Water (1), Environment
              upgraded to                    (1), Consultants (4)
              Appraisal on
              02/26/98


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/14/98


 Supervision

              07/27/1998                3    WATER (1);                       HS             HS
                                             RECONSTRUCTION (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT (1)
              05/17/1999                1    ENGINEER (1)                     S               S
              01/20/2000                2    TEAM LEADER. ENGINEER            S               S
                                             (1); ENGINEER (1)
              08/23/2000                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1); ENVT'L .
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              07/03/2001                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              11/20/2001                4    ENGINEER (1); ENVT'L.            S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1); ECONOMIST
                                             (1); TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
              03/14/2002                2    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              10/24/2002                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1); ENVT'L.
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              11/07/2003                2    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             WATER/SAN. SPECIALIST (1)
              05/05/2004                4    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             WATER/SAN. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ENGINEER (1); ENVT'L.
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              09/21/2004                4    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1); CONSULTANT
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              12/17/2004                4    TEAM LEADER. ENGINEER            HS             HS
                                             (1); ENGINEER (2);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)




                                              - 25 -

 ICR
               10/08/2004             2     Water (2)                         S    S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                              242.4
  Supervision                                                        537.1
  ICR
  Total




                                            - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating                         Rating (Supplemental GEF)
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA

  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA    H      SU    M      N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating                              Rating (Supplemental GEF)

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating                              Rating (Supplemental GEF)

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU            HS     S      U      HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.   Aide-Memoires, BTORs and PSRs (1 to 16)
2.   Project Implementation Plan (dated March 18, 1998)
3.   Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Croatia
4.   Project Appraisal Document (May 21, 1998)
5.   Loan Agreement (September 8, 1998) and amendments
6.   Project Agreement (September 8, 1998)
7.   Mid-Interim Report submitted by HV (dated March 2003)




                                           - 29 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report Summary


1. Relevance of Project Objectives

The project's development objective was to repair and rebuild war-damaged water sector
infrastructure(including clearing of landmines), critically needed to restart the local economy (and
in particular, local agriculture) of Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem while mitigating
the negative environmental impact likely to be caused to the adjacent nature park by the restart of
local agriculture.

Key performance indicators to measure the project's success were: (i) progress in commitments of
construction contracts and disbursement of funds, (ii) improvement in ambient water quality at
Vinkovci, (iii) increase in the area of arable land under cultivation, and (iv) stability of population
levels of "indicator" species in the Kopacki rit Nature Park.

The fighting in Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem had damaged or destroyed much of
the area's infrastructure, and therefore the Government developed an urgent economic strategy
intended to rebuild Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem and to help restart the local
economy. It was expected that the implementation of the program will encourage the return of
refugees and displaced persons to their homes and to productive activity. Two key elements of the
Government program were: (i) the reintegration of public services and (ii) reconstruction of
infrastructure. Hence, the project was intended as a crucial first step in addressing the urgent
reconstruction of key infrastructure, such as flood control and drainage systems. In this context
the project objective (as listed above) was and has remained highly relevant as it has supported
and complemented the government efforts. As shown by relevant indicators, the agriculture
production has increased since the implementation of the project, thus showing that the project
has helped the government strategy.

2. Suitability of Project Design

The project was designed as to focus on crucial investments which: (i) have a critical time factor
in implementation; (ii) support complementarity of grant-funded programs; and (iii) do not hinder
further sectoral reforms or future capital investment programs.          Consequently, the project
investments were selected and they consisted of four components
·       Flood Control & Drainage
·       Wastewater Management
·       Clearing of Landmines
·       Nature Protection (Kopacki rit Nature Park)

The first project component focused on flood control and drainage systems that are the
responsibility of the Government and for which no alternative financing was available. The
investments in the Vinkovci wastewater system was needed to clean up an important source of
wastewater pollution into the Danube. Since most of the flood control facilities were known to be
contaminated by landmines, landmine clearing became a precondition to repair of the flood



                                                 - 30 -

control network and therefore land mine clearing complemented the flood control and drainage
investments. The nature protection component was needed to ensure that the restart of local
agriculture would not have a detrimental impact on the neighboring nature park at Kopacki rit.

Because the project targeted investments that cannot wait the time was of the essence for the
success of the project. Every delay in restoring flood control and drainage systems would have
caused severe economic losses and hinder the return of refugees and displaced persons.
Moreover, there was a risk that one of the two dikes on the Drava or the Danube Rivers
collapses, causing total destruction of that year's crops, damage to housing and local
infrastructure, loss of life, and displacement of households.

The project design was suitable to meet the objective. However, the scope of the project in terms
of the area covered, has not been adequate. At the time of project preparation the project area
was still occupied and not accessible and therefore not all the needs in the area had been precisely
identified. On the other hand, it was found that some facilities which had been originally included
in the project were in better condition than anticipated. Consequently, in May 2003 the project
duration was extended and funds were reallocated thus enabling the implementing agency to
undertake additional investments without changing the project objectives. The changes in the
project components were made in a timely and appropriate manner.

3. Suitability of Implementation Arrangements

The flood control and drainage component was implemented by the Croatian Waters (HV), which
retained ownership of the facilities once reconstruction was completed. The Wastewater
Management component was also implemented by HV. Originally, it was intended that, once
completed, HV would transfer the facilities to Vinkovci Water and Wastewater (VVK) and it was
reflected so in the PAD. However, before the start of the implementation a more effective
solution was introduced by which the VVK became the owner of the facilities from the start of
construction and therefore there was no need for transferring the facility once it was completed.

A major improvement in the implementation arrangement was introduced during the project
preparation for the mine clearing component. Under another project (the Emergency Transport
and Mine Clearing Project), which started before this one, all contracting for mine clearing was
conducted by the Ministry of Interior. Such implementation arrangements that require contracting
through a centralized mine-clearing organization had been slower than expected. In addition,
under the Reconstruction Project for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem, the timing of
mine clearing was more important since virtually all the flood control and drainage investments
had to be cleared or verified before repair and reconstruction could begin. Therefore the project
allowed the construction contractor to directly hire the mine clearing contractor and thus ensure
that the clearing works are completed on time for the reconstruction of the flood control and
drainage network.

Regarding the Nature Protection component several steps have been successfully taken to
strengthen the implementation arrangements. The authority responsible for environmental
management was the State Directorate for the Protection of Nature and Environment, which was



                                                 - 31 -

later on established as the Ministry of Environment Protection and Physical Planning. The idea
was that the Directorate (with the assistance of consultants) would outline the technical
requirements for the procurement of goods and works contracts, while the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) of HV would conduct the procurement process. Such an arrangement
did exclude the beneficiary of the component i.e. the Kopacki rit Nature Park. Therefore, the
arrangement was changed during the early stage of the project implementation insofar that
Kopacki rit was involved in the process by preparing requests and specifications, which were then
approved by the Ministry and submitted to HV for procurement. These necessary changes in the
implementation arrangements were done in timely and effective manner.

The implementation arrangements have provided for adequate involvement of the different
stakeholders. No difficulties have been encountered in this regard. Technical assistance has also
been provided during the project preparation by the international environmental nongovernment
organizations already active in Croatia. Two major NGOs have been active in working with the
Ministry and Kopacki rit, providing analysis and advice. The process of adoption of the
Management Plan for Kopacki rit has also involved public hearings as regulated by Croatian laws.

4. Project Implementation

The project implementation commenced as originally planned and a number of activities have
proceeded within the original timeframe. On the other hand there were some activities, in
particular those that required input from the Ministry, that were delayed and faced some problems
related to the procurement process and counterpart financing, but they were overcome once a
cooperation between the Ministry and HV became effective. .However, due to considerable
savings realized by efficient HV project management, several new facilities in the area not
originally included in the project scope, were added and therefore the project duration had to be
extended accordingly. The Bank was very responsive in making requested adjustments for
changing circumstances.

5. Project Cost and Financing

Compared with the original estimate made at project appraisal, there have been some considerable
saving and for the following reasons:
·       some facilities originally included in the project were in better condition than anticipated,
·       cost of construction works in Croatia has been decreasing because of higher competition
and foreign contractors entering the construction market,
·       well prepared bidding documents and skillful management of construction process by HV
have allowed savings to take place.

Savings were utilized for expansion of the project scope to some areas not originally covered by
the project. Reallocation of project funds were made in timely and effective manner.

Information regarding the project costs, financing and procurement details are given in
Attachment 1.




                                                 - 32 -

6. Project Benefits

The primary beneficiaries have been the population of Eastern Slavonia, Baranja, and Western
Srijem and in particular the farmers and local agricultural organizations who are now realizing
increased yields and incomes. In addition, householders have access to wastewater services, and
construction crews and others living and working in areas that might be contaminated with
landmines have safe access to their areas of activities. Generally, it may be concluded that the
project has surpassed the development targets for all elements.

Flood Control component: The expected benefits consist of restored protection against floods for
35,000 hectares of valuable agricultural land and rural infrastructure. The level of protection of
one in ten years, which had been deteriorating due to a continued lack of maintenance to the dikes
and canals, has been increased to one in 100 years thus meeting Croatia's commitments to
Hungary under the Danube River Flood Control Plan. For both Baranja and Eastern Slavonia, the
project benefits were: (i) improved drainage on about 30,000 hectares of rich agricultural land
which was suffering from a high water table and (ii) restored and put back into cultivation about
9,600 hectares of inundated agricultural land. The project has improved the overall economic
situation in the area and at the same time contributed to increased farmers' incomes. The
statistical information related to the restored agricultural land and agricultural production are
shown in Attachment 2.

Wastewater component: The Government has adopted the goal of meeting EU standards of
wastewater treatment and collection. Construction of the WWTP at Vinkovci, reconstruction of
the WWTP at Beli Manastir and construction of two WWTPs at Nustar were considered the
least-cost investment plan needed to meet the national standards and the project has financed
about 20 percent of the total requirements to rebuild the damaged or destroyed wastewater
systems in Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem. The wastewater treatment potentially
eliminated the threats to the quality of groundwater acquifer, which is the population's primary
source of clean water. Reduced biological oxygen demand (BOD) has also improved water
quality to downstream areas, thereby improving the quality of water discharged in the Sava and
Drava and, later in the Danube.

Mine Clearing component: Mine clearing is considered to be an essential precondition for the
infrastructure reconstruction program and was justified by the expected benefits of the proposed
investment program. Without clearing of landmines, the investments in the flood control and
drainage network could not have been implemented, but once mine clearing was completed,
valuable land could be drained and brought into productive use.

Nature Protection component: Since Kopacki rit is considered wetlands of global importance,
measures introduced to protect the environmental quality of the Nature Park have benefited not
only tourism to the area, but also members of the international community concerned with
environmental protection and natural resource preservation. The facilities built under the project
in the Nature Nark have already attracted an increased number of visitors in the park. The
statistical information on the stability of population levels of "indicator" species in the Kopacki rit
Nature Park are given in Attachment 3.



                                                 - 33 -

7. Borrower's Performance and Lessons Learnt

The Borrower's and implementing agency's performance have been highly satisfactory with
outstanding performance starting from the preparation phase, during which the Borrower showed
a high degree of commitment and cooperation with the Bank and throughout the project
implementation as the Borrower and HV have been prompt in resolving problems and responding
in timely and efficient manner to Bank requirements. In particular, HV was very effective, with
support from the Borrower, in resolving problems related to the Kopacki rit component, arising
from unclear implementation roles of each of participating organizations, i.e. HV, the Nature Park
and the Ministry. Except for a very few instances, there have been no problems with the provision
of counterpart funding.

HV as the implementing agency has shown high professionalism in its work on the project. All
procurement actions have been managed by Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established by and
within HV. The PIU has managed the project implementation in an efficient and timely manner
leading to considerable savings in the use of the loan and counterpart funds, thus enabling
financing of additional facilities in the areas not originally included in the project. The
procurement and financial management conducted by HV can be evaluated as "best practice."

8. Bank's Performance and Lessons Learn

Bank's performance has been highly satisfactory both in the preparatory phase and in project
implementation. Bank's team was changed during the project implementation, but the change did
not have any impact on the continuity of the project good performance. Supervision and
procurement review were performed in timely manner providing advice to the Borrower and PIU
whenever needed. The Bank's team has established a very effective relationship with the
implementing agency.

Attachments:
1.     Project costs, financing and procurement data
2.     Statistical information related to the restored agricultural land and agricultural production
3.     Statistical information on the stability of population levels of "indicator" species in the
Kopacki rit Nature Park




                                                - 34 -

Additional Annex 9. Grant for Kopacki rit Wetland Management Project Completion
Report



         Grant for Kopa·ki rit Wetland Management Project




                    (GEF - MSP grant No. TF022644)




                              Completion Report




                                   April 2004




                                          - 35 -

Table of Contents:


 Basic Information                                              3

 Executive Summary                                              4

 Linkages between the Grant and the Loan                        5

 Impact Analysis                                                6

    Main achievements                                           6

    Project Sustainability                                      8

    Replicability                                               8

    Stakeholder Involvement                                     8

 Summary of main lessons learned                                9

 Procurement and Disbursement Information                       9

 Financial Management Status                                    10

    ANNEX 1 : Project planning and implementation arrangement   11

    ANNEX 2 : final Project Management Report table             12




                                         - 36 -

    Basic Information

Date of Completion Report: April 23, 2004

Title of GEF Medium-Sized Project: Kopa·ki rit Wetland Management Project (the Grant)

GEF Allocation: US$750.000

Period of Project Implementation: June 14, 1999 - September 1, 2003

Grant Recipient: Republic of Croatia

World Bank Manager/Task Team: Manuel Mariño,

Goals and Objectives: (include any changes in the objectives):

The goal and objectives were not modified during project implementation.

The key objective of the Grant was and remained to complement the support provided under the Loan to
conserve and sustainably use the globally significant biodiversity of the Kopa·ki rit Wetlands, a highly
threatened and global ecosystem.

Information about the activities financed under the Grant, the Grant Objective indicators, the summary of
the results achieved and the impact of the Grant financed activities are described in the following sections.

Financial Information:

The Grant was an integral part of the Bank's on-going Reconstruction Project for Eastern Slavonia,
Baranja and Western Srijem (hereinafter referred to as "the Loan" / "the Project"). The original financing
plan of the Kopa·ki rit Nature Park total assistance is detailed in the Table 2 below.

The Loan experienced several reallocations of its proceeds, whereas the Grant encountered only one: The
funds allocated for consulting services and work from both the Loan and the Grant exceeded the needs. In
the meantime, the funds allocated for equipment (goods) were insufficient. Therefore, a request for the
reallocation of the Grant proceeds was addressed to the Bank on February 3, 2000. The Bank agreed on
March 3, 2000 to reallocate the proceeds of the Grant as presented in Table 1.

Table 1: Reallocation of the Grant proceeds as of March 2000.
        Expenditure Categories                   Original Allocation                Reallocation as of
                                                of the Grant Proceeds                  March 2000
Goods                                                   100,000                          680,000
Works                                                   180,000                               0
Consultants Services and Training                       400,000                               0
Operational Costs                                       70,000                            70,000
TOTAL                                                   750,000                          750,000


                                                     - 37 -

Additional information regarding the Financial Management Status, the Audits and Procurement and
Disbursement information is detailed in the relevant sections below.

     Executive Summary

Kopa·ki rit Nature Park (hereinafter referred to as Kopacki rit) is one of the centers of Croatian biodiversity
with more than 2500 registered biological species, out of which many are rare and endangered on a
European and/or global level.

Recognized for its globally significant biodiversity, Kopa·ki rit was declared a Ramsar site on June 26,
1996. The war activities in the area (1991 ­ 1997) had a strong negative impact on the Nature Park ­ on
infrastructure as well as on the ecological values and social community.

The GEF Grant to the Republic of Croatia (the Grant) for the purpose of the Kopa·ki rit Wetlands
Management Project (GEF ­ MSP Grant No. TF022644) was activated on June 14, 1999.

The USD 750.000 Grant is consistent with OP 4.04 on Natural Habitats and was an integral part of the
Bank's on-going Reconstruction Project for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem (hereinafter
referred o as "the Loan" or "the Project").

The key objective of the Grant is to complement the support provided under the Loan to conserve and
sustainably use the globally significant biodiversity of the Kopa·ki rit Wetlands, a highly threatened and
global ecosystem.

The following activities have been financed out of the Grant proceeds:
(i)      training of the Nature Park's staff in protected areas and natural resource management, nature park
administration, patrolling, enforcement and monitoring (preparation of the Park's management Plan is
financed under the Loan);
(ii)     provision of equipment needed for the protection and management of the Park, for increasing the
Park's accessibility and potential self-financing, as well as for the Management Office (rehabilitation of the
Nature Park's infrastructure is financed under the Loan);
(iii)    carrying out of surveys of (a) population of birds, deer and wild boar, vegetation and water quality
at representative sites; and (b) the impacts of the Project on the local population and on the subsistence and
economic activities on biodiversity
(iv)     strengthening the capacity of community groups.


The Grant, and the associated Loan have been instrumental in improving the management of the Kopa·ki rit
Nature Park and in protecting its biodiversity values. It contributed to increase its sustainability through
long-term protection of natural resources and biodiversity, development of a proper business environment
aiming at ensuring its financial sustainability, increase of the tourist-related local economy in the Park
surroundings and the attraction of the funds from other international donors. For these reasons, the Grant
objectives have been fully met and often exceeded, therefore it has been rated "highly satisfactory".

The Grant has been closed as planned on September 1, 2003. All Grant funded contracts have been
successfully completed and disbursed before the end of the four-month grace period, approved by the Bank
August 28, 2003, that ended January 1, 2004.



                                                      - 38 -

The Grant financial statements for the period from grant inception to December 31, 2002 were audited in
accordance with International Standards on Auditing, by an auditor acceptable to the Bank and received an
unqualified (clean) audit opinion. Financial statements, and the audit thereof, for the period from January 1,
2003 to December 31, 2003 are due before June 30, 2004.




                                                   - 39 -

    Linkages between the Grant and the Loan

The Grant was an integral part of the Bank's on-going Reconstruction Project for Eastern Slavonia,
Baranja and Western Srijem (P048983), through its Nature Protection component.

The specific objective of the Nature Protection component was to develop and strengthen the State
Directorate for the Protection of Nature en Environment of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and
Physical Planning (Ministry of Environment or MoE), construct facilities through: (i) preparation of a
management plan and monitoring program for the Kopacki rit Nature Park; (ii) provision of technical
assistance to strengthen the institutional capacity of the State Directorate for the Protection of Nature and
Environment as well as that of the Kopacki rit Nature Park; (iii) the purchase of boats, all-terrain vehicles,
a geographic information system (GIS), water quality monitoring equipment and other supervisory
equipment for Kopacki rit (and for the use of the State Water Directorate); and (iv) repair and rehabilitation
of blinds (observation areas), fishponds, park management facilities and other infrastructure necessary to
provide long-term environmental protection for the area.

The key performance indicator to measure the success of this component of the Project is the stability of
population levels of "indicator" species in the Kopacki rit Nature Park. Typical species of the Nature Park
include rare and endangered species of birds such as European Black Stork (endangered), White-Tailed Sea
Eagle, Black-crowned Night-herons, Squacco Herons, Ferruginous Duck (endangered), Whiskered Terns
(endangered), Saker Falcon, Little Egrets, Spoonbills (during migration) and Bean Geese; rare mammals
species such as Otter, Wild Cat, Pine Marten and the Bilch. In addition, forty four species of fish and ten
species of reptiles, including the endangered European Marsh Turtle, occur in the marshes and lakes.

For the purpose of this component, the Loan and the counterpart financing from the Government of Croatia
provided USD 1.61 million co-financing to the Project, thus totaling USD 2.36 million, as detailed in the
Table 2 below.

            Table 2. Breakdown of the Kopa·ki rit Nature Park total assistance

              GEF Grant                                          $750,000
             World Bank Loan                                     $966,000
             Government of Croatia                               $644,000
             Total                                              $2,360,000

The Loan Closing date, initially scheduled June 30, 2003, has been extended to December 31, 2004, mostly
for the completion of additional infrastructure financed under the flood protection and wastewater treatment
components. Cooperation between Hrvatske Vode, the implementing Agency of the Project, and the Nature
Park Management Office has been excellent. Satisfaction with progress was expressed by the representative
of the MoE. All contracts financed under the Nature Park component of the loan have been satisfactorily
completed and disbursed before the end of 2003, as planned. The management office of the Park is now
fully operational, the visitor center has been completed and the visitor's boat has been purchased and
launched and are ready to open for the next tourist season. Rehabilitation of the eco-center near Tikves
Castle has been completed ahead of schedule.

Since the Grant was an integral part of the Project, the present Completion Report (GEF Medium Size
Project Completion Report) refers to the achievements reached without making distinctions between the

                                                    - 40 -

Project Completion Report) refers to the achievements reached without making distinctions between the
Grant and the Nature Park Component of the Project.




                                                - 41 -

    Impact Analysis

        Main achievements


The Grant provided a critical addition to the Loan financed works and technical assistance. It contributed
support for the purchase of equipment that is essential to increase its sustainability and to its long-term
protection. Ministry of Environment Grant Objective indicators have been fully met and often exceeded, as
indicated in Table 3.


Table 3: Monitoring of the Grant Objective Indicators
 Grant Objective Indicators:         Summary of the results achieved
 Number of breeding and hunted       ·     population of endangered species on the world level remained
 species stabilized or increasing    stable, e.g., White-tailed Eagles (23 pairs in 1999; 25 in 2003) and
                                     Black Storks (10 pairs in 1999; 8 in 2003).
                                     ·     population of some threatened species increased, e.g. 120 pairs of
                                     Greylag Goose and 680 pairs of Whiskered Terns were counted in
                                     2001.
                                     ·     new species started with nesting in the area: 3 new species where
                                     observed in 2002, including Avocets (2 pairs) and Stilts (15 pairs).
 Strategy/mechanism for financing    ·     Strategy/mechanism for financing the operating and capital costs of
 the operating and capital costs of  the Kopacki rit Nature Park Management Authority has been
 the Kopacki rit Nature Park         established.
 Management Authority established    ·     The management office of the Park is now fully operational and its
                                     work has already generated encouraging results, some of which are
                                     indicated below.



The main results/impacts of the Project include :

·       An increase in on-site protection measures and better safeguarding of the area from damaging
impacts and misuses.

As a result, population of some threatened species increased (like Greylag Goose, Whiskered Terns) and
new species started nesting in the area (e.g. Avocets and Stilts, as indicated in Table 3). Population of
endangered species on the world level, like White-tailed Eagles and Black Storks remained stable. More
than 2500 biological species have been registered in the Nature Park until now and it is expected that
improved conditions will enable further research of biodiversity. According to the current assumptions, the
number of biological species could reach up to 4000 species. Based on recent studies, one species of
mammals, one species of birds, two species of crawfish, and 29 species of Carabidae were added to the
number of biological species registered in the Nature Park.

·       Improved quality of the offer and attractiveness of the Nature Park to tourists and visitors thanks
to the improvement of the Nature Park infrastructure, including the construction of a visitors center at the
border of the Nature Park, the rehabilitation of the Tikves Castle bio-ecological station and information
center and the purchase of a 50-passenger tour boat.


                                                    - 42 -

·        With the restoration of habitats, the enhancement of accessibility and the overall infrastructure
improvement during Project implementation, the number of visitors increased from 100 in 1999 to over
7500 in 2003. Very good signals were given in the beginning of 2004. For instance, during one single
weekend in April 2004 the Nature Park received 1000 visitors. Based on the observed trend of increase, the
number of visitors before the war (about 20,000 per year) is expected to be reached as early as before the
end of 2004.
·        The establishment of a proper business environment, regulated through the development of the
Management Plan and the income generated by the increased number of visitor will result in financial
sustainability of the Nature Park. For example, 1000 visitors during one single week-end generated a
revenue of 5000. During 2004, it is expected that the income generated by visitors will reach up to 
200.000, which would represent more than 65% of the Natural Park Office's total income. As a result of
the Project the Management Office has already been able to create new job opportunities for the local
communities. During 2002, about 40 local people were temporarily employed in different positions in the
Nature Park. During 2003 and early 2004, the Management Office has employed 10 additional people full
time regular positions.
·        Increased numbers of visitors also enabled opportunities for the local population in the
development of environmentally sound tourism practices in the Nature Park surroundings. In the period
from 2001 to 2003, eleven new private guesthouses were opened in the Bilje municipality serving over 55
beds. Due to the great interest, an increase in capacity is expected to reach 100% in 2004.
·        With the rehabilitation and equipment of the bio-ecological station of Tikves Castle, the capacity of
the Management Office to properly protect the Park's natural resources and biodiversity have been
increased significantly.
·        As a complementary benefit of the Project, since the Project started, the Nature Park has attracted
significant international support and a number of parallel similar projects are currently under
implementation, including:
o        The "Ecological Network Danube- Drava National Park - Kopacki rit Nature Park" proposed by
the European Center for Nature Conservation (ECNC), financed from the Government of the Netherlands.
The total value of first phase is 57,000.
o        The International Project "Macrophytes, River Corridor, Land Use, Habitats: A multifunctional
study in the Danube Catchment based on a GIS approach" led by the Institute of Ecology and Conservation
Biology, University of Vienna (Austria). The total value of this Project is 5,000.
o        An International Protocol of Cooperation for promotion of ecological and touristic facilities has
been signed with Consortium CO.RI.BA and C.I.E.M. (Italy).
o        International Protocols of Cooperation have been signed with National Park Danube- Drava
(Hungary).

In addition, the Nature Park Management Office is currently preparing participation for
INTEREG project in cooperation with the University of Venice (Italy).




                                                     - 43 -

        Project Sustainability

The up-to-date equipment for biodiversity research and monitoring that has been provided is expected to
ensure that the technical capacity of the Management Office is sufficient to properly protect the Parks
resources. In addition, the expected increase in revenues generated by the increase in the number of visitors
will allow additional investments in biodiversity conservation and environmental protection to take place,
thus ensuring the sustainability of the Park and the Project results. In particular, it is expected that the
income generated by the visitors in 2004 would represent over 65% of the Nature Park's total income. The
remaining income would come from Government funds and other projects. The overall development of
tourism in the Nature Park area and the ability to attract International Donors funding that the Project has
helped putting into motion will further contribute to ensuring the financial sustainability of the Park and the
economic development of the surroundings areas.


        Replicability

As indicated earlier, the success generated by the Grant-financed activities have been experienced long
before the Grant closed, and went beyond expectations. Thus, the successful development of sustainable
management and long-term environmental protection sets the Kopacki rit Nature Park as an example not
only in Croatia, but also in the entire Balkan area. Given the very rich natural patrimony of the area and the
number of natural resources protection initiatives, the Grant has a high potential of replicability in Croatia
and more broadly in the entire South-East Europe. In particular, the experience gained under this project is
being used in other Park management activities in Croatia (e.g., Karst Ecosystem Conservation Project
(KEC) funded under through GEF Grant). Moreover, since the Kopa·ki rit Nature Park is the first that has
developed a management plan for the protected area, a workshop will take place in June to share experience
and lessons learned with other national and nature parks

To expand the impact of the Project the management office has requested a follow up operation to
rehabilitate as wetlands an area adjacent to the park and use it for the treatment of wastewaters coming
from the villages in the area. Such operation would fall under the Black Sea Partnership


        Stakeholder Involvement

Government and Implementing Agencies

Like many World Bank projects, this GEF project was affected by "actors and factors", negatively and
positively, during the project implementation. Two phases can be distinguished in Project implementation:

·        The first phase covers the period from 1999 to 2001. Project preparation activities were at a very
low level, there was no effective PIU and less than 15% of the total Grant proceeds have been committed
during this period. In addition, the Management Office was still in the process of forming with only 5
employees without necessary work equipment or property rights for the use of the Park's infrastructure.
·        The second phase covers the period from 2001 to 2003. The project was positively affected by
several actors. The key actor was the Minister of Environment, whose decisions accelerated the contract
procedures and resulted in a better cooperation between PIU and the MoE. This, along with the replacement
of the Management Office Director accelerated Project implementation. Replacement of PIU members and
leadership had a positive impact on Project progress.


                                                     - 44 -

Local communities


The local communities have been involved from the very early stages of the Project preparation. High
ownership and interest has been build for the activities related to improving the quality of the offer and
attractiveness of the Nature Park which benefit directly the local economy. Moreover, the local communities
have participated in the development of the Nature Park Management Plan and in the design of the visitor
center in respect of the traditional rural architecture and building practices. Furthermore, a portion of the
visitor center has been reserved for the promotion of traditional local production of the region, integrating
small shops where local products and handcraft work will be sold. In addition, improved quality of the offer
and attractiveness of the Nature Park to tourists and resulting increased number of visitors give local
communities opportunities for economic development and income generation, e.g. though employment
opportunities or tourism-related small businesses creation.


Additional information on Project planning and implementation arrangement is attached to this document in
Annex 1.

Summary of main lessons learned

a.       The motivation and great interest for the Project at all levels (from PIU members to the
Government) has been critical for thorough realization of the project.
b.       Fast, in-time and open cooperation between the different stakeholders involved in Project
implementation made the completion in time possible.
c.       Extensive experience gained and knowledge gathered during the Project implementation contribute
to the success of this Project and will have positive impact on the implementation of future national and
international projects.

Procurement and Disbursement Information

34 contracts, essentially for procurement of Goods were financed out of the Grant proceeds, for a total
amount of USD 750.320,61.        The final Project Management Report table showing procurement and
disbursement information is attached to this document in Annex 2. The disbursement rate during the
implementation period is indicated in Table 3.

To insure conditions for biological and ecological protection of the Nature park wetlands and to strengthen

the Management Office, the following goods were procured:


-        furniture and equipment for 6 offices including computers;
-        furniture and equipment for 4 laboratories (hydrological, zoological, botanical and pedological)
situated within the Bio-ecological station. The laboratories will be used to monitor the state of plant and
animal populations and environment. A water quality analyzer, microscopes and lupes were procured in
order to assess the water quality and planktonic communities. Telescopes and binoculars were procured in
order to monitor bird populations;
-        furniture and equipment for the multimedia room in the Bio-ecological station: computer hardware
and software for "greed conception". Preconditions were thus created for an up-to-date monitoring,
                                                     - 45 -

and software for "greed conception". Preconditions were thus created for an up-to-date monitoring,
presentation and preservation of the Parks ecological values as well as global data exchange;
-        field research equipment, supervisory equipment (4*4 vehicles) and park maintenance equipment
(tractor);
Equipment and goods were also purchased to improve tourism and visits to the Park, including: 3 telescopes
(situated at the most attractive sites); 50 binoculars (for bird watching); one tour boat (capacity for 50
passengers, for sightseeing of the most interesting parts of the Park through waterways); and one mini bus
(for transportation of visitors within the Park).

             Table 3. Level of Disbursement per year

              Year          Amount (USD)          Rate
             2000           81.836,88             10,93%
             2001           172.872,69            23,03%
             2002           49.338,28             6,57%
             2003           446.272,76            59,47%
             Total          750.320,61            100,00%

Financial Management Status

Grant financial statements have been presented to the Bank for the period from Grant inception to
December 31, 2002. The Grant financial statements were audited in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing, by an auditor acceptable to the Bank The Grant financial statements received an
unqualified (clean) audit opinion.

Financial statements, and the audit thereof, for the period from January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2003 are
due before June 30, 2004.




                                                    - 46 -

                      ANNEX 1 : Project planning and implementation arrangement


         Project Planning

 In order to plan the project activities, budget and specifications (scope), the "Implementation Plan" was
 activated on September 20, 2001. The Implementation Plan served as a baseline plan for the project. It
 specifies what activities should be accomplished, their start and finish dates, the budget costs and the
 human and physical resources that should be allocated to the activities. The emphasis was on the check of
 the critical path. The Implementation plan for the GEF - project was in close connection with the IBRD -
 project Implementation Plan. Activity of the GEF ­ project depended sometimes on the realization of
 individual phases of the IBRD ­ projects, which was the reason for their delayed activation.


         Implementation Arrangements

 The PIU was set up after Project effectiveness.

From 1999 to 2001 the PIU was consisted of: Boris Bolsec and Tibor Mikuska as a PIU leader. From 2001
to 2003 PIU was composed by Boris Bolsec, Tibor Mikuska, Besim Mehi· and Darko Karali· as a PIU
leader.

 The director of the Nature Park was also the project director. The project director for the initial period
 between 1991 to 2000 was Dr. Jozsef Mikuska; he was later replaced by Dr. Melita Mihaljevi·. Additional
 to their regular working tasks and without any additional payments, all members of PIU, including the
 project director, worked on the Project.

 The PIU was responsible for Procurement of Goods and Services. The director of the Nature Park was
 responsible for the Project Management. The MoE was responsible for the Project coordination, financial
 management and disbursement. Hrvatske Vode bears overall responsibility for the implementation of the
 Project under the Loan No. 4351HR. They also provided Consulting Services to the PIU during the Grant
 realization.

 During the Project Implementation the members of PIU completed the following trainings:
-         Equipment procurement management for World Bank funded projects in Croatia (Darko Karali·)
-         Procurement of Services in World Bank funded projects (Melita Mihaljevi·)
-         Disbursement procedures in World Bank funded projects in Croatia (Darko Karali·)
-         Project Management in World Bank funded projects: Control of Project delivery, procurement and
financial management procedures (Melita Mihaljevi·)




                                                    - 47 -

                                          ANNEX 2 : final Project Management Report table

PROJECTMANAGEMENTREPORT (PMR)                                                                                      ( GOODS&OPERATING COSTS )
GEF grant No.: TF 022644         Date: 31th December 2003                                                          (WORLD BANK FINANCED CONTRACTS)
GEF GRANT-GOODS                     CONTRACT DESCRIPTION        Proc. BIDDING PROCESS            CONTRACT              SUPPLIER    Curr.       AMOUNT
Contract No                       NAME OF COMPONENT                  Advertising Issuance  Signature End delivery                          HRK       GEF(USD)

JUPPKR-HV/NS/D/4.1.2./2001-08     Vehicles                       IS   05/16/01   05/16/01   07/28/01    08/31/01 Remix             HRK     99,901.04  12,880.20
JUPPKR-HV/IS/D/4.1.2.c/1999-01   Vehicles                        IS  05.11.99.   22.11.99. 03.06.00.   29.12.00. Remix             HRK    247,324.95  25,696.91
JUPPKR-HV/NS/D/4.2.10.b/1999-02-A Optical equipment              NS  12.11.99.   26.11.99. 05.06.00.   05.07.00. H.F.F. Sport      HRK     35,694.79   3,802.23
JUPPKR-HV/NS/D/4.2.10.b/1999-02-B Optical equipment              NS  12.11.99.   26.11.99. 05.08.00.   20.04.01. Fanzoj-Inox       HRK     43,450.00   4,505.47
JUPPKR-HV/NS/D/4.1.1./1999-03    Office furniture                NS  12.11.99.   26.11.99. 28.02.00.   12.05.00. Con-formo         HRK     47,117.20   4,692.18
JUPPKR-HV/NS/D/4.1.2/1999-05-A   Office equipment                NS  12.11.99.   26.11.99. 28.02.00.   12.05.00. Filmoteka         HRK      4,120.00     410.29
JUPPKR-HV/NS/D/4.1.2/1999-05-B    Office equipment               NS  12.11.99.   26.11.99. 28.02.00.   12.05.00. Birotrade         HRK      3,460.00     344.57
JUPPKR-HV/DC/D/5.1/1999-10        Kopacki rit videotape          DC  17.11.99.   30.11.99. 29.01.00.   12.05.00. Romulic           HRK     24,000.00   2,390.05
JUPPKR-HV/NS/D/4.1.2.c/1999-12   Vehicles                        NS  08.12.99.   22.12.99. 04.06.00.   05.07.00. Adria-Lada        HRK    133,200.00  14,188.54
JUPPKR-HV/NS/D/4.1/2000-01        Safe box                       NS  02.02.00.   18.02.00. 12.08.00.   10.08.00. Birotrade         HRK      9,345.00     952.23
JUPPKR-HV/IS/D/1.3/2000-02-B     Hardware and software           IS  16.02.00.   28.02.00. 10.12.00.   19.03.01. Gisdata           HRK    796,769.71  83,270.87
JUPPKR-HV/IS/D/1.3/2000-02-A     Hardware and software           IS  16.02.00.   28.02.00. 12.09.00.   12.12.00. Spin              HRK     41,447.73   4,085.57
JUPPKR-HV/DC/D/1.4/2000-04        Cartographic aero-photo        DC  02.02.00.   25.02.00. 20.08.00.   15.12.00. Drz.Geod.upr.     HRK     60,500.00   6,008.43
JUPPKR-HV/NS/D/4.2.10b/2000-05-A Multimedia equipment            NS  28.03.00.   12.04.00. 17.09.00.   23.11.00. HSM-Inform.       HRK     51,696.00   4,999.18
JUPPKR-HV/NS/D/4.2.10b/2000-05-B Multimedia equipment            NS  28.03.00.   12.04.00. 13.09.00.   19.03.01. Exportdrvo-ing    HRK     52,495.30   5,402.85
JUPPKR-HV/NS/D/4.2.10b/2000-06    Mobile toilette cabines        NS  28.03.00.   12.04.00. 06.09.00.   10.08.00. Magrad            HRK     95,872.00   9,769.06
JUPPKR-HV/NS/D/4.2.10b/2000-08    Tractors & agricultural equip. NS  13.11.00.   27.11.00. 09.04.01.   09.05.01. Zemat             HRK    140,815.55  14,577.77
JUPPKR-HV/NS/D/4.2.10.b/2000-09-A Goods-souvenirs                NS  13.11.00.   27.11.00. 11.02.01.   11.03.01. Romulic           HRK     26,000.00   2,656.43
JUPPKR-HV/NS/D/4.2.10.b/2000-09-B Goods-souvenirs                NS  13.11.00.   27.11.00. 22.04.01.   22.05.01. Carolija          HRK      2,500.00     253.19
JUPPKR-HV/NS/D/4.2.10.b/2000-09-C Office equipment               NS  13.11.00.   27.11.00. 22.04.01.   22.05.01. Con-formo         HRK     17,465.00   1,801.23
JUPPKR-HV/NS/D/4.2.10.b/2000-09-D Office equipment               NS  13.11.00.   27.11.00. 28.04.01.   22.05.01. Iluminacija       HRK      7,869.80     799.65
JUPPKR-HV/NS/D/4.2.10.b/2000-09-E Office equipment               NS  13.11.00.   27.11.00. 28.04.01.   22.05.01. Cedar             HRK      6,988.50     719.95
JUPPKR-HV/NS/D/4.2.10.b/2000-09-F Photo-optic & comunic. equip. NS   13.11.00.   27.11.00. 13.05.01.   13.06.01. Filmoteka         HRK     86,628.35   8,837.14
JUPPKR-HV/NS/D/4.2.10.b/2000-09-G Goods-souvenirs                NS  13.11.00.   27.11.00. 16.05.01.   16.06.01. Sitotisak         HRK     86,700.00   8,776.04
JUPPKR-HV/NS/D/4.1.2/2000-10     Hardware and software           NS  11.12.00.   28.12.00. 16.05.01.   16.06.01. Eurocom.Sys.      HRK     92,191.00   9,317.29
JUPPKR-HV/NS/D/4.1.2/2001-06     Computer accessories            NS  30.01.01.   09.02.01. 03.07.01.   22.05.01. Brrax             HRK      4,262.00     439.07
JUPPKR-HV/DC/1.1.3./2001-07       Photographs                    DC  05.07.01.   20.07.01. 31.08.01.   03.10.01. Baranya Museums HRK       15,421.52   2,080.73
JUPPKR-HV/NS/D/4.2.10/2002-02     Visitors telescopes            NS  22.04.02.   15.05.02. 24.05.02.   24.06.02. Etran             HRK     82,782.15  11,130.89
JUPPKR-HV/IS/D/4.2.10/2003-02     Office equipment               IS   03/27/03   04/14/03   06/16/03    07/30/03 Podravina         HRK    351,706.26  52,808.75
JUPPKR-HV/NS/D/4.2.3./2003-01     Laboratory equipment           NS   03/03/03   03/20/03   05/28/03    07/30/03 Linea-Frigo       HRK    370,167.00  55,864.43
JUPPKR-HV/NS/D/4.2.7/2001-11     Visitors equipment              NS  30.07.01.   17.08.01. 24.09.01.   21.07.03. Esso              HRK    146,849.00  21,023.64
JUPPKR-HV/NS/D/4.2.3./2003-04     Library & cabinets equipment   NS   06/20/03   7/4/2003  7/10/2003   8/12/2003 Con-formo         HRK    169,019.10  25,378.24
JUPPKR-HV/NS/D/4.2.3/2003-03     Multimedia equipment            NS   06/12/03   6/23/2003 7/16/2003   7/21/2003 Coming            HRK    356,835.39  44,457.54
JUPPKR-HV/IS/D/4.2.10.A/2002-01   Purchasing of boat             IS  01.07.03.   7/10/2003 15.07.2003. 30.08.2003. Prinz Adriatic  USD   1,488,886.48 236,000.00
GEF TOTAL GOODS                                                                                                                          5,199,480.82 680.320.61
GEF TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                                                                                                                 523,665.46  70,000.00




                                                                                 - 48 -

Additional Annex 10. ICR Mission, Aide-Memoire

                                       December 8-17, 2004

    Extract from the Aide Memoire for the supervision and ICR mission for the Eastern
                     Slavonja, Baranja and Srijem Reconstruction Project

    A mission consisting of Messrs. Xavier Chauvot de Beauchene, Kishore Nadkarni and Manuel
Mariño visited Croatia Between December 8 to 17 to supervise the Eastern Slavonja, Baranja and
Srijem Reconstruction Project and to conduct the Implementation Completion Mission of the
Project. The mission was joined by Stjepan Gabri· from the World Bank Country Office in
Zagreb. This aide-memoire records the findings and agreements of the mission. The mission
acknowledge the kind support and collaboration extended by the Government of Croatia and
Hrvatske vode. A list of persons met is attached in Annex 1.

8. Preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The mission met with the
representatives of HV, the implementing agency, to present the purpose and methodology of the
ICR and to start Project assessment and data collection. The mission also met with
representatives of key agencies in central government, local government, local communities and
relevant stakeholder groups and beneficiaries to solicit a broad range of views on all aspects of
each of the four components of the Project. The assessment and analysis of the Project will rely
on the review of all relevant project documentation, data collection and interviews conducted in
Zagreb and in the Project area. Site visits were conducted to the flood protection and drainage
sites and pumping stations in Baranja and Eastern Slavonia, to the Vinkovci wastewater treatment
plant and to the Nature Park Kopacki rit. The mission also prepared a list of data to be collected
from the different authorities and beneficiaries to allow further evaluation of the Project, including
key information on the agriculture sector in the Project area, necessary to carry out the
post-project financial and economic analysis (see Annex 2).

9. The mission also discussed the methodology and possible format of the Government's
Completion Report (GCR), to be prepared by the borrower, which will be part of the ICR. The
mission prepared guidelines for the preparation of the GCR. These Guidelines include a list of
data to be collected from the different authorities and beneficiaries to allow further evaluation of
the Project. They also include provisions for the preparation of the operational plan that will
describe the mechanisms in place to operate and monitor the sustainability of the investments
made under the Project. It was agreed that such data will be collected and submitted to the Bank
by January 15, 2005 and that HV will coordinate and prepare the GCR. It was also agreed that
the GCR will be submitted to the Bank by the end of January, including an executive summary if it
is more than ten pages. The draft ICR is expected to be submitted for comments to the
Government, including HV, Kopacki rit Nature Park management office, Ministry of Agriculture
and Water and the Directorate for Nature Protection of the Ministry of Culture, by February 15,
2004.




                                                 - 49 -

                       Annex 1. List of persons met during the mission

Hrvatska vode (HV)

   -.Mr. Stulan, Head of Supervisory Board
   -.Mr. Slavko Rajnovic, Deputy General Manager
   -.Mr. Miroslav Steinbauer, Head of Sector for the
   - Mr. Dinko Poli·, Head of Sector
   - Mr. Zoran Durokovic, Director, Water Management Department, Drava and Danube river
   basin
   - Mr. Zeljko Sarcevic, HV representative in Vinkovci office

Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry

   - Mr. Bozo Gali·, State Secretary for Water

Kopa·ki rit Nature Park

   - Ms. Melita Mihaljevi·, Director of the Nature Park Management Office

Ministry of Culture

   - Mr. Eugen Draganovic, Head of Protected Area Section

Municipal and County Representatives

   - Mr. Mladen Karli·, Mayor, Vinkovci
   - Mr. Drazen Milinkovic, Director, Vodovod Vinkovci
   - Mr. Davorin Bubalovic, Mayor, Beli Manastir
   - Mr. Josip Kompalovic, City Council, Beli Manastir
   - Mr. Zvonko Vlahek, Director, Baranjski Vodovod
   - Mr. Zeljko Kraljicak, Department Head, Agriculture and Economic Affairs, County of
         Osijek-Baranja
   - Mr. Tihomir Zivic, International Affairs Adviser, County of Osijek-Baranja
   - Mr. Martin Marolin, Head, Development Agency, County of Osijek-Baranja
   - Mr. Kresimir Bubalo, County Prefect, County of Osijek-Baranja

Other local representatives

   - Mr. Vladimir Puvaca, Development Department, Agrocombinat Belje ­ Beli Manastir
   - Mrs. Gabrijela Ivancevic, Development Department, Agrocombinat Belje ­ Beli Manastir
   - Mr. Miljenko Vahtarevic, Assistant Director, CROMAC



                                              - 50 -

                                        Annex 2. Statistical Data

              Statistical Information on Agricultural Production in the Project Area
      (required to re-estimate economic benefits from increased agricultural production)




1. Area under cultivation in 1998 and 2004 for:
Crop                                      Area in 1998                 Area in 2004
Wheat (psenicu)                              57.268                       53.179
Maize (kukuruz)                              63.852                       73.562
Oilseeds (uljarice)                          18.383                       17.819
Sugarbeet (se·ernu repu)                     10.223                        9.643
Animal fodder (sto·nu hranu)                 10.541                       13.269

2. Area under cultivation in 1998 and 2004 by:

                                       Area in 1998 (ha)             Area in 2004 (ha)
agricultural kombinats                       84.277                       62.226
(poljoprivrednim
kombinatima)
private farmers (privatnim                  111.736                       145.364
seoskim gospodarstvima)

3. Production (in tons) in 1998 and 2004 for:

 Crop                             Production (in tons) in 1998   Production (in tons) in 2004
Wheat (psenicu)                             289.579                       321.204
Maize (kukuruz)                             417.024                       662.058
Oilseeds (uljarice)                          40.772                       49.893
Sugarbeet (se·ernu repu)                    438.595                       501.436
Animal fodder (sto·nu hranu)                156.571                       270.687

4. Productivity (kgs per hectare) in 1998 and 2004 for:

Crop                              Production (in tons) in 1998 Production (in tons) in 2004
Wheat (psenicu)                               5,06                          6,04
Maize (kukuruz)                               6,53                          9,00
Oilseeds (uljarice)                           2,35                          2,80
Sugarbeet (se·ernu repu)                      42,90                        52,00
Animal fodder (sto·nu hranu)                  17,35                        20,40


                                                 - 51 -

5. Prices (kuna per ton) in 1998 and 2004 for:

Crop                             Prices (kuna per ton) in 1998 Prices (kuna per ton) in 2004
Wheat (psenicu)                                                           1.000
Maize (kukuruz)                                                            800
Oilseeds (uljarice)                                                       1350
Sugarbeet (se·ernu repu)                                                   250
Animal fodder (sto·nu hranu)                                               800




                                                - 52 -

6. Subsidies in 1998 and 2004 for:

Crop                               Amount of subsidies in 1998 Amount of subsidies in 2004
Wheat (psenicu)                                                                   72.267.763,26
Maize (kukuruz)                                                                   55.236.969,08
Oilseeds (uljarice)                                                               43.311.411,00
Sugarbeet (se·ernu repu)                                                          34.978.269,09
Animal fodder (sto·nu hranu)                                                      7.696.410,26
(as subsidy model in 1998 was differently structured it is not possible to compare them)

7. Prices (kuna per ton) in 2004 for:

    Price of seeds
           Seeds                  quantity             Market price
Hybrid corn (I grupa)         40.000 seeds               275 kn/unit
Hybrid corn (I grupa)         25.000 seeds               180 kn/unit
Soya                                1 kg                   4,60 kn
Barley                              1 kg                   2,80 kn
Hybrid oilseeds                     1 kg                    48 kn
Fodder                              1 kg                    40 kn

    Price of fertilizers

              Type             Production price              VAT 22%                Market price
                                   (1.000 kg)
      UREA 46% N                    1.332,18                    293,08                1.625,26
      KAN 27% N                     1.134,82                    249,66                1.384,48
     UAN 30% N                      1.092,27                    240,30                1.332,57
     NPK 15:15:15                   1.699,96                    373,99                2.073,95
     NPK                            2.342,74                    515,40                2.858,14
     8:26:26+Fe+Zn
     NPK                            2.112,68                    484,79                2.577,47
     7:20:30+Fe+Zn
      NPK 20:10:10                  1.643,37                    361,54                2.004,91


8. Number of private farms, average farm size (1998, 2003, 2004)

There is no data yet for 1998. Data for 2003 is: 41 103 farms and 2.3 ha average size


9. Average farm household income per month (1998, 2003, 2004)



                                                       - 53 -

No data yet




               - 54 -

                                  Annex 3. Species in Kopacki rit

Ramsar Indicator name: Numbers of selected wetland species with declining, stable, and
increasing overall population trends respectively in Kopa·ki rit Nature Park



           Species               Base-line population in   Population level in pairs (Year)
                                      pairs (Year)
Black-necked Grebe                      0 (1999)                        5 (2004)
Podiceps nigricollis
Great Cormorant                       1614 (1998)                     1627 (2004)
Phalacrocorax carbo
Great Egret                           5-10 (1999)                     5-10 (2004)
Egretta alba
White Stork                            14 (2000)                       13 (2004)
Ciconia ciconia
Black Stork                             5 (2001)                       10 (2004)
Ciconia nigra
Black-winged Stilt                      0 (1999)                       14 (2002)
Himantopus himantopus
Avocet                                  0 (1999)                        1 (2002)
Recurvirostra avosetta
Little ringed Plover                    0 (1999)                        3 (2002)
Charadrius dubius
White-tailed Eagle                     20 (2000)                       23 (2004)
Haliaeetus albicilla
Common Gull                            18 (2001)                       74 (2004)
Larus ridibundus
Sand Martin                            40 (2001)                       75 (2004)
Riparia riparia
Mid-winter International        28.887 individuals (1999)      29.692 individuals (2003)
Waterbird Census




                                               - 55 -

Additional Annex 11. Map Section: Map 1. General Map of the Project Area




                                       - 56 -

Map 2: IBRD 4351 - HR RECONSTRUCTION




Legend:
       Pumping station
       Dam
       WWTP
       Sewage collector
       Reconstructed water bed
       Reconstructed wetland
       Kopacki rit Nature Park
       Project area limits


       Forest
       State border
       River
       Village

       Roads
       Railway track




                                     - 57 -

Map 3: IBRD 4351 - HR DEMINING




Legend:
        Pumping station
        Dam
        Demining of pumping station
        Demined area
        Kopacki rit Nature Park
        Project area limits

        Forest
        State border
        River

        Village
        Roads
        Railway track




                                       - 58 -

- 59 -

- 60 -

