Document of
The World Bank
Report No.: 17865 HR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF DEM74 MILLION (US$40.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FORA
RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT FOR EASTERN SLAVONIA,
BARANJA AND WESTERN SRIJEM
May 21, 1998
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Europe And Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Croatian Kuna (HRK)
HRK1 = US$0.162
US$1 = HRK6.15
DEMI = US$0.56
US$1 = DEM1.80
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMSI
AID      (US) Agency for International Development
ERP      Emergency Reconstruction Project
ETMCP       Emergency Transport and Mine Clearing Project
EU      European Union
FAO      Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FAO/CP      FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
FRY      Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SerbialMontenegro)
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GEF      Global Environment Facility
HBOR       Hrvatska Banka Za Obnovu i Razvitak (Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and
Development)
HV      Hrvatske Vode (Croatian Water Management Enterprise)
IDA      International Development Association
MAF       Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MIS      Management Information Systems
MOC       Ministry of Culture
NATO       North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NGO       Non-government Organization
OSCE      Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
UN      United Nations
UNHCR       UN High Commission for Refugees
UNPSG       UN Political Support Group
UNTAES       UN Transitional Administration for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem
VVK      Vinkovacki Vodovod I Kanalizacija (Vinkovci Water and Wastewater Enterprise)
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Country Director:   Arntraud Hartmann, ECCO2
Sector Director:   Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Leader   Walter Stottman, ECSIN
Program Team Leader:   Susan Rutledge, ECSPF
The term "Eastern Slavonia" is commonly used in several ways. Traditionally in Croatia, the large area east of Zagreb to the border with Serbia
has been called Slavonia. The area under the UN Transitional Administration (UNTAES) covered the smaller local areas of Eastern Slavonia.
Baranja, and Western Srijem. For the purposes of this report, where otherwise not stated "Eastern Slavonia" refers to all of the former UNTAES
area.



Croatia
Reconstruction Project for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem
CONTENTS
A.     Project Development Objective ...................................................2
1.  Project Development Objective and Key Performance Indicators ..............................................2
B.     Strategic Context ..................................................2
1. Sector-related CAS Goal Supported by the Project ...................................................2
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy ..................................................2
3. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices ............................................4
C. Project Description Summary                                   .          .           .6
1. Project Components                                   .6
2. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project             .7
3. Benefits and Target Population                             .7
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements.                                           8
D. Project Rationale                       . . .8
1. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection              .8
2. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or Other Development Agencies      .     9
3. Lessons Learned and Reflected in Proposed Project Design                .9
4. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership .10
5. Value Added of Bank Support in This Project .10
E. Summary Project Analyses                                     ..10
1. Economic .10
2. Financial.11
3. Technical .12
4. Institutional.12
5. Social.14
6. Environmental Assessment .14
7. Participatory Approach .15
F. Sustainability and Risks                ..15
1. Sustaina bility.15
2. Critical Risks .16
3. Possible Controversial Aspects .16
G. Main Loan Conditions                         .           .            .17
1. Conditions of Negotiations .17
2. Effectiveness Conditions .17
3. Other.17
H. Readiness for Implementation .17
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .18



Annexes
Annex I   Project Design Summary ..........................                                          19
Annex 2   Detailed Project Description ..........................                                    20
Annex 3   Estimated Project Costs ..........................                                         21
Annex 4   Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary ..........................                             22
Annex 5   Financial Summaries ..........................                                             27
Table A Project Financial Summary .27
Table B    Financial Summary for Vinkovacki Vodovod i Kanalizacija Water Sewerage Unit .28
Annex 6  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .29
Table A  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .32
Table B    Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .33
Table C    Allocation of Loan Proceeds ....................................                  34
Annex 7 Project Processing Budget and Schedule .35
Annex 8 Documents in Project File .36
Annex 9 Statement of Loans and Credits .37
Annex 10 Country at a Glance .38
Maps: IBRD 29406
IBRD 29407



CROATIA
Reconstruction Project for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Croatia and Albania Department
Date: June 18, 1998                               Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Susan Rutledge
Country Director: Arntraud Hartmann               Sector Manager/Director: Ricardo Halperin
Project ID: HR-PE-    Sector: Multi-Sector        Program Objective Category: Economic Management
48983
Lending Instrument: Investment Loan               Program of Targeted Intervention:  [ ] Yes  [x] No
Project Financing Data             [ x] Loan     [] Credit    [] Guarantee       [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US $m/SDRm):DEM 74 million (US$40.6 million equivalent)
Proposed terms:                       []  Multicurrency   [x ] Single currency, specify DM
Grace period (years): 5         [3  Standard        [   Fixed           [x 3   LIBOR-based
Variable
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge:   %
Financing plan (US $m):
Source                             Local             Foreign            Total
Government                                              19.7               0.0                19.7
Cofinanciers (GEF)                                       0.0               0.8                0.8
IBRD                                                    28.8              11.8               40.6
Total         48.5              12.6               61.1
Borrower: Republic of Croatia
Guarantor: Not Applicable
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Finance, Croatian Water Management Enterprise, Directorate for the Protection of
Nature and Environment
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US $m):  1999      2000      2001     2002      2003
Annual      4.7     12.8      13.2      6.1       3.8
Cumulative     4.7     17.5      30.7      36.8     40.6
For Guarantees: Not Applicable                [  Partial        [] Partial risk
credit
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of financing:
Principal amount (US $)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?:        [    Yes            []   No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 4 years Expected effectiveness date: 07/31/98    Expected closing date: 06/30/03



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project Development Objective and Key Performance Indicators (see Annex 1):
The project's development objective is to repair and rebuild war-damaged water sector infrastructure
(including clearing or landmines), critically needed to restart the local economy (and in particular, local
agriculture) of Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem while mitigating the negative environmental
impact likely to be caused to the adjacent nature park by the restart of local agriculture.
Key performance indicators to measure the project's success will be: (i) progress in commitments of
construction contracts and disbursement of funds, (ii) improvement in ambient water quality at Vinkovci,
(iii) increase -in the area of arable land under cultivation, and (iv) stability of population levels of
"indicator" species in the Kopacki rit Nature Park.
Detailed benchmarks concerning the completion of major steps are part of the Project Implementation
Plan and will be used in monitoring progress in implementation of the project.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported by the Project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 14088-HR   Date of latest CAS discussion: April 1995 (formal discussions)
The CAS presented a three-pronged strategy: (i) rebuilding war-damaged infrastructure; (ii) reforming
public sector management, and (iii) privatizing and restructuring state enterprises. The project supports
the first of the strategic goals.
The CAS strategy of rebuilding war-damaged infrastructure was initiated with the Emergency
Reconstruction Project (May 1994) that rebuilt power, water, transport, agriculture, housing and health
and education facilities in war-damaged areas then under the control of the Government of Croatia. The
second project, the Emergency Transport and Mine Clearing Project (November 1996) focused on the
reconstruction of transport investments important for economic reconstruction and development in
Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. It also included clearing of landmines in areas of high economic
priority. The Reconstruction Project for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem focuses on the part
of eastern Croatia internationally known as Eastern Slavonia, that until recently was under the control of a
UN Transitional Administration.
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy:
Political Background
In order to provide a stable basis for economic development and reintegration of Eastern Slavonia,
Baranja and Western Srijem, the Croatian Government has taken important measures to ensure political
stability both domestically and internationally. The Dayton Peace Accord of December 1995 signed by
the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) (the FRY), Bosnia and Herzegovina, and
Croatia brought the war in the former Yugoslavia to a close. As part of the Dayton Accord, a separate
peace agreement for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem (Erdut Agreement) was signed by
Croatia and the FRY. Under the Erdut Agreement, a transitional administration was established under the
United Nations (UNTAES) with executive authority over the area of Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and
Western Srijem for a period of two years. The UNTAES mandate ended mid-January 1998, whereby all
remaining UN troops were withdrawn from Croatia and full executive authority for the area transferred to
the Croatian Government. For another year until January 1999, the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) will provide a limited monitoring mission, reporting on human rights
issues during the immediate post-UNTAES period. In addition, a small UN mission (UN Political Support
Group or UNPSG) consisting primarily of 180 civilian police will remain in place for nine months until



Page 3
September 1998 to monitor the activities of the Croatian police operating in Eastern Slavonia, Baranja
and Western Srijem.
Croatia has also taken important bilateral measures to formally open relations with the FRY. In August
1996, Croatia and the FRY signed "normalization" agreements establishing diplomatic relations between
the two countries. Under the framework of the normalization agreements, Croatia and Yugoslavia have
developed detailed cross-border agreements covering such issues as cross-border railway traffic and
issuance of visas.
Economic Strategy
Before the war, Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem were among the richest areas in
Yugoslavia, largely due to the highly fertile agricultural land in Baranj a and Eastern Slavonia. Along with
neighboring Vojvodina in Serbia, the area was considered the bread-basket of the former Yugoslavia.
Within Croatia, agriculture production and processing represents about one-quarter of national GDP and
from this, Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem has traditionally been a major contributor.
Before the war, with about two percent of the country's agricultural land and less than four percent of
agricultural population, Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem contributed eight percent of
Croatia's agricultural production.
Apart from agriculture, the major pre-war industries in Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem
were oil production (at Djeletovci and Privlaka oil fields) and the Borovo shoe factory. However, over 50
percent of the population was directly involved in agricultural production and most of the balance was
employed in agro-processing.
The fighting in Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem was among the worst in Croatia during the
Balkan War and damaged or destroyed much of the area's infrastructure, with direct war damage at over
$2 billion, according to Government estimates. In addition, until recently, Croatian Government agencies
had difficulties investing in the area and their officials were not permitted to enter without specific
permission from the UN Transitional Administration. As a result, until recent months there had been few
repairs of infrastructure and almost no investment in maintenance of facilities over the past six years. The
Government estimates per capita income in Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem at about $500,
or less than 15 percent of the national average.
The Government has developed an urgent economic strategy intended to rebuild Eastern Slavonia,
Baranja and Western Srijem. It is expected that the implementation of the program will encourage the
return of refugees and displaced persons to their homes -- and to productive activity. Two key elements of
the Government program are: (i) the reintegration of public services and reconstruction of infrastructure,
and (ii) economic stimulus for the area. Reintegration of the local Serb organizations with their Croatian
counter-parts has occurred on a service-by-service basis, beginning with the roads and railways systems
and power networks in late 1996, the water, health and education and most government ministries by mid-
1997, and all remaining government agencies and ministries by January 1998. Following the reintegration
of each sector, the line agencies conducted damage assessments and developed reconstruction plans to be
implemented once the area was under the direct control of the Croatian Government.
The Government has thus developed a comprehensive program for rebuilding damaged infrastructure,
including repair and reconstruction of housing, flood control and drainage networks, water and
wastewater systems, power networks, health and education facilities, and clearing of landmines. The
program is coordinated by the Ministry of Reconstruction and Development, a ministry established in
1994 to co-ordinate and supervise reconstruction in war-damaged areas. For calendar year 1998, the
Government has budgeted over $400 million for the former UNTAES area, of which over $300 million
(Kuna 2 billion) will be used to repair and rebuild housing and about $85 million to rebuild the railway
network. In addition, the Government will provide support by backing commercial bank guarantees to
restart local enterprises (such as the Borovo shoe factory).



Page 4
network. In addition, the Government will provide support by backing commercial bank guarantees to
restart local enterprises (such as the Borovo shoe factory).
The Government's program for economic stimulus of the area has largely been done under the Law on
Areas of Special Care, intended to help restart the local economy of former war zones. The law applies to
the former sectors north and south (Lika and Cordun) as well as former sector west (Western Slavonia)
and former sector east (former UNTAES-area). Under the law, incentives are provided to encourage the
provision of essential services. For example, teachers in Lika and Cordun receive salaries 30 percent
higher than in Zagreb.
The restart of agriculture in Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem requires four major inputs: (i)
repair of flood control and drainage network; (ii) provision of agricultural machinery, primarily tractors
and combine harvesters; (iii) fuel, fertilizer and seeds; and (iv) livestock. Of these, rehabilitation of the
flood control and drainage systems is the most crucial. The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of
the United Nations estimates that about half the arable land in Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western
Srijem is idle due to water logging or inundation. Even for the land under cultivation, production remains
at pre-war yields due to concern over possible flooding and lack of sufficient inputs, such as mechanized
equipment, fuel, and fertilizer. The Government's strategy for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western
Srijem is to immediately rebuild the flood control and drainage network and, under the Law on Areas of
Special Care, provide in-kind credits for seed and fertilizer and low-interest rate loans for agricultural
machinery, for which the Government has budgeted about $35 million (Kuna 200 million) for the support
of agriculture in the former war zones. The measures are meant to provide a temporary stimulus, with a
phasing out over a period of seven, and in some cases ten, years. It is expected that as the area returns to
its former levels of economic activity, private sector financing through commercial banks will be directly
available for financing additional agricultural inputs.
3. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices:
The project is intended as a crucial first step in addressing the urgent reconstruction needs for Eastern
Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem. The project focuses on key large investments, such as flood
control and drainage systems, that are the responsibility of the Government and for which no alternative
financing is available. The project also focuses on investments which: (i) have a critical time factor in
implementation; (ii) support complementarity of grant-funded programs; and (iii) do not hinder further
sectoral reform or future capital investment programs.
Critical Time Factor - The project targets investments that cannot wait. FAO estimates that with every
year the drainage investments are delayed, the amount of land waterlogged or inundated increases by
about ten percent. In addition, every year that the flood control repairs are delayed presents a ten percent
risk that one of the two dikes on the Drava or the Danube Rivers collapses, causing total destruction of
that year's crops, damage to housing and local infrastructure, loss of life, and displacement of
households. The investments in the Vinkovci wastewater system are also needed to stop the current
discharge of untreated wastes into the Bosut River, which feeds into the Sava, a tributary into the Danube.
Croatia is an active participant in the Strategic Action Plan for the Danube River Basin, which is also
supported by the World Bank. In rebuilding the treatment (and extending the collector system) the project
will clean up an important source of wastewater pollution into the Danube.
The other project investments (in landmine clearing and nature protection) complement the flood control
and drainage investments. Landmine clearing is a pre-condition to repair of the flood control network,
since most of the flood control facilities are known to be -- or are suspecting of being -- contaminated by
landmines. The nature protection investments are needed to ensure that the restart of local agriculture
does not have a detrimental impact on the neighboring nature park at Kopacki rit. The war was beneficial
to the nature park, since over the last six years, agricultural production was severely curtailed and tourism
to Kopacki rit virtually stopped. About 40,000 hectares of arable land have become waterlogged or



Page 5
inundated, and started to return to a marshland. To protect the Nature Park from the restart of agriculture
-- and the discharge of water contaminated by residue of fertilizer, herbicide or pesticide -- and to
mitigate the impact of renewed tourism, the project includes a two-phase program. One phase will
monitor and manage the quality and quantity of drainage water and the second phase will rebuild park
management facilities. In addition, the preparation of the management plan for Kopacki rit will be
coordinated with development of the land-use plans for the local area, including Baranja which borders
Kopacki rit. By preparing the plans simultaneously, the Government can ensure the restart of local
agriculture while protecting Kopacki rit from the possible adverse impact of the adjacent agricultural
activities.
Complementarity of Donor Programs - The project also ensures complementarity of investments by
donors. To date the international community has provided over $80 million in grant funding for Eastern
Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem, primarily for housing, power, water and transport systems. The
grant-funded investments are rebuilding other infrastructure needed for the revitalization of the Eastern
Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem. Bilateral donors include the United States, European Commission,
Norway, Belgium, Italy and Germany. Funding has also been provided by the UN High Commission for
Refugees (UNHCR), the International Committee of the Red Cross and non-government organizations,
such as Catholic Relief Services and Lutheran World Federation. In addition, the United States has
announced another $13 million in funding for micro-credits to stimulate local private enterprise (and
about half the funding would be designated for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem) and
through the Social Development Fund, the Council of Europe has committed ECU 35 million (about $30
million) in funding to rebuild schools and hospitals schools in Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western
Srijem. For the nature protection component, the Global Environment Facility has agreed (subject to final
approval of the GEF Secretariat) to provide $750 thousand in funding for investments complementary to
those in the project.
Allowing for Future Sector Reform and Investments - The project investments have also been selected to
ensure that they do not hinder long-term sectoral review and reform. In the agriculture sector, the
Government has initiated a program to reform the sector over a period of three to five years. Already, the
Government has assumed title to the lands currently used by the agricultural state enterprises (known as
agrokombinats) with the intention of transferring land from the agrokombinats to private farmers. While
the project is not intended to directly assist in the structural reform program for the agriculture sector,
neither is it expected to hinder implementation of the reforms. In the meantime, the presence of operating
agrokombinats will assist in receiving the benefits from the project and ensure that once agricultural
fields are drained of excess water, they will be put into immediate production.
Regarding wastewater management, in 1995 Croatia approved water sector laws that require municipal
enterprises to be established on a commercial basis, with registration under the commercial code and
tariff-setting policies that provide for full cost recovery. In addition the Government is in the process of
revising the national water quality standards, including restrictions on effluent discharge, to meet EU
standards and to support the Strategic Action Plan for the Danube River Basin (and thus improve the
quality of water discharged into the Danube). The Croatian Water Management Enterprise is preparing a
major capital investment program to bring all Croatian communities into compliance with national
standards. This includes a review of the long-term investment needs and financing sources (for both
water and wastewater) and for which the Bank is preparing a sector note. The project investments
represent only a small portion (about five percent of annual expenditures) of the total national program
under development. The Reconstruction Project for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem is
therefore not an institutional-building project, with further development of the water institutions
scheduled for future sectoral lending programs.



Page 6
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project Components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component                  Category          Cost Incl.      % of        Bank-        % of Bank-
Contingencies     Total     financing      financing2
____________________________  ______________  (US   $M )             (US   $M )
Flood Control & Drainage             Loan'                 37.8          62        24.5             65
Wastewater Management                Loan4                  16.1        27         12.1             75
Clearing of Landminess               Loan6                  5.0           8         3.0             60
Nature Protection7                   Loans                  2.2           3          1.0            45
Total                 61.1        100         40.6            66
Flood Control & Drainage
The program will repair and rebuild the primary and secondary flood control and agricultural drainage
networks in the Baranja and Eastern Slavonia areas. This represents an area of 155,000 hectares with two-
thirds of the investments in Baranja and the remaining one-third in Eastern Slavonia. Of the 110,000
arable hectares, currently 9,600 hectares are flooded and another 30,000 hectares cannot be cultivated due
to high groundwater levels.
The project will: (i) repair dikes to restore a safe level of protection against major flooding in the Baranja
area; (ii) repair pumping stations needed to evacuate excess water from the catchment area of the drainage
network in Baranja and Eastern Slavonia; and (iii) clean the primary and secondary canals required to
efficiently drain water from agricultural fields in Baranja and Eastern Slavonia. The primary outfalls for
the drainage are located at the Kopacki rit Nature Park, which drains into the Danube River, and at the
Sava River.
Wastewater Management
The project will: (i) rebuild in Vinkovci the municipal wastewater treatment plant, that was under
construction before the war but destroyed by direct artillery attack during the fighting; and (ii) extend the
wastewater collector system. Once the collector system is completed, it will increase service from 65
percent of the municipal population to 85 percent of the population. Although less well-known than
Vukovar, Vinkovci is the largest urban area in the former UNTAES area and lies directly on the former
confrontation line. Currently raw sewage is discharged into the Bosut River, which feeds into the Sava, a
tributary of the Danube River. The treatment plant will provide a secondary level of treatment for wastes
and will serve both residential and industrial users not currently connected to the collector system.
Clearing of Landmines
The project will verify suspected areas, where needed clear of landmines, as necessary to repair the flood
control and drainage system, and provide related quality assurance. During the war, the flood control
dikes were used as bunkers and landmines were laid to protect military positions. In addition, the
landmines pose a future hazard for civilians since during periods of high water, the landmines (which are
typically plastic) are carried downstream from their original locations, thus contaminating areas
previously thought to be clear of mines.
2   Net of duties and taxes.
3   See sections I (a), 2(a) and 3(a) as described in Annex 6, Table 6, Allocation of Loan Proceeds.
4   See sections I (a), 2(a) and 3(a) as described in Annex 6, Table 6, Allocation of Loan Proceeds.
5   Clearing of landmines to be done as subcontract under the Flood Control and Drainage Component.
6    See sections I (a), 2(a) and 3(a) as described in Annex 6, Table 6, Allocation of Loan Proceeds.
7    In addition to Bank fuinding for the nature protection component, $750,000 has been requested as grant funding from the Global
Environment Facility. Since Kopacki rit has been named as a 'Ramsar" site, GEF funding is expected to be available.
s   See sections 1(b), 2(b) and 3(b) as described in Annex 6, Table 6, Allocation of Loan Proceeds.



Page 7
Nature Protection
The project will: (i) prepare a management plan and monitoring program for the Kopacki rit Nature Park;
(ii) provide technical assistance to strengthen the institutional capacity of the State Directorate for the
Protection of Nature and Environment as well as that of the Kopacki rit Nature Park; (iii) provide boats,
all-terrain vehicles, a geographic information system (GIS), water quality monitoring equipment and other
supervisory equipment for Kopacki rit (and for the use of the State Water Directorate); and (iv) repair and
rehabilitate the blinds (observation areas), fishponds, park management facilities and other infrastructure
necessary to provide long-term environmental protection for the area.
2 Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project:
As an urgent reconstruction project, the project does not directly address policy or institutional reformns.
Nevertheless the project will help to develop the local office of the Croatian Water Management
Enterprise (Hrvatske Vode) as well as the Vinkovci Water and Wastewater Enterprise, improving their
ability to implement projects and operate and maintain facilities. It will also assist in strengthening of the
newly formed Directorate for the Protection of Nature and Environment and support further development
of environmental policies. At the Ottawa Conference of December 1997, Croatia signed the international
treaty banning the use of anti-personnel landmines (formally known as "The Convention on the
Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Landmines and on Their
Destruction"). Also, the Government's unilateral moratorium on the use, production, stockpiling, import
and export of anti-personnel landmines and booby-traps remains in effect. In addition, the loan
documents stipulate that in the event that the development activity for which the land or facilities has or
have been cleared of landmines under the project is, in the sole opinion of the Bank, jeopardized by laying
down new mines anywhere in the territory of the Borrower, the project may be subject to suspension by
the Bank. Financing of mine clearing under the project will further strengthen the Government's policy
decision to support an international ban on the use of anti-personnel landmines.
3. Benefits and Target Population:
The primary beneficiaries will be the population of Eastern Slavonia, Baranja, and Western Srijem, which
is currently about 125,000. Over the medium-term, the project will benefit the farmers and local
agricultural organizations realizing increased yields and incomes, householders receiving access to
wastewater services, and construction crews and others living and working in areas that might be
contaminated with landmines.
In the area directly benefiting from the flood control and drainage investments, about 65 percent of the
land is cultivated by agrokombinats (state enterprises responsible for agriculture production and
processing) and about 35 percent by private farmers (versus 20:80 in the rest of Croatia). In light of the
Government program to transfer agrokombinat lands to private hands over the next three to five years, it
is expected that -- over the medium-term -- the primary beneficiaries of the flood control and drainage
investments will be local private farmers.
Regarding the wastewater treatment facilities in Vinkovci, of the current population of 50,000, about one-
third have no access to the wastewater collection network and they, together with industrial users,
discharge untreated wastes directly into the Bosut River. The lack of wastewater treatment potentially
threatens the quality of Vinkovci's groundwater acquifer, which is the city's primary source of clean
water. During periods of low water, residents also suffer from bad odors emanating from the river.
Reduced bio-chemical oxygen demand (BOD) will also improve water quality to downstream, thereby
improving the quality of water feeding from the Bosut River, into the Sava and thus into the Danube.
Since Kopacki rit is considered a wetlands of global importance, measures to protect the environmental
quality of the Nature Park will benefit not only tourists to the area (which before the war numbered
20,000 per year) but also members of the international community concerned with environmental
protection and natural resource preservation.



Page 8
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements:
The institutional arrangements are briefly summarized here. Additional analysis is provided below under
Summary Project Analysis, Institutional.
The central coordinating agency for the project will be the Croatian Management Water Enterprise,
Hrvatske Vode (HV). HV will directly conduct implementation of the flood control and drainage,
wastewater system, and mine clearing investments. Implementation of the nature protection component
will be done by.the Directorate for the Protection of Nature and Environment. To simplify
implementation, HV will be responsible for all procurement and disbursement under the project, with the
Directorate for the Protection of Nature and Environment having responsibility for technical issues
(including technical specifications) on the nature protection component. For the mine clearing
subcontracts, the Ministry of Interior (or other acceptable demining agency) will provide support in the
preparation of bidding documents and, in addition, will provide quality assurance for the mine clearing.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection:
Flood Control & Drainage -The major alternatives were to: (a) do nothing for the moment; or (b) fully
redesign and reconstruct the flood control and drainage system. The first alternative of maintaining the
status quo would leave a large potential for growth untouched, thus exacerbating economic problems in
the area. It would also continue the current level of risk regarding potential flooding of the agricultural
fields and nearby roads and towns. The second alternative of a complete system redesign would require at
least one additional year for preparation and substantial investment for implementation, with uncertain
incremental benefits. The project team also reviewed the option of having the discharge water bypass the
Nature Park, for example, by conveying it directly to the Drava River. However the change in design
would have substantially increased the investment and operating cost of the project.
Nature Protection Program - One alternative in preparing the nature protection program was to wait for
completion of the national biodiversity strategy and action plan, currently under preparation with funding
from the Global Environment Facility (GEF). Once the strategy and action plan have been completed, the
details for Kopacki rit will have been fully worked out. However, final development (and approval) of the
plan is expected to take another six to twelve months. In the meantime, a valuable opportunity -- to
combine the management plan for the Nature Park with the agricultural land use plan for the adjacent area
-- would have been lost. Under the Ramsar Convention (formally called "The Convention on Wetlands of
International Importance, in particular Wetlands of Waterfowl Habitat") the Kopacki rit Nature Park is an
internationally designated Ramsar site, providing habitat for the flyway (or migratory) population of
about ten bird species. Therefore the Nature Park is expected to be among the top priorities for the
national action plan and the delay of up to a year (or longer) could cause long-term environmental
damage to the Nature Park. Furthermore, the GEF has confirmed that if the final action plan envisages a
larger program than funded through the project, additional grant funding could be made available from
the GEF. Indeed, lessons learned from the project could assist in development of better structured long-
term program for GEF funding.
Other Infrastructure - Other infrastructure components were also considered for inclusion in the project,
including repair and reconstruction of roads, railways, power systems, water networks, housing,
agriculture, health and education. However, the other infrastructure needs are currently being met by
either bilateral donors (who have contributed a total of over $80 million to the area) or Government
funding.
Mine Clearing - Under the Emergency Transport and Mine Clearing Project (ETMCP), all contracting for
mine clearing is conducted by the Ministry of Interior, while the plan for national priorities is jointly
prepared by the Ministry of Reconstruction and Development and the Ministry of Interior and then
reviewed by the newly formed Center for Demining before the plan is submitted to the Government for
approval. Such implementation arrangements that require contracting through a centralized mine-clearing



Page 9
organization have been slower than expected. Under the ETMCP, the slowness did not cause a problem
since not all transport investments needed to be cleared of mines and the implementation schedule
allowed for a phase-in of the mine clearing. By contrast, under the Reconstruction Project for Eastern
Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem the timing of mine clearing is more important since virtually all the
flood control and drainage investments must be cleared or verified before repair and reconstruction can
begin. Therefore the project allows the construction contractor to directly hire the mine clearing
contractor and thus ensure that the clearing works are completed on time for the reconstruction to the
flood control and drainage network.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                           Project                   Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Reconstruction sector               Emergency Reconstruction Project             S                S
Reconstruction sector               Emergency Transport and Mine Clearing        S                S
Project
Agriculture sector                  Farmer Support Services Project              S                S
Forestry sector                     Coastal Forestry Reconstruction Project      S                S
Highway sector                      Highway Sector Project                       S                S
Other Development Agencies
Global Environment F'acility        Bio-diversity Strategy and Action Plan      N.A.             N.A.
European Bank for Reconstruction    Electricity Network Reconstruction          N.A.             N.A.
and Development                     Project
US Agency for International         Projects in Eastern Slavonia for            N.A.             N.A.
Development                        infrastructure reconstruction and
democracy building
European Union                      Projects in Eastern Slavonia for            N.A.             N.A.
reconstruction of housing and other local
infrastructure
European Union                      Wetlands Project for Croatia                N.A.             N.A.
Social Fund of Council of Europe    Projects in Eastern Slavonia for            N.A.             N.A.
reconstruction of education and health
facilities
IPIDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
N.A.: Not Applicable
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Looking at other reconstruction projects in Croatia, the key lessons are: (i) all agreements on utilization of
funds among government organizations should be drafted and agreed before Board presentation; (ii) the
mine clearing implementation arrangements should be agreed prior to Board presentation; (iii) any project
units to be established should be fully staffed before loan effectiveness; and (iv) the project should
provide for an interim review, allowing reallocation of uncommitted funds.



Page 10
The lessons have been incorporated into the project: (i) all funds will be passed on to Hrvatske Vode as
loan funds (on the same terms as the Bank loan) and the funds for the wastewater system will be repaid to
1HV by the Vinkovci Water and Wastewater Enterprise on the same terms as the Bank loan. (ii) the mine
clearing arrangements were confirmed during loan negotiations; (iii) the Project Unit in the Kopacki rit
Nature Park was established prior to loan negotiations; and (iv) the project provides for an interim review
date of March 2000.
4. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership:
Flood Control & Drainage - The project was identified by the Government as an important measure in
rebuilding Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem once the former war zone came under direct
Government control. In official meetings with Bank management, the Ministry of Finance identified the
project as one of key areas for Bank funding. Similar strong support is also provided by the Water
Management Enterprise (HV). HV has completed preparatory work, including some of the tender
documentation. HV has also already integrated the local Serb water organization and has hired all staff
previously working for the local organization.
Wastewater Management - HV has completed all preparatory work for the water and wastewater
facilities, including some bid documents. The Vinkovci Water and Wastewater Enterprise has been
actively involved in discussions with NV on the preparation of the component, including design of the
facilities and agreement on responsibility for operations -- and repayment of the loan to HV.
Mine Clearing - As the primary beneficiary of the mine clearing under the project, HV has strong
incentive to ensure that mine clearing of the flood control and drainage facilities is completed on time.
Nature Protection - Many Governments in Part II countries rely on the international community to fund
with grants the environmental programs that benefit other countries. By contrast, it was the Government
of Croatia who proposed including borrowing from the Bank for the nature protection program.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's value added in the project is three-fold. (i) The Bank's support will provide a catalytic role in
encouraging bilateral donors and other multilateral financial institutions to invest in Eastern Slavonia,
Baranja and Western Srijem. (ii) As a Bank-supported project, the program ensures an integrated and
coordinated approach combining the reconstruction of the flood control and drainage network with mine
clearing and the restart of local agriculture with measures to protect the Nature Park. (iii) By funding the
wastewater system in Vinkovci, the Bank is demonstrating its continuing support and commitment to
implementation of the Strategic Action Plan for the Danube River Basin.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
Cost-Benefit Analysis
Flood Control & Drainage - An economic analysis was conducted by the Food and Agriculture
Organization (FAO) of the United Nations. For Baranja, the benefits consist of restored protection against
floods for 35,000 hectares of valuable agricultural land and rural infrastructure. The current level of
protection is one in ten years, and deteriorating due to a continued lack of maintenance to the dikes and
canals -- with about ten percent of the affected area turning into marshland for every year of delay of
repairs. The project will restore protection to floods of one in 100 years and will meet Croatia's
commitments to Hungary under the Danube River Flood Control Plan. For both Baranja and Eastern
Slavonia, the project benefits are: (i) improved drainage on about 30,000 hectares of rich agricultural land
which now suffers from a high water table and (ii) restoring and putting back into cultivation about 9,600
hectares of inundated agricultural land.



Page 1 1
For the two project areas, the analysis generated an average economic rate of return (ERR) of 16 percent
and a positive net present value (NPV) of $15 million. For Baranja separately, the investment program
generated an ERR of 20 percent and a positive NPV of $12 million. For Eastern Slavonia, the ERR was
12 percent and NPV $2 million. The projections are based on historic cropping patterns. Benefits would
be substantially higher if the Government were to modify its current policy of subsidizing sugarbeet
processing. The average ERR for the project would fall to 13 percent if investments costs were 20 percent
higher than estimated and to 11 percent if benefits were delayed for two years.
Wastewater - Although not a member of the European Union, the Government has adopted as policy the
goal of meeting EC standards of wastewater treatment and collection. Thus, the component was reviewed
to verify that it is the least-cost investment plan needed to meet the national standards. Preliminary
estimates suggest that a total of about $100 million is required to rebuild the damaged or destroyed
wastewater systems in Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem, for which the project would finance
about 15 percent.
Mine Clearing - Mine clearing is considered to be an essential precondition for the infrastructure
reconstruction program and is justified by the expected benefits of the proposed investment program.
Without clearing of landmines, the investments in the flood control and drainage network could not be
implemented, but once mine clearing is completed, valuable land can be drained and thus brought into
productive use. In this way, the ERR for the mine clearing investments could be considered as infinite.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
State Water Management Enterprise (Hrvatske Vode) - From HV's annual expenses, about 70 percent is
covered by user fees, 20 percent paid from a "payroll" tax applied to all commercial and industrial
enterprises based on their total wage bills, and 10 percent paid from the central budget. Each year, once
HV's annual capital investment program has been agreed with the municipal and county governments --
and with the Ministry of Finance and other ministries -- tariffs are set to ensure sufficient revenues are
collected to cover all annual costs. In each of the last five years, HV has generated a positive net income.
In 1996 on total revenues of $137 million, HV generated a profit of $3.5 million.
Although partially funded by the central budget, HV maintains an accrual accounting system, as required
by independently-managed state enterprises in Croatia. The annual financial statements are audited by a
private independent auditing firm, qualified under Croatian regulations for national auditing firms. HV
also benefits from experienced senior accounting staff, with a qualified chief accountant in place for over
five years. The Bank is currently working with the Government on improving the auditing and accounting
standards in Croatia to bring them in compliance with international accounting standards. In the
meantime, HV's current accounting system meets the requirements necessary to produce satisfactory
project accounts. HV's internal controls and financial management system are also acceptable for the
purpose of this project. HV's project accounts, special account and statements of expenses will be audited
independent by private auditors acceptable to the Bank and the report will be submitted within six months
after the end of each fiscal year.
HV was one of the key implementing agencies under the Emergency Reconstruction Project, and as such
was required to provide project monitoring reports to the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (HBOR). These reports were prepared satisfactorily. Although HBOR's own financial
statements are audited by an independent private auditing firm, the audits of the project accounts have
been conducted by the State Auditing Office. For the audits of the years ending December 1997 and 1998,
it has been agreed that the project accounts (as well as the special account and statements of expenditures
for the project) will also be audited by HBOR's independent auditing firm.
Vinkovci Water and Wastewater Enterprise - As required under the national water laws, the Vinkovci
Water and Wastewater Enterprise (VVK) collects revenues to meet full cost recovery for operating and
maintenance expenses and capital investments. VVK's financial statements are included in Annex 5. In
1997, VVK generated a profit of $0.13 million on revenues of $2.44 million. Current collections are only



Page 12
77 percent of billings, in part due to the large refugee and displaced persons population in the town.
During the first five years, tariffs are expected to increase by about 12 percent, with gradual increase to a
57 increase by 2004 needed to cover the debt service payments. At the increased level, water and
wastewater bills will represent about 3 percent of average household income in the area.
Kopacki rit Nature Park - While the revenues from the Nature Park are not expected provide full cost
recovery for the environmental investments, some revenues will likely be available for payment of
operating and maintenance expenses. The primary sources of revenues will be day permits for visitors,
taxes on commercial boat tour operators, and fees for hunting licenses. Hunting licenses can be very
valuable, since the quality of the main hunting species -- red deer and wild boar -- is considered
exceptionally high by European standards. Before the war, licenses to hunt a single red deer were issued
at about DM 4,000 per license. As part of the implementation of the nature protection component of the
project, the State Directorate for the Protection of Nature and Environment will prepare a financial plan
for the Nature Park. The plan will explore alternative options for generation of revenues from activities
associated with the Park, for example eco-tourism.
3. Technical:
The designs of all components (except mine clearing) employ conventional and proven technologies.
Hence no difficulties are expected during construction and subsequent operation of the facilities. For the
mine clearing program, it will be necessary to determine if the all of the dikes and canals need to be
cleared of landmines or if it will be sufficient to clear only access lanes. The issue will be determined by
the general construction contractor, depending on the proposed construction program. The estimated
amount for the component includes a 50 percent contingency to cover the possibility of higher costs.
It should also be noted from a safety perspective, under the Emergency Transport and Mine Clearing
Project, the Croatian Government agreed to ensure that all mine clearing activities under the project are
carried out in accordance with appropriate safety standards and guidelines, including the prompt
destruction of mines lifted from the ground. Preliminary draft safety standards and guidelines have been
prepared by the authorities responsible for demining in the United Nations and Croatia ranks among the
first countries in the world to implement the draft standards. The standards are intended to minimize the
risk of accidents both to the individuals conducting mine clearing and to those who use the facilities once
they have been cleared of mines.
Selection of the mine clearing methodology (by dogs, tank-mounted flails, or manual probing) will be
determined by the general contractor in consultation with the mine clearing subcontractor, based on two
primary criteria: (i) compliance with international humanitarian standards for mine clearing (generally
99.6 percent clearance rates); and (ii) optimal methods of efficiently clearing the area, depending on the
type of terrain and likely density of contamination.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing Agencies:
Flood Control & Drainage - The flood control and drainage component will be implemented by the
Croatian Water Management Enterprise (HV), which will retain ownership of the facilities once
reconstruction is completed. RV has a strong track record of implementing Bank-financed projects. Under
the Emergency Reconstruction Project approved in 1994, HV established a Project Implementation Unit
with a staff of 20. Due the complex nature of the component, a total of some 80 contracts were signed
between HV and the local water companies. Apart from the parts of Croatia that were inaccessible for
reconstruction or remained dangerous for construction workers (due to proximity for former front lines),
all contracts for the component have been implemented on schedule and within the estimated budgets.
Wastewater Management - The Wastewater Management component will also be implemented by HV.
But once completed, HV will transfer the facilities to Vinkovci Water.and Wastewater (VVK) and a draft
contract will be submitted for Bank review. HV will conduct a technical review of the completed



Page 13
designs, prepare the bidding documents, carry the procurement and assist VVK with contract
negotiations. The contracts will be signed by the VVK, which will be responsible for contract
supervision. HV will also make periodic inspections and provide technical assistance to VVK while the
construction works are in progress.
VVK is organized as a joint stock company, owned by Vinkovci (with 73 percent of the shares) and 11
other municipalities. VVK has a total staff of 820. VVK is well organized and fully staffed and thus
capable of operating and maintaining the treatment plant and collector system.
Mine Clearing - Demining will be done, where required, as part of the general construction contracts for
the flood control and drainage component. Contractors for contracts with demining components will be
prequalified with special attention given to their qualifications to undertake the demining. The Ministry of
Interior (or other demining entity acceptable to the Bank) will assist in the prequalification of the
demining subcontractors and will undertake supervision and quality assurance of the demining during
construction. The Croatian Center for Demining will also include in the national mine clearing program
the areas to be cleared under the project.
In the past, the complex process of establishing priorities for mine clearance and the difficulties of
starting up a new activity (such as contracting commercial companies) have slowed the process of hiring
contractors. The project has therefore been structured to allow HV to hire commercial contractors
(through subcontracts with the general contractors) to conduct the necessary mine surveying or clearing.
Nature Protection - The Government authority responsible for environmental management has recently
been reorganized as the State Directorate for the Protection of Nature and Environment, with a newly
appointed Director. The Kopacki rit Nature Park was initially established as a provisional agency, with
permanent status as a Public Institution in October 1997. The Nature Park is supervised by an
Administrative Council, consisting of several ministries and government agencies, including the Ministry
of Agriculture and Forestry, the State Water Directorate and the local county authority. Several steps have
been taken to strengthen the implementation arrangements for the nature protection component. The
project itself includes funding for consultants to provide technical assistance in the preparation of the
management and monitoring plans for the Kopacki rit Nature Park. In addition, they will provide "on the
job" training for the staff of the Directorate, and particularly for the staff of Kopacki rit. While the
Directorate (with the assistance of consultants) will outline the technical requirements for the
procurement of goods and works contracts, the Project Implementation Unit of Hrvatske Vode will
conduct the procurement process. Technical assistance, where needed, will also be provided by the
international environmental non-government organizations already active in Croatia. To date, two major
NGOs have been active in working with the Directorate and Kopacki rit, providing analysis and advice.
Procurement & Disbursement - Tenders for all procurement will be conducted by HV, with technical
specifications developed by the direct implementing agencies, where they are outside of HV (i.e.
Directorate for the Protection of Nature and Environment for nature protection) HV will also be
responsible for the project's special account and will submit disbursement requests to the Bank on all
components. In addition HV will be responsible for all accounting and financial reporting under the
project.
On-lending Arrangements & Budget Transfers - The loan funds will be transferred to RV through a
subsidiary loan agreement on the same terms as the Bank loan. Investments in the Vinkovci wastewater
system will be fully repaid by the Vinkovci Water and Wastewater Enterprise (VVK) to HV on the same
terms as the Bank loan.
Note also that the Bank loan will finance three parts of the nature protection component: preparation of
the management plan and monitoring program, technical assistance to strengthen institutional capacity,
and repair and rehabilitation of park infrastructure. The boats, GIS, and monitoring equipment are
expected to be financed by the Global Environment Facility, which has provided conceptual approval for
the investments. If GEF funding is not available, the Government will finance the equipment from its own
resources.



Page 14
b. Project Management: Project management will be conducted by the implementing agencies, under the
supervision of the Ministry of Finance and with HV as the coordinating agency. Reports of achievement
of project indicators will be prepared by HV and the Directorate for the Protection of Nature and
Environment. The reports will be sent to the Ministry of Reconstruction and Development (which is
responsible for summary statistical reporting under the project) and to the Bank. A mid-term review of the
project will be conducted no later than March 2000. The roles of the respective agencies are also
confirmed through the project agreement between the Bank and HV.
5. Social:
Over the transitional period of January 1996 to 1998, the Croatian Government and the UN Transitional
Administration agreed on important actions to ensure social reintegration of the local area, including: (a)
ensuring that all local government and enterprise officials were hired into the Croatian counterpart
organizations; (b) providing formal Government commitments on levels of levels of political
participation, including the numbers of Croatian Serb representatives to Parliament; and (c) clarifying the
amnesty law to limit jurisdiction to a defined number of alleged war criminals.
The success of the programs is seen in the municipal elections held in April 1997. At that time about 80
percent of the estimated local population had obtained official identification papers, which provided
voting rights and access to all government services, including health and education. Over 90 percent of
registered voters in Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem participated in the elections.
By mid-April 1998 about 12,000 Croatian Serbs had returned to their homes in the areas of Lika and
Cordun (formerly Sectors North and South) and 7,000 Croats have returned to their homes in Eastern
Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem.
6. EnvironmentalAssessment: Environmental Category    []A   [xIB  []C
The project has been assigned a category "B" environmental rating, since the repairs and reconstruction of
flood control and drainage networks are intended to replace previously existing facilities and their
reconstruction and operation will have minimal, if any, environmental impact. While some agricultural
drainage water will flow via the Kopacki rit Nature Park to the Danube River and the drainage water may
contain fertilizer, pesticide and herbicide residue and therefore negatively impact the ecological
conditions of the Nature Park, additional steps will be taken under the project to protect the Nature Park.
In particular, the nature protection component of the project will prepare a management plan for Kopacki
rit, including an environmental review and a program to monitor and manage the quality and quantity of
drainage water. As part of its work, the management of Kopacki rit will also conduct a baseline survey to
estimate the current levels of fora and fauna and will work with the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
to minimize the use of harmful agro-chemicals.
The management plan is also expected to be used as an input into the Government's land-use plans.
Preparation of the land-use plan for the agricultural area of the project is the joint responsibility of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Directorate for the Protection of Nature and Environment.
The wastewater treatment plant at Vinkovci will provide secondary level of treatment, meeting EC
standards for "non-sensitive" waters. Once operational, the plant is expected to remove about 90 percent
of the bio-chemical oxygen demand (BOD) and reduce nitrogen to less than 15 milligrams per liter.
Effluent disposal will be through the outfall to the centerline of the Bosut River, 2 km south of the
municipal boundary. For sludge disposal, the primary method will be application of stabilized and
thickened sludge to agricultural land. The secondary method will be landfill disposal of dewatered sludge.
Both methods are considered acceptable. Currently the Danube River and its tributaries are not classified
as "sensitive" waters (which refers primarily to lakes) but the treatment plant could be easily upgraded in
the future to meet the requirements for sensitive waters. Under the permits for construction of the
treatment plant, monitoring of the remaining BOD and nitrogen levels of the treated water will be
conducted by Hrvatske Vode.



Page 15
7. Participatory Approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
a Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
In designing the flood control and drainage component, the Bank consulted with local agricultural
officials regarding the expected impact of restored facilities in improving dgricultural output (by reducing
the likelihood and extent of possible flood control and drainage damage). The Bank also consulted with
the Vinkovci Water and Wastewater Enterprise, as well as with representatives of local Serb
administration and political leadership. For the nature protection component, the Bank also consulted with
local municipal officials.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Other key stakeholders were also consulted. The governments of the United States, the European Union
and member states of the EU have together contributed over $80 million for programs to strengthen local
government, repair housing, water and power systems and clear landmines in Eastern Slavonia, Baranja
and Western Srijem. The Bank has also met with representatives of UNTAES, OSCE, the UN High
Commission for Refugees (UNHCR), and the Office of the High Representative (in Sarajevo).
In addition, the Bank consulted with key non-government organizations. Regarding environmental
protection, this included Euronatur (which has prepared in-depth studies on the diversity of fora and fauna
in the Kopacki rit Nature Park), Wetlands International (the primary international NGO concerned with
protection of wetlands of international importance), the World Wildlife Fund, as well as a local NGO,
Friends of Kopacki rit. For the nature protection component, Euronatur is providing technical assistance
to the Directorate for the Protection of Nature and Environment without charge to the Government. For
mine clearing, the Bank consulted with the UN Department of Humanitarian Affairs, the UN
Development Program and with the International Committee of the Red Cross. The Bank also met with
NGOs covering social and human rights issues. Across the board, the project was well-received by the
stakeholders.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Wastewater Management - The Croatian 1995 water sector laws require full cost recovery for municipal
water and wastewater services, including operating and maintenance expenses as well as capital
investments. While most communities in Croatia set tariffs to ensure full cost recovery, those in the
former war zones use a phase-in approach to increasing tariffs. Under the project, tariffs will be increased
by about 12 percent by 2000 and another 57 percent by 2004. At current income levels for the area, the
increased total water and wastewater bill in 2000 will represent under 3 percent of per capita income.
Flood Control & Drainage - For investments in project of regional importance (such as flood control
networks) the central budget generally funds about 30 percent of the capital investment costs, with
balance paid from HV's revenues. For most areas, operating and maintenance costs are covered by
catchment fees paid by property owners. In the project area, catchment fees are currently about DM 20 (or
the equivalent of one kilo of grain), which are estimated to be about half of the actual operating and
maintenance costs. Similar to the program for water and wastewater programs in the former war zones,
increased catchment fees will be phased in over a period of several years, with the phase-in period
expected to coincide the loan's five year grace period on principal repayments.
Nature Protection: While initial funding for operating costs will be provided by the Ministry of Culture,
the nature protection program is expected to eventually become self-financing through collection of user
fees and fees paid for hunting licenses. The project will also explore alternative options for revenue
generation and financial sustainability derived from various sources, for example taxes and tariffs on
hotels and eco-touirism associated with the Park.



Page 16
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                                      Risk Rating                         Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Land protected from flooding will be rapidly   M        The area is considered to be highly fertile and once drained of excess water is
placed into production. There will be no                expected to be put into production. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
delays, for example, due to shortage of                 Management has taken measures to ensure that sufficient agricultural inputs are
agricultural inputs or land ownership issues.           available, including programs for areas of special care (such as Eastern
Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem) to supply inputs, such as fuel, seeds,
and fertilizer as well as provide low-interest rate loans on mechanized
equipment. The Govemment has also taken measures to resolve possible
conflicts on land ownership issues, including the establishment of a property
commission and the creation of the land bank.
Wastewater facilities not needed due to loss   M        The Government has established as a top priority encouragement of the return
of population in local area                             of the pre-war population to the area.
No unexpected complications arise in the       M        Project implementation arrangements will allow HV to take direct
clearing of landmines.                                 responsibility to contract for mine clearing.
Adequate budget funding available for the      M        As a new undertaking, the nature protection program may have difficulty
programs.                                               obtaining counter-part funding. However the Government is committed to
maintaining the high level of biodiversity at Kopacki rit, and as a Ramsar site,
the area is eligible for GEF grant funding for operations. The other components
are established programs, for which there has been no history of difficulty in
obtaining counter-part budget funds.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Qualified staff selected for PIU.              N        Project will be implemented by regular staff of ffV who are experienced and
qualified.
Bank procedures followed.                      N        HV staff who will implement the project have successfully implemented an
earlier Bank project.
Qualified contractors selected.                N        Contractors will be prequalified for all ICB works and supply & install
contracts and post-qualified for NCB contracts.
Appropriate technology available (esp. re      M        Project uses conventional and proven technologies for all components, except
demining).                                              mine clearing. Mine clearing technology was reviewed during project
preparation and found acceptable.
Overall Risk Rating     H        (Primarily due to the regional political risks.)
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Possible controversial aspects of the project include concerns that the project does not include provision
of fuel, fertilizer, seeds, livestock, or mechanized equipment -- all of which will be needed by private
farmers to take full advantage of the drained lands. It is expected that the Government's programs (for in-
kind loans on working capital needs and low-interest rate loans on mechanized equipment) will provide
substantial funding for farmers. In addition, donors such as the US Agency for International Development
have on-going programs to provide financing to small and medium-sized businesses, for which private
farmers would likely be eligible.
An additional controversial aspect relates to need for even-handedness of the Government, with regard to
returnees and particularly over property rights issues. In the event that the Government's actions were
seen as discriminatory, concerns might be raised over civil stability. However, the Government has
publicly committed to a confidence-building program, intended to ensure fairness in the reintegration of
Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem with the rest of Croatia. Furthermore, the presence of the
OSCE monitoring mission and the UN civilian police, as well as the numerous human rights NGOs,
suggests that any discriminatory actions will be quickly noted and brought to the attention of senior
Government officials.



Page 17
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Conditions of Negotiations:
*  Establishment of a Project Unit in Kopacki rit.
* Agreement on implementation arrangements for the mine clearing component.
2. Effectiveness Conditions:
Signature of the subsidiary loan agreement for the transfer of budget funds to HV.
3. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal AgreementsJ:
Loan Agreement
*  The Borrower shall relend the loan proceeds to HV under a subsidiary loan agreement for this
purpose on the same terms as the Bank loan (Section 3.01(b) and (c)).
*  The Borrower shall: (i) maintain a Quality Assurance Unit responsible for setting standards on mine
clearing works, review the standard operating procedures and safety regulations of the mine clearing
contractors and conduct quality assurance tests to ensure compliance of the contractors with accepted
international standards for humanitarian mine clearing; (ii) ensure that all mines cleared under the
project will be promptly destroyed in accordance with appropriate safety standards and guidelines;
and (iii) cause the Croatian Center for Demining to provide all necessary assistance to HV for the
mine clearing component of the project (Section 3.03). The loan can be subject to suspension in case
of laying new landmines on the territory of the Borrower, if this jeopardizes the development activity
under the project. (Section 5.01(c)).
*  The Project Unit within Kopacki rit shall be maintained during project implementation and by
November 30 of each year shall submit to HV an annual work program for the following year and by
April 30 of each year an annual report describing progress achieved during the preceding year.
(Section 3.05).
X  Standard financial and auditing covenants (Section 4.01).
Project Agreement
-  Mid-term review covenant (Schedule 2, para 1).
*  HV shall maintain the Project Implementation Unit and shall cooperate with the Croatian Center for
Demining and the Quality Assurance Unit for the mine clearing component of the project and with
the Directorate for the Protection of Nature and Environment for the nature protection component
(Schedule 2, para 2).
*  HV shall transfer the Vinkovci treatment plant to VVK under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank and the draft contract shall be submitted for the Bank's review no later than June 30, 1999.
(Schedule 2, para 3).
*  Standard financial and auditing covenants (Section 4.01).
H. Readiness for Implementation
[x] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.



Page 18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Projects under International Waterways (OP 7.50)
The project would fall under OP 7.50 Projects under International Waterways (October 1994) because
reconstruction of the drainage and flood control network is expected to have some -- albeit minimal --
impact on the Danube River, which is an international river. Under OP 7.50, for projects financed by the
Bank, riparian states must be notified of the proposed project except in certain circumstances. In the
opinion of Bank of staff, the exception from the notification requirement would apply because: (i) the
project would only rehabilitate previously existing facilities and would not exceed the original scheme of
the network, change its nature or so alter its scope and extent as to make it appear a new or different
scheme; (ii) the investments would have only a de minimis impact on the flows of the Danube (estimated
at an average of about five one-hundredths of one percent of the average flow of the Danube) and thus
would not affect the quality or quantity of water flows to the other riparians; and (iii) the project would
not be adversely affected by the other riparians' possible use of water. In addition, Croatia's documented
compliance with international conventions highlights the fact that the riparian states keep each other
informed through regular exchange of information about the matters dealing with the Danube River.
Program Team Leader: Sue tledge
Se&or Leader: Walter Stottmann
Country Director: Arntraud Hartmann



Page 19
Annex 1
Croatia: Reconstruction Project for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary            Key Performance Indicators        Monitoring and Evaluation           Critical Assumptions
(Targets)                   (Reporting Sources)           (Outside of Project Design)
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                           (Goal to Bank Mission)
Contribute to restarting the local                                                                  War does not recommence in Bosnia
economy on an environmentally-                                                                      and Herzegovina.
sustainable basis.
Project Development Objective:                                                                      (Objective to Goal)
Repair and rebuild war-damaged   Completion of construction        Summary statistical reporting by the   War does not recommence with the
water sector infrastructure, while  contracts and disbursement of funds   Ministry of Reconstruction and  Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
mitigating the negative          by June 30, 2002.                Development.                      After the Croatian Govemment
environmental impact likely to be  Reduction by 85 % of dissolved  Reporting on individual components  gains control over Eastern Slavonia,
caused to the Nature Park by the  oxygen levels and suspended solids   by: Croatian Water Management  Baranja and Western Srijem, no
restart of local agriculture.    from plant discharge site at      Enterprise and Directorate for the  reemergence of civil strife. The
Vinkovci by June 30, 2002.       Protection of Nature and         Government reintegration program
Increase in land under cultivation by  Environment.               is implemented as planned.
9,600 hectares by June 30, 2002.
No significant decrease in the
populations of indicator species by
June 30, 2002.
Outputs:                                                                                            (Outputs to Objective)
Repair of flood control and drainage  Repair of 100 km of levees by June   Reporting by Water Management  Land protected from flooding will
network.                         30, 2002. Repair of 15 pumping   Enterprise (HV).                  be rapidly phased into production.
Repair of wastewater treatment   stations. Cleaning & desilting of 396  Reporting by HV.            There will be no delays for example,
plant & extension of collector   km of canals.                    Reporting by H                    due to missing agricultural inputs or
system in Vinkovci.              Reconstruction of Vinkovci        Reporting by HV.                 land ownership issues.
Clearing of landmines in project  wastewater treatment plant and   Reporting by Directorate for the  Wastewater facilities not needed due
areasr                           extension of 20 km of wastewater    Protection of Nature and       to loss of population in local area.
areas.                       collectors by June 30, 2002.     Environment.
Preparation of management plan and      .No unexpected complications arise
Prepartitorng prof agramer Koplac a    Preparation of management plan and                          in the clearing of landmines.
monitoring program for Kopacki rit   monitoring program for Kopacki rit
Nature Park, repair and          bymJung 2002a Cor          of                                      Adequate budget funding available
reconstruction of monitoring and  by  mane nt cies.                                                 for the nature protection program.
supervision facilities,          park management facilities.
Purchase of monitoring and
supervisory equipment, construction
of blinds, fishponds and other park
management facilities by June 30,
2002.
Project Components/Sub-          Inputs: (budget for each                                           (Components to Outputs)
components: (see Annex 2 for     component)
project description)
Consultants hired.               Project Budget                    Project reports by the implementing   Qualified staff selected for PIU.
Final designs and bidding                             ($M)         agencies i.e. reports concerning  Bank procedures followed.
progress to date and loan
documents                        Flood Control &                  disbursements.                    Qualified contractors selected.
prepared.                        Drainage            37.8
Contractors selected.            Wastewater Mgt.       16.1                                         Appropriate technology available
Works completed.                 Demining              5.0                                          (esp. re demining).
Completion of work certified.    Nature Protection     2.2
Facilities placed in operation.  Total                61.1



Page 20
Annex 2
Croatia: Reconstruction Project for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem
Detailed Project Description
Project Component 1 - Wastewater Management Component
The Wastewater Management Component, estimated to cost US $16.1 million or 27 % of the total project
cost, would complete construction of the wastewater treatment for Vinkovci and extend the wastewater
collection system thereby increasing the population served from 65 % to 85 %. Construction of the
wastewater treatment plant was started prior to the war. The war interrupted the construction and cause
the destruction of the completed works. The salvage value of the completed works is estimated at US
$300,000.
Project Component 2 - Flood Control and Drainage Component
The Flood Control and Drainage Component, estimated to cost US $37.8 million or 62 % of the total
project cost, would repair Baranja flood protection system which comprises levees and pumping stations
and protects an area of 108,000 ha and all of the primary and secondary agricultural drainage systems in
Baranja and Eastern Slavonia which drain a 47,000 ha area. The work consists of repairing levees and
draining systems and reconstructing pumping stations, including the provision of pumps and related
equipment. Mines must be cleared from the work zones and this would be done as subcontracts to the
civil works contracts. Equipment for continued maintenance of the damaged drainage canals and levees
would also be provided.
Project Component 3 - Demining Component
The Demining Component, estimated to cost US $5.0 million or 8 % of the total project cost, would
verify that all construction sites are mine-free so that construction can proceed safely. During the war, the
flood control dikes were used as bunkers and land mines were laid to protect military positions. In
addition to mines, all construction sites need to be inspected and cleared of unexploded ordnance. Some
agricultural land is currently not being cultivated because of the suspected presence of mines. These areas
are being cleared under the Government's mine clearing program and are not included in the project.
Project Component 4 - Nature Protection Component
The Nature Protection Component, estimated to cost US $2.2 million or 3 % of the project cost, would
develop and strengthen the State Directorate for the Protection of Nature and Environment, construct
facilities and provide equipment, and provide support for the implementation of the management plan
prepared with Global Environment Facility funding.



Page 21
Annex 3
Croatia: Reconstruction Project for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem
Estimated Project Costs
%        Total
(US $Million)         Foreign     Base
Local   Foreign    Total    Exchange    Costs
1. Wastewater Management Component
a. Vinkovci Wastewater Treatment Plant                        6.4       2.7       9.1           29       19
b. Vinkovci Collection System Extension                       2.4        1.1       3.5          32        7
Subtotal Wastewater Management Component                         8.8       3.8      12.6           30      26
2. Flood Control and Drainage Component
a. Eastern Slavonia Area                                      10.7      2.4       13.1           18      27
b. Baranja Area                                               13.8       2.6      16.4           16      34
Subtotal Flood Control and Drainage Component                   24.5       5.0      29.5           17      61
3. Demining Component
a. De-mining (Eastern Slavonia)                               2.6       0.6        3.2          20        7
b. De-mining (Baranja)                                        0.6       0.2        0.8          20        2
Subtotal Demining Component                                      3.2       0.8       4.0           20       9
4. Nature Protection Component                                   1.3       0.4       1.7           25       4
Total BASELINE COSTS                                            37.8      10.0      47.8           21      100
Physical Contingencies                                         7.6      2.0        9.6          21       20
Price Contingencies                                           3.1       0.6        3.7           16       8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                             48.5      12.6      61.1           21     128



Page 22
Annex 4
Croatia: Reconstruction Project for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Base Year 1998
Present Value of Flows         Fiscal Impact
Economic Analysis  Financial Analysis
Benefits                $47.0 million   $82.3 million
Costs                   $32.5 million   $32.3 million
Net Benefits:           $14.5 million   $50.0 million   PV of net fiscal outlays:
$24.5 million"'
IRR:                     16.2 %
Report of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Background. In December 1997, the UN Food and Agriculture Organization conducted a
mission to review the technical feasibility and economic justification of proposed investments, consisting
of repairing and reconstructing the flood control and agriculture drainage systems in the areas of Baranja
and Eastern Slavonia. In both cases, the investments would repair infrastructure damaged by the war and
would not extend the scope of the original networks.
Economic results. Separate economic analyses have been undertaken for Baranja and Eastern
Slavonia and economic costs and benefits have been aggregated to calculate Economic Rates of Return
(ERR) and Net Present Values (NPV) using a 10 % discount rate. The economic benefits have been
obtained by replacing financial prices with economic values in the crop models and by projecting
cropping patterns for the two scenarii "with project" and "without project" on the basis of the assumptions
spelled out above.
For Baranja, a probabilistic approach has been used to evaluate the economic performance of the
investments in Baranja, which depend on the actual occurrence of a major flood without the project
which, although having a probability of 10 %, is an enforceable climatic event. For instance, the ERR
would range from 12 % (if, without project, noflood would have occurred during the next 30 years) to 50
% (if, without the project, two consecutive major floods were to destroy all crops in project years 2 and 3.
By running the model 100 times, the following expected (or "average") results have been estimated: ERR
of 20 % and NPV of US $12 million.
The ERR of Eastern Slavonia is estimated at about 12 % and the NPV at US $2.0 million. These
modest results are mainly due to the negative impact of sugarbeet. The economic value of sugarbeet
appears negative. This has a substantial and negative impact on the economic performance of the project
as this would mean that the more Croatia produces sugar (for instance as a result of this project), the more
it makes economic losses. This negative economic value is mainly due to: (i) the uncompetitive
processing cost of sugarbeet in Croatia, estimated at Kuna 2,380 (US $400) per ton, which is more than
the international price of sugar; and (ii) the methodology used to calculate parity price based on low
World Bank forecasts for the international prices of sugar in 2005 (US $0.22 per kg) due to a high level of
protection in many countries and the consequences of this dumping on international markets.
Sensitivity analysis. The following table presents sensitivity analyses on the influence of
increased project costs, decreased benefits, delayed implementation and increases of the share of
9   Calculated at a 10% opportunity cost of capital.
Subsidies: 100% of investment costs. 50% of O&M for 5 years.



Page 23
sugarbeet in the cropping pattern corresponding to switching values of ERR at 10 % for the two projects.
The results are compared with the ones of the above base assumptions.
Sensitivity Analysis on the Economic Rate of Return of the Sub-projects
Eastern Slavonia     Baranja
I   Sub-project        Sub-project
Base Assumption                                         11.9 %             19.6 %
*   Costs Increased by 20 %                              9.6 %             17.0%
*   Benefits Decreased by 20 %                           8.5 %             14.8 %
*   Benefits Delayed by 2 years                          9.0 %             13.6%
*   Sugarbeet Increased by 30 % in the Cropping Pattem  10.0 %             16.3 %
*   Sugarbeet Increased by 95 % in the Cropping Pattern  5.7 %             10.0%
Conclusions. The Baranja sub-project is economically highly justified. Although its results
appear more modest, the Eastern Slavonia sub-project is also economically justified for the following
reasons: (i) the economic impact on farms has been undervalued since up to half of the crops produced
under the project would be transformed into animal products, of which added values have not been
calculated here due to time constraints; (ii) the economic cost of likely deterioration (leading to the
necessary displacement of households) without the project has been undervalued since the cost to the
economy (for relocation, public assistance) is difficult to quantify; (iii) the assumptions used in the
economic analysis are conservative, in particular with regards to the impact of poor drainage on crop
performances and the levels of maize yields; and (iv) the problem of sugarbeet could be at least partly
overcome by reducing processing costs and/or reducing the Government price incentives on producer
prices which would lead to a reduction in areas in sugarbeet in the project area (the ERR would reach 17.5
% with no sugarbeet in the cropping pattern).
Financial and economic prices. Financial prices used in the models are those prevailing in
Croatia in December 1997. They have been converted into economic values by calculating parity prices
for the tradable goods or eliminating distortions such as taxes, tariffs or protection affecting the fixation
of other prices. These prices and conversion factors are summarized in the following table:
Fiinancial and Economic Prices and Conversion Factors
Item                             Unit    Financial  Economic   Conversion           Remarks/
Price      Value       Factor         assumptions
Agricultural Products
Wheat                       Kuna/ton    1,100        775          70 %      Export Parity Price
Maize                       Kuna/ton     600         586          98 %      Export Parity Price
Sugarbeet                  Kuna/ton      270        - 75        -28 %       Import Parity Price
Oilseeds                    Kuna/ton    2,470      1,978          80 %      Import Parity Price
Green Fodder (Dry Matter)   Kuna/ton     350         350         100 %     Not tradable
Agricultural Inputs
Seeds                                 varying    varying         100 %     No Obvious
Fertilizers                 Kuna/ton   1,100      850             75 %      Distortion
Chemicals                              varying    varying         77 %      Export Parity Price
23 % Import Duties
Agricultural mechanization                                                     Mission estimate to
Tractor Services            Hour         110          66          60 %      adjust for distortion in
Combine Services            Hour         250         150          60 %      contract prices
Family Labor                   Hour           0          12             -      Average Local Casual
Labor Cost
Other minor inputs and outputs            varying    varying        100 %
(e.g. by-products, grass)
Project Costs
Brief description of investment activities. The component would consist of rehabilitating flood
control and drainage infrastructure in order to contribute to restarting full agricultural production in two



Page 24
areas: the Baranja area (108,000 ha), which is located just upstream the junction of the Danube and Drava
rivers, and the depression of Eastern Slavonia (47,000 ha) located south of the City of Osijek and drained
by the Vuka River and Bobotski Canal. These areas suffer from a major flood risk (especially in Baranja)
and high water levels, leading to inundated areas and deficient drainage in valuable agricultural land. The
investment would consist of: (i) repairing 63 km of dikes damaged by war activities (trenches, bunkers,
artillery bombardments) in order to restore a safe protection against major flooding in the Baranja area;
(ii) repairing 15 pumping stations which were destroyed during the war in order to evacuate excess water
from the catchment area of the drainage network; (iii) desilting, cleaning and reshaping the main and
secondary canals (210 km in Baranja and 141 km in Eastern Slavonia) which were neglected during the
war and are therefore not draining efficiently water from agricultural fields.
Landmines are a major issue. In addition to an estimated 2,000 ha of agricultural land in Eastern
Slavonia, mines are suspected to contaminate roughly 10 million m2 on the dikes in Baranja, the canals in
Eastern Slavonia and pumping stations in both areas. In addition to the high risk associated with them, the
cleaning of mines is a necessary pre-condition for repairing the infrastructure and cleaning the canals
under this project. The implementation period for the flood control and drainage investments under the
project is therefore recommended to be extended from two to three years.
Regarding the international waterways associated with the Drava - Danube River Basin, the
project falls within the "exception to notification" under the Bank's Operational Policies as it would not
expand drainage to new areas, alter the nature of the original design, or involve any increase in water
discharge above that originally designed. Moreover, preliminary calculations show that the total amount
of water drained from the Baranja area represents 0.05 % of the annual flow of the Danube river, an
amount considered to be negligible.
Investment costs. The investment costs to be financed by the project is calculated at about Kuna
196 million, or US $32.7 million (at an exchange rate of Kuna 6 = US $1): US $17.2 million in the
Baranja area; US $15.5 in Eastern Slavonia project area. This was estimated on the basis of unit costs
extrapolated from current contracts for civil works and quotations obtained from suppliers for equipment.
The quantities are mostly based on the original designs and estimates of the damages rather than on an
adequate detailed site survey of the structures, which was made impossible by the contamination of the
areas with mines. In addition, this cost includes: (i) a provision of 8 % for engineering (survey and
design), supervision and administration costs; (ii) physical contingencies of 15 % of base cost to count for
above-mentioned uncertainties on quantities; and (iii) price contingencies to account for inflation assumed
to be 2.5 % per year on the foreign element and 3.5 % on nationally procured goods and works.
Recurrent cost & cost recovery. The two schemes have not been maintained for 6 years due to
the war and post-war situations. The operation and maintenance costs have been estimated on the basis of
pre-war records at about Kuna 160 (US $27) per hectare. This includes maintenance, energy and staff
expenses. This used to be recovered through the collection of a catchment fee ranging from DEM 30 (US
$17) to DEM 50 (US $28) per ha without and with pumping, respectively. As in the rest of the country
averaging a recovery rate of 80%, the Croatian Water Company (Hrvatske Vode, HV) expects to restore
the catchment fee mechanism in the project areas after a transition period of two to four years to recover
operation and maintenance expenses. The aim of fully recovering investment rehabilitation costs financed
by the project would lead to an increase in the catchment fee by US $50 per ha for 10 years after a
transition period, or an increase of 220 % on top of the existing level. This appears unrealistic and it is
recommended that, in view of the exceptional nature of the investment (caused by the war), a smaller
increase should be combined with the following two sources to recover the rehabilitation costs: a
redistribution of part of the catchment fees from other parts of the country (being possible as the
accounting system of HV is centralized); and a direct grant contribution by the Government.
Project Benefits
Description of project beneficiaries and benefits. The total population of the direct project area
was 85,000 according to the 1991 census, of which 43 % were agricultural households while the rest



Page 25
consisted of rural households mostly dependent upon the agricultural sector for their livelihoods
(processing industries, water management, rural services, etc.). The war provoked large movements of the
population in and out of the project areas. The Government is expecting a stabilization of the situation
from 1998 onwards in which the population of the project area trends to turn back to its pre-war levels.
These agricultural households, which cultivate a total of about 106,000 ha, will benefit from: (i) restored
protection against floods which currently puts at risk approximately 35,000 ha of valuable agricultural
land and rural infrastructure in Baranja, with a probability of 10 % per year; (ii) improved drainage on
rich agricultural land (now reaching 30,000 ha) which currently suffers from high water table; and (iii)
restoring and putting back into cultivation about 9,600 ha of inundated agricultural land.
Main Characteristics of Project Beneficiaries and Areas
Item                                        Baranja a/    Eastern Slavonia'      Total
Population (1991 census):                    54,265            30,737           85,002
No of Households                              18,496            9,384           27,880
Agricultural Households                       7,192             4,727           11,919
% of Agricultural Households                   40 %              50 %            43 %
Total Project Area,                       107,974 ha         47,090 ha       155,064 ha
of which:                                                        0 ha         34,916 ha
Potentially flooded area                34,916 ha         39,220 ha       106,088 ha
Agricultural Land,                      66,868 ha                          9,600 ha
of which:                                                3,600 ha        30,000 ha
Already ][nundated                    6,000 ha         15,000 ha
Currently With Drainage Problems     15,000 ha
a/ The Baranja project area corresponds to the municipality of Beli Manastir (in 1990) and the Eastemn Slavonia project area to
about 74 % of the agricultural areas of Osijek municipality.
Main characteristics of the agricultural sector. The two areas used to be largely inundated
swamps until they were developed over the last two centuries first by large land-owners and then by the
State, which financed the flood control and drainage infrastructure. This explains the high proportion of
agricultural land managed by agro-kombinats (as opposed to private land ownership): 64 % and 68 % in
Eastern Slavonia and Baranja respectively. When properly drained, the soils are very fertile, including
alluvial soils, gray soils and chernozems. The soils are deep and well structured, with medium to
moderately high clay content and a high water holding capacity. They have a medium to high organic
matter content and no major nutrient deficiency. Before the war, cereals and maize were the main crops,
representing respectively about 30 % and 30-40 % of the cropping pattern, followed by sugarbeet (7-8 %)
and oilseeds (8-9 %). By European standards, crop yields were fairly high for cereals (5-6 tons/ha),
satisfactory for oilseeds (2-3 tons/ha), but less impressive for sugarbeet (40-50 tons/ha) or maize (5-
6 tons/ha).
During the war and until now, about 50 % of the land was not utilized. On the rest, it is estimated
that the yields have been halved compared with the above figures. Besides the outflow of refugees and
general economic crisis in the area, the reasons for this situation which still prevail today include: (i) the
suspected presence of mines on 2 to 3,000 ha of agricultural land in Eastern Slavonia; (ii) inundations and
high water levels in large parts of the areas; and (iii) lack of agricultural inputs and machinery. Regarding
the latter, it has been roughly estimated that about 340 tractors and 42 combines would be urgently
required to cover most urgent needs. One source of supply will be the current program, which could
allocate up to 1,700 tractors on credit for the entire country in 1998, although none have been specifically
earmarked for the project areas.
Key Assumptions Regarding Agricultural Benefits. The financial and economic benefits of the
project have been calculated based on the following key assumptions:
(a) In Baranja, the weakening of dikes leads to a high risk of major flood with a probability of 1 to
10 years. In addition to the threat this imposes on people, infrastructure and houses, the floods
would destroy crops on an estimated 24,351 ha of agricultural land, with a probability of 10 %
without the project. With the project, this risk would disappear.



Page 26
(b) An estimated 9,600 ha of land (6,000 ha in Baranja and 3,600 ha in Eastern Slavonia) are
currently inundated. The project would evacuate this water so as to put the land under
cultivation within a transition period of 5 years. Without the project, it is assumed that the rising
water table would increase these inundated areas by 50 % (10 % per year) over the samne 5-year
period, after which the situation would stabilize.
(c) This high water level influences an additional 30,000 ha affected by deficient drainage,
reducing crop yields by about 20 %. With the project, pre-war yield levels would progressively
be restored within a 5-year period; without the project, this 20 % yield decrease would affect a
further 50 % of this area during the same period.
Representative crop models have been prepared to illustrate crop performance and financial
returns to the five main crops under the following three circumstances: (i) current depressed situation; (ii)
future situation with poor drainage (without project on 30,000 to 45,000 ha); and (iii) future situation with
adequate drainage (with project). These models have been used in the economic analysis.
Average Crop Yields (in tons / ha) Used in the Crop Models
Crop             Present Situation   Future Without Project   Future With Project
wheat                    3.2                    5.1                  6.4
maize                     2.6                   4.2                  5.2
sugarbeet                22.5                    36                  45
sunflower                 1.3                   2.2                  2.6
meadows                   2.5                     4                  5.0



Page 27
Annex 5
Reconstruction Project for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem
Financial Summaries
Table A: Project Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31
(Current US $million equivalent)
Implementation Period              Operation Period
Total   1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
Project Costs
1. Wastewater Management Component
Investment Costs                         16.10    0.37    4.15    7.71    3.09    0.78       --      --       --
Recurrent Costs                           2.26      --      --   0.10    0.20    0.40    0.50    0.52    0.54
2. Flood Control and Drainage
Component
Investment Costs                         37.80    3.40   12.17   11.66    5.79    4.78       --      --       --
Recurrent Costs                          13.30    0.20    0.50    1.00    1.50    2.00    2.70    2.70    2.70
3. Demining Component
InvestmentCosts                           4.90    2.75    2.15       --      --      --      --      --       --
Recurrent Costs                             --      --      --      --       --      --
5. Nature Protection Component
Investment Costs                          2.20    0.42    0.92    0.75    0.08    0.03
Recurrent Costs                           4.50    0.30    0.30    0.40    0.50    0.60    0.70    0.80    0.90
Total PROJECT COSTS                          81.06    7.44   20.19   21.62   11.16    8.59    3.90    4.02    4.14
Financing Sources
IBRD                                     40.60    4.97   13.11   13.11    5.80    3.61       --      --       --
GEF                                       0.81    0.15    0.45    0.16    0.03    0.02
HV lnvestment Grant                      14.30    0.99    4.32    5.16    2.36    1.47
Government Grant                          5.32    0.36    1.36    2.03    0.96    0.61
Catchment Fees from Project Area          9.25    0.10    0.25    0.50    0.80    1.10    1.60    2.20    2.70
HV Operating Subsidy                      4.02    0.57    0.40    0.16    0.51    0.78    1.10    0.50        --
MOC Operating Subsidy                     0.58    0.28    0.20    0.10       --      --      --      --       --
User Fees Kopacki Rit National Park       3.92    0.02    0.10    0.30    0.50    0.60    0.70    0.80    0.90
VVK Sewerage Tariffs                      2.26      --      --    0.10    0.20    0.40    0.50    0.52    0.54
Total FINANCING                              81.0f    7.44   20.19   21.62   11.16    8.59    3.90    4.02    4.14
Main assumptions:
(i) No increase in recurrent costs over the operational period.
(ii) Continuation of current levels of user fees & central government funding.



Page 28
Annex 5
Reconstruction Project for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem
Financial Summaries
Table B: Financial Summary for Vinkovacki Vodovod i Kanalizacija Water Sewerage Unit
Years Ending: December 31
(In Millions of Current Kunas Except as Indicated)
1996          1997          1998          1999         2000          2004       Average
(Actual)      (Actual)     (Forecast)    (Forecast)    (Forecast)    (Forecast)   Annual
Growth
Income Statement Items
Water Sales (000's)              3,500         3,550         3,600        3,650        3,700          3,900       1.4%
Sewage Billed (000's)           2,809          2,907         2,952        2,997        3,094         3,529        2.9%
Revenues (after tax)            13.97          14.63        15.49         16.50       18.31          29.68         9.9%
Operating Income                 0.80           1.14         1.65          2.47        3.94           5.84        28.2%
NetIncome                        0.45           0.08         0.11          0.19         0.44           1.15
Funds Statement Items
Intemal Sources                  7.25           7.74          6.97         4.60          4.38         2.22
Borrowings                      10.00          10.00          4.00        20.00         20.00         0.00
Equity Investments               3.00           3.00          1.30        10.00         10.00         0.00
Total Sources                20.25          20.74         12.27         34.60        34.38         2.22
Capital Expenditures            13.50          13.00          5.00        30.00         30.00         0.10
Working Capital Increase         6.75           7.74          7.27         2.20          1.98        -7.18
(Decrease)
Debt Service                     0.00           0.00          0.00         2.40          2.40         9.30
Total Applications           20.25          20.74         12.27         34.60        34.38         2.20
Balance Sheet Items
Current Assets                  16.71          17.00        28.69         24.15         20.15        55.40
Less Current Liabitities     23.98          24.63         27.24         27.45        27.71        49.89
Net Fixed Assets               170.76         170.24        167.72       160.20        185.46       212.25          2.7%
Total Assets                191.08         193.88        198.19        219.19       230.50       269.77          4.4%
Debt                            15.52          20.00        21.60         42.20         62.80        62.40         19.0%
Equity                         149.64         147.18        147.18       147.18        147.18       152.18          0.2%
Total Liabilities and Equity  191.08       193.88        198.19        219.19       240.50       269.77          4.4%
Financial Ratios
Operating Income as a
% ofRevenue                       5.7%           7.8%         10.6%         14.8%       21.5%         19.7%
Net Income as a
% ofRevenue                        3.2%          0.6%          0.7%          1.2%        2.4%          3.9%
Return on Average Invested           0.9%          0.7%          1.0%          1.5%        2.3%          2.7%
Capital
Debt Service Coverage               22.7           8.0           5.9           2.2           2.0           1.2
Percent of Total Capital             54%           60%          100%           15%          15%           15%
Expenditures financed by Internal
Sources
Current Ratio                        0.7           0.7           1.1           1.9           0.7           1.1
Debt as % of Total Capitalization    8.1%         10.3%         10.9%         19.2%       27.2%         23.1%



Page 29
Annex 6
Reconstruction Project for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's guidelines "Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", January 1995, revised January and August 1996, and September 1997, for
goods and works. For consultants' services, the procurement would follow the Bank's guidelines
"Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", January 1997, revised September
1997. A General Procurement Notice would be published in the Development Business of the United
Nations in March 1998.
The responsible entity for procurement implementation would be the HV PIU, which has
implemented Bank-financed projects and has substantial experience in Bank procurement procedures. The
progress on procurement would be reported to the Bank in an agreed format in semi-annual project
implementation reports. A project launch seminar would be held in June 1998 to reaffirm understanding
of the procurement procedures and to facilitate project startup.
The procurement arrangements are described below:
(a) Civil works. Contracts for Civil Works would range in value from $0.05 million to $12.0 million.
Contracts estimated to cost US $2.0 million or more would be awarded under ICB and those below
US $2.0 million each but more than US $0.05 million, under NCB, according to the Bank guidelines.
No more than $15.0 million in civil works would be awarded under NCB. The Croatian construction
industry has demonstrated in earlier Bank-financed projects that it has adequate capacity and that it is
competitive with foreign construction companies. Furthermore NCB is justified, because it is
unlikely that foreign contractors would be interested in competing for contracts valued at less than
$2.0 million. However, foreign contractors would be eligible to compete for contracts awarded under
NCB. Small works estimated to cost US $50,000 or less per contract would be awarded on the basis
of quotations from at least three domestic contractors responding to written requests. Contracts
would be awarded to the contractors who demonstrate they are qualified and have the capacity to
execute the work. The aggregate amount of such contracts would not exceed US $300,000. Bidders
for works that include demining and the one supply and install contract awarded under ICB would be
prequalified.
(b) Goods. The project would require the procurement of goods comprising pumps, pipes, tractors and
operations and maintenance equipment. The procedures to be used for the procurement would be: (i)
ICB for contracts estimated to cost US $400,000 or more per contract; (ii) International Shopping
(IS) for contracts below US $400,000 each but more than US $50,000, subject to the condition that
the total of suclh contracts would not exceed US $400,000 and (iii) National Shopping (NS) for
contracts below US $50,000 each. The aggregate value of NS procurement under the project would
not exceed US $100,000. For IS, at least three quotations form different suppliers in at least two
countries would be obtained.
(c) Supply and Installation of Plant and Equipment. The Vinkovci Wastewater Treatment plant would
be procured under a single turn-key supply and install contract using ICB. Because the estimated
cost is high--$10.7 million and the work would be turnkey--contractors would be prequalified and
two-stage bidding would be followed.
(d) Mine Clearing. Mine clearing will be included in the contracts for works where required and would
most likely be subcontracted. All contracts that have mine clearing components would be awarded
under ICB and would only be open to prequalified bidders who have demonstrated in their
prequalification statements that they have trained staff are a with mine clearing experience or an



Page 30
agreement with a qualified subcontractor. The estimated aggregate cost of mine clearing included in
ICB works contracts is US $5.0 million.
(e) Consultants' Services. Consultants' services contracts for the Water Management and Nature
Protection Components would be awarded using the Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS)
procedure. The total value of these contracts would be US $1.8 million. The value of the smallest
QCBS contract would be $460,000. Consultants' services contracts valued at US $2.2 million would
be for the preparation of design and tender documents, for assistance in the tendering process and
with the supervision and inspection of civil works. These would be concluded on the basis of Least-
Cost Selection (LCS). The value of the smallest LCS contract would be $1,000,000. Contracts with
firms below $100,000 and with Individual consultants below US $50,000 would be awarded without
competition. Only one firm contract below $100,000 and only one individual contract below $50,000
are proposed.
(f) Bank Review. The Borrower would use Bank's standard bidding documents for ICB procurement.
The NCB document would be based on the Region's Standard NCB Bidding Documents, and would
be submitted to the Bank in draft prior to its use. For consultant assignments, the Bank's standard
forms of contract would be used. All the ICB goods and civil works contracts, the first NCB civil
works contract, the first IS contract, and all consulting contracts exceeding US $200,000 in case of
firms, and US $50,000 in case of individuals, would be subject to the Bank's prior review. All other
procurement documents and procedures would be subject to the Bank's ex-post review on a random
basis.
Disbursement
The proposed Bank loan in the aggregated amount of US $40.6 million equivalent would be
disbursed over a period of five years, and the expected closing date would be June 30, 2003. It is
estimated that four years would be sufficient to implement the project, with an additional year to complete
disbursements given the nature and size of the project and the Bank's past experience with infrastructure
projects in Croatia.
Allocation of Loan Proceeds. The proceeds of the loan would be allocated and disbursed under
three categories--goods, works and consultants' services. The percent of eligible expenditures financed
for goods would be 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures exfactory and 85% for
goods procured locally. The percent of eligible expenditures financed for works would be 60% and for
consultants 100 %, for which the loan would finance 50%. A GEF grant would finance the balance. The
estimated disbursement profile for the Bank loan by category is as follows:
Disbursement Category  FY99  FY00  FYOI  FY02  FY03  Total
(US $millions)
Works                   2.6   7.2   7.4   3.4   2.1   22.7
Goods                   1.6   4.2   4.3    2.0    1.3   13.4
Services                0.5    1.4   1.5   0.7   0.4   4.5
Total                   4.7   12.8   13.2   6.1    3.8   40.6
Cumulative              4.7   17.5   30.7   36.8   40.6
Cumulative as % of total  12    43    76    91    100
Use of Statements of Expenditures. Disbursements would be made upon receipt by the Bank of
fully documented applications except for: (i) contracts for works and goods valued at less than US $3.0m;
(ii) contracts with consulting firms valued at less than US $0.2m; and (iii) contracts with individual
consultants valued at less than US $0.05m. Disbursement for these items would be made against
statements of expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by the PIU
and made available to the Bank during supervision.



Page 31
Retroactive Financing. In order to accelerate the project, the loan would allow for retroactive
financing for up to 10% of the loan amount. Retroactive financing would apply for payments made after
June 30, 1997 (but not more than one year before loan signing) where such procurement followed Bank
guidelines. It is expected that retroactive financing will be used for consulting services and civil works
related to the flood control and drainage component.
Special Account. The Borrower would establish a special account for the Bank credit at a
commercial bank or a bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfied to the Bank. The
Bank would make an authorized allocation of US $3.0 million for the special account for the Bank loan.
Initially, the allocation would be limited to US $1.0 million until disbursements have reached US $4.0 m,
then the full authorized allocation could be claimed. Applications for the replenishment of the Special
Account would be submitted monthly or when 20 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized,
whichever occurs earlier. The replenishment applications would be supported by the necessary
documentation, bank statement of the special account, a reconciliation bank statement of the special
account against Bank records.



Page 32
Annex 6
Reconstruction Project for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                        Procurement Method                  Total Cost
(including
ICB       NCB      Other       NBF   contingencies)
1. Goods                               17.9         --       0.2        0.7           18.8
(13.1)       (--)     (0.2)       (-)(13.3)
2. Works                               23.1       14.8       0.3         --           38.2
(13.8)      (8.9)     (0.2)       ( )         (22.9)
3. Services                              --         --       4.4         --            4.4
(--)   (--)    ~(4.4)     (-)(4.4)
Total                            41.0       14.8       4.9        0.7           61.4
(26.9)      (8.9)     (4.8)      (H)          (40.6)
Notes:  Other includes consulting services and goods procured through International Shopping and Local
Shopping. Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Page 33
Annex 6
Reconstruction Project for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure                  Contract Value                 Procurement                 Contracts Subject to
Category                    (Threshold)                      Method              Prior Review / Estimated Total
Value Subject to Prior Review
US $millions                                                US $millions
1. Supply and Install
>1.00                         ICB                               All/ 10.7
1. Works
>2.00                          ICB                             All/ 23.1
>0.05                         NCB                      First & >1.00/ 12.0
<0.05                      Small Works                        None/-----
2. Goods
>0.40                          ICB                              All/ 7.2
IS                             First/ 0.2
<0.05                          NS                             None/----
3. Services
>0.20                         QCBS                              All/ 1.8
>0.20                         LCS                               All/ 2.5
LCS                             None/----
<0.05                       Individual                        None/----
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:            46.8



Page 34
Annex 6
Reconstruction Project for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                         Amount in US $million         Financing Percentage
(1) Works                                                                     24.0                      60%
(2) Goods - All components except the GEF part of the Nature                    8.0         100% of foreign
Protection component                                                                    expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures, ex-factory, and
85% of goods procured
locally
(3) Consultants' Services                                                      4.0                     100%
Unallocated                                                              4.6
Total                  40.6



Page 35
Annex 7
Reconstruction Project for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US $000)                     Planned               Actual
(At final PAD stage)
$195,000            $202,900
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
(At final PAD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         10                   1 1
First Bank mission (identification)              7/1/97             9/27/97
Appraisal mission departure                      12/3/97             12/3/97
Negotiations                                    4/20/98             4/20/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   7/31/98
Prepared by: Ministry of Finance, Water Management Enterprise, State Directorate for the
Protection of Nature and Environment, Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Ministry of Interior
Preparation assistance: FAO/CP ($27,000)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialty
Sue Rutledge                       Reconstruction Program Team Leader
Richard MacEwen                    Water Sector Program Team Leader
Andreas Rohde                      Water Sector Engineer
Brian Smith                        Water Sector Financial Analyst
Jan Post                           Environmental Wetlands Specialist
Jacques Bure                       Mine Clearing Specialist
Margret Thalwitz                   Urban and Reconstruction Sector Leader
Art Bruestle                       Consultant
Baelhadj Merghoub                  Consultant



Page 36
Annex 8
Reconstruction Project for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem
Documents in the Project File*
A.  Project Implementation Plan
On file
B.  Bank Staff Assessments
Environmental Assessment
C.  Other
Report dated January 1998 by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. The
report provides an economic analysis of the flood control and drainage investments.
*Including electronic files.



Status of Bank Group Operations in Croatia
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits In the Operations Portfolio
8
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions               and actual              Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                            disbursements a/   Supervision Rating b/        a
Project ID    Credit    Year               Borrower                   Purpose
No.                                                                     IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev d   Dev Obj        Imp Prog       0
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 1
Active Loans                                                                                                                                                                               n
HR-PE-39002   IBRD 30690  1989  ISTRIAN hW 6 PULA NW           ISTRIA WS                   28.00       0.00           0.00         15.97     15.96      0.00      S             S       U
HR-PE-8328    IBRD 37600  1994  REPUBLIC OF CROATIA            EMERGENCY RECONSTRUC       128.00      0.00            0.00         6.54       6.56      0.00      S             S       la
HR-PE-8329   IBRD 38690  1995  REPUBLIC OF CROATIA             HIGHWAY SECTOR             80.00       0.00            0.00        21.28      -5.93      0.00      S            S
HR-PE-39450  IBRD 38430  1995  REPUBLIC OF CROATIA             HEALTH PROJECT              40.00      0.00            0.00         8.72       8.72      0.00      NS           HS       9
HR-PE-40142  IBRD 39990  1996  REPUBLIC OF CROATIA             CAPITAL MARKET DEV.          9.50      0.00            0.00          4.47      2.17      0.00      9             S    
HR-PE-40830  IBRD 39890  1996  REPUBLIC OF CROATIA             TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE         5.00       0.00           0.00          1.98      1.99      0.00      S             S       Cs
HR-PE-8335    IBRD 39880  1996  REPUB.lIC OF CROATIA            FARMER SUPPORT SERVI       17.00       0.00           0.00         15.31      3.73      0.00      S             S
HR-PE-8327    IBRD 41590  1997  REPUBLIC OF CROATIA            EFSAL                       95.00       0.00           0.00         43.92      1.51      0.00      S             S       -f a         u> .
flR-PE-8334    18RD 41190  1997  GOVT. OF CROATIA              COASTAL FOREST RECON        42.00       0.00           0.00         42.00     12.70      0.00      S             S        r           0 C
HR-PE-44457   IBRD 41040  1991  REPUBLIC OF CROATIA            EMER. TRNSP/MINE CL.       102.00       0.00           0.00         74.07     26.89      0.00      S             s           O       OL 
HR-PE-40139  IBRD 42490  1998  MINISTRY OF FINANCE              INVESTMENT RECOVERY         3.00       0.00           0.00          2.86      6.50      0.00      S             S       t      A     C
HR-PE-40139  IBRD 42480  1998  MINISTRY OF FINANCE              INVESTMENT RECOVERY        10.00       0.00           0.00          9.50      6.50      0.00      5             S          o O.    '-'
HR-PE-40139  IBRD 42470  1998  MINISTRY OF FINANCE             INVESTMENT RECOVERY          9.00      0.00            0.00         8.57       6.50      0.00      S             S          Cl
HR-PE-40139  IHRD 42460  1998  MINISTRY OF FINANCE              INVESTMENT RECOVERY         8.00       0.00           0.00          7.63      6.50      0.00      S             S       so
Total                                                                                     576.50       0.00           0.00        262.82    100.30      0.00                                to
Active Loans        Closed Loans          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              286.75               2.91             289.66                                                                                                   0
of which has been repaid:                9.79               2.91              12.70                                                                                                   0
Total now held by IBRD and IDA;              566.71               0.00             566.71                                                                                                   0
Amount sold                    :               0.00               0.00               0.00
Of which repaid             :0.00                              0.00               0.00
Total Undisbursed              :             262.82               0.00             262.82
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.                                                                                              '
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of PortfoliO performance (ARPP), a letcer based system was introduced (IIS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory,                  :
HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio PerforIlandice Rdting Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.                                         (D
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week ot the month.



Page 38
Annex 10
Reconstruction Project for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem
Country at a Glance
Europe &   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Central  middle.
Croatia     Aaba  inrome       Devlopeiunt dlismond
Population nid-1996 (nillions)                      4.8       479     479
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                         3,830     2,180    4,540               Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions USS)                            18.3     1,043    2,173                     T
Average annual growth, 199046 
Population (%)                                      0.0       0.3      1.5     GNP                            Gross
Laborforce(%)                                       0.1       0.5      1.8     per                           pnmary
Most recent estimate (atest year avaiabe since 1989)                           capita                      enmillment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban popuataon ?% of total population)              64        65      73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     74        68      69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 ive bifths)              16        26      35               Acoess to safe water
Child rnanutiion (% o0childen under 5)
Access to safe water (% of population)               96        ..       86
lliteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                   ..          ..    13
Gross pirnary enrolment (% of school-age population)  86       97     107              -Ctoatia
male                                              87         97       ..                Upper-niddlaeincome group
Female                                            86        97
KEY ECONOtMC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    19S5      1995    1996
GDP (biiions US$)                           ..       ..      18.1    19.0
Gross domestic investment/GP                 ..      ..      16.0    16.8             Openness ofeonomy
Exports of goods and servioes/GDP           ..       ..      40.3    42.0
Gross domestic savngsGOP                     ..      ..       3.4      5.3
Gross national savings/GDP                  ..       ..       6.5      9.1
Curent account balance/GP                    ..      ..      -9.5    -7.6
Interest payments/GP                         ..      ..       1.4      1.3     Savings                    Investment
Total debt/GDP                              ..       ..      20.2    25A    1                 \
Total debt service/exports                  ..       ..       9.6      8.6
Present value of debGP                       ..      ..      18.0
Preaent value of debt/exports                .        .      41.3                         Indebtedness
197646  '19S64i6    1996      1996  199745
(average annual growth)                                                      iCti
GDP                                 ..      ..      2.6       4.2      5.5
GNP per capita                      ..      ..      3.8       4.5      5.6                Upperriiddhi-no-e group
Exports of goods and service        ..      ..    4.1          ..      8.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% df GOP)                                1975    1985       1996    196       Growth    of output snd investbnt t%)
Agriculture                                                  12.4    12.2      1
Industry                                    ..       ..      25.4    24.9
Manufacturing                                               2 2 19.9    19.7                                     e
Services622                                                            26
Private consumption                                          63.7    64.3      X 
General government consumption              ..       ..      32.9    30.4                     GOI  -    GDP
Imports of goods and serVices               ..       ..      52.9    53.5
197546  198646       1995    1996
(average annual growth)                                                        Growth s of exports and impor  %)
Agriculture                                  ..      ..       0.2      2.0      oT
Industry                                    ..       ..       0.0      3.1
Manufacturing                              ..       .        0.3     3.1      3o .
Services                                    ..        .       3.9      4.3           o       . ,     
Private consumption                         ..       ..      13.4    11.3   I 30            929   93   94   96   96
General govemrnment consumption              .        ..     22.8      1.3
Gross domestic investment                   ..       ..      12.9    12.8         .
Imports of goods and services               ..       ..      32.2        .E x                               m
Gross national product                                        3.8      4.5
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estmates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. if data are missing, the diamond Will
be incomplete.



Page 39
Croatia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1Si85     1995    1996
Domec priest                                                                       Infiotion (%)
(% change)                                                                        2,000
Consumer prices                                                  3.7       3.4    .sso If
lmplicrt GDP defiator                                            7.1       5.1     1000 T{
Government finaonce                                                                 00
f% of GDP)                                                                           0o
Current revenue                                                 45.8     46.9               91   92   93   54   95   93
Current budget balance                                           2.1      4.3                  -GDP de.  O-CPI
Overall surplusddefirdt                                          -0.9     -0.5
TRADE
1975     1985      1995     1996
(mDlions USS)                                                                      Export *nd impon ees (mIll USS)
Total exports (fob)                                            4,633    4,512      800.
Capital goods                                                                                                    *
Chemicals                                    ..6.000
Manufactures                                            .                  ..i
Total imports (gif)                                            7,510    7,78F      4.000
Food                                                                   00 a2.00jI i    i i
Fuel and energy                                                                  20 0.  .  .  i
Capital goods                                                                       o
Export price index (19871000)                  ..       ..        ..                     90  91  92  93  94  9s  96
Import price index (1967=100)                  ..       ..        ..        ..                  aE            Imports
Temts of trade (1987=100)                      ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995    1996
(millions USS)                                                                     Cunent account baance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and serwvies                                  7,202    8,008       2
Imports of goods and services                                  9,467   10,194
Resource balance                                            .2,265   -2,186         o 0           s
Net income                                                       -93      -45      -2._
Net current transfers                                            646      779    |
Current account balance,                                                                                          II
before offical capital transfers                             -1,712   -1,452    |a-
Financing items (net)                                          2,202    1,871
Changes in net reserves                                         -490     .419      .o
Reserves incuding gold (mill. US$)              ..       .     1,895    2,313
Conversion rats (focaWSS)                                       5.2       5.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995    1996
(millions USS)                                                                     Cornpotttlon of totat debt, 1996 (imnt USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                           3,661    4,847
IBRD       '                                                   117      195                   G    A    C
IDA                                                              0        0                  450  19 26     D
Total debt service                                               452      566                                 270
IBRD                                                            28       26
IDA                                                              0        0                                     E
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                1217
Official grants                                                  0        ,_
Officsal creditors                                              77       84
Private creddors                                               327      433             F
Foreign direct invesbtent                                       81      349            2508
Portfolio equity                                                 0        0
World Bank program
Commitments                                                    120      134       A - IBRD                   E - Bibbr91
Disbursements                                                   50      105    I     -IDA    D - Othe riateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                                            20       16   I C-IMF                        G - Shorterm
Net flows                                                       29       89    1 _a___
Interest payments                                      ,         7       11
Net transfers                                                   22       78
Development Economics                                                                                                9/4/97



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29406
./                                                                        CROATIA
RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
FOR EASTERN SLAVONIA,
_                                                                           BARANJA AND
WESTERN SRIJEM
7 \  !   ,/  a                                   EASTERN SLAVONIA -
O                       j                        C          :          ;-sijek                                                                  WEST SRIJEM AREAS
MAIN DRAINAGE CANALS
SECONDARY DRAINAGE CANALS
Cepin  O    S  J E  C  K  O   - B  A    R  A   N  J S  K  A                       Bi jelo B,do                                  Erdut                               DRAINAGE PUMP STATIONS
CepSu         '3JgLKt,-n,'-'~    RANYVKA                                                       Bi~eIoBrdo                                                                       WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT (PROPOSED)
Tenja                                                                                                                        WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM [PROPOSED)
Dall                                                  CATCHMENT AREA TO BEL DRAINED
RIVERS
K                                                                                                                     /        ----.-.--------                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COUNTY BOUNDARIES
N                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
!                                                                                                                       /                                                 /                                  ___    __   ___|_       _,_    __    ___    __   __
'1k                                                                             r->o  -I//) z$                                                                                                                  d
N, ,                                                                 _ _._ - _                        T15     1000    I   a;4s EMS 50 ',
HUNGARY             C-      /            F r
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~- - /-,- -Yseae                                                              -~~                i-- ft LW                                               MONTENEGRO.
>     >  m
,                                               OSJEDK0                   Al 0''-
_ _r:  m np  w nS ApR AduN                                                                                                         id by    the  ~  ~  ITALY   ~   -  \ }   S62fseGro   B U L G A RIARO& 
I-,,~~~~~~~181                          is 22
Map Dcssgn Unle of [he Wor/d Bonk                                                                                                                                                        /~~~FS,ov  ~Osek            
T/]e               Morkusiculgf GEo.p.mlvle/dymelt                                                                                           / lu x                   20       k0v  5
VUKOVARSKO-                                                                                    HUNGARYnnlsttls of nns  V VSOI
'Y'=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Vinkoc,  SRJEMSK
Th" Z '-'p-d-` by'h' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SITATLYDU
r                                                                             ALOAll~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s  Al'
T6   "i 9-.k G,                                                                                      (P-P-0                                    2~~~~~~~~~~~NstrVuoar114                        0    'CZC    0PLAD'<              URAN
ralls r......rntoroc                                                                                                                                                                                                                           c       cpeon ooF X L D-METERS -) GREECE ER  
s^cll~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RA HUNGARY/rc                                                                                                                                ROMANIA
7'                                 Yy~~~~~~~~~~~~Ie      VinkovCi         SR  hEM   S KA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ L-,EER                                                                  URE
~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                        ITALY ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  BULGARIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Y19



IBRD 29407
This mop ocos prod-od by Ac
Mop Docipa IVnid Tho Warid Bank.                                                                                                                                                                               CROATIA
The ho ndarie, aolors, denamionlion,                                                                  
ondonyo-heninArmaonbohnnn --,                                                                                                                                                                RECONSTRUCTION   PROJECT
his mop do no- imply, on M. po." ol                                                        , . .eccc 
The World Bank G-p9 any judgmet 
on Ao legaloiorao pohnytudgmrontr                                                1                                                      -,__                                                   FOR  EASTERN   SLAVONIA,
-hyensorsementoroccrPasnceos ,-d-w~ X   s                                                                 >_,           jBARANJA  AND
K                       >9    <  i                                                                                       WESTERN SRIJEM
Nt\.)  E  %                                                  BARANJA AREA
s.i                                             .             \                      FEDERAL REPUBLIC                                  MAIN DRAINAGE CANALS
/ s s  .  i           OF YUGOSLAVIA                                     SECONDARY DRAINAGE CANALS
HUNGARY                                                                                                         /                    |SERBIA / MONTENEGRO)                                DRAINAGE PUMP STATIONS
/                            /          ./N                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CATCHMENT AREA TORBE DRAINED
it_i                     J                                              i :f:    NATURE RESERVE
I                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
i V                                                                                               t-\    /.                                                     --      I INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
N.                     f                             s    Beli Manostir
'-00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  /                                                    N                     /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9   ~~~~~~~1.                                      1915
B)           (                                                                        r-' <  _Vinogradi                Nsi-              7             N                             HUNGARFED REPHOP
v                                                                                                        r'Becoci  *L'                                                                                                            YUGG5IA A
}                                            MOEI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TENEGRGI
O S J E C K O -  A R A N J S K A                                -                             .          .                             -      s            < se,                  a  
's                                                                                   )  '                                        OSJECKO-BARANJSKA                    ' -        45,45
_, N_Y   ,,,  \Xa                                                           ' --1                    '         It    (_._. c                                                    '. BARAfYJSKA
4'Jagodnick                                                               K         \        '                                                                   A,
Bc4 uutnut 05                                       M)  - O~,            I      T      A      L     Y     K         Nt                       ([-  45BLGRL 0
KItOMETE2S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~% )-                                                                                                   /) '@  Kyrelo                    v koo
0 0                 > ' ~~SLVOSeo A           iGEcXAgv,
N  LIC    -            2    -  .iR         Y19
K                                                                                                   ,,,     ~~~~~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VUKOVARUKO  4 
I                 I                           I -0.-c                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SRIJEMSKCA 
-.  Yj0  ">7>                        [,,,,                            ,                                    ~~~~ ~        ~    ~~~~~      ~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8~15    (  104  PU
N,                                                                                         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LJ  10o20  5
-r                   -           1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~CZECH  S  OLAND / UKRAINE
1  (                        LI  7~~~~~~~GERMAONY ~R
nit                      ItPI>                                      AUSTRIA j-                     M 5
Nato r e                                                                     R-M A~~"I'> tioTn -'OM NIA
ITALY       '>  NIFB(>BLARA           N
KILOMETERS                                                       3il,P0'"                                                                                                                          GEC  Ppu
Sn TURKEY
MAYI 1998



