Report No. PID6683
Project Name                     Croatia -Eastern Slavonia (+)
Reconstruction Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia (ECA)
Sector                           ECSIN (Infrastructure)
Project ID                       HRPE48983
Borrower                         Ministry of Finance
Implementing Agency              Hrvatske Vode
Ulica grada Vukovara 220
10000 Zagreb, Croatia
Tel:    385-1-611-0522
Fax:    385-1-611-8570
Date PID Prepared                March 18, 1998
Date Initial PID Updated         March 18, 1998
Projected Appraisal              February 23, 1998
Projected Board Date             June 18, 1998
Background
1.      Country and Sector Background
In order to provide a stable basis for economic development and reintegration
of Eastern Slavonia, the Croatian Government has taken important measures to
ensure political stability both domestically and internationally. The Dayton
Peace Accord of December 1995 signed by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia/Montenegro) (the FRY), Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Croatia brought the
war in the former Yugoslavia to a close. As part of the Dayton Accord, a
separate peace agreement for Eastern Slavonia (Erdut Agreement) was signed by
Croatia and the FRY. Under the Erdut Agreement, a transitional administration
was established under the United Nations (UNTAES) with executive authority
over the area of East Slavonia, Baranja and Western Sirmium for a period of
two years. The UNTAES mandate ended mid-January 1998, whereby all remaining UN
troops were withdrawn from Croatia and full executive authority for the area
transferred to the Croatian Government. For another year until January 1999,
the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) will provide a
limited monitoring mission, reporting on human rights issues during the
immediate post-UNTAES period. In addition, a small UN mission consisting
primarily of 180 civilian police will remain in place for nine months until
September 1998 to monitor the activities of the Croatian police operating in
Eastern Slavonia.
Croatia has also taken important bilateral measures to formally open relations
with the FRY. In August 1996, Croatia and the FYR signed "normalization"
agreements establishing diplomatic relations between the two countries. Under
the framework of the normalization agreements, Croatia and Yugoslavia have
developed detailed cross-border agreements covering such issues as cross-
border railway traffic and issuance of visas.
Before the war, Eastern Slavonia was among the richest areas in Yugoslavia,
largely due to the highly fertile agricultural land in Baranja and East
Slavonia. Along with neighboring Vojvodina in Serbia, the area was considered



the "bread-basket" of the former Yugoslavia. Within Croatia, agriculture
production and processing represents about one-quarter of national GDP and
from this, Eastern Slavonia has traditionally been a major contributor. Before
the war, with about two percent of the country's agricultural land and under
four percent of agricultural population, Eastern Slavonia contributed eight
percent of Croatia's agricultural production. Over 50 percent of the
population was directly involved in agricultural production and most of the
balance was employed in agro-processing.
The fighting in Eastern Slavonia was among the worst in Croatia during the
Balkan War and damaged or destroyed much of the area's infrastructure, with
direct war damage at over $2 billion, according to Government estimates. The
Government has developed a comprehensive program for rebuilding damaged
infrastructure, including housing, flood control and drainage, water and
wastewater systems, power networks, health and education facilities, and
clearing of landmines. The program is coordinated by the Ministry of
Reconstruction and Development, a ministry established in 1994 to co-ordinate
and supervise reconstruction in war-damaged areas. For calendar year 1988, the
Government has budgeted over $100 million to repair and rebuild housing and
local infrastructure in the former UNTAES area.
2.      Objectives
The project's development objective is to repair and rebuild war-damaged water
sector infrastructure, critically needed to restart the local economy (and in
particular, local agriculture) while mitigating the negative environmental
impact likely to be caused to the adjacent nature reserve by the restart of
local agriculture.
3.      Project Benefits
The primary beneficiaries will be the population of Eastern Slavonia, which is
currently about 125,000. Over the medium-term, the project will benefit the
farmers and local agricultural organizations realizing increased yields and
incomes, householders receiving access to wastewater services, and
construction crews and others living and working in areas that might be
contaminated with landmines.
In the area directly benefiting from the flood control and drainage
investments, about 65 percent of the land is cultivated by agrokombinats
(state enterprises responsible for agriculture production and processing) and
the balance by private farmers (versus 20:80 in the rest of Croatia). In light
of the Government program to transfer agrokombinat lands to private hands over
the next three to five years, it is expected that -- over the medium-term --
the primary beneficiaries of the flood control and drainage investments will
be local private farmers.
Regarding the wastewater treatment facilities in Vinkovci, of the current
population of 50,000 about one-third have no access to the wastewater
collection network and they, together with industrial users, discharge
untreated wastes directly into the Bosut River. The lack of wastewater
treatment potentially threatens the quality of Vinkovci's groundwater
acquifer, which is the city's primary source of clean water. During periods of
low water, residents also suffer from bad odors emanating from the river.
Reduced bio-chemical oxygen demand (BOD) will also improve water quality to
downstream, thereby improving the quality of water feeding from the Bosut
- 2 -



River into the Danube.
Since Kopacki Rit is considered a wetlands of global importance, measures to
protect the environmental quality of the reserve will benefit not only
tourists to the area (which before the war numbered 20,000 per year) but also
members of the international community concerned with environmental protection
and natural resource preservation.
4.      Project Risks
Risk                                             Mitigation Measure
Land protected from                              The area is considered to be
flooding will be rapidly                         highly fertile and once
placed into production.                           drained of excess water
is expected to be put into
production. The Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry
Management has taken measures
to ensure that sufficient
agricultural inputs are
available.
No unexpected                                     Project implementation arrangements will
complications arise in                           allow the Water Management Enterprise to
the clearing of                                  take direct responsibility to contract for
landmines.                                       mine clearing.
5.      Description
Flood Control & Drainage
The program will repair and rebuild the primary and secondary flood control
and agricultural drainage networks in the Baranja and East Slavonia areas (of
Eastern Slavonia). This represents an area of 155,000 hectares with two-thirds
of the investments in Baranja and the remaining one-third in East Slavonia. Of
the 110,000 arable hectares, currently 9,600 hectares are flooded and another
30,000 hectares cannot be cultivated due to high groundwater levels.
The project will: (i) repair dikes to restore a safe level of protection
against major flooding in the Baranja area; (ii) repair pumping stations
needed to evacuate excess water from the catchment area of the drainage
network in Baranja and East Slavonia; and (iii) clean the primary and
secondary canals required to efficiently drain water from agricultural fields
in Baranja and East Slavonia.
Wastewater Management
The project will: (i) rebuild in Vinkovci the municipal wastewater treatment
plant, that was under construction before the war but destroyed by direct
artillery attack during the fighting; and (ii) extend the wastewater collector
system. Once the collector system is completed, it will increase service from
65 percent of the municipal population to 85 percent of the population.
Clearing of Landmines
-3-



The project will verify suspected areas, where needed clear of landmines, as
necessary to repair the flood control and drainage system, and provide related
quality assurance.
Nature Protection
The project will: (i) prepare a management plan and monitoring program for the
Kopacki Rit nature reserve; (ii) provide technical assistance to strengthen
the institutional capacity of the State Directorate for Nature and Environment
Protection as well as the Kopacki Rit Management Authority; (iii) provide
boats, all-terrain vehicles, a geographic information system (GIS), water
quality monitoring equipment and other supervisory equipment for the Kopacki
Rit Management Authority; and (iv) repair and rehabilitate the blinds
(observation areas), fishponds, park management facilities and other
infrastructure necessary to provide long-term environmental protection for the
area.
6.      Financing
$ millions
Bank                     38.4
Government               18.8
Total                    57.2
7.      Implementation
a. Executing agencies:
Flood Control & Drainage - The flood control and drainage component will be
implemented by the Croatian Water Management Enterprise (HV), which will
retain ownership of the facilities once reconstruction is completed.
Wastewater Management - The Wastewater Management component will also be
implemented by the Croatian Water Management Enterprise (HV). Once completed,
the Vinkovci Water and Wastewater (VKK) will assume ownership of the
facilities as well as responsibility for operations and maintenance. HV will
conduct a technical review of the completed designs, prepare the bidding
documents, carry the procurement and assist VKK with contract negotiations.
The contracts will be signed by the VKK, which will be responsible for
contract supervision. HV will also make periodic inspections and provide
technical assistance to VKK while the construction works are in progress. VKK
is organized as a joint stock company, owned by Vinkovci (with 73 percent of
the shares) and 11 other municipalities.
Mine Clearing - Demining will be done, where required, as part of the general
construction contracts for the flood control and drainage component.
Contractors for contracts with demining components will be prequalified with
special attention given to their qualifications to undertake the demining. It
anticipated that most demining will thus be subcontracted under the general
construction contracts. The Ministry of Interior (or other demining entity
acceptable to the Bank) will assist in the prequalification of the demining
subcontractors and will undertake supervision and quality assurance of the
demining during construction.
Nature Protection - The Government authority responsible for environmental
management has recently been reorganized as the Directorate for Nature and
Environment Protection, with a newly appointed Director. For the Kopacki Rit
reserve, the Management Authority for the reserve was initially established as
a provisional agency, with a permanent agency established in 1998. The Kopacki
Rit Management Authority is supervised by a steering committee, consisting of
- 4 -



several ministries and government agencies, including the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry, Hrvatske Vode (HV), and local municipal authorities.
Several steps have been taken to strengthen the implementation arrangements
for the nature protection component. The project itself includes funding for
consultants to provide technical assistance in the preparation of the
management and monitoring plans for the Kopacki Rit reserve. In addition, they
will provide "on the job" training for the staff of the Directorate, and
particularly for the Kopacki Rit Management Authority. While the Directorate
(with the assistance of consultants) will outline the technical requirements
for the procurement of goods and works contracts, the Project Implementation
Unit of Hrvatske Vode will conduct the procurement process. Technical
assistance, where needed, will also be provided by the international
environmental non-government organizations already active in Croatia. To date,
two major NGOs have been active in working with the Directorate, providing
analysis and advice.
Procurement & Disbursement - Tenders for all procurement will be conducted by
HV, with technical specifications developed by the direct implementing
agencies, where they are outside of HV (i.e. Directorate for Nature and
Environment Protection for nature protection, and Ministry of Interior on mine
clearing.) HV will also be responsible for the project's special account and
will submit disbursement requests to the Bank on all components. In addition
HV will be responsible for all accounting and financial reporting under the
project.
On-lending arrangements & budget transfers - Grant funds will be transferred
to HV for all components and will not require repayment to the central budget.
Investments in the Vinkovci wastewater system will be fully repaid by the
Vinkovci Water and Wastewater Enterprise (VKK) to the Water Management
Enterprise (HV).
Note also that the Bank loan will finance three parts of the nature protection
component: preparation of the management plan and monitoring program,
technical assistance to strengthen institutional capacity, and repair and
rehabilitation of park infrastructure. The boats, GIS, and monitoring
equipment are expected to be financed by the Global Environment Facility, or
from Government funds.
b. Project management: Project management will be conducted by the
implementing agencies, under the supervision of the Ministry of Finance and
with HV as the coordinating agency.
8.      Sustainability
Wastewater Management - The 1995 Law on Financing of Municipal Water
Activities requires full cost recovery for municipal water and wastewater
services, including both operating and maintenance expenses as well as capital
investments. While most communities in Croatia set tariffs to ensure full cost
recovery, those in the former war zones use a phase-in approach to increasing
tariffs. Under the project, increased tariffs will be phased in over several
years.
Flood Control & Drainage - For investments in project of regional importance
(such as flood control networks) the central budget generally funds about 30
percent of the capital investment costs, with balance paid from the revenues
of the Water Enterprise. For most areas, operating and maintenance costs are
- 5 -



covered by catchment fees paid by property owners. In the project area,
catchment fees are currently about DM 20 (or the equivalent of one kilo of
grain), which are estimated to be about half of the actual operating and
maintenance costs. Similar to the program for water and wastewater programs in
the former war zones, increased catchment fees will be phased in over a period
of several years.
Nature Protection: While initial funding for operating costs will be provided
by the central budget, the nature protection program is expected to eventually
become self-financing through collection of user fees and fees paid for
hunting licenses.
9.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Looking at other post-conflict reconstruction projects in Croatia, the key
lessons are: (i) all agreements on utilization of funds among government
organizations should be drafted and agreed before Board presentation; (ii) the
mine clearing implementation arrangements should be agreed prior to Board
presentation; (iii) any project units to be established should be fully
staffed before loan effectiveness; and (iv) the project should provide for an
interim review, allowing reallocation of uncommitted funds. The lessons have
been incorporated into the project.
10.     Poverty Category
Not applicable.
11.     Environmental Aspects
See attached annex.
12.     Program Objective Categories
Not applicable.
13.     Contact Point
Sue Rutledge, Program Team Leader
or Dick MacEwen, Principal Sanitation Specialist
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
- 6-



Annex
1.   The project consists six types of investments:
- Rehabilitation of war damaged flood control dikes
- Cleaning of drainage canals
- Repair of pumping stations
- Reconstruction of waste water collection and treatment facilities.
- Clearing of anti-personnel land mines.
- Protection of Kopacki Rit Nature Reserve.
2.   The rehabilitation of war damaged flood control dikes will have very
little environmental impact and basically be confined to sites where holes
have been dug in the dikes to provide shelter to combatants. Increasing the
height of the dike or changing its alignment is not foreseen.
3.   Cleaning of the drainage canals in the Baranja is necessary to prevent
flooding and waterlogging of the agricultural lands. Before the war, the
Baranja was a prime agricultural area and it has been destined s destination
to become this again. Cleaning will be done mechanically (without the use of
herbicides) which forms part of normal maintenance. The main environmental
impact will not be on the canals themselves, but on a stretch of low-lying
land which is largely situated along the border with a RAMSAR site,
(recognized wetland of international importance for biodiversity
conservation), Kopacki Rit Nature Reserve. This stretch of land has reverted
back to marshland and has become highly valuable as a buffer zone for wildlife
in Kopacki Rit, especially when this area is under water when the Danube river
is in flood. Cleaning of the canals will allow lowering of the water table and
drain the marshlands in the buffer zone.
Therefore, the project includes a component partly financed by the Global
Environment Facility (GEF) for the management of Kopacki Rit that includes a
plan for the creation of a buffer zone in the marshland of the Baranja
adjacent to the nature park. Improved drainage of the Baranja will result in
reoccupation of the area and increased pressure on the reserve by the
inhabitants. The management component for Kopacki Rit addresses this issue and
provides financing for awareness raising and guarding of the park.
3.   Repair of the pumping stations will result in evacuation of at least part
of the drainage water from the Baranja via Kopacki Rit into the Danube.
Agricultural drainage water can be expected to be eutrophic from the use of
natural and artificial fertilizer and be contaminated with pesticides and
herbicides. The quality of the drainage water will therefore be dependent upon
the agricultural system in the Baranja. Integrated pest management, a prudent
fertilization scheme and the use of biodegradable pesticides and herbicides
will be deciding factors for the drainage water quality. The quality of the
drainage water at the pumping stations will be carefully monitored under a
monitoring programme that will form part of the environmental protection
component of the project. Agricultural extension services will be involved in
the management plan for Kopacki Rit and be targeted as intermediaries between
the park management and the farmers to ensure environmentally benign
agricultural practices. They will be alerted when the water quality appears to
be sub-standard.
4.   The reconstruction of sewage treatment and collection facilities in
- 7 -



Vinkovci will greatly improve the quality of the water in the Bosut River, a
tributary of the Danube. The Bosut is now anaerobic in summer over a
considerable distance because of the dumping of raw sewage into it and because
flow velocity is almost negligible in summer. The plant has been designed to
reduce BOD (Bio-chemical Oxygen Demand) to such an extent that no anaerobic
conditions will occur any more. The plant which was under construction when
the war started has been badly damaged, but the basic structure is still in
place. The plant lies outside of the urban area and reconstruction itself is
not expected to have any adverse environmental impact. Because of the plant's
design and location, possible odors will be much less of a nuisance than at
present where raw sewage is conveyed by the river through a residential area.
5.   Mine clearing will be done by hand with minimal disturbance to the
surroundings and the vegetation. Mine clearing will be environmentally
beneficial because mines kill wildlife as well as people. At present, the
threat of mines keeps people out of some areas that are valuable for wildlife.
Increased surveillance and awareness raising for conservation as financed
under the conservation component of the project are expected to compensate for
the lack of deterrent once the mines have been cleared.
6. To not only mitigate the possible adverse environmental effects of the
project but to make use of opportunities provided by the project, a separate
nature protection component has been designed that will result in
improved environmental conditions compared with the expected situation without
the project. The component envisages the management and sustainable use of the
Kopacki Rit Nature Reserve.
Contact Point: The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 7, 1998.
- 8 -



