Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4351 HR
Project Agreement
(Reconstruction Project for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
HRVATSKE VODE
Dated September 8, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4351 HR 
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 8, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and HRVATSKE VODE (HV).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Republic of 
Croatia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower an 
amount of seventy-four million Deutsche Marks (DEM 74,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that HV agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; 
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and HV the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made 
available to HV on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
and
WHEREAS HV in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with 
the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth, and the term “Project Implementation Unit” 
means the unit referred to in paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement which 
has been established within HV.
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) HV declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, safety and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and HV shall otherwise agree, HV shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this  Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) HV shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, HV shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Bank and HV, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; 
and 
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Bank on 
said plan.
Section 2.04. HV shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, HV shall not take or concur 
in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) HV shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
HV shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by HV of its obligations under this Agreement 
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of HV 
Section 3.01. HV shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and environmental practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
Page  3
Section 3.02. HV shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and environmental practices. 
Section 3.03. HV shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision for insurance satisfactory to the Bank for insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) HV shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition and 
to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
HV shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of HV 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
Page  4
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For HRVATSKE VODE:
Hrvatske Vode
220 Ulisa Grada Vukovara
10000 Zagreb
Republic of Croatia
Telex:
385-1-611-570
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of HV or by HV on 
behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by its 
General Manager, or by such other person or persons as HV shall designate in writing, 
and HV shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Arntraud Hartmann
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
HRVATSKE VODE
By /s/ Stjepan Šturlan
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
Page  5
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Prequalification 
Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for works under Part A of the Project shall 
be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $4,000,000 equivalent or more each. 
(c)
Two-stage bidding procedure 
The bidding procedure for a supply and installation contract for works under 
Part B.1 of the Project shall be carried out in two stages in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the Guidelines. 
(d)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
(e)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $15,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
Page  6
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contracts who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B of this Section; and (ii) each contract for 
works exceeding $1,000,000 equivalent and the first contract for works awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to the first contract for goods awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of Part C.2 of this Section, prior to the execution of any such 
contract, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the 
draft contract.  In addition, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) and 2 (g) 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection.
Services for carrying out the activities under Part A of the Project estimated 
to cost more than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Page  7
Services for carrying out the activities under Part A of the Project and 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for carrying out the activities under Part C of the Project and 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program
1.
HV shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators agreed upon between the 
Borrower and the Bank the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about February 28, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by March 31, 2000, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter. 
Page  8
2.
(a)
HV shall maintain during the execution of the Project the Project 
Implementation Unit which shall be responsible for the overall implementation of the 
Project and which shall be staffed and shall operate in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank.
(b)
HV shall cooperate with the Croatian Agency for Demining and the Quality 
Assurance Unit for the purposes of carrying out Part C of the Project, and with the 
Kopacki Rit Nature Park for the purposes of carrying out Part D of the Project. 
3.
(a)
Upon completion of Part B.1 of the Project, HV shall transfer the 
Vinkovci municipal wastewater treatment plant to the Vinkovci Water and Wastewater 
Enterprise (VVK) under a contract to be entered into between HV and VVK under terms 
and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
(b)
Not later than June 30, 1999, HV shall submit for the Bank’s review a 
draft contract referred to in paragraphs (a) hereinabove.
