                                       Documentof
                                     The WorldBank

                                FOROFFICIALUSEONLY



                                                                ReportNo. 36655-KE




                                     PROJECTPAPER

                                           ONA

                    PROPOSEDADDITIONALFINANCINGCREDIT

                        INTHEAMOUNTOFSDR40.35 MILLION
                             (US$60 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                                GOVERNMENTOF KENYA

                                        FORAN

        ARID LANDSRESOURCEMANAGEMENTPROJECTPHASETWO -
           ADDITIONAL FINANCINGFORTHEDROUGHTEMERGENCY


                                      JULY 10,2006



ESSDOperationsfor EasternAfrica
CountryDepartment2
Africa Region



This documenthas a restricteddistributionandmaybeusedbyrecipientsonly inthe performanceof
their official duties. Its contents maynot otherwisebedisclosedwithout WorldBankauthorization.

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                   (Exchange Rate EffectiveJune 30,2006)

                    Currency Unit =         Kenya Shillings
                      US$l          -       Kshs.71
                      Kshs.1        --      US$0.014


                                FISCAL YEAR
                                July 1 June 30
                                      -

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAP        Africa Action Plan
ASAL       Arid and Semi-arid Lands
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CDC(s)     Community Development Committees
CDD        Community Driven Development
CDF        Constituency Development Fund
CPIA       Country Policy and InstitutionalAssessment
DCF        Drought Contingency Fund
DCO        District Coordination Unit
DFID       Department for International Development (UK)
DIR        Detailed ImplementationReview
D M O      Drought Management Officer
DPP        Director o f Public Prosecution
DSG(s)     District Steering Groups
ECA        Economic Crimes Act
EMF        EnvironmentalManagement Framework
EU         EuropeanUnion
FMR(s)     Financial Monitoring Reports
GOVERNMENT Government o f Kenya
HIV/AIDS   Human Immunodeficiency Syndrome/Acquired Immunodeficiency
           Syndrome
IDA        International Development Association
IEG        Independent EvaluationGroup
JNT        Department o f InstitutionalIntegrity
IP-ERS     Investment Program-Economic Recovery Strategy
IRCBP      Institutional Reform and Capacity BuildingProject
K A C C    Kenya Anti-Corruption Commission
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MPs        Members o f Parliament
NEPAD      New Partnership for Africa's Development
NGO        Non-governmental Organization
OP         Office of the President
P A D      Project Appraisal Document
PCU        Project CoordinationUnit
PEFA       Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
RBM        Results-Based Management
SLO        State Law Office

SWAP       Sector-wideApproach
UNICEF     UnitedNationsChildren'sFund
USAID      UnitedStatesAgency for InternationalDevelopment
WFP        WorldFoodProgramme




        Vice President:               Gobind T. Nankani
        Counry Director:              Colin Bruce
        Sector Director:              Karen Brooks
        Task Team Leader:             Christine Cornelius

                                      REPUBLIC OFKENYA

      ARID LANDSRESOURCEMANAGEMENT PROJECTPHASETWO

       ADDITIONAL FINANCINGFORTHE DROUGHTEMERGENCY

                                                  CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                        PAGE



A INTRODUCTION                                                                                                                                                  2
B SPECIFICRATIONALEFORAND ELEMENTS OFADDITIONAL FINANCING                                                                              ....................     2
C PROPOSEDCHANGES                                                                                                                                               9
D CONSISTENCYWITH CAS
 ....           ...................................................................................................................................

                         .........................................................................................................................
                                 ...............................................................................................................               16
E APPRAISAL OF RESTRUCTUREDOR SCALED-UPPROJECTACTIVITIES                                                                                                       16
F EXPECTEDOUTCOMES                                                                                                                                             17
G BENEFITS AND RISKS
H FINANCIALTERMSAND CONDITIONSFORTHE ADDITIONALFINANCING
....                                                                                                                             .......................
                             ...................................................................................................................
                          ......................................................................................................................               17
                                                                                                                                         .................19
ANNEX A: KENYA'S FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION                                      ...................................................................             20
ANNEX B: ESTIMATEDPROJECT COSTS                         .........................................................................................              31
ANNEX C: TIMETABLE OF KEYPROJECTPROCESSINGEVENTS                                                          ...........................................          34
ANNEX D: REVISED KEY INDICATORS                     .............................................................................................
ANNEX E: DEVELOPMENT PARTNERACTIVITIES RELEVANTTO THIS OPERATION                                                                                          ......35
                                                                                                                                                               37

ANNEX F: STATEMENT OF LOANSAND CREDITS                                    ........................................................................             39
ANNEX G: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE                   ..................................................................................................              41

ARID LANDSRESOURCEMANAGEMENTPROJECTPHASETWO-ADDITIONAL FINANCING
                             FORTHE DROUGHTEMERGENCY

                             PROJECTPAPERDATASHEET


Country: Kenya                                Sector Manager: KarenBrooks
Project Name: Arid LandsResource              Country Director: ColinBruce
                                              Environmental Category: B

Borrower: Government of Kenya
Responsible agency: Office o f the President, Special Programs




Current closing date: 06/30/09


                                                                         oYes XNo


Revisedproject development objectives/outcomes

Reducedlivelihood vulnerability, enhanced food security, and improved accessto basic
services in28 drought prone arid and semi-arid districts inKenya.

Does the scaled-up or restructuredproject trigger any new safeguard policies? N o
                                For Additional Financing
[ ] Loan   [XI Credit    [ ] Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
       Total Bank financing: US$ 60 million equivalent
       Proposed terms: Standard Credit

                  Source                         Local        Foreign          Total
Borrower                                       6.25         0.00            6.25
IDA                                           55.00         5.00           60.00
Communities                                    0.75         0.00            0.75

A. Introduction

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the ExecutiveDirectors to provide
additional financing inthe amount o f SDR 40.35 million(US$ 60 million equivalent) to
the Kenya Arid LandsResource Management Project PhaseTwo (Cr. 3795-KE).

2.      Purpose. The proposedadditional credit would help finance the costs associated
with: (a) scalingupboth geographically and substantively the successful drought
management and long term livelihood activities o f the Arid Lands project in28 districts;
(b) reimbursingeligible and audited non-food expendituresassociatedwith the severe
drought which has affected the arid and semi-arid districts o fKenya over the last year;
and (c) scaling up the drought contingency fund which i s operating under the current
credit and has beendepleteddue to the extended nature o fthe drought.

B. SpecificRationalefor andElementsof AdditionalFinancinginthe amountof
US$ 60 million.

3.      2005 ShortRainsFailure. The short rains o f 2005 (October-December) were a
complete failure. This followed five consecutive seasons (2.5 years) o fpoor rains in
manyparts ofKenya. Nearly 3.5 million ruralpastoral and farmingpeople, including
half a million school children in25 districts, were affected andhave received assistance
to sustain their lives and their livelihoods. The Government o f Kenya's ongoing drought
emergency program, which the IDA credit complements, was extended and expanded in
February2006 to address this urgent need.

4.      DroughtResponse. The Government and the donor community have responded
to the drought inan effective way. Onbalance, usingthe effective early warning and
contingencyplanning system developed under the ongoing credit, which operates in22
drought prone districts, the overall response to the emergency was speedy andwell
targeted compared to previous years. Districts could access the funds available from the
credit through the Drought Contingency Fund(DCF) to address their most urgent needs.
These includeresponse to disease outbreak inhuman and animal populations, ensuring
consistent water supply, supporting animal offtake, and taking care o fthe needs o f
schoolchildren. Dueto the intense and prolongednature o fthe drought, the credit's
drought contingencyfunds have been exhausted.

5.      GovernmentFunding. The Governmenthas substantially fundedfrom
budgetary resources the drought response. Over half o f the food aid requirements
provided between March and June 2006 has been provided bythe Government, as well as
major expenditures for water supply, purchase o f seed for the current season, funding for
schools indroughtaffected areas, and for emergency offtake and feeding o f livestock. In
addition, buildingon experiences gained from World Bank (Bank) assistance for a
drought-induced power crisis in 1999/2000,the Government financed and effectively
managedwater reservoirs usedfor power generation and procured emergency generators
in2006. This ensuredadequatepower supplies despitethe drought and a growing market
demandfor power, and incontrast to the neighboring countries which are currently



                                                                                          2

experiencing power supply shortages. For the entire financial year that just ended
(2005/2006), the Government budgetedUS$194million, through reallocation and
additional allocation, to cover the anticipated fiscal requirements o f the drought. By
February2006, the Government had already spent US$124million o fthis allocation.

6.       Focus on Prevention and Livelihood Restoration. The Government's National
Policy for the Sustainable Development o fthe Arid and Semi-arid Lands (ASAL),which
includes a fully costed ten-year development plan, focuses on community involvement,
and emphasizes prevention and increased livelihood opportunities. Inthe short term (5
years), it envisages that, through interventions proposed, the vulnerability o fpoor people
to climatic shocks, particularly droughts and floods, would be reduced and capacities
strengthenedto respond to climate change. It also envisages that ASAL inhabitants
would benefit from systems o f good local governance that are already inplace. Inthe
mediumterm (10-15 years), it envisages attracting sustained investments by Government,
the private sector and development partners invarious priority areas such as physical
infrastructure, livestock production and marketing, water resources development,
education and human capital development, health, tourism, trade and industry. Inthe
long-term (25-30 years), the Government envisions a vibrant ASAL economy that has
strong linkages with non-ASAL economic systems and contributes significantly to
national economic development.

7.       Multiple Challenges. Inorder for this vision to be realized, there i s need to: (a)
restructure the ASAL economy over time to conform with commercial realities so that
key inputsare accessedthrough the market as opposed to kinship and social networks as
i s the case today; (b) reduce reliance on livestock through humancapital development
and diversification o f sources o f income; (c) upgrade natural resource management and
utilizationbyreviewing existing landuse policies and landtenure systems; (d) improve
pastoral productivity by conservation o fthe environment, domestic animal genetic
resources and other biodiversity; (e) widen markets and provide social services to mobile
pastoralists; (0provide financial services to nomadic pastoralists; and (g) reduce and
manage risks such as droughts and floods that often reduce assets and increase food
insecurity.

8.       Several Interventions. Inorder to address these issues, investment would be
made under the medium term strategy to improve the roadinfrastructure and
communication network to minimize transaction costs inproduction, trade andbusiness.
Efforts will be made to add value to ASAL products at source. This will be done through
the establishment o fprivate sector abattoirs, rural dairies and small leather processing
factories. Crop farming and livestock productionwill be strengthened through
dissemination o f improved technologies inwater harvesting, irrigation, range
management, livestock disease control, livestock and crop-based marketing as well as
through the revitalization o f extension services. Provision o f social services such as
education and healthwill be improved. Development o f skills through vocational
training, gender equity and the fight against HIV/AIDSwill be given priority. Conflicts
will be minimized through support andpromotion o fpeace initiatives. At present,the
Arid Lands project is supporting implementation o fthe more immediate, short term
objectives o fthe Government's ASAL strategy.


                                                                                            3

9.      GovernmentLeadershipand Stakeholder Collaboration. The framework for
A S A L development i s characterizedby solid Government leadership and good
collaboration among other stakeholders, including civil society and development
partners. For example, the drought management structure which the Government has put
inplacewithproject assistanceprovidesaframework at national anddistrict level for
early warning and relatively quick responseto drought stress. All key donor partners
involved indrought management (WFP, USAID, DFID, and the EU) as well as important
NGO partners (OXFAM, Action Aid, RedCross) plan and commit their drought response
through the Kenya Food Security Meeting structures and the district steering groups. In
addition, DFIDi s providing support to the Government to design a Hunger Safety Net
Program which, through coordinationwith the Office o f the President (OP), will assist
the ASAL regions to move away from famine relief to a more predictable and reliable
safety nets program. The EUi s also preparing a Drought Management Initiative Program
to support drought management ingeneral and the DCF (see Annex E-Development
Partner Activities). These activities are beingpreparedina collaborative manner, which
will support and strengthenthe existing Government institutionalmechanisms under
which the Arid Lands program operates. Inkeeping with this approach, all o f these key
stakeholders were consulted during the preparation o f this additional financing and their
inputswere incorporated.

10.     Relevantand Timely AdditionalSupport. The proposed additional support is
consistent with the overall development strategy for ASAL. Bank support at thisjuncture
would be especially timely. The long rains o f April and May 2006 were generally good,
with some mixedperformance inthe northeastern pastoral areas and the southeastern
lowlands. The additional fundingprovided through this project would have a positive
impact on the recovery o f areas which have received good rains, and will contribute to
activities designedto mitigate the effects o fthe drought ineight districts still under
emergency conditions. Scaling up the work o fthe program to mitigate future droughts
and invest inthe long term livelihoods o fthese vulnerable communities will also increase
the likelihood o f achievingthe objectives o fthe overall ASAL program.

11.     Governanceand CorruptionConcerns in the Bank's Portfolioin Kenya.
Forensic work commissioned by the Government was undertaken and completed in2005
by an international consulting firm on three Bank-financed projects. The exercise found
direct evidence o f fraud inthe Kenya HIV/AIDSProject, and shortcomings inrisk
management and control (though little direct evidence o f fraud) inthe Kenya
DecentralizedHIVIAIDSand ReproductiveHealthProject and inthe Public Sector
Management Technical Assistance Project. The report also notes poor Government
management against fraud risk, weak oversight, and insufficient capacity (particularly in
accounting staff). Project supervision focused on documentation rather than physical
evidence o f implementation, and confusion over World Bank and Government
requirements, all allowed for opportunities for corruption. There was also insufficient
managerial accountability. Meanwhile, the Integrity Department o f the World Bank i s at
an advanced stage o f work on Detailed ImplementationReviewso f four Bank-financed
projects, including additional work on the HIVIAIDS andReproductiveHealthprojects




                                                                                          4

that were coveredbythe international consulting firm, Free Primary Education and the
Northern Corridor Transport Improvement Projects.

12.     Governanceand Results in Bank-financedASAL Activities So Far. Previous
and ongoing Bank-supported ASAL activities have not beenincluded inany o f these
forensic reviews partly because o f their good track record o f governance andmeasurable
results (see also para. 16), and existing arrangements for community monitoring. The
IndependentEvaluationGroup (IEG) inits project performance assessmentreport
(Report Number 34052, October 2005) rated the overall outcome o f the first phase o f the
project as satisfactory "as the project has established a drought early warning and
response system recognized by all stakeholders as successful inthe eleven districts most
adversely affected by drought; helpedorganize responseprograms to the 1999-2001
drought through aid agencies and NGOs that saved livestock to the value o f at least
US$lO millionper annum; introduced a range o f measures that assistedpastoralists to
better manage their livestock and range and water resources, and to increase herdofftake
to the value o f about $20 millionper year; and supported community based interventions
that improved infrastructure (improving access to health and education services), helped
the poorest to recover from the effects o f drought and generated incomes o f about $2
million per year. The institutional development impact was ratedas highbecause,
beyond developing the District Steering Groups (DSGs) as focal points inorganizing the
response to drought, the project empowered both Government staff at the district level
and the local communities, and increased their capacity to tackle emergencies and
development problems." The drought management systeminKenya has beencited as
best practice and is beingemulated inother countries, including Ethiopia.

13.     Raisingthe Bar on Anti-Corruption. Still, this additional financingpackage
takes on board relevant key recommendations, including explicitly reflecting inproject
design, implementation and supervision, sensitivity to fraud and fraud risks. Agreement
has beenreached with Government for the establishment o f an institutional risk
management function comprising the following institutions: (i) independent audit
                                                                   an
committee at the project steering committee level. The mandate o fthis committee will
include the development and maintenance o f an institutional risk management policy
framework, oversight o f internal and external audit functions and monitoring
implementation o f internal control recommendations; (ii)    a finance committee
responsible for overseeing the effective use and safe custody o fproject resources; (iii)  an
internal audit function responsible for oversight o f the activities o fthe project's
accounting and internal control b c t i o n s at bothnational and district levels. There are
explicit arrangements for public disclosure and access to informationthat facilitates
managerial accountability. Monitoring at the community, district and national levels will
be scaled up. Proposed procedures for reimbursement o fincrementaldrought related
expenditures will includepre-screening the list o f expenditures considered for
reimbursementandphysicalverification by internal auditors to confirm their eligibility;
reinforcing community monitoring, with possible beneficial spillover effects for devolved
funds such as the Government's ConstituencyDevelopment Fund(CDF); and
strengtheningdisclosure and complaint mechanisms. A side letter from the Government
dated June 26,2006, agreeing to transparency/disclosure arrangements andtheir
monitoring, was provided to the Bank. Annex A discusses country wide anti-corruption


                                                                                            5

actions being takingby the Government, and the Bank's contributionto the fight against
corruption.

14.     The OriginalCredit.The secondphaseofthe Arid Lands Project (SDR43.6
million, $60 millionequivalent) was approved on June 19,2003 and became effective on
September 8 of the same year. To date, 44 percent o fthe second phase credit has been
disbursed, including 100percent o fthe Drought Contingency Fund,dueto the extended
dry period. The original objective ofthe project will be slightlymodified as described in
para. 20.

15.     OriginalProjectDesign. Theproject's current designis as follows (figures
include total IDA, Governmentand community contribution):

        Natural Resource and Drought Management (US$38.9 million, including
        US$ 4.4 million for the Drought Contingency Fund). The activities o f this
        component mitigate the riskposedby drought and other factors by strengthening
        and institutionalizing naturalresources and drought management systems.
        Activities includedistrict and community basednatural resource management,
        conflict management, drought early warning systemdrought preparedness and
        contingency planning, and the Drought Contingency Fund.

        Community Driven Development (CDD)(US$24.2 million). This component
        finances the implementation o f community-prioritized investmentprojects,
        communitycapacity building, and capacity buildingfor backstoppingservices in
        arid districts.

        Support to Local Development (US$ 14.8 million). This component aims to
        improve the delivery of essential services inarid districts andpromotes the
        interests o f the arid lands at the national level.

16.     Statusof ProjectImplementation. Boththe development objective and
implementationprogress have been rated satisfactory since the credit became effective on
September 8,2003. The Arid Lands programcontinues to be a successful instrument
both to support the drought management structures o f Government and to invest inthe
long term development of the project area. The project i s delivering its intendedbenefits
to support communities and i s leveragingsubstantial additional funding from other
sources. Response to drought, interms o f speed (three months sooner than the 2000
drought) and targeting (unified community based food aid targeting i s able to reach
women, therefore the family directly) has improved. The vulnerability of arid lands
populations has reduced due to an effectively functioning drought management system,
and due to improved access to social services such as water, education andhealth care,
To date, the project has built or repairedover 600 water supplies, constructed and assisted
400 schools, 60 health facilities and 55 small irrigation schemes, assisted 18,000
beneficiaries to restock, purchased 37,000 animals through emergency livestock offtake,
and supported livestock marketing and livestock healthinvestments, income generating
activities and social safety nets. On average the distance between communities and
water, schools and health facilities has beenhalved. Despite these gains, the populations
o f these districts remain vulnerable to weather shocks, and require additional investments


                                                                                          6

as indicated inthe ASAL strategy, to strengthentheir livelihoods and ensure that the loss
of assets i s minimized duringthe drought cycle.

17.     Compliancewith Covenants. The project is substantially incompliance with its
covenants, with changes which will institutionalizethe drought management structures
having reached Cabinet approval stage. The IDA task team i s encouraging the
Government to accelerate the institutionalization o f drought management structures, the
Kenya Food Security structure at national level and the District SteeringGroup at district
level. It i s also encouraging the formal establishment o f a structure for the Drought
Contingency Fundwhich would allow for multi-donor participation. It i s proposed to
require these actions to be completed by the end of calendar year 2006.

18.     Rationalefor the Additional Financing. The Government has requested
additional financing o fUS$60 millionto address the needs o f the recent drought
emergency, by scaling up both geographically and substantively the successful drought
management and long term livelihood activities o f the Arid Lands project. Duringthe
last ten years, the programhas gained extensive experience and built solid capacity in
deliveringdistrict and community basedinterventions. With the resources available, the
project has been able to reach over halfthe population o fthe arid districts. The basis for
the additional financing presentedby the Government and supported by the IDAtask
team i s as follows:

           0    Thefirst rationale i s scaling up. Scaling up support to these marginalized
                communities through this additional credit will allow for the majority o f the
                communities inthe arid districts to benefit, and about 25 percent o fthe
                communities inthe semi-arid districts to be reached. Within the
                communities already benefiting from the project, the credit will respond to
                the increasing demands and needs o fthese communities, as the programhas
                increased their capacity to absorb development funds. This will increase the
                probability o f achieving the project objectives o freducing food insecurity
                and livelihood vulnerability.

           0    The secondrationale is to give greater attention to prevention, by focusing
                on factors which would positively mitigate the adverse impact o f drought.
                The recent IEGreport on World Bank assistanceto naturaldisaster globally
                indicates that the Bank i s not doing enough to support prevention. This
                findingis also consistent with the National Policy for the Sustainable
                Development o f the Arid and Semi-Arid Lands o f Kenya. Accordingly, the
                approach involves scaling up investments that address the root causes o fthe
                emergency such as improvedrange andwater resource management andthe
                needfor livelihood diversification. The structure proposed- support to long
                term livelihoods interventions, mitigation and contingency planning, and
                emergency response i s defensible as a 'hew kind" o f emergency reaction.

           0    The thirdrationale i s supporting the Government's ongoing efforts to shift
                budgetary resources toward pro-poor development spending. The
                Government i s making a genuine effort to re-orient expenditures along the



                                                                                              7

              priorities identifiedintheir Economic Recovery Strategy. For example, in
              the budgetproposals presentedto Parliament on June 15,2006, theMinister
              o f Finance continued to emphasize pro-poor expenditures, with special
              emphasis on women, children and youth. Overall, the Government i s
              succeeding inincreasing the share o f spendingallocated to education, health
              and physical infrastructure, and has taken tough steps to introduce relative
              reductions inallocations to wages and salaries (particularly outside o fhealth
              and education). However, inthe absence o f substantial donor support, it has
              not beenable to makeradical shifts, since about 70 percent o f the budgeti s
              accounted for by wages and salaries, pensions, and interest rate payments'.
              Against this dynamic backdrop, the additional financing would help to
              reduce the fiscal impact o f the drought and ina modest way complements
              the sincere efforts o findividual ministriesto shift expenditures toward high
              impact, pro-poor items. To do so, it i s recommended that the Bank
              reimburse the Government for eligible drought related expenditures,
              incurred by the water, health, education, agriculture and livestock ministries
              who reallocatedbudgetsto support affected communities. This would
              alleviate the pressure to cut back expenditures for non-wage operations and
              maintenance this year, and for the Treasury to compensate for this
              incremental spending, by further increasing domestic borrowing
              requirements.


         0    Thefourth rationale is reinforcing community oversight andthe
              strengtheningo f local decisionmakingstructures, which are providing best
              practice models as the country-wide dialogue on decentralization progresses.
              One especially topical aspect o f this process i s a debate over increasingthe
              amount and improving decisionmaking and monitoring o fthe CDF. In
              2005/06, the CDF was equivalent to 2.5 percent o f ordinary revenue, which
              are indirectly controlled by MPs. The CDF i s seen by many as an
              innovative instrument for overcoming bureaucracy to ensure resources reach
              the grassroots level, buthas also raised concerns that it could create new
              opportunities for patronage and wasteful spending. As a result, the CDFs
              are coming under more intense scrutiny, particularly inlight o f MPs
              demands to increase the size o f these funds inthe budget for FY06/07. In
              the budget speech o fJune 15,2006 the Minister o fFinance recommended
              an increase to just around three percent o f ordinary revenue. Inpractice,
              there are successful CDF cases where MPs havepromoted transparent
              decision making and helpedcommunities finance projects which respond to
              community priorities, and others where decision making i s opaque or where

' This limited flexibility calls for an austere approachto budgeting, andledto substantial public
  criticism o f Members o f Parliament (MPs), who were able to evade Treasury oversight and award
  themselves a substantial increase inallowances earlier this year. Although the fiscal implications o f
  this incident are minor, they have created a healthy pressure for abetter systemto determine the
  compensation o f parliamentarians and other senior public officials. Indeed, inhis recent budget, the
  Minister introduced several austerity measures including a new transportation policy to significantly
  reduce Government vehicles and proposed that MPs pay taxes on their house and entertainment
  allowances. This proposed taxation has to be approved by Parliament.


                                                                                                        8

              funds were not used. InArid Landsproject districts, there are good
              examples where decisions on the use o f CDF have beenbrought under the
              DSGumbrellafor partnership with Arid Lands (para. 24). These have been
              identifiedfor scaling up underthe additional financing.

19.     ImplementationCapacity. The proposed scale up should not strain
implementation capacity at national and district levels. The Arid Lands project has been
able to handle increasing disbursement levels over the past two years without negative
quality or fiduciary implications. Measures to further improve program capacity have
been incorporatedunder this additional financing proposal, especially since the project i s
beingextended to 28 districts. Detailed institutional, financial andprocurement
implementation mechanisms are defined inthe project implementation plan, which will
berevisedto include this additional financing. This is also parto fthe overall effort to
further strengthenoversight, manage fiduciary and development risks, and facilitate an
increased focus on results (see paras 27-28).


C. ProposedChanges

20.     The original objective o fthe project was "to enhance food security and reduce
livelihood vulnerability indrought prone and marginalized communities in22 arid and
semiarid districts". A minor modification to the objectives i s proposed, to take into
account actual activities, especially the increasedprovision o fbasic services, and the
positive impact of the program thus far, as well as the geographical scale up proposed and
increased focus on livelihood opportunities underthis additional financing. The newly
worded objective would be "to reduce livelihood vulnerability, enhance food security,
and improve access to basic services in28 drought prone arid and semi-arid districts in
Kenya". The closing date o fthe project will be extended by one year from June 30,2009
to June 30,2010. There have beenno amendments to the legal agreement to date. The
proposed scale up does not involve any exceptions to Bankpolicies. Incremental
drought-related Government expenditures which will be considered for reimbursement
fall within the project description.

21.     Components.The originalproject components would be unchanged. The total
additional project cost i s estimated at US$67 million equivalent, o fwhich US$60 million
would be financed by IDA. The breakdown o f estimated costs, financing plan,
disbursement schedule andprocurement arrangements for the additional financing are
shown inAnnex B. Annex C indicates the timetable o fkeyproject processing events.
Incrementalactivities to be financed through additional hnds are as follows:

            Long Term LivelihoodInterventions (US$25 million). There is a needto
            scale up activities aimed at improving livelihoods inthe drought prone
            districts. These would include additional funding for: (a) drought
            preparedness and natural resource management activities inall 28 districts,
            including new and improvedwater supplies, natural resource management
            activities (range and fodder improvement, ecotourism, honey, aloe, gum and
            resin collection, hay production, livestock product value addition), other



                                                                                           9

livelihood related infrastructure investments at district level such as irrigation,
and other income diversification strategies such as investinginwomen groups
(US$ 10.0million), (b) expansion o f drought management and the early
warning system to additional drought prone districts inCoast Province (Taita
Taveta, Lamu,Kilifi,Malindi and Kwale) which were excluded from phase
two due to resource constraints, and to another drought-prone district in
Central Province, MeruNorth(US$ 7 million); (c) scaling up investments
made through the community driven development and support to local
development components inthe eleven arid districts where demand and
capacity to implement exceed existing credit availability (US$ 5.2 million);
and (d) the cost o f extending the project by one year, to allow time for
incrementalinvestmentsto take place has also been factored into the three
project components (US$2.8 million).

Replenishing the Drought Contingency Fund (US$ 15 million). This
component also supports riskprevention and livelihood improvement, but i s
released on a contingent basis at critical points inthe drought cycle. It
finances drought mitigation, response and recovery activities based on district
drought contingency plans developed and endorsed by all stakeholders at the
district level, and triggered by the early warning system. This category has
been exhausted due to the persistent drought situation inmany districts since
2003 whenthe Arid Lands I1project started. In2005 the Bank andMinistry
o fFinance allowed the project to reallocate Kshs. 89 million from other
activities for the current drought. As a result, emergency funding for drought
expenditures continued. This funding has allowed the project to fill gaps in
the nutrition-relatedresponse to the highlevels o f child malnutrition inmany
districts (whereNGO/UNICEF support i s lacking), livestock interventions (to
keep remaining animals alive and beginrestocking), maintain emergency
water supply, and fill other immediate and urgent needs and'gapsinthe
current levels o f emergency support, which are continuously identified and
metbythe district-based multi-sectoral teams. Duringthe budgetspeechof
June 15,2006, the Minister o f Finance further reinforced support for the
drought contingency fundingmechanismby announcing an additional
Government contribution o fKshs.500 million for next fiscal year. The
intention i s to institutionalize a mechanismto which other donors and
Government can contribute, which will fund district drought contingency
plans, triggeredby a clear signals given by the existing and quite robust
drought early warning system functioning indistricts most prone to drought.
The additional financing will fimd expenditures such as purchase o f livestock
duringearly stages o fthe drought, investments instrategic drought
preparedness water supplies for humans and animals, repair o f critical access
roads, and strategic human and animal healthinterventions.

Reimbursement of Incremental (pro-poor) Drought-Related Expenditures
incurred by Government (US$20 million) This financing is necessary to
ameliorate the negative impact o f an additional US$ 85 million the
Government must borrow from the domestic market to cover its drought-



                                                                                  10

             related expenditures. The additional financingwould cover reimbursement
             for up to US$ 20 million o f drought-related non-food expenditures incurred
             after January 1,2006. The Treasury has carried out a preliminary assessment,
             through their internal auditors, o fthese expenditures made bythe ministries o f
            Water, Livestock, Agriculture, Health, and Education. The non-food activities
            proposed to be financed under this additional financing proposal fall squarely
             within the existingproject objectives and description. Activities identifiedto
             date include water tankering, support to rapidresponseteams to respond to
            water supplybreakdowns, emergency livestock offtake, animal disease
             control, purchase and distribution o f seed for food crops, incrementalcosts
             due to waiver o f school fees for secondary schools indrought affected areas,
            humandiseasemanagement, andtherapeutic and supplemental feedingfor the
             sick and malnourished. The team has pre-screened the list o f expenditures,
             andthe internal auditors have carried out aphysical verification to confirm
            their eligibility.

Project Implementation, Financia1Management and Procurement Arrangements

22.     The institutional and implementation arrangements would be largely the same
underthe additional financing as for the ongoing project, as they are working effectively.
Overall project coordinationwill remain with Special Programs inOP, reportingto the
PermanentSecretary. At the district level, the project will continue to be coordinated
through the District Coordination Unit (DCU), headedby a Drought Management Officer
(DMO), who also acts as the district project coordinator and secretary o fthe DSG. The
DSG i s a sub-committee o fthe District Development Committee, which i s composed o f
local leaders, district technical staff and partner agencies. Dueto: (a) the multi-sectoral
and innovative nature o f the project; (b) the fact that drought and natural resource
management are complex issues which did not fit neatly into any existingGovernment
structure; and (c) the lack o f effective decentralization inKenya to manage the project at
district level, the project has operated through a project coordination unit. Through the
influence o fthe program, the Disaster Management Policy o fthe Government now
includes these structures. Formalization o fthe drought and disaster management
functions at national and district level through the approval o fthis andthe ASAL policy
by Cabinet should be completedby the end o f2006. A major outcome o fthe project has
beento build the capacity o f district teams through the DSG to plan and manage untied
resources. Another outcome has been increased demand for transparent resource
allocation at the community level.

23.     Community/BeneficiaryParticipation. The involvement o flocal communities
and the accountability o f project management to them as a whole has been a major
success factor for the existing Arid Lands project. The project has enhanced the capacity
o fthe DSGs indecision making processes inareas such as natural resources
management, as well as improved drought preparedness, contingency planning and
monitoring and evaluation. The DSGhas strengthened overall development planning at
the district level. One of the principles ofthe project is to provide various windows o f
support through which districts and communities can decide their priority activities,
including the drought contingency fund and funding for drought preparedness, various



                                                                                           11

CDD activities, and enhanced local service delivery. For each o fthese fundinglines,
guidelines and rules developed under the Arid Lands project have empoweredlocal level
leaders to improve the planning and implementationo f development activities at the
district level. Communities also bear increased implementationresponsibility, especially
inthe operation o fthe CDD component which follows communitybaseddisbursement
and procurement guidelines. Community institutions taking on decision-makingand
fund-management responsibilities have been strengthenedto enhance their management
capacity. The role of women inthe community development committees i s notable.
Consistent with successful community based accountabilitymechanisms, the project i s
assisting inthe establishment o f a community radio station inone district (Wajir) which
will broadcast inter alia the monthly DSGmeetings over this station.

24.     Complementingthe CDF. The Arid Lands project has also been able to
complement the use o f CDF at the district level. As the CDF funds are targeted almost
entirely at social infrastructure, the DSGplanning mechanism hasbeen critical to ensure
that CDF funds do not duplicate and whenpossible are usedcollectively with project
funds to maximize their utility. For example, inMandera, multipurpose flood
control/irrigation structures are beingconstructed by pooling Arid Lands and CDF funds.
Secondary school improvements inmany districts are also beingjointly financed.

25.      FinancialManagement. The financial management capacity inthe institutions
involved inthe project i s satisfactory, having beenstrengthened over the years underboth
phases o f the project, both at the center and inthe current 22 districts. For the six new
project districts, a strategy for rapid development o f local capacity infinancial
management will be adopted before operations inthese new areas can be commenced.
From a financial management perspective, the project is managed by a Project Finance
Officer with a competent finance and accounting section. They provide oversight and
monitoring as well as mentoring for district accounting staff. At the district level, the
project will continue to receive support from the District Treasury and guidance from the
District Accountant. Existing financial management safeguards are expected to be
further enhancedbytheproposed introductionofinstitutionalriskmanagement functions
mentionedbelow.

26.      UpdatedFinancialManagementAssessment. Inview o fthe proposed
additional credit of US$ 60 million, a detailed financial management review was
completed inJune 2006. This included an in-depthreview o f the project's Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) covering the entire second phase, and all Financial Monitoring
Reports (FMR) and audit reports, through which all IDA and Government project
receipts and expenditures to date were confirmed and financial management systems
critically appraised. The review comprised a detailed examination o f accounting, internal
control andreporting systems at selected project implementation sites. While no
significant weaknesses were identified,mutual agreement has been reached for
immediate implementation o f systems enhancement recommendations2. A financial

'   Key findings o f the review include the need for: (a) an enhanced institutional risk management
    function, including the establishment o f fiduciary oversight committees and an effective independent
    internal audit function; and (b) improvements to existing financial management reporting


                                                                                                        12

management improvement action plan has been discussed and agreed, and will be
implemented before the mid term review o f the project, scheduled for November 2006.

27.     RiskManagementand InternalControlArrangements. Improvementsto the
current institutional arrangements o f the project have been agreed with Government to
establish an effective institutional risk management function, and include the following:

            Fiduciary Oversight Committees -two financial management sub-committees
            o f the Project Steering Committee, with clear mandates, composition and
            functions :

                 An Audit Committeewhich has inits mandate, responsibility for: (i)
                 development and operationalisation o f a Risk Management Policy
                 Framework; (ii)   monitoring and ensuring timely effectiveness o f audit and
                 operational review recommendations o f various fiduciary oversight
                 responsibilities including, internal and external auditors, Government

                Iproject monitoring agencies and periodic review and supervision missions;
                 (iii)overseeing the effectiveness o f accounting and internal control
                 standards, policies and practices; (iv) ensuring compliance with legal
                 covenants and terms o f funding agreements; (v) overseeing the
                 effectiveness o f the internal audit function; (vi) monitoring the
                 performance o f key internal audit staff against approved performance
                 contracts; and (vii) packaging and disclosing relevant findings, on a
                 quarterly basis, inpublicly accessible ways that facilitate timely and
                 effective monitoring and accountability at the community, district and
                 national levels.
                 A Finance Committeethat will have as its mandate responsibility for: (i)
                 comprehensive review o f quarterly FinancialMonitoring Reports (FMR);
                 (ii)approval o f periodic operational budgets and monitoring financial
                 performance; (iii)  reviewing and approving annual financial statements;
                 (iv) monitoringthe performance o fkey financial management staff against
                 approved performance contracts; and (v) packaging and disclosing
                 relevant findings, on a quarterly basis, inpublicly accessible ways that
                 facilitate timely and effective monitoring and accountability at the
                 community, district and national levels.
            The committees will be staffed with appropriately experienced persons and
            would meet regularly, at least once each quarter.
            Internal Auditfunction - As per the new Government regulations, an
            independent and effective internal audit arrangement inOP will be
            established, responsible for oversight o f the activities o fthe project's
            accounting and internal control fbnctions at bothnational and district levels.
            An independent institutional riskmanagement review will also be conducted
            on an ongoing basis, monitoring compliance with laid down policies and


    arrangements, including revisedguidelines and a training workshop for all headoffice and district
    accountingstaff.


                                                                                                     13

           procedures, and reviewing and recommending enhancement o f accounting and
            internal controls. For enhanced effectiveness, it i s proposed that this function
           be carried out by the Government Internal Auditor General, an independent
           unitunderthe MinistryofFinance, andadopting the risk-based approachthat
            i s currently beingrolled out with the support o f the IDA funded Institutional
           Reform and Capacity BuildingProject (IRCBP). External support will mainly
           be in: (i) the oversight ofperiodic risk assessmentand audit planning
           processes; and (ii)  operational quality assurance. The Internal Audit function
           will report directly to the Audit Committee, presentingfindings and
            recommendations inimplementationprogress reports on, at least, a quarterly
           basis. The audit findings will be disclosed inpublicly accessible ways that
            facilitate timely and effective monitoring and accountability at the
            community, district and national levels.


28.    SocialAccountability. Giventhe dispersion ofthe project's activities andthe
adoption o f simplified community based fiduciary arrangements to be employed at the
micro-project level, proactive and innovative internal control and oversight functions will
be inplace to address associated risks. The already functioningparticipatorymonitoring
and evaluationmechanisms provide for community feedback to the project at community
and district level on an annual basis. The following practical improvementsto public
oversight o f the project are proposed:

       a) Public disclosure of information covering (i)     periodic resource allocation and
            fund accountability; (ii)periodic listings o f funding allocations to respective
            beneficiaries including their location, amounts and purpose for which funds
            are disbursed; (iii) project operational results and project implementation
                                local
            progress; (iv) disclosure o f fund accountability defaulting entities, and (v)
            sharingo f experiences o fbest practice amongbeneficiary entities.
            Arrangementswill bemade for prominent disclosure and timely update o f
            such information inthe media andpublic bulletinboards at boththe District
            and community levels. These efforts would bepart o f abroader
            comprehensive communication strategy developed by the project to support
            partnerships with key stakeholders, including other Government agencies,
            MembersofParliament, civil society organizations, the private sector andthe
            media. The key objective for the strategy i s to enhance transparency and
            accountabilitythrough greater public access to information and outreach
            activities, including public education. These partnerships will also help to
            strengthenthe project's monitoring and evaluation efforts towards better
            implementation and results.




                                                                                             14


an internal audit o fthe expenditures. Disbursementfor such expenditures i s conditional
upon the completion o f an external audit, for which terms ofreference have been
prepared. The audit would commence intime to allow for the disbursement for these
items to be disbursedsoon after the additional financing becomes effective.


D. Consistency with CAS
31,     The current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Kenya (dated May 14,2004)
i s based on the Government InvestmentProgram for the Economic Recovery Strategy
(IP-ERS). Pillar two ofthe IP-ERS emphasizes equity andpovertyreduction, with a
focus on targeted programs aimed at reducingpoverty o fparticularly disadvantaged
communities. A particularly noteworthy feature o f the IP-ERS i s the prominence it gives
to addressing the needs o fpastoralists, a previously neglected andparticularly vulnerable
andpoverty-stricken group. As mentionedearlier, the National Policy for the Sustainable
Development o f the Arid and Semi-AridLands o f Kenya (ASALPolicy) combines
investment ininfrastructure with humanresource development and security enhancement,
social safety nets, education for pastoralist children, and improved food security. The
Arid Landsproject is the main vehicle inthe CAS for providing support to this
Government's objective.
32.     Africa Action Plan (AAP). The additional credit also supports several objectives
of the AAP. It will continue to support decentralized institutionalcapacity buildingand
further expand its successful approachinto six additional districts. The additional credit
will also scale-up and expand small scale water supply for humansand animals, and
productive infrastructure (irrigation), further closing the rural infrastructure gap inKenya.
The Arid Landsprogram promotes the harmonizationo f approacheswith key
development partners for effective coordination o f drought management, and is working
to develop mechanisms which will allow for joint financing.


E. Appraisal of Restructuredor Scaled-upProjectActivities

33.     Although the project i s beingscaled up, the program remains as originally
designedand appraised. The economic, financial, technical, fiduciary and social aspects
of the activities to be undertaken with the additional financing remain the same as the
original project, but with additional safeguards to ensure that the project funds are used
effectively for the purposes intended.
34.     EnvironmentalAnalysis. The environmental classificationofthe ongoing
project i s Category B. The additional financing would fund activities similar inscale and
scope to those implementedunder the original project. The EnvironmentalManagement
Framework (EMF), which was considered best practice at appraisal, i s beingused
effectively by headquarters and districts to assess and mitigate negative environmental
impacts ofproject investments. Annual environmental audits are carried out by third
parties to review and fine tune the EMFprocess mechanism. Inaddition, the
participatory rural appraisal mechanisms usedto implement the CDD component were
improvedduringthe designo fthe second phase to enhance the participationo fwomen




                                                                                          16

andother marginalizedcommunitygroups. Additional training will be carried out inthe
six new project districts to ensure the EMFprocess and principles are well understood.

35.     Monitoringand Evaluation. Activities to be financed under the additional credit
will follow the M&Emodel currently inplace underthe Arid Lands project. This is
based uponparticipatory approaches, which have beenintegrated with natural resources,
drought management, and local and community development planningprocesses. An
important objective has beento develop capacity for M&E and institutionalize it at the
various levels. This includes training o fproject personnel and other stakeholders inthe
districts, especially DSGmembersand community leaders, through a participatory
learningprocess over the project period. An M&Eunit has assistedproject management
to: (a) establish a system ofroutine records and periodic monitoringreports at
community, district, and project levels; and (b) undertake studies and surveys to support
baseline establishment and subsequent evaluations, which would be undertaken with the
assistance o f independent consultants. Special efforts are beingmade to co-ordinate and
dovetail these efforts with other agencies inKenya, such as the World FoodProgramme
and the Central Bureauo f Statistics. Each district undertakes annual reviewso f a
diagnostic and trouble-shooting nature inresponse to information emerging from
monitoring activities, which are participatory innature with the full involvement o f
stakeholder communities. This i s beingtechnically supported by the M&E unit, with the
help o f external consultants. Giventhe increased scope o fthe program, responsibilities
and procedures for M&E, includingthe frequency, content andaudience, the M&E
framework will be re-evaluated and reinforcedunder the additional financing.


F. ExpectedOutcomes
36.     Keyperfonnance indicatorswere finetuned duringthe last supervisionmission,
following the completion o fbaseline survey data collection inFebruary 2006. These
indicators will be the subject o f further review duringthe midterm review exercise
scheduled for November 2006. The amendmentto the development credit agreement
now includes the new, revisedoutcome indicators, instead o f output indicators which
were includedinthe original DCA. Intermediate and output indicators are beingrevised
to incorporate the scaling up of the project, which includethe expansion o f districts
benefiting from rapid response to drought conditions, an increase inthe number o f
communities directly benefitingfrom livelihood enhancing microprojects, and an
increase inthe number o f beneficiaries with closer proximity to basic services. The
project outcome indicators are attached as Annex D.


G. Benefitsand Risks
37.     Benefits remain as described inthe Project Appraisal Document, but expanded
geographically to six additional districts and innumbersto additional communities inthe
existingproject area. The project is expected to generate a variety o f social, economic
and institutional benefits which will strengthen sustainable livelihoods of the target
population, and include:

        0   reducingtime lapse betweenreported drought stress andappropriate response;


                                                                                         17

        e   improved access to technical and social services; and
        0   strengthening the voice o fpeople from project districts inlocal and national
            development.

38.     Gender. The project hashada substantial positive impact onwomen and girls in
the arid and semiarid districts where it operates. Increased access to water, education and
health care has benefitedgirls and women disproportionablymore, as they are
traditionally disadvantaged inaccess to education, and bear the burdeno fproviding water
for the family. The participatory methodology for the development o f community
priorities for the CDD component mandates women participation, as does the formation
o f community development committees (CDCs). With time, it i s found that over half the
CDCs have women treasurers, as women are found to be trustworthy managers o f
community resources. Social safety net community projects target widows and the most
vulnerable members o f the community.

39.     DomesticDebt. The additionalfinancingwill helpreduce domestic debt and
increase pro-poor expendituresthrough the reimbursement o f incrementaldrought related
costs borne by the Government over the last six months, and through the strengthening o f
the drought contingency fund. The latter should help to reduce these costs inthe future.

40.     Risks. The criticalrisks mentionedinthe ProjectAppraisal Document (PAD)
remain valid. Measures to reduce fiduciary risks which have beenprevalent in some
other Bank-financedoperations inKenya are highlightedinthe riskmanagement and
internal control arrangements described inparas. 27 and 28 above. Givencountry
conditions, the fiduciary risk rating remains high. The following specific mitigation
measureswill be taken:

     e  Audit of Government Financed Expenditures to be Reimbursed For drought-
        related emergency expenditures expected to bereimbursedunder the proposed
        additional credit, physical verification has been carried out, and a Bank team
        (comprising financial management andprocurement specialists) will work
        alongside the Government audit team to establish that the expenditures meet the
        Bank's fiduciary requirementsfor eligibility before disbursements take place.

     0  Results of the Kenya Detailed Implementation Review (DIR). Results o fthe
        Kenya DIR are being finalized by the Bank's Department o f InstitutionalIntegrity
        (INT). The Arid Landsproject has had a continuously good track record o f
        governance. For this reason, the project has not been included inany o f the
        forensic audits conducted in2005, or inINT's DIRwork. However, lessons from
        the forensic audit o fother projects are beingincorporatedinthe design o f
        strengthenedfiduciary controls. The general recommendations ontransparency
        and accountability, especially at community and district levels, have been
        incorporated into agreements for enhanced risk management and internal control
        arrangements as well as community transparency and accountability arrangements
        described inparas. 27 and 28 above. A side letter from Government, agreeing to
        these transparency/disclosure initiative arrangements and their monitoring, was
        sent to the Bank on June 26,2006.



                                                                                         18

    0  GovernanceAssessment Mission. The Governmentinvitedthe Bank to conduct a
       governanceassessment mission. The mission visitedKenyafrom June 28 to July
       7,2006 andreceivedthe full cooperationofthe authorities. Working withkey
       stakeholders,includingcivil societyrepresentatives,andbuildinguponthe
       governanceand anti-corruptionwork alreadyunderwayinKenya, the mission's
       TORSincludedsharinginternationalexperiences andhelpingidentify gaps, and
       developinga framework for monitoringmeasurableresults. Inparallel, the Arid
       Landsprojectteam agreedwith the governancemissionmembersthat the planned
       governancesurvey (see Annex A, para23), would over-samplearid andsemiarid
       districtsto understandbetterhow projectinitiativeshaveimprovedthe overall
       governanceenvironment. Inaddition, the designo f the annualbeneficiary
       assessment carriedoutby the Arid Landsprojectwill bemodifiedto assess the
       impact of improvedtransparencyand accountabilitymeasures as describedinpara
       28 above.


H. FinancialTermsandConditionsfor theAdditionalFinancing

41.    The additionalloanwouldbe on standard IDA terms, with a maturityof 40 years,
including a grace periodoftenyears. There are no additionalconditionsof effectiveness.




                                                                                    19

                                                                                    Annex A


               Kenya'sFightAgainst Corruption: SelectedHighlightsand
                            Already PlannedNear TermActions


                                       I.Introduction

1.      Kenya has acquired a reputationo f endemic corruption, as reflectedinfrequent
local and international press reports, the public statements o f development partners, and
more importantly inKenyanpublic opinion. The Annex discusseshighlights o f Kenya's
efforts since 2003 to address the problem, including steps taken and setbacks
experienced, and further actions planned by the Government.


                                   11. SelectedHighlights

2.      When it came to power at the beginningof 2003, the new government made a
numbero fboldmoves infulfillment ofits campaignpledgeto put ahalt to corruption,

3.      LegislativeActions. In2003, Parliament passedthe Public Officer Ethics Act,
requiringcivil servants to file annual declarations o fincome, assets and liabilities, and
the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act, which set up the Kenya Anti-Corruption
Commission (KACC). The Government also enacted key legislationaimed at improving
governance and public service deliverywhich include the Government Financial
Management Act (2004) and the Public Audit Office Act (2004). Infulfillment o fthe
Anti-corruption Action Plan for April 2005-June 2006, a landmarkProcurement Bill
received Presidential assent inNovember 2005, establishing an autonomous Public
Procurement Oversight Authority responsible for the regulation o fprocurement inthe
public sector, including procurement o f security related contracts-transactions    which
were shrouded insecrecy inthe past and associatedwith highlevel graft. Inaddition, the
Privatization Act receivedPresidential assent inOctober 2005 settingthe stage for the
privatization o fpublic assets and operations including state corporations, as part o f the
privatizationprogram under a new privatization commission.

4.      CapacityBuildingand AdministrativeActions. Underthe Anti-Corruption
Action Plan, there was also a four-fold increase inthe professional staff o f the KACC,
recruitment o f23 magistrates and other legal staff, and the launcho fpublic education
campaigns. The Attorney General's Office had 126 new state attorneys inJanuary 2006,
significantly increasing its capacity. To speed up trials, the ChiefJustice changed the
rules o f the court inJanuary 2006 to set rigorous time limits for disposing o f
Constitutionalreferences which tend to add years to the disposal o f cases. Responding to
criticism that it relied too heavily on legislative measures, the Government beganto take
administrative steps more regularly. For example, inDecember 2005, the Government
annulled the recruitment o f 3,000 police officers and suspendedsenior officers involved
intherecruitment exercise, pendingfurther investigation. The Kenya Revenue



                                                                                           20

Authority also announced that it was suspending several senior officers that work at the
Port pendinginvestigation into why they were not achieving performance targets for
customs revenues. Inaddition, the Government fired the Managing Trustee o fthe
National Social Security Fundfollowing investigationby the KACC, althoughmonths
later he was appointedto head another parastatal. The Governor o fthe Central Bank was
also suspended pendinginvestigations o fwrongdoing. Such suspensions and firings have
become somewhat more frequentinrecent months. Previously, in2003, the Government
has removed 16judges and 73 magistrates and replaced all senior civil service
procurementofficers.

5.      Results-basedManagementand PerformanceContracts. Consistent with the
focus on the effective and accountable use o fpublic resources, the Governmenthas
introduced a Results-Based Management(RBM) system as a tool for helpingpublic
sector institutions to focus their work, plan strategically and demonstrate the difference
that each organization i s makingto development. This focus on `practical results for
Kenyans' i s based on international best practice incountries such as Canada, Sweden and
the United Kingdom. The Government has also introducedperformance contracts for all
its senior officials including those inparastatals. The contracts are meant to create
incentives for public sector managers and their staff to improve performance and
accountability by undertakingto deliver specific outputs inline with their mandates. The
availability o f these contracts (at http://www.dpm.go.ke/pages/splans.html)i s not widely
known, and i s therefore a missedopportunity for public monitoring, assessmentand
pressure for enforcement. There i s also roomto improve the focus o f the contracts
themselves on issues o f corruption.

6.      PoliticalAccountability. Following the constitutional referendumo fNovember
2005, the President reshuffledhis Cabinet, removing the minister most widely alleged to
have beeninvolvedinlarge-scale corruption and appointing a new andrespectedminister
of justice and constitutional affairs. DuringFebruary 2006 two o f the ministersnamed in
the report preparedby the former Permanent Secretary for Governance and Anti-
Corruption resigned from office to allow for investigationsto proceed. KACC beganto
investigate these and all others mentionedas possibly involved incorrupt activities (a
thirdministerresigned following hisimplication inthe report onthe Goldenberg scandal
whichwas also released at this time). This was followed by Government seizure o f
passports and firearms of several individuals associated with Goldenberg. Prosecutions
inthe Goldenberg scandals beganinmid-June2006 butprosecutions inthe Anglo-leasing
are awaiting the completion o f investigations by the KACC which Parliament askedbe
completed by late June 2006. Separately, the President has also requiredthat members o f
the new cabinet sign a code o f conduct, and that the KACC verify their declaration o f
assets. But so far, these declarations have not beenmade available to KACC.

7.       Other Measures. The Government ended `land grabbing' and state sponsored
`harambees' or hnd-raising. It also set up the NdunguCommissionto look into the
illegal allocation ofpublic lands and after makingpublic the report inFebruary2006,
gave individuals and organizations implicated a three month periodto return land that
was obtained illegally (whether deliberately or not). That period has now expired and
further actionbythe Governmentis awaited. ByJune 2006, 133 title deeds for illegally



                                                                                          21

or irregularly acquired public landhadbeen surrenderedto the Ministry o f Lands.
Measures were also taken to improve the governance o fpublic finances. They included
enhancing the capacity o f the National Audit Office, which was then able to clear the
long-standing backlog o f public accounts audits. InOctober 2005, the government
established independentaudit committees inall ministries, departments, state
corporations and local authorities. This step i s part of a new risk-based internal audit
approach, supported by the World Bank and other donors, that involves identifying the
potential for fraud inadvance and buildingthe necessary risk mitigationprocesses into
the design o f government systems andprocesses. The prospects for reducingrent seeking
were further enhancedinNovember 2005 through additionalmeasuressuch as the
liberalization o f coffee marketing (after over a decade o fpolicy debate about it), and a
request to Parliament to eliminate 35 licenses previouslyrequiredfor settingup a
business. Inhisbudget speechto Parliament on June 15,2006, the Minister o fFinance
also proposed eliminating another 118 and simplifying over 700.


                                      111. Assessment

8.       Despite the range o f actions on legislative, administrative, political and other
fronts discussed above, both the Kenyanpublic and internationalobservers have seriously
questioned the Government's determinationto carry them forward towards sustainable
change. The recent peer review by the New Partnership for Africa's Development
(NEPAD) indicates that 60 percent o fKenyans feel that the government has not gone far
enough inthe fight against corruption and over 90 percent believe that there is still
corruption ingovernment. At aNational Stakeholder Conference convened inlate May
2006 by the Government to discuss future plans for fighting corruption, the Ministero f
Justice and Constitutional Affairs noted that efforts so far `have only scratched the
surface'.

9.      Doubtsabout the Government's Commitment. The centerpiece ofrecent
criticisms has beenthe Anglo-Leasingscandal, brought to lightby Mr.John Githongo,
former Permanent Secretary for Ethics and Governance, inwhich highlevel officials
(includingministers) are alleged to have been associated with a fraudulent scheme to
purchase passport processing equipment. Several security related contracts have also
come under scrutiny as part o f Anglo Leasing. Then, inMarch2006, hooded policemen
raidedthe headquarters o fthe Standard Media Group late at night which the Government
later claimed was motivatedby concerns about internal security. But the incident and its
explanation have deeply concerned Kenyans who hitherto had credited the Government
with considerably wideningKenya's freedom of expression (including the freedom to
publishallegations o fcorruptionat any level o f Government) and appearedto have
dividedeven the Cabinet. It has also been fiercely criticizedby the international
community, including the World Bank, and ledto calls for the Government to take clear
confidence building measures to reassure the many concerned domestic andinternational
stakeholders. A further complication has been the sudden emergence soon after the raid
o ftwo foreign nationals, followed by their hasty and dramatic deportation just weeks ago.
The two were describedvariously as mercenaries andbusinessmen. Within days o fthe
deportation, the President suspended several mid-level civil servants, including the head


                                                                                           22

o fthe Criminal InvestigationDepartment, and assembleda team to investigate the
incidents surrounding the two nationals. But many Kenyans have already questioned the
independence o f the team. Parliament has also initiatedits own hearing on the incident
and has called senior officials, including Cabinet ministers, to answer questions.

10.      Measurable Results to Date? Against such a dynamic and complex backdrop, it
i s difficult to assess the impact o f Kenya's anticorruptionefforts so far. While there i s a
broad domestic and internationalconsensus on where Kenya i s coming from on
corruption (historically) and where it needs to go, there i s much less agreement on the
results that have beengenerated so far, and on the prospects for winning the fight.
Transparency International's Annual Corruption Perceptions Index has consistently
placedKenya towards the bottom o f the list (in2005 it ranked 144 o f 158 countries).
Governance indicators compiled by the World Bank Institute, suggestedthat while at a
low level, Kenya had improved its rankingon five o f six indicators o f governance, with
perfonnance inthe `control o f corruption' indicator notably improving. This however
covered the period from the late 90s to 2004. InJune 2006, Transparency International
(Kenya branch) reported that bribery increased in2005 following declines in2003 and
2004. Ranking public institutions for the occurrence o fbribery include the police, state
corporations, and local authorities. Roughly 55 percent o fKenyans felt that corruption
was unchanged, the same number as in2003. But while 13 percent felt inhad worsened
in2003, the numberjumpedto 19percent in2006. A largerhouseholdsurvey releasedin
early July 2006, conducted by the KACC and covering 21 districts inall provinces, found
that public awareness o f corruption has risen from about 75 percent in2000 to 99 percent
in2005. The survey concurred that thepolice, the Ministries ofHealthand Lands, and
local and district governments are the leadingbreedinggrounds for corruption. Roughly
41 percent of respondents believed that corruptionhas decreased from a year ago, 22
percent believedthat there has been no change and 37 percent believe that it has
worsened. About 60 percent felt that the Government was performingbadly on
corruption, a figure similar to the NEPAD assessment. Meanwhile, Kenya's score o f 3.0
(of a possible 6) on the question on "Transparency, Accountability and Corruption inthe
Public Sector" inthe most recent (2005) Country Policy and Institutional Assessment
(CPIA) conducted globally by the World Bank and released at end-May 2006 places
Kenya at roughly the mid-point among the 79 low income developing countries covered
inthe exercise.

11.       Synthesis. Notwithstanding important legislative and institutional developments
andthebeginningso fpolitical accountability, Kenya remains anunderperformer on
anticorruption, especially giventhe expectations o fKenyans and the promises o fthe
Government. At its core, such underperformance i s an indication that the fight has too
few champions and inall probability, too many enemies, some o fwhom are fighting back
successfully. However, because o f the efforts already made and the ones that are
planned, there i s considerable room for these initiatives to produce tangible and
measurable results. But this would require yet hrther steps and strong leadership at all
levels, with an almost single-minded focus on reversingbehaviors that have been
sanctioned politically, socially and culturally for decades.




                                                                                             23

                                    IV. Further Steps

12.     Several recent documents and events (including Stakeholder Fora on Governance
and Anticorruption sponsored by the Government inApril, May and June this year, along
with the Minister ofFinance recent budget speech (on June 15,2006)) offer glimpses o f
the hrther steps that are already planned or beingcontemplated inthe fight against
corruption.

13.     Broad-basedStakeholders Participation. There appearsto be a growing
realization among governance reformers inKenya that the war against corruption
requires the mobilization o f a broadrange o f stakeholders, including civil society, the
media, private sector, faith-based organizations and professional bodies. For example, as
recent experience indicates, civil society and the media can have apowerful impact as
sources o f information on corruption and as advocates for change. There i s some
evidence that the reformers inKenyamight wish to reach out to these groups ina more
systematic way. For example, the recent Stakeholder Conference on the DraftNational
Anti-corruption Strategy, the largest o f the three held since September 2005, brought
together Kenyans from the executive, parliament, the judiciary, the private sector, the
media, trade unions, faith-based organizations, professional bodies, and NGOs to
consider the government's national multi-year strategy for fighting corruption. The Draft
Strategy itself arose from a process conducted years ago and updated recently that
involved grass-roots inputs and consultations inall eight provinces. The other recent
broad-based consultations have focused on the Strategic Plan o f the Kenya Anti-
corruption Commission. A particular challenge i s to ensure that all the broad-based
participation and consultations cohere around a focused set o fworkable initiatives
orientedtoward demonstrable results, while leaving participants the freedoms they need
to serve as both advocates and critics.

14.     Transparency,PublicAccess to Informationand PublicEducation. The
Government i s at an advanced stage o f assuring public access to informationthrough the
proposed Freedom o f InformationBill, 2006, which seeks to empower memberso fthe
public to have free access to information heldby Government. The right o fthe media to
access and disseminate information will further enhance transparency and accountability.
The MediaBill, 2006, at an advanced stage, will promote andprotect aprofessional, self-
regulating free and independentmedia. The MediaBill seeks to establish a Media
Council ofKenya and enshrine the "freedom to hold opinions without interference and to
seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any Media regardless o f
frontiers." These legislative developments complement another initiative by Government
to establish a National Bureau o f Statistics, through the Statistics Bill, 2006. The Bureau,
which will replace the Central Bureauof Statistics, will collect, compile, analyze, and
publishstatistical information, and will be guidedby explicit provisions for public access
and dissemination. A related aspect of these transparency initiatives i s heavy
investments ine-government and continued investmentinpublic education and
awareness-raising. To improve accountability inbudget implementation, the Budget
Monitoring Unit at Ministry of Finance will be revamped, initiallypaying particular
attention to roads andwater programs. The Unit will prepare comprehensive quarterly
reports on budget implementationfor dissemination to the public.


                                                                                           24

15.      Further LegislativeAdvances. A numberofBillsunderthe Statute Law
(Miscellaneous Amendments) Bill2006 and the Witness ProtectionBill2006 are on the
parliament's list o fBills scheduledto go through the secondparliamentaryreadingbefore
they go through the final parliamentaryreadingand are passedinto law. The Statute Law
(Miscellaneous Amendment) Billproposes to amendthe following laws, namely; the
Judicature Act (Cap 8) to increase the number o fjudges o f the HighCourt from fifty to
seventy and those inthe Court o fAppeal from eleven to fourteen; the Constitutional
Officers (Remuneration)Act, (Cap 423) to implementthe new salary structure for
constitutional office holders; and the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act (ECA),
2003, to disallow applications for stay o fproceedings incases involving economic
crimes and corruption. The Miscellaneous AmendmentsBill will also harmonize the
penalties for offenses that can beprosecuted under both the ECA and the Penal Code and
amend the Public Officer Ethics Act, 2003, to regulate the public officers' declaration o f
wealth. The WitnessProtectionBill, 2006, ifpassedwill provide for the regulation and
operation o f a scheme for the protection o fwitnesses incriminal cases, commissions o f
inquiriesand similar proceedings that are critical to the prosecution o f Corruption cases.
The proposed schemeunder this Billwill be established andcoordinated by the Attorney
General. Legislationonpolitical party financing i s also proposed.

16.      Capacity to Prosecute. Despite improvement inthe investigation o f corruption
cases, the current capacity inthe administration o f law andjustice i s weak. This has
affected efforts to effectively prosecute past and on-going cases on corruption. A number
o f training programs have beenlaunchedto strengthenthe capacity o fthe State Law
Office (SLO) and the Director o fPublic Prosecutions (DPP) inthe Attorney General's
office. However, the poor remunerationand conditions o f service have hampered
Government's efforts to attract and retain competent lawyers. The DPP's office has
recommended the recruitment o f an additional 130-132 lawyers o fwhich 65 would serve
the SLO, 42 the DPP office and 23 the Civil Litigation Department.O fthese lawyers, 65
are proposed to serve Government on a contract basis. The Ministry o f Finance, inhis
recent budget speech, has confirmed that government will increase the number o f staff in
the SLO and DPP's office and also improvethe terms o f service.

17.      Disposalof Cases. In2005 there were 503,948 new cases filed together with
those pendingat the beginningo f that year, bringingthe total numberto 1,074,602 cases.
O fthese, the courts were only able to deal with 541,167 cases rolling over 535,840 to
2006. One factor i s that inKenya, thejudge-population ratio i s about 2 judges per
population of 1,000,000 compared to about 12 inIndia, 47 inAustralia, 50 inBritain, 75
inCanadaand 107inthe USA. As indicatedinthe Miscellaneous Bill,the number of
judges will be increased to 70 from 50. Inaddition to the absenceo fjudicial officers, the
Government's efforts to effectively dispose o f cases (including corruption cases) have
beenhamperedalso by the lack o fbasic facilities such as court rooms, manual filling and
retrieval o f cases, lack o f equipment such as computers, poor remuneration and terms o f
service for thejudiciary especially for the magistrates. The World Bank's Financial
Legal and Technical Assistance Project is currently financingthe training o fjudges and
modernization o f the court system through automationofthe courts. Itwill also finance
the recordingo f court proceedings, better case management methods and improvement o f
court administration. Meanwhile, thejudiciary has proposed amendmentsto the Civil



                                                                                           25

Procedure Rules to simplify the court processes and include alternative methods o f
disputeresolutionto shorten the time taken to dispose ofcases and reduce the backlog.

18.     Implementationof ProcurementReform. Inorder to enforce the Procurement
Act, passedby Parliament and assentedto by the President inNovember 2005,
procurement regulations and an independent Public Procurement Oversight Authority i s
required. A team ofconsultants fundedbythe U S Government are inthe country to help
produce the draft regulations which will be reviewedand approved by a Government
Steering Committee prior to endorsement by Cabinet and, finally, publication. An
international procurement advisor, hiredby Government through DFID financing, i s
assisting the Public Procurement Directorate at the Ministry o f Finance to establish the
Procurement OversightAuthority. These processes are expected to be completed inthe
first half o f FY 06/07. The expectation i s that irregularities inthe award o f contracts
should be reducedonce the regulatory framework and the Procurement Oversight
Authority are operational.

19,     Implementationof Privatization. Operationalizingthe PrivatizationLaw
requires gazettment o f the commencement date which i s now scheduled to take place by
end-September 2006. Once the Privatization Commission i s inplace, it i s expected to
prepare a list o f transactions for Cabinet's approval. Meanwhile, the Minister for Finance
has stated that actions infiscal year 2006-2007 will include: (a) restructuring and
subsequent privatization o f Telkom Kenya andNational Bank o fKenya; (b) sale o fpart
government shares inMumias Sugar Company and Kenya Reinsurance, among others;
(c) sale o f a second fixed-line license for domestic telecom operations; (d) additional
licenses for international telecom gateways; and (e) enhanced private sector participation
inport operations, including container port operations inMombasa.

20.     PublicFinancialManagement. Plannedpublic financial management reforms
(PFM) include:

        0    implementingexpenditure management reforms underpinningrealizationo f
             the Public ExpenditureManagement Assessment and Action Plan
             benchmarks. The initial findings suggest that there has been progress since
             the last benchmarking exercise in2005 when Kenya met 6 o fthe benchmarks.
             Three additional benchmarks appear to have been met or arejust about to be
             met. These are: (i) multi-year expenditure projections are integrated inthe
             budget formulation process; (ii) internal control i s effective, through the
             formation o fministerial audit committees; and (iii) reports present
                                                                    fiscal
             spendingon functional basis;
        0    conducting expenditure-tracking surveys to inform budgetimplementation
             and improve its effectiveness inachieving development goals;
        0    strengtheningprocurement, including makingoperational the Public
             Procurement Oversight Authority;
        0    strengtheningcapacity for efficient and effective use o fdevolved funds under
             the Local Authority Transfer Fundand the ConstituencyDevelopment Fund;
        0    deepeningenforcement o f guidelines for the exchequer issues to line
             ministries, including maintaining an up-to-date bank reconciliation; and



                                                                                           26

       0   implementingthe integratedfinancial management andinformation systemin
           all line ministries.

Above all the Governmenthas developeda PFM Strategy which will be implemented
startinginfinancial year 2006/07. The baseline and progress towards achievingthe
objectives o f this Governmentstrategy are beingmeasured through Public Expenditure
and Financial Accountability (PEFA) framework indicators. The PEFA assessmenthas
been carried out and the report will be out shortly. Other measuresbeingtaken include
preparingand publishingexternal audit reports ina timely fashion inaccordance with the
Public Audit Act 2003 and adopting a riskbased internal audit approach, including
establishment o f the ministerial audit committees. These measures are expected to
improve Parliamentaryoversight on the executive's use o fpublic funds.

21.    ResultsMeasurementand PerformanceManagement. Government is
deepening the focus on results as an integral part o f good governance, and i s making
progress inrolling out the RBMsystem inthe public sector. Now that a Results office
has been established within the Public Sector Reform and Development Secretariat,
additional steps related to the RBM's implementation include developing systems for
performance management and integrated performance appraisal, performance audits and
monitoring and evaluation. Other actions include introducing service charters and score
cards for selected Government ministries and departments.

22.     GovernanceandAccountabilityProgramsin Selected Key Ministries.
Several Ministries that are central to the achievement o f ERS objectives are puttingin
place governance and anticorruptionprograms. Here are some examples:

        0  Health. The health sector faces substantial governance strengthening
           challenges. The managementstructure i s not aligned to the implementation o f
           the national healthplan; accountability andtransparency are weak; there i s
           poor utilization o f informationfor monitoring purposes; and tenderinghas
           beenplaguedby accusations ofcorruption, failure to follow procedures and
           delays. Inrecent months, however, there have been some important
           developments. These include the initiation o f a SWAP approach, with teams
           appointed to work on key issues, includingprocurement, financial
           management, andmonitoring and evaluation. The Ministry o f Healthhas
           developed a risk management approach to internal audit, and initial steps have
           been taken to improve procurement procedures, including through support
           from the MillenniumChallenge Account with the redraftingo fprocurement
           regulations for the Government as a whole (but with the Ministryo f Health as
           a lead sector for the reforms). The problems of the deeply troubled Global
           Fundprogramhave beenreviewedthroughahighlyparticipatory process, and
           a new draft governance manualhas been agreed for formal adoption inthe
           near fbture. The management o f the medical suppliesagency i s receiving
           external technical assistance, and ajoint evaluation i s about to take place (July
           2006).




                                                                                          27

        0  Education. The Government has developed its policy for strengthened
           governance and accountability inthe education sector around the following
           themes: (i)  community involvement through decentralized financing and
           procurement; (ii)   resource allocation; (iii)
                                                        consultation and social
           accountability; (iv) teacher management; and (v) public expenditure and
           management. The plan shows commitments for the future towards a more
           transparent and accountable environment inthe education sector, but it also
            shows important progress already made. An independentpublic expenditure
           tracking surveyhas already beencompleted, and it concluded that "Overall,
           the flow o f funds has beenefficient, with schools receiving funds allocated on
           time. Bottlenecks encountered inthe flow arebeingaddressedbythe
           ministry. At school level, funds received havebeencorrectlyrecorded and
           used for intendedpurposes. A large majority o fthe schools have put inplace
            systems that ensure transparency andvalue for money."

         0  Water. Since mid-2003, the Government through the Ministry o f Water and
            Irrigationhas embarked on far reaching reforms inthe water sector based on
            the Water Act gazetted inlate 2002. These reforms have involved
            comprehensive institutional reforms and increased investments inwater
            supply and sanitation to remove the bottlenecks to achieving safe and
            sustainable services. The continuing reforms include: (i)   separation o f
            functions between each aspect o f service delivery -policy making, regulation,
            and service delivery; (ii)clarifying the role and responsibilities o f each new
            institution; and (iii)ensuring the new institutions are given the mandate and
            autonomy to perform, but at the same time are made accountable inmeeting
            their responsibilities.

         0  Road Sector. Government plans to establish three autonomous road
            authorities to streamline ownership, management, accountability and
            financing o f all road network activities inthe country. This action will be
            implementedas soon as Parliament approves the legislative instruments.

23.      MeasuringProgressin GovernanceandAnti-corruption. The KACC
household (2006) survey cited earlier will be done annually. Inaddition, the Government
has resolved to carry out a nation-wide assessmentto measure how corruption and other
issues related to public sector performance in governance are perceivedby the public.
The assessmentwill examine public service delivery, functioning o f government staff,
financial management and procurement. The activity i s intended to support a unified
vision and design for a statistical development strategy that will improve policy and
decision making inthe area o f governance. It will facilitate monitoring the progress
made inbroad governance indicators, including targets specified inthe IP-ERSandthe
Anti-corruption Action Plan. To ensure integrityandbroad participation, the
Government intendsto establish a Steering Committee comprising o f Permanent
Secretaries and representatives o f the private sector, civil society, media, Parliament and
development partners. Inaddition, to ensure independence o f the diagnostic process from
the executive and credibility o f the process, data collection and analysis will be
undertaken by an independent firm. The time frame for this assessment is currently



                                                                                           28

underdiscussion, but is expected to becarried out inAugust-September,2006. The
results are to be widely shared, including through workshops at local andnational levels.
Currently, the Bank and other development partners, through the Statistical Capacity
BuildingProject, are supporting the collection and analysis ofjustice andcrime statistics
which would measure the impact o f crime on the public and the working o f the criminal
and civiljustice systems. InMarch 2006, the project provided computers, software and
training for the police, prisons, thejudiciary and the probation department to improve the
quality and timeliness o f statistics. Government plans to publishthese statistics regularly
and to place them inwebsites from mid-FY2006/07. These steps, and others, have been
integrated within the Government's Governance Action Plan (July 2006 - June 2007).


             VI. World BankInvolvementin the FightAgainst Corruption

24.     The Bank's overall approach i s to constructively support those ingovernment
who are making a good-faith effort to bring change to Kenya via the fight against
corruption, through use o f all its instruments-lending,  analytic work, policy dialogue
and its convening role. For example, the InstitutionalReform and Capacity Building
Project, which was approved inJanuary 2006, will support a broad set o f improvements,
including public financial management and results basedmanagement, and support
Parliament inits fiduciary oversight role. It also requires the settingup o fthe
Procurement OversightAuthority as a condition o f effectiveness.

25.     Inorder to provide constructive support to Kenya inthe fight against corruption,
the Bank's experts, including those from the World Bank Instituteand its Poverty
ReductionEconomic Management Department will inearly July 2006: (a) review
Government's governance efforts; (b) propose possible benchmarks against specific
countries and international bestpractices; (c) advise on proposals under consideration by
the government incritical relevant areas (such as access to information, media freedom,
political party funding and whistleblower and witness protection); (d) identify areas
where additional actions are needed; and (e) begin to identify ways inwhich the Bank's
assistance strategy for growth andpoverty reduction mightbe realigned (as needed) to
support the more coherent strategic Eramework and performance indicators.

26.     ProtectingBank-financed ProjectsAgainst Corruption. While policy-level
work inthe fight against corruption is ongoing, the Bank has taken a number o f steps to
protect its portfolio against corruption. Manyo f these are based on the findings o f
forensic audits o fthe portfolio such as the following:


        0   projects were generally not controlled usinga balancing general ledger system
            that was fully integrated and regularly reconciled with the rest o f the
            government's central accounting system;
        0   project designs didnot identify fraud risks and fraud risk management i s not
            an integral part o f each project;
        0   senior government oversight o f the projects i s weak;
        0   World Bank procurement guidelines are not properly understood and
            inconsistently implemented;


                                                                                          29

       0    management accounts and project quarterly reports reflect levels o f activity
            but do not necessarily identifymajor issues so that they canbe actioned; and
       0     lessons learned andbest practices are not shared among similar projects or
            passed into the wider government structure.

Inresponse to "red flag" corruptionrisks identifiedbythe forensic audit, the Bank,
working with the Government has taken several critical risk-management measures, as
follows:


       0     all project activities have beenintegrated into the central government general
            ledger system, while ongoing projects have established subsidiary general
             ledgersthat are requiredto be integrated into andreconciledwith the central
             government general ledger;
       0     all new projects are integrating control elements recommendedby the auditors
            while including a riskmanagement fhction within their institutional
             arrangements (for example, within project steering committees), andrisk-
            based audit procedures have beenmainstreamed into project audit
             requirements;and
        0    ministerial and project-level audit committees have beenestablished, the
             government's internal audit function has beenredefinedto effectively deal
             with institutional risks, and quarterly financial monitoringreports are now
            required to be presentedby all projects.

27.    Detailed Implementation Review (DIR). Beyond the forensic audits, the Bank's
Department of Institutional Integrityi s inthe advanced stages o f a DIR o f four projects in
the Kenya Portfolio: the Free Primary EducationProject, the DecentralizedHIV/AIDS
and Reproductive Health Project, Kenya HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Plan and the
Northern Corridor Transport Improvement Project. The DIRgoes beyond forensic audits
(hence the inclusion o ftwo project that had undergone previous audit) by looking in
detail at all procurement transactions carried out under Bank financing, both above the
threshold for prior Bank review and below. The DIR i s expected to be completed soon,
and the country team will work closely with INT to ensure that lessons learned are
systematically incorporated within riskmanagement procedures inthe portfolio beyond
those already taken.




                                                                                          30

                                                                          Annex B

                                REPUBLIC OF KENYA
     ARID LANDSRESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT PHASE TWO
       ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR THE DROUGHT EMERGENCY

                            DETAILED PROJECT COSTS
                                (in US$million equivalent)


Cost by Component
andby Financier                   1 IDA     /Gnvernment   Communities    Total

Drought Management                  55.05                     0.0         60.8
                                                             0.75         4.4
Support to Local Development                                  0.0         1.8

Total                             I  60.0   I   6.25         0.75         67.0



  Project Cost By Component          Local     Foreign     Total        YO
                                                                      of total

Drought Management                   56.8        4.0       60.8        91%

Community DrivenDevelopment           3.9         0.5       4.4        7%

Support to Local Development       I  la3 Oa5I              la8    I   2%




Project Cost
by Category                                   Local        Foreign     Total

Civil Works                                     5.8         0.5          6.3
Goods and Equipment                            16.9          1.5         18.4
CDD Microprojects                               2.5         0.0          2.5
Drought Contingency Fund                       14.5         0.5          15.0
Zonsultant Services and Training                4.0         0.5          4.5
Iperating Costs                                17.4         2.0          19.4
Zducation Grants                                0.9         0.0          0.9
rota1                                          62.0         5.0          67.0




                                                                                 A
                                                                               31

       ALLOCATION AND DISBURSEMENT OF ADDITIONAL FINANCING
                                          (in US$ million)

                        Arid Lands       Additional
      Category          PhaseTwo         Financing             % of expenditures
                         Original         Amount                To be financed
                        Financin
(1) Civil Works                                                     90%

(2) Goods and
Equipment
  (a) Other parts of              8.5       4.8      100%of foreign expendituresand 90%
the project                                                  of local expenditures

  (b) under Part D of                       13.2                     100%
the Project
(3) Grantsfor CDD     I          10.0  1    2.0         100%of amounts to be financed

(4) Drought                       4.3 I     15.0        100%of amounts to be financed
ContingencyFund
(5) Consultants                  17.2       4.5                      100%
Services, Training
and Audit
(6) Incremental
OperatingCosts
  (a) Vehicle O&M     I           3.1       3.1                       80%
  (b) Other O&M                        II
     (i) PartsA,
        For                      7.0.       4.6        60% of expendituresincurredbefore
       B andC ofthe                                    June 30,2005,50% for expenditures
        project                                        madebefore June 30,2007, and40%
                                                                   thereafter

     (ii) PartDof
        For           I                1    5.9                       100%
      the Project
(7) Refunding of PPF              0.7                  Amount pursuantto 2.02(b) of this
                                                                  agreement
(8) Unallocated                   5.5
(9) EducationGrant                          0.9
             TOTAL               60.0       60.0




                                                                                           32

                                     REPUBLIC OF KENYA
      ARID LANDS RESOURCEMANAGEMENT PROJECT PHASETWO
         ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR THE DROUGHT EMERGENCY

                             PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS3
                                      (AdditionalFinancing)
                                        (in US$million equivalent)



             Category                                         Procurement Method

                                        International         National           Other       N.B.F     Total
                                        Competitive         Competitive        Methods
                                           Bidding             Bidding

Works                                                                             6.3                    6.3
                                                                                 (6.0)                  (6.0)

Goods                                        1.o                 0.5              16.9                  18.4
                                            (1.O)               (0.5)            (16.5)                (18.0)

Services                                                                          0.8                    0.8
                                                                                 (0.8)                  (0.8)

Training                                                                          3.7                    3.7
                                                                                  (3.7)                 (3.7)

CDD Microprojects and                                                             17.5                   17.5
  Drought Contingency Fund                                                       (17.0)                 (17.0)

  Operating Costs                                                                 19.4                   19.4
                                                                                 (13.6)                 (13.6)

Education Grants                                                                   0.9                   0.9
                                                                                  (0.9)                  (0.9)

               Total                         1.o                 0.5              65.5                   67.0
          Of which IDA                      (1.O)               (0.5)            (58.5)                 (60.0)


N.B.F.=Not Bank financed.
Figures inparenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Supplemental Credit. Slight differences
may result from rounding o f figures.



~~




  Other than vehicles and computers, and cross cutting studies and consultancies, all procurement o f goods
and equipment, works and training takes place at district and community level, not lending itself to
international or national procurement procedures. Government district procurement thresholds are
followed..


                                                                                                          33

                                                                          Annex C
                            REPUBLIC OF KENYA
     ARID LANDS RESOURCEMANAGEMENT PROJECT PHASETWO
       ADDITIONAL FINANCING FORTHE DROUGHT EMERGENCY


           TIMETABLE OFKEYPROJECTPROCESSINGEVENTS



Milestone                                  Available Date


        Negotiations                            June 12,2006

        BoardPresentation                       August 3,2006

        PlannedDate of Effectiveness            August 30,2006

        Project Completion                      December31,2009

        Credit Closing                          June 30,2010



        We proposethat this Additional Financing beprocessedfollowing streamlined
procedures.




            IDA staff and consultantswho worked on the project included:




                                                                                34

                                                                                 Annex D

                                REPUBLIC OF KENYA
      ARID LANDS RESOURCEMANAGEMENT PROJECT PHASETWO
       ADDITIONAL FINANCING FORTHE DROUGHT EMERGENCY

                                 RevisedKey Indicators

Outcome Indicators


   1. Decreasing proportion of people assessed as needingfree food aid ineach arid
       and semi-arid district affected by severity of drought.
   2. Reducingthe time lapse betweenreported drought stress andresponse.
   3 . Improved nutritional status of children below 5 years o f age affected by severity
       o f drought over time.
   4. Increased number of people with access to basic services (water, human and
       animal health services and education).
   5. Increased people's participation inthe project districts in local and national
       development as demonstrated by the reflection o f arid lands concerns inthe
       economic recovery strategy and other relevantnational levelpolicies.


OutputIndicators


Natural Resources and Drought Management
   1. District staff and a minimumo f 600 communities trained inparticipatory natural
       resource management.

   2. Keypotential conflict flashpoints identifiedineach district and conflict
       management initiatives strengthened.

   3. Kenya Food Security Meeting and 28 District Steering Groups institutionalized.

   4. DroughtEarly Warning Systemmonthly bulletins producedand disseminated in
       the Project Area and at a national level on a regular and timely basis.

   5. District Long Term Drought Preparedness & Annual Work Plans developed in
       each district inthe project area.

   6. District Drought Contingency Plans developed in each district inthe project area
       and disseminated to stakeholders.

   7. Drought Contingency Fundand associated fundingmechanism established.


                                                                                         35

Community-Driven Development (COD)
  8. Mobile ExtensionTeams and line ministries core staff inspecified arid lands
       districts trained to conduct modified ParticipatoryRuralAppraisal (PRA) and to
       provide backstopping to communities to participate inCDD.

  9. Effective screening by specified DSGs routinely undertaken for community plans
       and project proposals for technical, environmental and financial soundness.

  10. 800 Community Action Plans prepared and Microprojectsimplementedby
       communities.

   11.At least 1000 groups assisted indeveloping savings capacity through top-up
       savings grants.
Support to Local Development
   12.National Pastoral Policy formulated through participatory process.

   13. Mobile schools and nomadic education centers established in3 project districts.

   14. At least 600 communities reached with awarenessraisingprogram on human
       health and HIV/AIDS.

   1.5. Guidelines for emergency livestock offtake prepared and articulated inallproject
       districts.

   16. Options for improved financial services delivery considered and implemented
        where possible within the project area.




                                                                                      36

                                                                             Annex E
                          REPUBLIC OF KENYA
     ARID LANDS RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT PHASE TWO
       ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR THE DROUGHT EMERGENCY



              DevelopmentPartner ActivitiesRelevantto this Operation


OngoingDevelopment Support

DFID                                      Support to Kenya LandReform process
                                        D Emergency Support through WFP, UNICEF
                                        and NGOs

European Union                          D Rural poverty Reduction and Local
                                        Government Support Programme
                                          Emergency Support through EUECHO
                                        Programme

DANIDA                                  0 Agricultural Sector Programme
                                        Support(ASPS) inCoast and Eastern

JICA                                    0 Smallholder Irrigation Development in
                                        Eastern
                                          Intensified Social Forestry Project

Italy
                                        0 Wei-Wei Sigor, Integrated Irrigation-
                                        Agriculture Project (West Pokot)
                                        0 Emergency support through WFP


Sweden                                    General Support to Water Sector
                                        Development
                                        0 Emergency Support (Water and Health)


USAID                                   0 Northeastern Pastoral Development
                                        Programme (Livestock Development)
                                        0 Emergency Support through WFP, UNICEF,
                                        NGOs

Norway                                  0 Emergency Support to Water Sector

Germany                                 0 Technical Assistance through GTZ

UNDP/OCHA                               0 Support to ASAL Policy Formulation
                                        0 Market Access and Sustainable Livelihoods
                                        inASAL

IFAD


                                                                                   37

                   BCentral Kenya DryArea Smallholder and
                   Zommunity Services DevelopmentProject
                   DMount Kenya East Pilot Project for Natural
                   Resource Management
F A 0
                   D Strengthening Emergency Preparedness and
                   Response Information System
                     Strengthening the Productionand Quality
                   Control o f Gums and Resins inAfrica
                   e Management and Control o f Prosopis
                   Juliflora inKenya
                   e Gums and Resins
ProposedSupport

DFID               0 Hunger Safety Nets Programme

European Union       Drought Management Initiative

USAID              e Regional Support to Enhancing Livelihoods
                   inthe ASAL areas ofthe HornofAfnca
                   (Kenya, Ethiopia, Somalia)




                                                              38

