Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  02/01/2010 
Report No.:  53596
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Kenya 
Project ID:  P078058 
Project Name:  Arid Lands Resource Management Project Phase Two 
Task Team Leader:  Christine E. Cornelius 
GEF Focal Area: C-Climate change 
Global Supplemental ID: P091979 
Estimated Appraisal Date: September 25, 
2009 
Estimated Board Date: April 20, 2010 
Managing Unit:  AFTAR 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (100%) 
Theme:  Climate change (67%);Other environment and natural resources management 
(33%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
5.50 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.69 
 Local 
Communities 
0.13 
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT - Associated IDA Fund 
40.00
40.82 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The goal of the overall World Bank-United Nations Development Program (UNDP) 
project is to enhance the resilience of communities and the sustainability of rural 
livelihoods threatened by climate change, in the arid and semi-arid lands of Kenya. As a 
contribution to the achievement of this goal, KACCAL's development objective is to 
improve the ability of selected districts and communities of the ASALs to plan and 
manage climate change adaptation measures. This will be done through: (i) strengthening 
climate risk management and natural resource base related knowledge; (ii) building 
institutional and technical capacity for improved planning and coordination to manage 
current and future climate risks at the district and national levels; and (iii) investing in 
communities' priorities in sustainable land and water management and alternative 
livelihoods that helps them adapt to climate risk.   
 
Page  2
3. Project Description 
KACCAL project will be financed by a GEF supported Special Climate Change Fund 
(SCCF) grant for USD 5.5 million. The project will be implemented through the 
mechanisms and processes of the ongoing IDA supported Arid Lands Resource 
Management Program (ALRMP II) over a period of four years.  Project activities will be 
piloted in four ASAL districts, Garissa, Turkana, Marsabit and Malindi, with the 
intention of scaling-up KACCAL climate change adaptation work in other districts of the 
baseline project. Related activities in a fifth district, Mwingi, will be supported by the 
proposed United Nations Development Program (UNDP) implemented SCCF grant.  
 
The KACCAL project has three components: (i) climate information products, policy 
and advocacy; (ii) climate risk management at district level; and (iii) community driven 
initiatives for climate resilience. The latter two components will be implemented in four 
ASAL districts, with similar activities implemented in a fifth district with funding from 
an UNDP SCCF grant. All three components are contributing directly to the integration 
of climate actions into development processes in the arid and semi-arid lands (ASALs), in 
particular through the ALRMP. The components complement each other by focusing on 
knowledge generation and dissemination and capacity building at national, district and 
community level.  
 
The KACCAL project will follow the implementation structure that is already in place 
for ALRMP II.  The SCCF/GEF approved into its work-program two proposals, a full 
sized project, KACCAL, submitted by the World Bank, and a medium sized project 
submitted by UNDP, with guidance for close collaboration. Given the similar thematic 
scope of the proposals (albeit with different scales of areas of intervention), considerable 
effort and joint dialogue resulted between the WB and the UNDP to bring these two 
proposals together into a common framework. Both activities will use the ALRMP 
structure and mechanisms. The UNDP supported activities will concentrate on Mwingi 
and on regional knowledge building, complementing the activities under this project.  
 
Component 1: Climate information products, policy and advocacy (SCCF Increment 
US$ 1.46million).  
 
This component will strengthen capacities among national level institutions to better 
assess and respond to current and future climate risks. It will generate and disseminate 
climate-related knowledge and strengthen institutional coordination among currently 
fragmented agencies managing disaster and climate risk. National stakeholders will be 
trained to further disseminate the generated knowledge to the district and community 
levels.  
 
Sub-component 1.1: Development of climate-related knowledge products to inform 
climate risk management (CRM) strategies in ASALs. This sub-component will help 
generate and increasing access to tailored climate information for strategic adaptation 
planning. Knowledge products will include: (i) district climate risk profiles focusing on 
enhanced vulnerability assessments (e.g. by integrating climate information with 
available natural resource and socioeconomic information); (ii) downscaled climate 
Page  3
change scenarios for Kenya (based on past and current observations and global and 
regional climate models); (iii) methodologies and approaches for assessing climate-
related risks in ALRMP investments and climate risk screening of CDD micro-projects; 
and (iv) improvements of the existing drought early warning system (EWS) by more 
systematically including climate information. These products will be tested and refined in 
the pilot districts and made available more widely through the TerrAfrica regional 
knowledge base. This sub-component will finance: (i) international and local technical 
assistance; (ii) training; (iii) procurement of required equipment; (iv) services (software 
development, data digitizing etc); (v) workshops, study tours and exchange visits 
between relevant national and international institutions and programs; (vi) climate risk 
knowledge and advisory service partnerships with local and international institutions, as 
needed and (vii) related operating costs to carry out the above.  
 
Sub-component 1.2.: Integration of climate action into national ASAL development 
plans and programs. This sub-component will support coordination and capacity building 
for integrating climate risk management within policies, strategies and institutions. 
National stakeholders will be trained to disseminate the generated knowledge in a user-
friendly format to districts and communities. The sub-component will inform the 
implementation of the Climate Change Strategy spearheaded by the Ministry of 
Environment and Natural Resources (MENR) with particular emphasis on land 
management and community based adaptation. It will support the ongoing institutional 
efforts to strengthen a national Sustainable Land and Natural Resources Management 
Platform (SLNRM Technical working group within the framework of the multi-sector 
Agriculture Sector Coordination Unit, ASCU). The subcomponent will also support the 
development of periodic policy notes and targeted capacity building of the ALRMP 
Team, the Kenya Food Security Meeting (KSFM) and its multisectoral working groups, 
the ASCU, and other entities based on the knowledge and advisory services supported by 
this project. This will facilitate mainstreaming adaptation within sectoral and disaster 
management policies and plans. Further, the subcomponent will provide support for 
project management and monitoring and evaluation (M&E). This sub-component will 
finance: (i) salaries for technical staff recruited for KACCAL implementation; (ii) 
training and workshops for ALRMP staff, members of the KFSM, district officers, and 
other relevant stakeholders; (iii) technical study tours and exchange visits, including 
south-south learning events; (iv) independent evaluation consultancies and technical 
assistance; and (v) operational support and equipment/materials for the 
ALRMP/KACCAL Secretariat.  
 
Component 2: Climate risk management at district level (SCCF Increment US$1.37 
million)  
 
This component will promote the integration of a climate risk management (CRM) 
perspective into district planning processes and programs. The component will build 
climate change-related capacity of major stakeholders at the district level and support 
public and private "climate-smart" investments.  
 
Page  4
Sub-component 2.1: Capacity building to integrate CRM into district planning 
processes. This sub-component will strengthen the capacity of district officials and other 
stakeholders to access and use relevant climate information and knowledge products 
noted in component 1. The target groups, including the District Coordination Unit 
(DCU), the District Steering Group (DSG) and other stakeholders, will be enabled to 
assess climate risks, including improving early warning systems, to strengthen the 
climate-resilience of plans, programs, and investments. The sub-component will also 
implement methodologies for assessing ALRMP investments and provide 
recommendations for risk-proofing.  
 
The additional SCCF funding will be focused on enhancing technical capacity of Mobile 
Extension Teams (METs) in accessing and utilizing the climate-related information and 
knowledge.  The ALRMP structure provides communities with technical support and 
backstopping through METs. Information and analysis will provide the teams with the 
knowledge to provide advisory services in the context of climate variability and change. 
Emphasis will be placed on training METs in understanding and interpreting the 
generated climate information, and communicating this information in user-friendly and 
practical terms to the end-user, i.e. the communities and resource users in the ASALs. 
Thereby, the METs will be enabled to provide guidance on adaptation measures in a 
format that is relevant, timely, accessible and comprehensible to their clients. 
Management responses by communities will be monitored and the usefulness of the 
provided knowledge products and information for the end-user will be assessed through a 
combination of qualitative and quantitative approaches, including Participatory Rural 
Appraisal (PRA) used by ALRMP. This sub-component will finance: (i) training and 
workshops for district officials, (ii) technical assistance and consultancies for scrutinizing 
risk in ALRMP investments; (iii) specific equipment and software to use climate 
knowledge products; and (iv) operational costs (including costs of PRAs and monitoring).  
 
Sub-component 2.2: Support for "climate smart" public and private investments. This 
sub-component will support the implementation of selected public and private sector 
interventions identified through adaptation-enhanced district plans. These investments 
will typically be at the scale above the community level (micro-watershed/inter-
community level) and will complement community investments for enhanced climate 
resilience. These activities may include public-private sector partnerships. Investment 
areas include but are not limited to: improving infrastructure to better manage floods and 
droughts (including small check dams, water pans etc.); improving livestock monitoring 
and response systems (e.g. conditions and risk factors for livestock diseases, such as rift 
valley fever; support for livestock off-take management; diversification of stocks etc.); 
natural resource management investments (e.g. water source rehabilitation and agro-
forestry); and training in business/enterprise skills for investments in value addition of 
ASAL products. These investments will be coordinated by the District Steering Group.  
 
This sub-component will finance: (i) feasibility studies and preparation of public and 
private investments, including operating costs; (ii) civil works and equipment for 
approved district level investments (public and private) and; (iii) training for private 
investors.  
Page  5
Component 3: Community driven initiatives for climate resilience (SCCF Increment 
US$2.67million).  
 
This component will help communities to adopt "climate smart" strategies and 
investments. It will complement ALRMP#s activities in reducing vulnerability among the 
ASAL population by strengthening their climate risk related resilience directly.  
 
Sub-component 3.1: Support for community capacity building. This sub-component will 
support awareness building and capacity building at community level to enhance climate 
risk assessments and climate resilient planning and investments. Multiple events and 
severity of droughts and floods have sapped the communities' ability to adapt 
autonomously and solely based on indigenous knowledge. While they are increasingly 
noting anomalies in climatic conditions and impacts on their environment, there is limited 
understanding about the scale and scope of causes and impacts as well as potential 
opportunities to reduce their vulnerability. Where opportunities are known, communities 
are constrained in the adoption of adaptation measures. The sub-component will support: 
(i) strengthening awareness of climate risks faced by specific groups and their ability to 
interpret and respond to forecasts and related information; (ii) developing "climate 
resilient" community action plans (CAPs); and (iii) planning and implementing "climate 
smart" investments at community level. This sub-component will finance: (i) training and 
workshops for communities (including community based monitoring); and (ii) training 
for the development of the enhanced CAPs, including operating costs.  
 
Sub-component 3.2: Support for community based micro-projects. This sub-component 
will support community based micro-projects, identified in the "climate-resilient" CAPs. 
This adaptation related investment funding will be channeled primarily through the 
Natural Resource Management and the Community Driven Development (CDD) 
windows of the ALRMP. This sub-component will finance: grants to communities to 
implement micro-projects.  Communities will provide at least 10 percent of the total 
micro-project cost in kind or in cash. At least 50 communities in the pilot districts will be 
targeted.  Potential areas of support may include:  
 
(i) 
Structural interventions for land and water management: In helping communities 
manage land and water resources across the entire spectrum of climate conditions in the 
ASALs, investments in a variety of land management and erosion control, small-scale 
water harvesting, storage and water management measures will be supported.  
 
(ii) 
Sustainable agricultural land and livestock management: Micro-projects would 
help enhancing the resilience of agricultural practices to climate risks, through promotion 
of sustainable land management methods and technologies (e.g. inter-cropping, integrated 
nutrient management, moisture and soil conservation techniques, agroforestry, drought 
resistant crops) and rangeland/livestock management (e.g. silvopastoralism and drought-
tolerant pasture species).  
 
(iii) 
Opportunities to enhance carbon sequestration: Grants will facilitate the technical 
and financial feasibility assessment for potential ecosystem services micro-projects; in 
particular the opportunities for carbon finance will be explored.  
Page  6
(iv) 
Livelihood enhancement and diversification: Support will be provided for the 
increased adoption of livelihood diversification projects. Areas of interest might include: 
promotion of sustainable production, value addition and marketing of ASAL products 
such as dates, gum, aloe, jatropha, sisal; and promotion of sustainable production, value 
addition and marketing of indigenous crops and vegetables.  
 
(v) 
Credit and micro-insurance: The feasibility of innovative credit and micro-
insurance schemes for ASAL communities will be explored. If considered financially 
viable and technically sound, grants will support up-scaling of successful mechanisms for 
community based credit and insurance to facilitate the adoption of improved agro-
pastoral practices and other livelihood strategies to reduce vulnerability and risks.  
 
(vi) 
Human and Livestock Health: Support for investments to reduce human exposure 
to vector and water-borne diseases and improving livestock health will be provided as 
appropriate.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project is focused on livelihoods in Arid and Semi-Arid Lands of Kenya. Activities 
at the community level will be carried out in the following four districts: Garissa, 
Turkana, Malindi, and Marsabit. In addition, UNDP will implement a SCCF Grant in 
Mwingi.  
 
The SCCF additional funding will enhance the ALRMP community capacity building 
program by integrating a short to long-term perspective towards reducing climate risk in 
planning and investment choices at the community level. In Marsabit district, Mt. Kulal 
Biosphere Reserve is an internationally designated protected area and Mt. Marsabit 
National Park is a national protected area. This is also the driest region of the country 
with marked moisture deficiency. The Mwingi and Garrissa districts have hot and dry 
climate for most of the year. Nationally protected areas include Arawale National 
Reserve in Garissa District; and South Turkana, Nasalot, and Central Island National 
Reserves in Turkana District.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Banumathi Setlur (MNSEN) 
Ms Nyambura Githagui (AFTCS) 
 
Page  7
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The project falls mainly within the arid belt in Kenya where the inadequacy of moisture 
imparts critical limitation to local ecological productivity and socio-economic 
development. The project provides an effective delivery mechanism for the adaptation 
enhancements, which will help better achieve its objectives under a changing climate. 
The project builds on the experience from ALRMP in mainstreaming climate risk 
management, and directly contributing to poverty reduction and sustainable development. 
The SCCF resources will help to embed a short to longer-term perspective in planning 
and interventions at the district and community level. Thus the project is conceived and 
designed to have significant positive environmental and social impacts. The project will 
not result in any potential large scale, significant or irreversible impacts. Some micro-
projects may have potential risks of site-specific adverse environmental and social 
impacts in the following areas:  
 
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01): The environmental classification of the project is 
Category B. The safeguard policy on environmental assessment (OP 4.01) is triggered.  
The borrower has prepared an Environmental Assessment and Management Framework 
(EMF) for the ALRMP II, which also covers KACCAL districts and will be implemented 
during the KACCAL project. As found necessary during KACCAL project preparation, 
an addendum to the ALRMP II EMF has now been included and the enhanced EMF will 
be applied during KACCAL implementation. The EMF has determined that there will not 
be any potential large-scale, significant or irreversible environmental impacts associated 
with potential micro-projects. If implementation of the project could lead to adverse 
environmental impacts that are localized in nature, the framework will ensure that 
environmental concerns as they relate to the project are carefully assessed and that the 
appropriate systems and procedures are put in place to mitigate any possible negative 
environmental impacts. The main objectives under the EMF are to: (i) establish 
procedures for micro-project design, review, approval, and implementation and 
monitoring; (ii) identify potential policy issues and propose resolution mechanisms; and 
(iii) develop a capacity building program for stakeholders to carry out Environmental 
Page  8
Impact Assessments (EIA) and mitigation throughout the project, as necessary. The EMF 
will help to identify potential environmental issues and proposes mitigation measures, 
including training and monitoring measures. In some cases, implementation of the EMF 
could result in the preparation of an EIA report for a proposed micro-project, before it is 
considered for approval. A sample EIA format has therefore been included as part of the 
EMF. All such EIA reports will be disclosed to the pubic prior to approval. The EMF and 
the addendum have been re-disclosed at the Infoshop and in-country with a separate 
cover letter from the borrower, to satisfy the disclosure requirements. Since the 
addendum to the EMF has been updated recently to reflect the decision to trigger 
Indigenous People (OP 4.10), the document was disclosed again in September 2009.  
 
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04): This policy has been triggered due to the potential nature of 
activities to border or operate in natural habitats or protected areas. The EMF will address 
these concerns through an environmental screening which will be applied to all micro-
projects before approval. The EMF will help identify any potential impacts on natural 
habitats and proposes mitigation measures. It has provided adequate management 
measures to mitigate adverse impact of any activities in the project intervention areas. 
Additionally, ALRMP II has prepared a baseline NRM and ecological survey of the area 
as well as a national ASAL NRM strategy which covers the KACCAL districts. The 
results from these studies will be considered during micro-project screening and 
approval.  
 
Pest Management (OP 4.09): Pesticide use among beneficiary communities of the 
project is currently very low to non-existent. The project will not support the purchase or 
induce enhanced use of pesticides. However, if the project proposes the use of herbicides 
for bush clearance or technified irrigation systems (rain-fed or irrigated farming) which 
could result in intensification of agriculture and the increase in pesticide use, to mitigate 
against any potential negative environmental impacts, the requirement to screen for 
pesticide use is included in the processes set out in the EMF. During project 
implementation, any such micro-projects will prepare a brief integrated pest management 
plan (IPM) that will be in compliance with the World Bank safeguard policy OP 4.09. 
Such IPM plans will be prepared and disclosed before micro-project implementation. 
Additionally, as recommended in the EMF, training on IPM will be included as a module 
for relevant stakeholders. The policy is therefore marked as triggered.  
 
Forests (OP 4.36): Forest operations such as forest restoration or plantation development 
will not be carried out under this project. Small-scale infrastructure may be financed 
under the project which may induce pressure on forest resources (wood for construction).  
However, the EMF provides the necessary measures in the screening process to identify 
impacts on forests and forest resources. Good practice measures are provided in the EMF 
to address these concerns. Moreover, through highly participatory mechanisms built into 
the CDD design, the project will raise awareness and empower communities to increase 
protection of forests and other resources.  This policy is not triggered.  
 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12): The project will not support any activities that 
trigger OP 4.12.  Screening of micro-projects will ensure that the project does not finance 
Page  9
activities involving the involuntary taking of land or the involuntary restriction of access 
to legally designated parks and protected areas.  
 
Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10): ALRMP did not trigger OP 4.10. The project main goal 
was to target the marginalized and vulnerable communities in the arid and semi arid 
districts in Kenya. The community empowerment tools used were tailored to specifically 
reach and impact these groups.  However, during the course of KACCAL preparation, it 
was decided to trigger this OP taking into consideration the existence of the Wasanya, the 
Boni and others, who could be present in some parts of Malindi, Lamu and possibly other 
districts. The project has therefore prepared an indigenous people planning framework 
(IPPF) for KACCAL which will be used to guide working with these and any other 
groups that might be found in the area.  
 
Other safeguard policies that are not triggered by the project are: Physical Cultural 
Resources (OP 4.11); Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12); Projects on International 
Waterways (OP 7.50); and Safety of Dams (OP 4.37).   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
No negative long-term impacts are anticipated due to project activities.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Consideration of alternatives will be part of the preparation and approval of all CDD 
micro-projects and other investments under KACCAL, following procedures as outlined 
in the EMF. These procedures will allow decision makers at various levels to identify and 
treat any potential adverse impacts, where needed by calling upon subject specialists to 
modify designs or propose alternatives.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The borrower's institutional capacity for implementing safeguard policies is high. The 
KACCAL project will follow the institutional and implementation arrangements that 
have been put in place for the ALRMP II project. These arrangements have proved highly 
successful for the ALRMP project. Overall project coordination of KACCAL will remain 
with the PCU established under ALRMP in the Office of the Prime Minister, and 
effective coordination mechanisms to the district and community level. At the national 
level, a staff member has been appointed within the ALRMP PCU with a specific 
responsibility for addressing environmental issues. Also at the national level, the full-
time environmental officer has been hired to provide technical backstopping on all 
aspects of environmental mitigation.  
 
An Environmental Management Framework (EMF) has been prepared by the borrower 
that details a screening and review process for community micro-projects. The screening 
criteria provided in the EMF includes relevant questions on natural habitats/protected 
areas, involuntary resettlement and land acquisition, introduction of pesticides, impacts to 
Page  10
forestry resources, impacts to cultural property and inclusion of indigenous people in the 
project identification process This will ensure that all concerns related to the Bank's 
safeguard policies are taken into account during the screening of micro-projects for 
potential impacts, and that the appropriate mitigation measures are adopted to address 
them. In addition, the EMF details the individuals/agencies responsible for implementing 
these measures, and recommends measures for training and capacity building. The EMF 
will act as a guiding tool for the Borrower to mainstream environmental concerns into the 
micro-project design, appraisal and implementation.  
 
An indigenous peoples planning framework (IPPF) has been prepared by the borrower 
to ensure that the development process fully respects the dignity, human rights, 
economies, and culture of indigenous peoples, and that the project is able to gain the 
broad community support of affected indigenous populations through free, prior, and 
informed consultations. To that end, the IPPF presents guidelines which will avert any 
potentially adverse effects on the indigenous peoples' communities; or if avoidance 
proves not to be feasible, minimize, mitigate, or compensate for such negative impacts.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The KACCAL project is a GEF addition to the ongoing ALRMP II project.  During the 
preparation stage of the ALRMP II, various stakeholders were involved in 
conceptualizing the objective of the second phase. Workshops were held at the national 
and local levels with various stakeholders. Extensive consultations were carried out 
during January 2003 in Kenya with the following groups: ALRMP staff, and 
governmental and NGO stakeholders or key informants at a central Nairobi level; 
beneficiaries of ALRMP I, potential beneficiaries of ALRMP II, ALRMP officers and 
governmental and NGO stakeholders within the District Steering Group (DSG) in one 
representative arid district (Garissa). ALRMP I has already developed and introduced an 
effective participatory approach to service delivery based on a good understanding of 
pastoralist communities. Community targeting through participatory rural appraisals 
(PRAs) that enables communities to articulate their problems, needs, priorities and help 
in mapping necessary course of action has been effective. The PRAs has also been an 
effective tool for community empowerment.  
 
The Social Assessment has carried out a stakeholder analysis and has provided a 
participatory plan which indicates the various entry points for stakeholders at all levels. 
The Mobile Extension Team (MET) concept has been further strengthened under 
ALRMP II, whereby teams work with community members and equip them with skills 
for prioritizing and designing projects geared to meeting their needs. Community 
Development Committees (CDCs) that already exist have been strengthened so that they 
are able to take on more responsibility in community priority setting and management of 
their own programs, including proper implementation of the EMF.   
 
Recommendations from the EMF and the 2006 and 2008 Environmental Audits will be 
included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) for KACCAL before negotiation. On 
April 9, 2003, the original EA/EMF study for ALRMP 2 was submitted to the Infoshop, 
Page  11
and disclosed in Kenya. The EA/EMF is available in Kenya at the World Bank 
Information Center, the ALRMP Office in Nairobi and district offices, and at NEMA. 
The EMF (with a new addendum) was re-disclosed at these places with a cover letter 
from the borrower, for KACCAL. Since the addendum to the EMF has been updated 
recently to reflect the decision to trigger Indigenous People (OP 4.10), the document was 
disclosed again on September 16, 2009 in Kenya and submitted the Infoshop on 
September 21, 2009. The IPPF was also disclosed September 16, 2009 in Kenya and 
submitted to the Infoshop on September 21, 2009.  
 
Indigenous people will be carefully consulted as a key stakeholder group throughout 
project implementation. The project will provide opportunities and mechanisms for 
indigenous peoples and other vulnerable and marginalized groups to: (i) participate in all 
project activities in their areas and are involved in decision making organs of the project; 
(ii) receive project funds; and (iii) utilize and benefit from the resources of this project. 
The Government of Kenya has established the Kenya National Commission on Human 
Rights which is mandated to address the grievances emanating from injustices. The IPPF 
and the subsequent plans will be shared with the Commission for information.  
 
Social analysis and participation: During the preparation stage of ALRMP II, a 
supplemental social analysis (SA) was carried out and various stakeholders have been 
involved in conceptualizing the objective of the second phase. Workshops at the national 
and local levels have been held where various stakeholders have participated. The SA 
provided a stakeholder analysis and the participatory plan has described the various entry 
points for stakeholders at all levels.  
 
The parent project, ALRMP has already developed and introduced an effective 
participatory approach to service delivery based on a good understanding of pastoralist 
communities. Community targeting through PRAs enables communities to articulate their 
problems, needs, priorities and help in mapping the necessary course of action has been 
effective. The PRAs have also been an effective tool for community empowerment. The 
PRA methodology used under the first phase has been examined further under the SA, in 
light of the new project as it extends to other areas, and the need to cover more 
communities within the existing project area. The project will implement a differentiated 
PRA, targeting different groups such as the youth, the women and vulnerable 
communities and enable the development of synchronized Community Action Plans.  
 
In the case that carbon finance activities are supported, the project needs to ensure that 
implementing communities are major beneficiaries of the generated carbon revenues. 
This can be achieved through careful consultations of communities, advocacy, IP 
screening and respective provisions in the carbon finance documents, including the 
emission reduction purchase agreement.  
 
The SA confirmed that the key social issues are: the livelihood and coping strategies, 
the social inclusion of vulnerable and marginalized groups and gender mainstreaming in 
inside the communities in Arid Land districts. A summary of the SA is presented in 
Annex 10 of the PAD.   
Page  12
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
10/22/2007 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
09/16/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
09/21/2009 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
08/27/2009 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
09/16/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
09/21/2009 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
10/22/2007 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
09/16/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
09/21/2009 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.04 - Natural Habitats 
 
Would the project result in any significant conversion or degradation of 
critical natural habitats? 
No 
Page  13
If the project would result in significant conversion or degradation of other 
(non-critical) natural habitats, does the project include mitigation measures 
acceptable to the Bank? 
N/A 
OP 4.09 - Pest Management 
 
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues? 
Yes 
Is a separate PMP required? 
No 
If yes, has the PMP been reviewed and approved by a safeguards specialist or 
SM?  Are PMP requirements included in project design?  If yes, does the 
project team include a Pest Management Specialist? 
N/A 
OP/BP 4.10 - Indigenous Peoples 
 
Has a separate Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework (as 
appropriate) been prepared in consultation with affected Indigenous Peoples? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design been reviewed 
and approved by the Regional Social Development Unit or Sector Manager? 
N/A 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
Page  14
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Christine E. Cornelius 
09/21/2009 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Banumathi Setlur 
09/15/2009 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Nyambura Githagui 
09/15/2009 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Warren Waters 
09/30/2009 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Ms Karen Mcconnell Brooks 
09/30/2009 
Comments:   
