Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  43453 
Project Name 
Kenya Adaptation to Climate Change in Arid Lands 
(KACCAL) Project
 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Environment/Climate Change 
Project ID 
P078058 
Global Supplemental ID 
P091979 
GEF Focal Area 
C-Climate change 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Kenya  
Implementing Agency 
Office of the President, Special Programs 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
September 26, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
November 1, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 20, 2007 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Livelihoods and economic activities in Kenya’s are highly vulnerable to climatic fluctuations in 
space and time. The country’s inland areas are largely arid with two thirds of the country 
receiving less than 500 mm of rainfall per year, limiting the potential for agriculture. In general 
inter-annual climate variability is high. Rainy seasons can be extremely wet and associated with 
floods and landslides, but can also arrive late or fail, introducing considerable uncertainty in 
agricultural practices. The rural poor are the most vulnerable to the impacts of Kenya’s current 
climate variability. 
 
Climate change introduces an additional uncertainty into managing natural resources and 
promoting sustainable land-use management. An increased variability between extremely dry 
and wet conditions, shifts in seasonal climate characteristics as well as associated effects on 
extreme events and vector borne diseases place an additional strain on human health and food 
security; threaten water resources, and the viability of rural livelihoods in already marginal lands.  
 
The increasing risks due to climate change severely affect Kenya, particularly through rising 
risks of droughts and floods, with implications for the broad strategies for poverty alleviation and 
economic development. The best way to address these risks is to enhance climate risk 
management into ongoing government plans, programs and activities that are affected by the 
rising risks of climate change. Kenya has identified the Arid and Semi-Arid Lands (ASALs) as 
the most vulnerable areas to climate related risk, and livestock and small-holder agriculture 
sectors as important sectors that provide the dominant livelihood source in these areas. Livestock 
accounts for 26 percent of total national agricultural production and therefore potential impacts 
of climate risk have considerable economic significance. The Government’s key document on 
Page  2
climate risk
1
prioritizes the need for appropriate agricultural and livestock policies and action 
programs that will reduce vulnerability in the ASALs, specifically laying out adaptation options 
in agriculture, water and rangeland management towards mitigating the potential adverse impacts 
of climate change. 
 
The Government acknowledges in its Economic Recovery Plan the special attention the ASALs 
areas need in order to achieve poverty reduction noting that in relation to the smallholder 
livestock sector there was a need to address problems of insecurity, degradation of rangelands 
and poor access to water. Both the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and the Kenya 
Rural Development Strategy discuss the importance of reducing risk and vulnerability for those 
Kenyans who rely on the natural resource base for their livelihood. Priorities aiming to reduce 
the risks to development include effective service delivery, drought early warning systems, an 
improved natural resource and land use management system, assistance in the creation of more 
effective conflict resolution mechanisms as well as effective management of climate risks.  
 
The Kenya Arid Lands and Resource Management Project (ALRMP), which is currently in its 
second phase, represents a long-term operation to enhance food-security and reduce livelihood 
vulnerability in drought-prone and marginalized communities. This baseline project supports 
community driven development, drought mitigation and decentralized planning in 28 ASAL 
districts, as well as policy support advocacy and improvement in the delivery of essential 
services. The ALRMP has focused on the reduction of the acute vulnerabilities. It has not 
included a systematic treatment of the medium to long-term implications of climate change. In 
recognition of this situation, the proposed SCCF
2
project “Kenya-Adaptation to Climate Change 
in Arid Lands” (KACCAL), which is embedded in the ALRMP, is focused on strengthening 
Kenya’s capacity to comprehensively reduce the vulnerability of rural livelihoods in arid areas to 
climate variability and change. The proposed project also fits with the concerns of the First 
National Communication to the UNFCCC. Reducing the risk of climate variability and change 
on the impacts of these programs, while at the same time strengthening national capacity for the 
coordination and planning of climate risk management provides the most cost-effective way to 
minimize the negative impacts of climate change on sustainable poverty alleviation. 
 
The ALRMP is highly successful, and well embedded institutionally, with a home in the Office 
of the President and effective coordination mechanisms to the district and community level. 
Hence, this baseline project is on the one hand clearly affected by the rising risks of climate 
change, and on the other hand provides a very effective delivery mechanism for the adaptation 
enhancements, which will not only help better achieve the baseline project’s objectives under a 
changing climate, but also have a positive impact well beyond the baseline project.  Incremental 
resources will help embed a longer-term perspective in planning and interventions at the local 
level while improving the information chain between scientific climate related knowledge at one 
end anticipatory responses at the local level at the other end, translating into a strategic adaptive 
response to climate change risk.   
 
1
National Communications to the COP of the UNFCCC  
2
The GEF managed Special Climate Change Fund alternative aims to strengthen the capacity across scales to 
address climate risks. 
Page  3
This mainstreaming approach, which is a key cornerstone of the proposed project, fits into both 
the Bank’s strategy on these issues and its global commitment to scale up its efforts to address 
risks to development being posed by climate change. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The objective of the KACCAL project is to assist Kenya in adapting to expected changes in 
climatic conditions that otherwise threaten the sustainability of rural livelihoods in its arid and 
semi-arid lands. Based on an evaluation of the sustainability of livelihood activities, the project 
will focus on i) reducing the near-term vulnerability to current climate variability and trends in 
conjunction with the Arid Lands Resource Management Project (ALRMP), and on ii) 
strengthening the medium to long-term ability to address climate change impacts related to 
increased climatic variability and higher temperature, associated with changes of magnitude and 
frequency of extremes.   
 
3. Preliminary description 
The GEF supported project will focus on at least five districts under the ALRMP and will have 
the following four components. The components focus on building a comprehensive climate risk 
management approach by connecting activities at the local, sub-national and national level and 
engaging a broad range of stakeholder groups.  
 
Component 1: Improve national coordination of information and action for management of 
climatic risk  
Institutional efforts focused on disaster risk management and climate change are still largely 
fragmented. This component will strengthen the ability of the institutions jointly to understand 
and respond to current and future climate risks.  
 
Component 2: Integrate a long-term climate-risk perspective into local/district planning and 
investments and support to engage private sector for climate risk reduction  
This component focuses on incorporating a long-term perspective into local/district level 
planning processes, identifying implications for public and private sector investments, and 
assessing opportunities for economic diversification to reduce vulnerabilities to climate risks 
over time. The goal is to provide local and district level governments with the tools and 
knowledge to facilitate a shift from unsustainable activities towards those that are less vulnerable 
to climate risks.  
 
Component 3: Support Community Driven initiatives to enhance long-term livelihoods strategies  
KACCAL will enhance the ALRMPs CDD approach to foster appropriate climate risk 
management strategies and investments at the community level. These will focus on activities 
that address impacts related to expected higher temperature and increased frequency and 
intensity of droughts and precipitation. The component activities will be concentrated in the 4-5 
pilot districts.  
 
Component 4: Program management, technical assistance, project and impact monitoring and 
evaluation, and regional knowledge sharing  
This component will provide support to enhance the ALRMP secretariat to support the 
implementation of the additional KACCAL mandate and activities. It will involve building 
Page  4
capacity at the secretariat level on climate risk related issues enabling it to develop project 
management processes that capture the information flows and allow targeted responses. Given, 
the weaknesses in capacity in climate change related technical issues; the secretariat will act as a 
hub through which technical assistance can be channeled appropriately. It will also be 
responsible for the monitoring of KACCAL project processes and performance (i.e. both project 
outputs and impact monitoring) and evaluation of implementation. The ARLMP-KACCAL 
secretariat will be responsible for ensuring appropriate documentation and reporting of lessons 
learned to facilitate replicability and scaling-up, within the ASALs as well as in other climate-
affected areas in the region and beyond. It will also contribute to regional knowledge learning 
and sharing activities that build on a base of adaptation related experiences.  
 
The project will achieve this by strengthening institutional and technical capacity to manage 
current and future climate risks across scales, by specifically including the risks of climate 
change into the local and national strategies and activities that affect sustainable livelihood in 
ASALs and by supporting innovative initiatives to diversify and improve long-term livelihoods 
by engaging local communities and the private sector. The project will take the following 
approach:  
 
1. At the local level, emphasis is placed on reducing the existing adaptation deficit revealed by 
current climate hazards that frequently translate into disasters. This is to be achieved by 
strengthening efforts to make early warning and seasonal climate forecasts accessible to 
vulnerable stakeholders in ASALs, while also strengthening their capacity to act upon 
information through improvement of agricultural extension services and training in natural 
resource management.  
 
2. At the governance and institutional level, the project focuses on strengthening the link 
between disaster risk management and climate change to ensure that development and 
operational planning, policy processes, and incentive systems address existing vulnerabilities, 
but also account for important climatic changes to avoid processes, which are maladaptive in 
medium to long-term. In this context, efforts will focus on supporting emerging development of 
partnerships and information sharing mechanisms, which bring together technical, development 
and policy perspectives and are essential for establishing a continuous economic framework for 
disaster and climate risk reduction.  
 
3. While public sector support is important for strengthening climate risk management within 
development processes, the project recognizes that long-term sustainability can only be achieved 
through the inclusion of the private sector. It is also noted that the additional burden of climate 
change will make some livelihoods unsustainable. Hence, the project also focuses on 
opportunities for economic diversification to initiate a process of providing Kenya’s rural 
population with alternative livelihood perspectives. The CDD component will help strengthen 
the long-term perspective towards reducing climate related risk in investment choices at the 
community level, and facilitate and support micro-projects oriented towards mitigating that risk. 
The projects will also examine the viability of insurance and micro-credit schemes for buffering 
rural livelihoods against climatic shocks, while also linking such schemes to incentives for 
vulnerability reduction in the near to medium term.   
 
Page  5
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
It is expected that that this project will be rated Category B and trigger the Environmental 
Assessment Policy. Project appraisal will determine if any other environmental safeguard 
policies are triggered by project activities. An environmental assessment and management 
framework that was prepared for the Arid Lands Resource Management Project (ALRMP) will 
be revised as appropriate and disclosed.  
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0.5 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY 
6.0 
 Total 
6.5 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Christine E. Cornelius 
Title: Lead Operations Officer 
Tel: (202) 81882 
Email: Ccornelius@worldbank.org
 
