Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3655-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
EXPORT-ORIENTED INDUSTRIES PROJECT
January 29, 1982
Industrial Development and Finance Division
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TURKEY
Currency Unit: Turkish Lira (TL)
Exchange Rate between the Turkish Lira (TL) and US$
(Weighted Average to 1976)
1959 - 1970                           TL  9.00
1970                                  TL 11.50
1971                                   TL 14.90
1972                                  TL 14.15
1973                                  TL 14.15
1974                                  TL 13.90
1975                                  TL 14.45
1976                                  TL 16.05
1977   January - March                TL 16.05
March - September              TL 16.05
September - March '78          TL 19.45
1978   March - April '79              TL 25.25
1979   April - June                    TL 26.35
June - December                TL 47.10
1980   January - April '80             TL 70.00
April - May                    TL 73.70
June - July                    TL 78.00
August - October 11            TL 80.00
October 12 - October 25        TL 82.70
October 25 - November 10       TL 84.80
November 11 - December 11    TL 87.95
December                       TL 91.75
1981   April 30                       TL 98.20
Sept:ember 30                  TL 121.10
December 31                    TL 133.63
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
DESIYAB           Devlet Sanayi ve Isci Yatirim Bankasi
DYB               Devlet Yatirim Bankasi
IDB               Islamic Development Bank
ITC               International Trade Center
SAL               Structural Adjustment Loan
SEE               State Economic Enterprise
SMLI              Small- and Medium-Scale Labor Intensive Project
SYKB              Sinai Yatirim ve Kredi Bankasi
TSKB              Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
EXPORT-ORIENTED INDUSTRIES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  INTRODUCTION                                                      1
II.  THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR                                           5
A.  Structure and Policies                                        5
Structure                                                     5
Past Policies and Performance                                 5
New Policy Initiatives                                        6
B.  Export Sector                                                 7
The Structure and Pattern of Export Trade                     7
Export Possibilities                                          8
Institutional Impediments to Exports                          9
Export Constraints at the Enterprise Level                   10
C.  Investment Outlook                                           10
III.  THE FINANCIAL SECTOR                                              12
A.  The Institutional Set-Up                                     12
B.  Capital Market Development                                   13
C.  Interest Rates and Foreign Exchange Risk                     14
IV.  TSKB - INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT, OPERATIONS AND IMPACT          17
A.  Institutional Development                                    17
Policies                                                     17
Shareholders                                                 17
Board                                                        18
Management and Staff                                         18
Organization                                                 18
Appraisal                                                    21
Supervision                                                  22
Procurement and Disbursement Procedures                      22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
B.  Operations and Impact                                       23
Summary of Operations                                       23
Development Impact of TSKB's Operations                     24
Technical Assistance                                        24
Investment Objectives                                       25
Resource Mobilization                                       26
V.  FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND POSITION                               27
A.  Profitability and Financial Position                         27
Debt/Equity Ratio                                           28
B.  Portfolio and Arrears                                       29
Loan Arrears                                                29
TSKB's Efforts to Grapple with the Arrear Situation         30
Bank Initiatives                                            31
Government Initiative                                       33
Provision for Arrears                                       34
Equity Investments                                          34
C.  Creditworthiness                                            35
D.  Projections of Operations and Financial Situation           35
Operations                                                  35
Profitability                                               36
Balance Sheet                                               37
E.  Resource Mobilization                                       37
VI.  THE PROJECT                                                      40
Objectives                                                  40
A.  TSKB Lending for Exports and Use of Bank Funds
for Fixed Assets                                          42
Export Targets                                              42
Definition of Export-Oriented Projects                      42
Financing of Fixed Assets under the Bank Loan               43
B.  Foreign Exchange Working Capital                            44
C.  Technical Assistance                                        46
Background                                                  46
Problem Diagnosis of Export
Firms                                                     49
Export Market Evaluation                                    50
Advisory and Consulting Services                            51



- iii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
Training Seminars and Workshops                              52
Staffing and Organizational Implications                     53
D.  Loans for Technical Assistance                               53
E.  Loan Features                                                54
Fixed Assets                                                 54
Auditing                                                     55
Working Capital                                              55
Technical Assistance                                         55
Procurement                                                  56
Disbursements                                                56
F.  Benefits and Risks                                           57
Benefits                                                     57
Risks                                                        57
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS                                                   59
This report has been prepared by Messrs. Coudol, Gowen, Hayden, Malik, and
Maniatis. The appraisal mission took place in February-March 1981.



- iv -
Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES
Annex  1      Commodity Composition of Exports
Annex  2      Geographical Distribution of Exports
Annex  3      Commodity Composition of Exports and Contribution to
Export Growth, 1972-1980
Annex  4     TSKB Interest Rates -- 7/1/81-12/31/81;
Cost of Special Medium-Term Loans through the
Intermediary of Commercial Banks
Annex  5      List of Shareholders as of December 1980
Annex  6(a)  Organization Chart - as of March 31, 1981
Annex  6(b)  Organization Chart - as of January 1, 1982
Annex  7      Summary of TSKB's Policy Statement
Annex  8      Summary of Operations -- 1976-1980
Annex  9      Gross Approvals of Loans by Size -- 1977-1981
Annex 10      Loan Commitments by Industry -- 1977-1980
Annex 11      Sectoral Distribution of Outstanding Loans and Equity
Investments at December 31, 1980
Annex 12     Geographical Distribution of TSKB's Loan and Equity Approvals
Annex 13      Economic Rates of Return of Projects
Annex 14     Employment Generation of Projects Financed by TSKB, 1977-1980
Annex 15     Projected Exports from TSKB Export Oriented Projects
Annex 16     Export Oriented Projects Approved in 1979 and 1980
Annex 17      Income Statements 1975-1980
Annex 18     Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1975-1980
Annex 19      Debt/Equity Ratio Calculations
Annex 20      Summary of Arrears, 1974-1981
Annex 21     Projected Evolution of Arrears;
Agreements Reached During Negotiations on Arrears
Annex 22      Projected Operations
Annex 23     Projected Income Statements, 1981-1984
Annex 24     Projected Balance Sheets, 1981-1984
Annex 25     Projected Cash Flow, 1981-1984
Annex 26     Resource Position as at December 31, 1980
Annex 27     Projected Disbursement Schedule
Annex 28     Priority Eroduct Groups by TSKB
Annex 29     Timetable for Technical Assistance Program for Export Promotion
Annex 30     Project File



TURKEY
EXPORT-ORIENTED INDUSTRIES PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The economic crisis in Turkey that began in mid-1977 has been
reflected in poor growth rates, large balance of payments deficits, and high
inflation and unemployment. I/ Per capita GDP declined for the third year in
a row in 1980, while inflation reached an unprecedented rate of more than 100%
compared to 65% in 1979. Unemployment has risen over the years and is
officially cited at 2.7 million in 1980, or almost 16% of the labor force.
The rate of investment declined from 25% of GDP in the mid-1970's to 22% in
1980. The balance of payments position remained very tight with the current
account deficit increasing from US$1.7 billion in 1978 to US$3.2 billion in
1980.
1.02     Against a background of deepening economic crisis, the Government
introduced a major reform package in January 1980 which was consolidated with
further measures during the course of 1980 and 1981. 2/ After a slow start,
largely attributed to political uncertainty and labor strife, the reform
measures have yielded positive results. Real GDP is estimated to have
increased by 4.4% in 1981, a welcome development after several years of
economic decline. Inflation has decelerated from a peak of about 120% in
March 1980 on a year to year basis, to 35% in August 1981. Export growth has
been particularly strong in 1981 with export receipts over the first nine
months of 1981 about 61% higher than the same period of 1980. Workers'
remittances in 1981 are estimated to be 20% over 1980. While the external
imbalance remains acute, the current account deficit for 1981 is estimated at
US$2.6 billion, or almost US$600 million less than in 1980. Beyond 1981,
growth prospects should improve further with the successful implementation of
the policy measures enacted during 1981 which aim at improving capacity
utilization and efficiency especially in state enterprises, export promotion,
liberalization of interest rates, capital market development, rationalization
of tariff structure, establishment of realistic foreign exchange rates, and
tax reforms.
1.03     Turkey's balance of payments difficulties are expected to continue
for some time. To have maintained the previous capital-intensive, import
1/ A detailed review of Turkey's economic situation and prospects appears in
Turkey-Policies and Prospects for Growth, March 1980 (Report No.
2657(a)-TU). See also Turkey: Industrialization and Trade Strategy,
December 1981 (green cover)(Report No. 3641-TU).
2/ The January 1980 economic program and subsequent policy measures are
discussed in detail in the President's Report No. P-2727-TU dated February
29, 1980, and the President's Report No. P-3034-TU dated April 20, 1981,
respectively.



suis_itution path of industrial development would have fur'-:>er exacerbated the
cf payments situation.  The Government's decision therefore to switch
to a - 'elopment strategy, as outlined in its January 1980 program which
focuses on export promotion and thereby exploits Turkey's comparative
advantage and considerable export potential on a broader spectrum of
industries, rests on a more solid foundation and is in the right direction.
The changes in the supportive policy framework designed to remove existing
hurdles to export development and to place greater reliance on private
initiative (detailed in paras 2.07, 2.08, 2.12, 2.15) will take time to
implement but should facilitate in time the attainment of the requisite
structural changes to which the Government is firmly committ-ed.
1.04     In the last decade (through 1980) the Bank lent US$2,653 million to
Turkey of which industry andi DFCs with 15 projects accounted for 33%. During
that decade the Bank's strategy and objectives of lending to the industrial
and DFC sectors broadened from an earlier exclusive focus on lending to the
private sector through TSKB.  Direct loans for large, publicly controlled
projects were made in steel, pulp and paper, fertilizer, and textiles.  As a
result of this change in lending strategy the Bank began to provide loans to
the State Investment Bank (OYB), combined with efforts to improve its
supervision and appraisal procedures, with the expectation that this approach
would lead to better investment decisions and management efficiency in the
public sector projects financed by DYB. In the case of TSKB, already a
seasoned institution, the Bank's objectives became more focused on resource
mobilization, and the financing of small and medium sized projects as well as
projects in less-developed regions.
1.05     The Bank Group's activities in the industrial sector are presently
aimed at supporting the economic reform policies initiated -in January 1980,
especially (a) the pursuit of an export-oriented development strategy, with
(b) emphasis on employment creation, (c) restructuring and expansion of key
sub-sectors, and (d) rationalization of public SEE investment and (e) SEE
institutional reform. In support of the Government's development strategy
(item (a)), the Bank has cornpleted two structural adjustment loans (SALs) to
finance raw material imports on the basis of continued improvement in the
macro-economic policies and export incentives. A recent Bank sectoral mission
has prepared an evaluation of the Government's policies for industrialization
and its trade strategy which will help the Bank to seek further improvements
in them. This project, as discussed below (para 1.07), will complement the
SAL program in support of the Government's strategy.
1.06     Employment creation (item (b)) has been supported by a recent loan to
SYKB to finance labor intensive projects in the private sector. This is
envisaged as the first of a series for this purpose. The program for
restructuring and expansion of priority sub-sectors (item (c,) includes recent
loans to TSKB and SYKB for the textile industry, complemented by a loan to the
state-owned textile corporation, Sumerbank. One loan for fertilizer sector
rehabilitation and energy saving has just been signed and a second loan for
this sector has been appraised. Projects are being prepared for future Bank
consideration in the cement and paper industries and future lending in support
of the engineering sub-sector will be considered based on a sub-sector review
mission scheduled for this f-iscal year.  Improvement in the allocation of



public sector investments (item (d)) has been studied by a comprehensive
review mission whose report was recently discussed with the Government.
Reform of SEE institutional arrangements designed to improve their efficiency
and profitability continues to be an important element in the structural
adjustment program. Loans for priority sub-sectors will include direct loans
to public sector firms and provide the occasion for firm level measures to
improve organisation and efficiency. A third loan to DYB has been signed to
enable completion of six high priority rationalization/modernization projects,
and to strengthen DYB's capacity to ensure adequate appraisal and supervision
of SEE investment proposals.
1.07     With regard to the task of restructuring Turkish industry to make it
more export-oriented, the Bank's SAL program has had an important focus on the
need for an appropriate macro-policy framework and incentives to stimulate
appropriate expansion in the private sector where there is the greatest
potential for export growth. The private sector has responded to the new
environment by expanding manufacturing exports from existing unused capacity
and there is clear evidence that the build-up of investor confidence can be
expected to lead in the medium term to recovery and further growth in
investment demand to increase that capacity. The proposed project, with TSKB
as the delivery agency, is intended to complement the SAL, macro-level program
with a combination of promotion, technical assistance and financing--inputs
needed at the level of the firm if effective restructuring is to take place.
The project is intended to (a) promote restructuring in the Turkish private
manufacturing sector in lines of comparative advantage, with emphasis on
expanding capability for exporting in non-traditional manufacturing (e.g.
light engineering products, construction materials, mineral-based chemicals,
wood products), (b) strengthen the export capability of the private sector
through provision of required foreign exchange working capital finance and
programs of technical assistance that provide export marketing assistance and
improve productivity, efficiency, and product design and quality, and
(c) enhance TSKB's capability to identify, promote and finance export-oriented
manufacturing in the private sector, particularly its capacity to identify
technical assistance and training needs and help in meeting them.
1.08     The Bank's operations in the industrial sector, including loans to
TSKB have been reviewed by the Operations Evaluation Department in its report
entitled "Sector Operations Review: Industries and DFCs Programs in Turkey"
(Report No. 3077 dated July 19, 1980). The report concluded that given the
context in which TSKB was functioning and the financial and economic
environment of Turkey, "TSKB was remarkably successful in matters within the
competence of its management. On the other hand, in matters of long-term
business strategy and on issues outside its direct control, TSKB's management
was inhibited by the environment in which it had to operate. In recent years,
and particularly in response to Bank urging, it made successful efforts to
diversify the area and the industrial spread of its operations. However, it
was unable to obtain changes in policy needed to help it achieve broader
objectives, whether in promoting industrial deconcentration or in generating
more employment than it did. Conservativeness on the part of TSKB's
management, coupled with a somewhat ambivalent Government approach, were also
responsible for the lack of progress on the financial intermediation
objectives. Although the Bank was dissatisfied with the efforts of the



- 4 -
Government and with TSKB's management on this score, its appraisals showed
satisfaction with the institutional developments related to capital market and
resource mobilization issues, and these objectives continued to feature in its
operations." The primary objective of TSKB's operations, reflecting the
Government's shift in industrial strategy, has been redirected from promoting
industrial deconcentration and development of underdeveloped regions to
restructuring for export competitiveness, an objective which this project will
foster. The policy and institutional environment is now supportive of this
objective and should continue to improve (para 2.07). The Government is
tackling the problem of resource mobilization with measures to reform the tax
structure and promote capital markets (para 2.08). These measures will
require time to achieve results but under this project interim measures have
been taken to ensure adequate TSKB access to domestic resources (para 5.14).



- 5 -
II. THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR
A. Structure and Policies
2.01     Structure.  In Turkey, the public sector predominates in large
capital-intensive ventures such as steel, aluminum, petrochemicals,
fertilizers, pulp and paper, and cement. The private sector, on the other
hand, is dominant mostly in light and non-process industries, i.e., fabricated
metals, electrical and mechanical machinery, transport vehicles, glass and
glassware, rubber and plastics, wood products, food processing, textiles and
clothing, and is for the most part represented by small and medium-scale
enterprises. The public sector is organized into a dozen major holding
companies, which control about 400 establishments, most employing more than
200 workers. In contrast, only 7% of the establishments in the private sector
employ more than 200 workers. The private sector accounts for about 40% of
total manufacturing investment, 60% of value added, 64% of employment in the
organized sector, and 85% of manufactured exports.
2.02     Past Policies and Performance.  Industrialization in Turkey has been
viewed as an instrument for the achievement of high rates of economic growth,
structural changes and greater self-sufficiency. Objectives such as export
promotion and employment generation have been less weighty, being envisaged as
the natural outcome of a rapid industrialization effort. The main goal was to
develop Turkey quickly into a modern industrial state. The main thrust of
industrial development strategy has therefore been capital-intensive import
substitution in basic industries. The principal policy instruments included
large investment allocations with direct planning and control in the public
sector, and generous incentives combined with high levels of protection for
private industry.
2.03     The rigorous pursuit of these policies yielded some positive
benefits. During the period of planned economic development (1963-1977),
value added in manufacturing, the leading sector, grew at an annual average
rate of about 10%, significantly above the average for middle-income
developing countries. The sector absorbed 25% of total investment and its
share in GDP increased steadily. Local production of basic commodities
facilitated the introduction of new technologies and created valuable labor
skills. Dispersal of state economic enterprises (SEEs) and incentives for
private firms to invest in less developed regions have helped mitigate to some
extent interregional disparities, as has a nationwide program of industrial
estates.
2.04     Notwithstanding these achievements, the heavy reliance on SEEs and
the development of an inward-looking industrial structure gave rise to some
very serious problems. Poor project planning and implementation; political
interference in the day-to-day operations; low salaries at the management
level resulting in high turnover of key staff; labor costs inflated by
overmanning and by higher than justified relative wages in strongly unionized
plants; internal inefficiencies due to weak management, poor industrial
relations, and technical problems in design and operations; low levels of
capacity utilization; and lack of authority to make pricing decisions, have
adversely affected the operating efficiency of SEEs and resulted in poor



- 6 -
financial performance. Without the discipline of competition or adequate
budgetary control there has been little or no incentive to improve efficiency.
2.05     Protectionism has also led to inefficiencies in the private sector.
The protection system, composed of quotas (abolished in January 1981), import
licensing and tariffs, and reinforced until recently by a persistently
overvalued exchange rate, has been heavily biased against exports by:
(a) making domestic markets more profitable than exports; (b) preventing the
exploitation of economies of scale; and (c) raising input prices through the
protection of inefficient supplying industries. In the face of insufficient
export incentives to outweigh the higher profitability of domestic sales and
in the absence of the necessary export institutional framework, the level and
growth of manufactured exports has remained extremely low, accounting for 4%
of GDP compared to an average of 20% for 55 middle-income developing
countries. Moreover, exports are largely confined to a few traditional
products, primarily textile yarns, leather products, and certain types of
processed foods (see para 2.06). Though there are notable exceptions, in
general Turkish firms have tended to export occasional surpluses over home
market needs and appeared disinclined to invest with a view to permanent
export commitments. Even th,is modest effort should largely be credited to the
private sector, which has consistently accounted for about 85% of
manufacturing exports during the last two decades.
2.06     Finally, the overvalued exchange rate, the exemption from and/or
deferment of custom duties, and the highly negative real interest rates
reduced drastically the financial cost of investment. This, coupled with
rising real wages and social charges and unabating industrial strife,
introduced a capital-intensive bias in private investment decisions and
technology choices. With the already heavy emphasis on large capital-
intensive projects in the public sector, the investment cost per job created
between the First and Third Plans more than doubled, rising from TL 267,000
(US$16,600) to TL 572,000 (US$35,600) in real terms. Thus, manufacturing
investment became increasingly less effective in creating new productive
employment opportunities.
2.07     New Policy Initiatives.  The Government instituted in January 1980 a
comprehensive and far-reaching economic program aimed at stabilizing the
economy and correcting structural disequilibria. The Government now places
much greater emphasis on the private sector to stimulate growth and exports,
and stresses the increasing role of market prices henceforth. The main
elements of the January 1980 reform include: a large devaluation and a
"crawling-peg" exchange rate policy, increased export incentives,
encouragement of direct fore!ign investments, and decontrol of the prices of
most goods produced by SEEs.. The commercial bank interest rates were
liberalized effective July 1, 1980. In January 1981, the Government further
liberalized imports and the major elements of the long-awaited tax reform
package have also now been approved. A capital market development bill has
just been enacted.
2.08     The importance of a policy to remove the bias against exports and to
strengthen the export incentive framework is now fully recognized, and is
reflected in a number of complementary measures that are available:



(i) a foreign exchange retention scheme, allowing industrial exporters access
to 50% of their export earnings to secure raw materials at world prices; (ii)
an export tax rebate scheme ranging from 5% to 20% to offset a variety of
fiscal levies; (iii) a preferential finance mechanism, allowing for priority
access to working capital and term credits, concessionary interest rates and
tax exemption on financial transactions; (iv) exemption from all customs and
related duties and fees; (v) tax benefits on earnings from exports to a
varying degree 11; and (vi) priority access to foreign exchange under the
temporary import regime. In addition, exporters benefit from the general
investment incentives which include among others exemption from construction
tax. Similar incentives are now available to export trading companies. 2/
The Government has also simplified and streamlined administrative procedures
by centralizing export promotion responsibilities, has liberalized the foreign
investment law, and is studying a number of other measures (para 2.13). These
are important steps but, given the inherent difficulties in their implementa-
tion (paras 2.12-2.15), it will take some time for the full effects to
materialize.
B. Export Sector
2.09     The Structure and Pattern of Export Trade. 3/  Exports of manufac-
tured goods remained stagnant at around US$600.0 million between 1974 and
1977. They picked up in 1978 and increased rapidly thereafter, by 26% in 1979
and 33% in 1980, reaching US$1,047.0 million. This upward trend is continuing
in 1981: in the first nine months, manufacturing exports increased by 106%
over the corresponding period in 1980 when exports were at a low level. This
rate of growth should in part be ascribed to the Government's improvements in
the incentive schemes, the maintenance of external competitiveness through
exchange rate adjustment, and the slowdown in domestic demand. A contributing
factor has also been the effort by private firms in the face of a sluggish
domestic market to find compensating, though not always profitable, outlets in
the world market, especially in the oil-surplus Middle Eastern countries, to
assure preferential access to scarce foreign exchange and working capital
credits that could be used to support operations for the more lucrative
domestic market. 4/ As a result, the share of manufactures in total exports,
which had remained at about 27% during 1972-77, rose to 36% in 1980 with a
further increase to 48% in the first ten months of 1981.
1/ The regular rebate rate is designed to compensate for indirect taxes paid
at the preceding stage of manufacture and does not in principle represent
an export subsidy. The foreign exchange retention scheme and the
duty-free importation of inputs place Turkish exporters on the same
footing as exporters of other developing countries and are not considered
export subsidies under GATT rules.
2/ Trading companies that export between US$4-15 million annually receive an
additional 5% tax rebate; if exports exceed US$15 million, they receive a
further 5% tax rebate.
3/ The commodity composition and geographical distribution of exports are
shown in Annexes 1 and 2.
4/ To qualify for the various incentives a firm has to undertake a commitment
to export a certain proportion (generally in the 25-30% range) of
production.



- 8 -
Throughout this period, textiles have achieved the most dramatic increase,
rising from US$55.0 million in 1971 to US$440.0 million in 1980, or eight
times, accounting for 42% of total manufacturing exports. Turkey's
comparative advantage and the modernization of the spinning segment account
for this impressive performance. Exports of leather products and processed
foods more than doubled between 1972 and 1980, reaching US$50.0 million and
US$190.0 million, respectively, with their combined share amounting to 23% of
total manufactured exports. Thus, two thirds of manufactured exports are
composed basically of traditional commodities. However, the structure of
exports has been changing in the past few years. The share of textiles has
declined from a peak 52% in 1978 to 42% in 1980, while the share of chemicals
and engineering products has more than doubled to almost 18 percent,
suggestive of the potential for export by these latter sectors. OECD
countries which accounted for 73% of Turkish exports in 1972 now absorb 58%
while the share of other countries excluding bilateral agreement countries
rose from 22% to 36%. In the last two years exports to the Middle Eastern
countries almost doubled with the share of these markets in total exports
rising from 14% in 1978 to 22% in 1980 and to 39% during the first ten months
of 1981. This attests to the significant potential for future expansion of
exports to the oil-rich Arab countries.
2.10     Export Possibilities.  Turkey has a considerable natural resource
base including industrial raw materials, timber and minerals, a comparatively
low-wage, skilled and hard working labor force, a diversified industrial base,
and a dynamic private sector responsive to market incentives. It also has
proximity to the EEC, Eastern Europe and Middle East and North Africa
markets. With this material and human resources endowment and locational
advantage, there is a considerable potential for expansion of exports of
processed foods, textiles and clothing, leather and leather products,
furniture and wood products, glass and glassware, mineral-based chemicals,
construction materials, and an array of light engineering products.
Typically, these are non-process skill-intensive industries, requiring mostly
medium-scale plant, relatively low capital intensity and varying levels of
tehnology. Their expansion therefore entails relatively low capital
requirements and is affordable to a wider range of smaller entrepreneurs.
2.11     Bank analysis indicates that with appropriate policies manufactured
exports could increase by about 20% per annum in real terms during 1982-1985.
The share of manufactured exports in manufacturing output would increase to 7%
by 1985, up from about 4% in 1980. This implies that about 17% of the
increase in manufacturing output between 1980 and 1985 will have to be
exported. The growth rate, while ambitious, is attainable given the present
small base and the considerable potential for diversification both in products
and markets and will involve a continued strong increase of Turkish
manufactured exports to the Middle Eastern countries where Turkey's share is
still a negligible proportion of the total imports. The share of EEC market
in total Turkish exports will continue to decline, partly due to the rapid
growth of Middle Eastern market and partly due to the stagnant growth of
textile exports, which is Turkey's major export item to EEC. The benefits
expected from Turkey's Association Agreement with the EEC have been somewhat
eroded by the associated membership of other Southern European countries,
trade agreements with other Mediterranean countries, privileges accorded to



signatories of the Lome convention and by EEC countries' continued sensitivity
to textile imports. These restraints are lessened by Turkey's "preferential
entry" status and by efforts on the part of the Turkish firms to upgrade the
quality of products under the quota system as well as a shift to higher value
products not on the quota list. Given that industrial countries' imports of
manufactured goods from developing countries are expected to increase by
10-12% per annum, and considering that exports from Turkey form a very small
proportion of total imports of these countries, markets may not be an
overriding constraint if the industry can simultaneously increase its
production and international competitiveness.
2.12     Institutional Impediments to Exports.  The Government has already
taken steps to improve the import regime; import quotas have been abolished
and the items previously in the quota list have been moved to more liberalized
categories. However, the protection level remains high which carries the
danger of continuing to provide wrong signals to investors. The Government is
undertaking a detailed study of the protection and incentive system with the
Bank's assistance. The study, which is expected to be completed within two
years, will make recommendations to reform the system and will suggest
restructuring programs, including assistance to industries to ease their
problems of transition. The new system to emerge from the liberalization
program is expected to be in place by the end of 1984.
2.13     The institutional framework to promote exports needs to be
strengthened. Specifically, there is a need to create a focal point for the
export offensive, by establishing a well-conceived and properly staffed export
promotion agency. Such an institution could provide information on current
developments affecting exports, trade regulations, export fairs and missions,
foreign market conditions and potential foreign buyers. Promotional
activities such as sponsoring seminars, organizing trade missions and
otherwise providing information of interest to actual or potential exporters
would contribute to the growing awareness of local producers to export
possibilities. The Export Promotion Center (IGEME), a government funded
organization, has neither the staff nor the budget for mounting an effective
export promotion effort. Turkey's large business groups are capable of
mounting an export promotion effort, for medium size firms, who can rarely
export directly. The Istanbul Chamber of Commerce has assumed an important
role in organizing trade fairs and missions and is also planning to establish
an export promotion center in Istanbul. The Government, aware of the
weaknesses in the institutional environment has just established a task force
to prepare for setting up a new Export Development and Promotion Center that
will undertake activities related to planning and coordination, product market
development information, documentation and publicity, manpower development and
training and technical advisory support services. It has also reviewed and
considered various proposals for creation of a specialized export development
bank, establishment of free trade zones and creation of a series of trade
centers. To facilitate the export of capital goods there is a need, which the
Government is studying, to provide export credits. In the meantime, the
Islamic Development Bank has shown interest in providing medium-term credits
to importers of Turkish producer and durable goods in countries where the
Islamic Bank has an active presence. Progress in the above efforts to improve
the export institutional arrangements are being monitored under the Bank's
program of structural adjustment loans for Turkey and continues on the whole
to be satisfactory.



- 10 -
2.14     Export Constraints at the Enterprise Level.  Aside from impediments
relating to institutional arrangements, certain deep-seated obstacles to
expanding exports remain at the level of the firm. While there are some firms
with successful export perfcirmance, in most instances private units do not
have the marketing capacity and/or are not equipped to handle large orders or
meet minimum standards of quality. Many firms are hampered further by
deficient technical and management methods, inadequate specialization and
standardization, deficient product design, poor quality of raw materials,
outdated equipment, low productivity levels, lack of access to vital
accessories, and financial difficulties. Exports, when realized, are usually
at a discount because of lower quality or lack of market recognition.
Existing sources of technical and marketing assistance in Turkey, which
include private engineering and marketing consultants, several trading
companies, as well as IGEME and the Industrial Research Institute, are meeting
some of these needs and deserve encouragement.  Thus to realize the country's
export potential, there is rneed not only for an institutional framework
conducive to private investment and an export commitment, but also for
additional technical, marketing and financial assistance to Turkish
enterprises. The proposed project provides a technical assistance program
(paras 6.13-6.25) to help meet these needs.
2.15.    At present, there is an acute shortage of working capital in Turkey,
particularly felt by exporting firms that have to import large quantities of
raw materials. These firms must carry large inventories to maintain
production levels when allocations of foreign currency are restricted, which
ties up substantial working capital. While there has been improvement in the
existing credit mechanisms, many exporters experience considerable delays and
even uncertainty in getting access to foreign exchange. This uncertainty
makes them reluctant to commit themselves to large export contracts, since
they might not be able to meet delivery deadlines. Firms seeking to export
for the first time, especially if they are not associated with an existing
industrial/banking complex, have particular difficulty because their needs are
not accorded sufficient priority by commercial banks. To alleviate the
situation, the project proposes the establishment of a foreign exchange
working capital scheme, to be lodged at TSKB (paras 6.07-6.12).
C. Investment Outlook
2.16     The severe economic and social problems during 1978-80 have weakened
the private sector financially, curtailed access to new financial resources
and caused deep uncertainty about the long-term investment climate. As a
result, the level of private fixed investment in manufacturing has declined by
about 30% in the last two years 1/ to about US$1.2 billion in 1980.
1/  Value added in manufacturing increased by 3% in 1978, but declined by 6%
in 1979; it has remained stagnant in 1980. The rate of capacity
utilization in the private manufacturing sector fell from 56% in 1978 to
45% in 1979 before recovering to 51% in 1980. The Chamber of Commerce
estimates a CUR of 56% in the first quarter of 1981 compared to 47% for
the same period in 1980.



- 11 -
The Government's determined efforts to stabilize the economy and restore
social order and official pronouncements and measures in support of private
initiative have helped restore private sector confidence.  The Government has
affirmed inter alia that the private sector will be given equal access with
the public sector to imported equipment and finance, that no industry will be
closed to private entrepreneurs, and that foreign investors will be welcome to
join in partnership with Turkish investors. Mobilization of resources for
private sector investment has been facilitated by; measures on interest
rates, tax reform and capital market development. The business community now
appears more confident of the continuity and stability of economic policies,
and fully supports Government initiatives aiming at a change-over to a more
market-oriented economy. Although investors continue to be cautious in the
face of slack domestic demand low capacity utilization (about 57% in 1981),
uncertainty about and constraints on exports, and the shortage and high cost
of credit (para 3.09), the large increase in Investment Encouragement
Certificates (TL 274 billion in the first four months of 1981 compared with
TL 207 billion for the entire year 1980) is evidence of renewed investor
confidence. Though the precise timing of increased investment due to this
growing confidence is uncertain, it can reasonably be expected in the near
future, provided that present policies continue. The recent strengthening of
export incentives, expectations of continuing weak domestic markets, and the
end of debilitating labor disputes have aroused particularly strong interest
in restructuring and/or undertaking investments for export-related
activities. A vigorous private sector has grown up despite an inward-looking
policy environment that did not encourage long-term competitiveness. It
should now be able to perform better in a more hospitable environment and
under a more rational set of incentives and institutional framework.



- 12 -
III. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. The Institutional Set-Up
3.01      The financial sector of Turkey is dominated by a well-developed
banking system. In 1980, there were 39 banks, state or privately owned,
excluding the four investment banks DYB, TSKB, SYKB, and DESIYAB; of these, 27
are privately owned with 4 foreign controlled. The remaining 12 are banks
established and controlled by the state under special laws and serve as
instruments to implement the Government's economic development objectives.
The private commercial banking sector is characterized by a high degree of
concentration, with three beanks (Is, Yapi-Kredi, and Akbank) accounting for
some 70% of the assets and credits in this sector.
3.02      Roughly 50% of total private fixed investment in the organized sector
of industry is financed by intermediaries, including commercial banks.
Another 40% of private industrial investment is financed out of internally
generated funds; about 8% is from bond issues and a negligible proportion of
share issues, and the remaining 2% through direct foreign financing. TSKB
provided about 6.5% of the total fixed investment requirements of organized
sector private manufacturers during 1977-1978 followed by SYKB with 1.5%, the
latter mostly for domestic currency investments. The other sources of
long-term industrial finance are the new and rapidly growing DESIYAB, designed
to mobilize inter alia the savings of migrant workers for investment in widely
owned companies mainly in the less developed regions (potentially
complementing TSKB's regionial development efforts), the Halk Bank, a
Government-owned commercial bank that provides a modest amount of term finance
for investment in fixed assets to small-scale industry and artisans, and the
Investment Finance Corporation, established in 1976, which participates in the
equity of large industrial firms located in the less developed regions.
Commercial banks provide an estimated 30%-35% of total fixed investment
requirements, mostly through short-term loans that are periodically rolled
over.
3.03      Private commercial banks cater mainly to the needs of larger
companies which the banks have promoted and in which they have equity
holdings-- totaling TL 11.5 billion (US$650 million) in 1977. In turn, the
principal industrial concerns in Turkey are major shareholders of private
banks, which attests to the close linkages between the financial and
manufacturing sectors. Since 1972, commercial banks have increased their
share of medium-term lending to the private sector, in response to regulations
whereby they were required to earmark 10% (and since 1976, 20%) of their
portfolio for loans of two to five years' maturity. The private commercial
banks have sustained virtually no losses from credit operations and operate on
high profit margins. As a result of inflation and no corresponding asset
revaluation they have become under-capitalized, however, and the Government is
now requiring most private commercial banks to greatly expand their equity.
With the recent deregulation of interest rates (para 3.09), and the recent
rapid expansion of unregulated brokers 1/ (para 3.04) that are attracting
1/ Government regulations for these firms were issued in mid-September, 1981.



- 13 -
funds from the banks, the traditional institutions (including DFC's) are
facing increased competition and their role and functions can be expected to
evolve more rapidly than in the past.
B. Capital Market Development
3.04      The capital market in Turkey is particularly underdeveloped.  Most
obligations are issued by the public sector, and consist largely of bonds sold
with the help of statutory provisions. There is one small stock exchange.
The capital market is not a significant source of long-term domestic currency
financing for industry (para 3.02). Only major brokers, banks and large
holding companies participate in the market which is thin partly as a result
of taxation and commercial practices that discourage public issues. Most
private corporations are closely held, and the underdeveloped state of the
stock market, and the widespread issue of non-bearer shares which limit
transferable rights, continue to inhibit the widening of ownership. The
auditing profession is relatively undeveloped. During the last two years,
there has been increased activity in the bond market; during 1980, the
flotation of private bonds amounted to TL 18.0 billion, almost four times the
volume in 1979 and seven times that in 1978, and growth has continued at the
same rates in 1981. This development is due mainly to the placement of bonds
(largely with private savers) of large well-known private companies by private
unregulated brokers 1/ who were able to offer competitive yields on the bonds
by purchasing them below par value. Bonds, however, are relatively short-term
in nature: they are purchased with a buy-back guarantee extending only up to
two years.
3.05     The Government enacted a bill in July 1981 to regulate and control
the capital market. The bill has three main aspects. First, it establishes a
legal framework for the issue and trading of shares and bonds through setting
up a new High Council on Regulation and Control of Capital Markets. A company
wishing to sell shares or bonds must first obtain approval by the High
Council. Independent auditors who are professional chartered accountants and
are acceptable to the Council will examine the financial viability of such
firms. To ensure adequate and accurate information, the Council is empowered
to enforce standardized accounts and other pertinent information and minimum
accounting standards, and can halt sales by a company deemed financially
unsound. Second, the bill introduces regulation of financial intermediaries
dealing in stocks and bonds. The Council will determine their financial
solvency and certify them on conditions it will determine. Third, banks are
also permitted to establish a stock investment fund for the purpose of
operating a stock portfolio. This fund will operate portfolios of stocks and
bonds and will be composed of money collected from the public against
participating certificates issued by the Bank. The Government has requested
IFC assistance in implementing this framework legislation.
3.06     The new bill, which will be effective in early 1982, takes the
essential first steps in developing the capital market by establishing an
independent authority to supervise the capital market. Given time, the bill
should significantly contribute to increasing the flow of private savings by
requiring certain standards of both intermediaries and issuing firms and
thereby improving the investors' confidence in the market. Also, new
1/ They are now subject to regulation. See para 3.03, footnote 1.



- 14 -
opportunities for attracting and pooling savings as well as specializing in
investment should be created by offering savers a wider portfolio choice in a
financial market currently dlominated by commercial banks, as well as by
broadening the range of available instruments in terms of scale, maturity and
risk. The bill should further help to improve the capital base of private
companies, through channelling a larger volume of funds to the corporate
sector, and through simplification of the procedures for capital increases in
joint stock companies. The bill may also increase the inflow of foreign
capital; foreign firms have been hindered from investing in Turkish companies
by the fact that Turkish capital has not assumed an adequate size for
partnerships.
3.07     The Government intends to complement the capital markets bill with a
number of other initiatives. It has abolished the income tax withholding and
thereby the double taxation of distributed profits. 1/ The Government
proposes to enact legislation to introduce professional chartered accounting
in Turkey, and to permit firms to revalue company assets, with the initial
revaluation exempted from irncome taxation. 2/
C. Interest Rates and Foreign Exchange Risk
3.08     Until July 1, 1980, the Government regulated interest rates both for
deposits and lending, differentiating by activity and maturity. Interest
rates on deposits increasingly provided negative real returns to savers due to
the accelerating inflation. This led to disintermediation and diversion of
investments to real estate and other non-financial assets. Lending rates were
differentiated by activity to encourage investment in priority activities and
regions, a policy which has met with some success. This was accomplished
through interest rebates both to the borrower and the lender. They encouraged
commercial banks especially to lend on a medium-term basis through access to
the Central Bank's rediscourLting facility. By early 1980, the interest rate
on industrial loans was 27.5% (including a 5.5% transaction tax) before any
interest rebates, which ranged up to 9% depending on the nature of the
project. However, no distinction was made between interest rates on foreign
and local currency loans, though borrowers of foreign currency assumed the
full exchange risk. While the interest rates on TL loans were negative in
real terms, the effective ccst of foreign currency loans was very high
compared to rates prevailing; in the international capital markets. As a
result, the demand for such funds was sharply curtailed. The paucity of
long-term savings, combined with negative real interest rates on TL loans,
resulted in a severe shortage of local currency credit.
3.09     The interest rate regime was reformed on July 1, 1980 to reflect the
Government's new macro-economic policies, particularly those aimed at
restraining inflation, maintaining a realistic foreign exchange rate and
fostering mobilization of savings. The Government deregulated interest rates,
1/ The effective tax on DFCs has increased from 40% to 50%, however, because
of a simultaneous doubling of the income tax rate from 25% to 50%.
2/ Policies and administrative and legislative measures to promote domestic
resource mobilization are monitored under the Bank's structural adjustment
loans.



- 15 -
allowing the banks to freely fix interest rates on private sector TL deposits
and loans. The banks now collectively determine base interest rates before
commission, taxes and subsidies for TL loans for industrial borrowers based on
activity and maturity (Annex 1). These base lending rates are revised every
six months by the banks, taking into account expectations of inflation and
market conditions, and are applicable on the outstanding balance of
outstanding loans.   In addition to the base rate, borrowers are charged a
two-point commission for collateral held, and a transaction tax of 10% (except
for DFCs) plus an interest equalization fee of 10% which total to about 30% of
the base interest rate. Qualifying borrowers, however, are eligible for
interest rate rebates from the Government on priority investment projects
varying from 25% to 60% of the base rate, depending on the nature (e.g. for
exports) and location of the investment. As rebates on all loans are often
paid with considerable delay, the incentive effect is somewhat diluted. The
current effective interest rate for the second half of 1981, after taking into
account various taxes and charges but excluding rebates, varied from 30% to
58% on medium-term TL loans (Annex 4). l/ Even when rebates are included, the
rates for most priority projects, in the range of 20%-28%, are marginal to
substantially positive given current inflation forecasts of 30% in 1982
falling to 20% in 1983 and thereafter. The adoption of the present system has
ensured that interest rates closely reflect domestic inflationary expectations
and market conditions. Following deregulation the banks have substantially
increased interest rates on term deposits over the past six months (from 15%
to 50% for deposits of between six months and one year maturity) resulting in
marked growth in deposits. 2/ It can thus reasonably be concluded that the
variable interest rate policy adopted by the banking system should ensure
interest rates that reflect the true cost of capital during the life of the
project, and hence are unlikely to result in a subsidy to the borrower.
3.10     On foreign currency loans for fixed asset investments, the base
interest rate is set by the intermediary's cost (or the weighted average cost)
of foreign currency borrowing plus a spread that has recently been increased
to 4%, and for most loans will rise progressively to 5.5% in 1982 (para
5.19). With the recent elimination of transaction tax for DFC investment,
sub-borrowers pay only an interest equalization fee of 10% on the base
interest rate, and are eligible for interest rebates depending on the nature
and location of the investments as in the case of TL loans. Thus, the
effective interest rate on foreign currency investment loans, after taking
into account all taxes and charges but excluding rebates, is now about 14%
with the borrower assuming the full foreign exchange risk (Annex 4). With the
increases in spread and in average borrowing rates, interest rates on foreign
currency investment loans will rise to 16-17% in 1982, before rebates for
export-oriented projects and those in less developed regions whose rates will
then range from 10.5-13%. These rates are satisfactory, considering the
prevailing interest rates in the international capital markets for similar
loans.
1/ Interest rates charged on one-year, non-preferential loans by commercial
banks are at present 38%, which increases to 70% if account is taken of
the various taxes and fees, and compensating balances.
2/ The withholding tax on time deposits is 25%, reducing the after-tax
equivalent of the 50% interest rate on one-year time deposits to 37.5%.



- 16 -
3.11     The Government has reaffirmed its commitment to an interest rate
policy that will attract financial savings and efficiently allocate investible
funds. It intends to raise the rate of interest on Government bonds to levels
required in light of market conditions to achieve its borrowing targets. It
lifted the ceilings on the interest rates on private bond issues on July 1,
1981, which had been raised to a range of 28% to 32% (depending on maturity)
in 1980 but were no longer competitive. Furthermore, the Government is
reviewing the existing system of taxes and fees on banking transactions which,
along with compensating balances required by commercial banks, raise the
effective cost of non-preferential loans to almost 70%. The transaction tax
has also been reduced to 15% and eliminated for DFC's on loans to
sub-borrowers. However, the 15% transaction tax remains on DFC borrowings
from other intermediaries which impedes diversification of DFC funding
sources. This matter was discussed at negotiations and the representatives of
the Government indicated that the Government would look into possible measures
to facilitate the ability of DFCs to raise local currency resources at
reasonable costs (para 5.24).



- 17 -
IV. TSKB - INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT, OPERATIONS AND IMPACT
A. Institutional Development
4.01     Policies.  In 1978 TSKB's Board of Directors adopted a Policy
Statement consolidating several previous resolutions and established operating
procedures. The main objective for TSKB was to contribute to the economic
development of Turkey by financing industrial investments by the private
sector. To achieve this objective the Policy Statement set forth guidelines
and criteria for fulfilling: (i) economic and other social objectives (e.g.,
employment generation, regional development, promotion of new entrepreneurs);
(ii) project development and financial risk limits; and (iii) project and
financial objectives, including resource mobilization. However, the difficult
economic conditions in Turkey have hindered TSKB in implementing all its
objectives. TSKB's level of operations and extent of support to new
entrepreneurs in the less developed regions which were hit the hardest have
been circumscribed, and will continue to be affected in the immediate future
as TSKB places increasing emphasis on export-oriented investments which tend
to be located in the more developed regions. TSKB's resource mobilization
effort also has been limited. TSKB was forced on occasion to exceed its 15%
equity investment limit in order to accommodate longstanding sub-borrowers due
in part to devaluation and in part to non-availability of funds from other
sources. However, this should be viewed clearly as a temporary exception
dictated by unusual circumstances. TSKB's Board changed its Policy Statement
in January, 1982 to reflect its shift in operational emphasis (Project File,
Annex 7) in the light of the Government's current strategy for economic
recovery which emphasizes the restructuring of the private sector,
particularly on improving and expanding its export capability. The long-term
role of TSKB as the country's major development bank will be reviewed in depth
during 1982 and policies established for TSKB's future development. The
matter is further discussed in paras 4.06 and 4.07.
4.02     Shareholders.  Turkiye Is Bankasi, Turkey's largest private
commercial bank, is TSKB's principal shareholder; it has expanded its interest
from 22% in 1978 to about 37% as at June 30, 1981 (Annex 5), as a result of
the substantial increase in TSKB's share capital since 1978 and the failure of
some shareholding institutions to take up their rights. Is Bankasi's pension
fund owns an additional 2.5% of share capital. Eleven other Turkish
institutional shareholders, mainly commercial banks and insurance companies,
have holdings totaling 45.5%, while private shareholders hold 12%, each owning
less than 2% of the capital. IFC is the only major foreign shareholder; its
share has fallen in the past two years from 6% to 3% as it did not participate
in the last capital increase. TSKB would like to broaden its shareholders'
base in connection with the projected capital increase, but attempts to do so,
especially the participation of foreign shareholders, are not likely to be
effective until confidence in the country's economic growth has been restored
and TSKB's profitability has increased to allow dividend payments in line with
shareholders' reasonable expectations. It is important that TSKB broadens its
shareholder base to better represent the Turkish private sector and eventually
establish investment links with the international community. While it is
clear that this diversification, even for Turkish shareholding, cannot be



- 18 -
easily envisaged in 1982, it is hoped that progress can be made in 1983.
During negotiations TSKB agreed to report to the Bank, before June 30, 1983,
its planned efforts towards achieving this goal, including possible measures
in conjunction with its 1982-83 agreed capital increase (para 5.04).
4.03     Board.  TSKB's Board consists of the Chairman and eight members
elected by shareholders. Members are elected for a term of three years and
are eligible for re-election. In March 1981, Mr. Burhan Karag6z, Assistant
General Manager of Turkiye Is Bankasi, was elected Chairman of TSKB's Board.
He is an experienced banker and can be expected to provide competent
leadership. TSKB's current General Manager, Mr. Ozhan Eroguz, is also a
member of the Board. As outlined in para 4.07, the Board is expected to play
a significant advisory and decision-making role in shaping of TSKB's policies
for the eighties.
4.04     Management and Staff.  The General Manager and the two senior
Assistant General Managers have been in their present positions since 1974 and
have been associated with TSKB for over two decades. Six assistant general
managers who were promoted during the recent reorganization (para 4.06) are
highly experienced. Generally, the management is able and well regarded by
the business community and by the staff. TSKB has a staff of 144
professionals. No net increase in staff has taken place during the last two
years, but substantial recruitment was undertaken during the period to replace
retired staff. During 1980, about 45 of TSKB's experienced senior staff (or
30% of professional staff) retired prior to the enactment of a national law
which reduced substantially the gratuity payable on retirement. Loss of
experienced staff, organizational changes necessitated by the rapid
deterioration in the economy, lack of coordination between new departments and
the increasing problems with arrears, resulted in a decline of TSKB's former
high level of technical efficiency and made it difficult for TSKB to adjust to
the new environment. TSKB's inability to maintain the real salaries of its
staff also resulted in a drop in morale and some loss of staff because of
increasing competition from other private sector institutions. The
adjustments in the Income Tax Law enacted at'the end of 1980 have considerably
improved the salary situation. Training programs are being operated by TSKB
for their staff, particularly in the export field, a vital area for TSKB in
the future. To fully meet TSKB's increasing responsibilities during the next
few years, especially for export development, portfolio management and arrears
improvement, TSKB will need to recruit and train a substantial number of
additional staff. An assessment of staff requirements and an action plan for
recruitment and training is presently being developed (para 4.06).
4.05     Organization.  With the rapid deterioration in the economic situation
in recent years, the parallel deterioration in TSKB's portfolio and the
changing investment pattern, TSKB's regional organization structure proved
inadequate. A new organization structure was therefore introduced in November
1979 (Annex 6(a)). Responsibility for project appraisal was centralized in
two separate departments--Loan and Investment Department and Sector Programs
and Projects Department--and projects follow-up was centralized under the Loan
and Investment Follow-Up Department, all under one Assistant General Manager.
The former Research Department's activities were expanded to include project
promotion in addition to the sectoral studies and included in the Sector



- 19 -
Programs and Projects Department. The Projects and Engineering Department was
disbanded and the staff assigned to Investment, Sector Programs and Follow-Up
Departments. The remaining Departments were regrouped under the two other
Assistant General Managers. The 1979 reorganization did not yield all the
benefits expected for the following reasons:
(a) The retirement/resignation of staff noted above (para 4.04) affected
seriously a number of departments.
(b) The acceleration of the economic crisis compelled TSKB to reconsider
the size, terms of reference and managerial responsibility of its
Loan and Investment Follow-Up Department (para 4.09).
(c) The structure of top management and the organization system, both
established on strict vertical lines, do not seem to have worked
optimally. While management delegation has been well developed over
the past years, controls have not been always effective, leading
occasionally to a weakening of TSKB's work. In addition, this
structure has allowed for an uneven balance of work load between
sections.
(d) In its efforts to redress the economy through productivity and export
growth in the private sector, the Government has turned increasingly
to TSKB. That responsibility requires a rapid build-up of new
functions and services with respect to economic and sector work,
evaluation of entitlement under the special discount facility,
promotion and technical assistance as well as the capability to
monitor Government policies in order to be able to recommend
necessary improvements.
(e)  Past constraints on TSKB's ability to raise domestic resources have
had a deleterious effect on its clients and on itself. In a more
general way, Turkey's new environment calls for a development banking
system not narrowly limited to the delivery of foreign exchange (a
role to which TSKB confined itself over the past 30 years) but open
to a full range of financial facilities and other services that are
required by Turkish industry in this decade.
4.06(a) Although TSKB has sometimes in the past been slow to respond with
proposals to meet changes in its external environment, TSKB's top management
has now taken the lead in identifying its current problems and in seeking
solutions. It realises that its role in the eighties calls for a basic
re-orientation of its policies in order to give full assistance to private
sector investors. This implies not only, as in the past, long-term lending in
foreign exchange, but the availability of "package financing", including
long-term loans in TL, working capital, financial restructuring, capital
markets assistance, technical assistance and management services, marketing
development and promotion. It also requires a new or modified organization
structure to effectively implement such objectives. With this in view, the
management has had extensive discussions with TSKB's Board, senior staff, the
Government and the Bank on objectives and policies during the latter half of
1980 and in 1981, leading inter alia to significant changes in Government
policies with respect to TSKB's mobilization of TL resources (Chapter V). In



- 20 -
parellel with its study of policy, TSKB engaged a firm of consultants (Arthur
Andersen, Turkey) who have completed a review of its systems and procedures in
conjunction with the updating of its computer installation. Substantial
improvements are being implemented in this area. Since mid-1981, TSKB has
also been developing an organization plan which redefines and redistributes
tasks and activities among senior staff and departments and introduces greater
coordination between departrments. To assist TSKB in the task of developing
satisfactory proposals, a senior consultant, with considerable experience in
DFC matters, visited TSKB in October 1981. His report confirms managerial,
organizational and policy issues summarized in para 4.05. The consultant was
able to review with TSKB their proposed organization plans. This plan,
modified in the light of suggestions made earlier, was reviewed with the Bank
during negotiations. It was approved by TSKB's Board in January 1982, and is
presently under implementation. A copy of the new organization chart is in
Annex 6(b).
4.06(b) With regard to the immediate problem of arrears and portfolio
management, the plan makes two main improvements. First it established a
Portfolio Management Department with responsibility for monitoring portfolio
and collection of cash, which will rely on technical staff in the Loan and
Investment Departments for normal supervision.  Second, it creates a Task
Force for Problem Projects to be responsible for reappraisal of these projects
and to assist borrowers in implementing restructuring programs. Both
departments are under the responsibility of a single senior assistant general
manager who also supervises resource mobilization, internal audit, legal and
accounting. To improve the conditions for the launching of this project TSKB
has made four main improvements. First it has created another technical
assistance department which will handle TSKB's technical assistance operations
in all but the textile sub-sector. (The existing Technical Assistance
Department becomes the Textile Consultancy Department.) The new department
will have administrative responsibility for all consultancy operations to
firms financed under this project. Second, it has brought the two technical
assistance departments under the same Senior Assistant General Manager who
supervises the loan and investment departments. This will improve
coordination between lending and technical assistance. Third, three new Loan
and Investment departments are now sectorally oriented and each department has
full responsibility for all aspects of appraisal--technical, financial, and
economic--in the sectors for which it is responsible. This will ensure
integration of all aspects of appraisal which have been a problem since the
November 1979 reorganization. Finally, the full-time post of Export Project
Coordinator, has been created under the same Senior Assistant General Manager
to plan, coordinate, and monitor the technical assistance and export promotion
activities under this project. With regard to TSKB's planning for the future
(para 4.07 below) a new department of Corporate Planning has been created.
The key staff for the new organization, whose qualifications were reviewed
during negotiations, have been appointed. A manual detailing functions and
responsibilities of all units under this plan will be completed by March 1,
1982. As their first priority task the new unit managers have addressed the
problem of recruitment and training since carrying out their expanded
responsibilities will necessitate the addition of a substantial number of new
professional staff over the next 6 months. By June 30, 1982 TSKB will submit
to the Bank a detailed program of its training requirements for which funds



- 21 -
available under the thirteenth TSKB (Loan 1748-TU) amounting to about
US$135,000 are expected to be sufficient. On the basis of all the above
measures, TSKB should be able to improve its effectiveness and control over
financial matters, including the follow-up activities, as well as the key
features of this project such as TSKB's appraisal work, technical assistance
and the achievement of a dynamic export service. Thus TSKB's short term and
urgent organizational and related problems are being adequately dealt with.
4.07     TSKB has, however, another crucial task, which is to consider its
future role in Turkey in the light of present circumstances and trends.
Looking ahead is vital to TSKB to recover the pioneering role it had in its
earlier history. TSKB's ability to emerge from its present situation as, once
more, the major development institution of Turkey will be the test to pass and
the challenge to be addressed now for future association with the World Bank.
Considerable additional programming and policy-making over at least the next
year, is therefore required from TSKB management, Board and shareholders in
order to develop plans to revitalize the institution and redirect it in the
coming years. These actions include: (i) a definition of TSKB's role in the
middle eighties in the light of expected developments in the industrial and
financial and other sectors; (ii) a restatement of objectives and strategy in
light of TSKB's proposed role; (iii) an identification of specific areas into
which TSKB should diversify; (iv) a review and revision of statutes and policy
statement, and a review of the legal framework with a view to considering its
appropriateness for TSKB's revised role; (v) an assessment of the financial
implications of expansion and diversification on TSKB's needs and sources of
equity and loan capital; (vi) the staffing and organizational implications.
These six points should be covered in a tentative timetable for effecting
actions which TSKB can act on without prior Government action. The drafting
of detailed proposals to implement this ambitious program would need several
months. The scheduling and outline of these drafts should, however, be
finalized in two or three months. TSKB has agreed to launch without delay the
preparation of a strategic plan to be completed by December 31, 1982, and to
be reviewed with the Bank before its recommendations are implemented, to
reshape TSKB during the coming years, along the six-point program noted
above. Preparation of this plan will be the responsibility of the newly
created Corporate Planning Department. Submission of a satisfactory plan and
schedule for these tasks is expected by March 1, 1982, and is a condition of
effectiveness.
4.08     Appraisal.  While TSKB could not be expected to have foreseen the
difficult economic conditions of the past few years, nevertheless like the
Government it has been slow in recognizing the deep-seated problems affecting
the Turkish economy and the necessity for caution and greater selectivity of
projects. TSKB's appraisal reports have tended to regard the present economic
crisis as a cyclical phenomenon of rather short duration. The problem was
compounded by a lack of coordination between disciplines in preparing the
appraisal. Accordingly, appraisal reports have underestimated the time
required for construction and provided insufficient contingencies and grace
periods on loans; they were based on optimistic demand projections; they made
inadequate provisions for working capital requirements; and they did not fully
anticipate the difficulties that could be encountered during these adverse
economic conditions by inexperienced management in establishing new



- 22 -
industries, particularly in the least developed areas. TSKB's management are
now aware of these problems and steps have been taken to redress them. Aside
from their optimistic outlook and lack of coordination, TSKB's appraisal
reports have been satisfactory. Economic rates of return are calculated for
all projects costing more than US$2 million and generally projects must yield
an ERR higher than 15%, unless substantiated reasons warrant an exception. In
no cases are projects financed with an ERR lower than 10%.
4.09     Supervision.  With the deterioration of arrears on its portfolio in
1978 (para 5.05), TSKB intensified its supervision of projects. Initially the
approach was to exercise pressure on delinquent borrowers to repay. By the
end of 1979, TSKB realized that the problems were more fundamental and, in
consultation with the Bank, reoriented its approach to supervision. While
collection has remained an important objective, TSKB has widened its approach
to identify the structural problems involved and to assist its borrowers in
resolving them. In-depth studies were undertaken (para 5.10) and TSKB is
assisting borrowers in recruiting technical staff, resolving disputes between
major shareholders, arranging mergers and takeovers and securing additional
equity and loan financing from local and foreign sources. These efforts are
slowly stabilizing the arrears position. The Bank has made proposals for
TSKB's consideration including: where the focus of primary responsibility for
supervision and for monitoring progress should rest, including staff
organization; establishment of a management monitoring and information system;
compilation of data and preparation of customer profiles; guidelines for
establishing priorities for firms to be re-appraised; responsibility for
providing technical assistance to ailing clients; and establishment of penalty
interest rates. TSKB has incorporated many of the proposals in establishing
the targets for reduction of arrears and in the new organizational
arrangements . A Problem Projects Task Force has been established with
responsibility to reappraise problem projects and assist borrowers in
developing and implementing restructuring programs. About 40 problem accounts
will eventually be assigned to this Department. The Loan and Investment
Department will continue to be responsible for supervision of non problem
projects.  A Portfolio Department has been established with responsibility for
monitoring all borrowers and collection of repayments. The Department is
authorized to sanction short term rescheduling (less than one year) for firms
with short term cash flow problems or to transfer the accent to the Task
Force. The Department will maintain close liaison with the Loan and
Investment Department, Problem Project Task Force and the Legal Department to
ensure a coordinated approach to supervision of borrowers and collection of
accounts. The managers and professional staff in the Portfolio Management
Department have already been appointed and have taken up their duties.
4.10     Procurement and Disbursement Procedures.  TSKB ensures that
competitive bidding procedures appropriate to each project are adopted by
sub-borrowers who in Turkey are generally well informed of the equipment
available. These procedures normally involve at least four quotes from
suppliers in three different countries. For contracts in excess of US$2
million financed under the most recent Bank loan to TSKB for the textile
sector (Loan 1754-TU), TSKB requires an appropriate form of international
tendering. TSKB's engineers also assist its less experienced clients by
providing guidance and at times participate in negotiations with foreign



- 23 -
suppliers. Procedures for disbursement, which are made on the basis of
invoices and evidence of shipment, are satisfactory.
B. Operations and Impact
4.11     Summary of Operations.  TSKB's approvals, commitments and
disbursements for 1976 to September 30, 1981 are shown in Annex 8. TSKB's
operations in the two years 1979-80 were severely affected by the
deterioration of the investment climate, rapid inflation, political
uncertainty and labor unrest that prevailed in Turkey. The number of foreign
currency loans approved fell from a peak of 103 in 1977 to 39 in 1980 and
local loans fell from 64 to 21 in the same period. In US$ equivalent, TSKB's
approvals dropped from a level of about US$139 million in 1977 to US$120
million in 1980. The rate of disbursements in US$ equivalent also fell from
US$83 million in 1978 to US$73 million in 1980. The fall in the level of
operations is not surprising given the very difficult business conditions of
the period. Foreign currency loans continue to form the major part of TSKB's
operations and actually increased from an average of 73% of TSKB's
disbursements during the two years 1977/78 to about 81% during the years
1979/80. The substantial realignment of exchange rates during the latter two
years is only partly responsible for this change. TSKB's inability to
mobilize local funds due to economic circumstances was the main reason.  Local
currency investments in years 1979-80 were divided equally between local loans
and equity investment and represented about 19% of disbursement. The equity
investments committed remained stable at 27 operations (involving US$7.4
million equivalent) in 1977 and 27 operations (US$7.3 million equivalent) in
1980. No bond issues were guaranteed in 1978-80 as the capital market became
virtually inoperative. The fall in approvals continued during the first nine
months of 1981 with approvals during this period at US$52.7 million
equivalent, but commitments remained at about the 1980 level during this
period. As of September 30, 1981, about 85% of the projected commitments of
foreign exchange of US$60.0 million equivalent for 1981 was achieved.
4.12     An analysis of TSKB's approvals by size of loans and its commitments
by industrial subsectors is shown in Annexes 9, 10 and 11 respectively. The
average size of loans increased sixfold in TL terms between 1977 and 1980 but
also doubled in US$ equivalent from US$1.2 million equivalent to US$2.3
million equivalent. The larger size of loans reflects TSKB's recent emphasis
on supporting larger firms with diversified products and close association
with commercial banks that are thereby in a position to secure their financial
requirements for new and expansion projects. The loan requirements of these
firms are usually high. World inflation and higher capital intensity were
also contributory factors. TSKB's investment during 1979-80 was widely
distributed over the subsectors with textiles, forestry products, pulp and
paper, non-ferrous metals, metal products and machinery manufacturing sectors
each accounting for 8-11% of loan commitments (Annex 10). The overall
distribution of TSKB's total portfolio shows a similar wide distribution with
the textile sector at 18%, the only sector exceeding 10% (Annex 11).
4.13     A summary of the geographical distribution of TSKB's total loan and
equity approvals for 1977-80 is shown in Annex 12. A significant change in
the location of investment has taken place in the last two years. The



- 24 -
percentage investment in the Most Developed Provinces doubled in the two years
1979-80 to 40% compared to 1977-78. Investment in the Semi-Developed Regions
and the Least Developed Regions fell about 10% in each case to about 30%.
This reflects primarily TSKB's increased emphasis on export-oriented projects
which are located in the Most Developed Provinces.
4.14     Development Impact of TSKB's Operations.  A summary of the projected
ERR results on projects calculated by TSKB from 1977 through 1980 is shown in
Annex 13. During 1979-80, 24 projects had ERRs over 30%, 28 projects had
returns ranging between 15% and 30% and only one project had an ERR in the
10-15% range. Employment generated by projects supported by TSKB in 1977-1980
is analyzed in Annex 14. During 1977-80, TSKB was involved in financing
projects whose total cost is estimated at TL 63.0 billion (US$1,389 million
equivalent) which provided about 36,000 jobs. The average investment cost per
job created rose from US$32,300 in 1978 to US$57,200 in 1980. This is due in
part to inflation but also reflects the consequences of the policy imposed by
economic conditions of having to lend increasingly to financially sound
promoters whose projects tend to be more capital intensive (para 4.12). TSKB
was involved in a strong promotion effort for many years to help the less
developed regions. In the two-year period ending in 1978 it identified 17
projects, and took a lead role in finding suitable sponsors. All but two of
these projects were in the least developed areas. Total investments amounted
to TL 1.37 billion for which TSKB provided US$18.3 million in foreign currency
loans, TL 121 million in TL loans, and in eight of the projects, TL 52.1
million as equity participation. These projects generated 2,522 jobs with an
average investment per job of about US$25,000. This effort fell off because
of deteriorating economic circumstances, but it has been an important
contribution by TSKB to Turkey's development. In 1979, TSKB shifted its
promotional effort to emphasize exports (Annex 15). This reflects the
fundamental re-orientation of Government policy (para 2.07) and has been
supported by the Bank's 13th loan (1748-TU): that loan largely financed a
program to develop TSKB's institutional capability to identify, promote and
appraise export-oriented projects, which lays the basis for this proposed loan
(para 6.01). During 1979 to mid-1981, export-oriented 1/ projects involving
total investment of about US$85 million equivalent were committed with annual
levels of exports projected to reach nearly US$170 million (Annex 16).
4.15     Technical Assistance.  Financed under the Textiles Sector Loan
(1754-TU) TSKB has established a Technical Services Department with eight
professional staff and the support of three resident and occasional short-term
foreign textile experts in production and marketing supplied under contract by
the Gherzi Textile group of Zurich. In operation since April 1980 it provided
significant assistance to 29 textile and garment firms in its first year.
Though most firms, as was expected, are resistant to receiving technical
assistance except at subsidized rates, the economic benefits in terms of
increased productivity and export earning capability of firms seem likely to
substantially exceed the program's costs. The experience gained in this
effort has helped to shape the technical assistance and financing proposals
for this project (paras 6.13-6.25). TSKB envisages that the textile
1/ To qualify as export-oriented projects must export 30% of output if new;
40% of incremental output if an expansion (para 6.06).



- 25 -
activities of the Technical Services department will eventually become
financially self-sufficient despite industry reluctance to pay full costs and
would be organized substantially independently of TSKB so that technical
assistance objectives can be promoted most effectively. Possible long-term
arrangements are being formulated for a review of the private textile sector
project scheduled for mid-1982.
4.16     Investment Objectives.  TSKB's objectives as outlined under the
Bank's 13th loan were to provide financing for expansion of export capacity of
Turkey's manufacturing industry and at the same time to maintain TSKB's other
development objectives of promoting projects in the less developed regions and
small and medium-scale labor intensive projects (SMLI). To achieve these
objectives, TSKB agreed on a best efforts basis to target its financing
assistance in 1979 and 1980 as follows:
Actual   Target        %         % Achieved
(US$      Achieved    Relative to
million)             Actual Approvals 1/
Least Developed Regions      46.6      90.0        52             78
Semi-Developed Regions       47.8      50.0        96            145
Most Developed Regions        72.4     none         -              -
Total                   166.8
of which:
Export-oriented              92.4    115.0         80            121
SMLI                           5.3     35.0        15             23
TSKB almost reached the targets set for Export-Oriented Projects and Projects
in Semi-Developed Regions. The performance on SMLI investments was poor, as
they were more severely affected by the difficult economic conditions. The
commercial banks did not apply the credit squeeze uniformly but favored their
well-established borrowers over SMLI and, in addition, established firms were
able to raise funds on the informal market at high rates of interest which the
SMLI sector could not afford. TSKB attempted to assist its SMLI borrowers in
completing their financial package by offering guarantees to the commercial
banks for the local funds required by SMLI investors. This was not effective
because of the preference given to well established firms for the limited
funds available. Under current economic conditions, the importance of SMLI
promotion has been superceded by the priority attached to expanding exports.
4.17     About 39% of the US$65 million private sector textile loan had been
committed as of December 1981 which is less than expected. Except in the case
of garments, this reflects primarily the current economic slowdown.
Disbursements are expected to be delayed by about one year.
1/ During the period under review, total approvals of foreign exchange loans
reached only 66% of US$ 322 million projected. A substantial amount of
approvals were later cancelled (Annex 8).



- 26 -
4.18     Resource Mobilization.  Turkey's economic problems, which already
prevented TSKB from diversifying its sources of foreign exchange at the time
of the 1977 Bank loan, intensified during 1979-80. A planned IFC syndicated
loan of US$40 million and a loan of US$18 million from Arab sources failed to
materialize because of the general economic conditions in the country. TSKB
secured an export credit of FF 200 million from Paribas but FF 120 million of
this loan was later cancelled because of country economic conditions. Export
credits were also secured from Norway (US$20.0 million equivalent) and Finland
(US$10.0 million equivalent). The uncommitted balances on these credits were
also cancelled after about 50% of the funds were committed. Only funds from
EIB, KfW and the World Bank were secured as planned. Little progress was made
also in mobilizing local funds due to the collapse of the local market in
1979-80. However, TSKB's shareholders' new capital contributions augmented by
local commercial bank loans, and a Treasury loan of TL 2.7 billion in 1980
provided sufficient funds to enable XSKB to refinance the approximate TL 6
billion increase in arrears which occurred during these two years. Very
limited TL funding, however, was available for new investments and associated
working capital, in spite of the very high demand for such funds from TSKB's
clients.



- 27 -
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND POSITION
A. Profitability and Financial Position
5.01     TSKB's audited income statements and balance sheets for 1975-80 are
shown in Annexes 17 and 18. Loans outstanding increased 230% to TL 38.9
billion while total assets went up 260% to TL 47.7 billion in the two years
1979 and 1980. Under the historical accounting system, TSKB's results were
very successful during this period. Profit before tax increased by about 225%
in the two years to TL 1.2 billion in 1980 1/. Net profits after tax
increased at a substantially lower rate, of about 170%, as a result of the tax
law enacted in 1980 that increased the effective tax rate from 31% to 47% 2/.
Earnings before tax as a percentage of average net worth increased from 39% to
49% in the same period. For the first 9 months of 1981 TSKB profit increased
substantially in both nominal and real terms mainly as a result of an increase
in spread and a reduction in the inflation level.
5.02     Most of the increases noted above for 1979-80 were the result of the
large scale inflation of about 65% in 1979 and 105% in 1980 and the parallel
devaluation of the lira from TL 25.25 in January 1979 to TL 89.71 in December
1980 against the US dollar. TSKB's sub-borrowers carry the full foreign
exchange risk and loans are automatically revalued after each devaluation.
TSKB's performance in minimizing the effects of these changes on its
operations and financial viability were remarkable. Nevertheless, in US
dollar equivalent, TSKB's profit fell 7% to US$8.3 million equivalent in 1980
from its level in 1978. 3/ Loans outstanding fell 5% to US$433.5 million
equivalent and TSKB's total assets remained at about the same level at
US$532.2 million equivalent during the period. 4/
1/  The auditor's report for 1980 has a reservation to the effect that
there was a deficit of about TL 260 million in provisions as of
December 31, 1980. TSKB did not accept the auditors' evaluation on
this matter and provisions were not increased. However, TSKB was not
in a position to increase provisions by this amount because the
obligation to pay dividends (TL 486 million) (which TSKB believes must
be honored in order to maintain shareholder participation in continued
capital increases) exceeds net profit after taxes (TL 352 million) if
the additional provisions were made. Agreement was reached during
negotiations on a revised provisions policy which will adequately deal
with this problem (para 6.29).
2/  The effect of this tax increase is offset for the shareholders to a
limited extent by concessions provided under the same law for dividend
income.
3/  Another measure of the effects of inflation on TSKB's financial
position was calculated by comparing the net value of equity at the
beginning and end of each year in terms of the purchasing power of the
Lira in January I of that year. On this basis, TSKB's net value
increased by about TL 50 million during 1979 and decreased by about TL
600 million during 1980.
4/  The fall in level of operations as measured in US$ equivalents was less
than indicated by these figures as the lira was overvalued in December
1978.



- 28 -
5.03     Debt/Equity Ratio.  Under the existing Loan Agreement (1748-TU), TSKB
was required to maintain its debt/equity ratio below 10:1. In the accounts
for December 31, 1980, TSKB's ratio was 13.3:1. 1/ In March 1981, TSKB's
Board called the final tranche of its authorized capital increase of TL 805
million. This increase in equity would have restored the debt/equity ratio to
9.9%, as at December 31, 1980. However, due to further devaluation of the
lira in the meantime, the ratio was about 10.6:1 when the funds were received
in May 1981. TSKB increased its paid-in capital six-fold from TL 425 million
at the end of 1978 to TL 1,500 million at December 1979 and TL 2,195 million
at December 1980, with a further increase to TL 3,000 million in May, 1981.
Pending this latter increase, the Bank agreed to suspend the covenant until
June 30, 1981. During this period TSKB's dividend was increased by 5% to
30%. Given the high inflation rates, this 5% increase in dividend has been
inadequate to sustain shareholders's assistance, and TSKB found it difficult
to secure authorization for an additional capital increase.
5.04     In May 1981 the Government expressed willingness to agree on a
financial package which provided that: (i) TSKB's present debt/equity ratio
limit remain at 10:1; (ii) shareholders increase their paid-in capital from TL
3 billion to TL 6 billion during 1982-83; (iii) the Government provide TSKB
with a quasi-equity loan of TL 6 billion; (iv) the spread on TSKB foreign
exchange loans be gradually increased from 3.5% to 5.5%; and (v) the Bank
agree to amend the present debt/equity formula to provide that the
quasi-equity loan be treated as equity. The Government has approved the TL 6
billion quasi-equity loan on the basis of a term of ten years including five
years' grace, with a provision that repayment could be deferred for a further
five years, subject to the agreement of the Minister of Finance, if TSKB shows
that repayment after the original five years grace would increase the
debt/equity ratio over the 10:1 requirement. The interest rate on the loan
would be at TSKB's current lending rate less a 3.5% spread. In view of the
substantial commitments of the Government and shareholders and the fact that
further requirements are unlikely to be met by shareholders at present and
would therefore lead to further Government involvement, the Bank covenant on
prior loans to TSKB was amended to include the outstanding amount of the
Government quasi-equity loan with equity. It is recommended that the 10:1
debt/equity ratio, as amended, apply also to this loan. However, as TSKB
proposes to increase its financial assistance to firms in the form of working
capital loans, two-thirds cf which will be financed by short-term credit
(para 6.10), agreement was reached during negotiations that the debt/equity
formula be further amended to include all borrowings irrespective of their
maturity and in addition to include uncovered letters of credit and guarantees
with loans. On that basis, TSKB's debt/equity ratio is projected at 8:1 in
1981, rising to 8.2:1 in 1S983. A sensitivity analysis indicates that the
proposed financing package would be sufficient to enable TSKB to maintain the
debt/equity ratio provided inflation and parallel devaluation are not 20%
higher than in the financiatl projections. To ensure proper monitoring of
TSKB's financial progress in the present difficult economic conditions, TSKB
1/ TSKB has also exceeded the debt/equity ratio limit set by IFC and
arrangements are underway for IFC to amend its debt/equity requirement in
line with the Bank's requirement as part of the restructuring program.



- 29 -
will update quarterly its financial projections on a three year basis and
include it in its quarterly report.
B. Portfolio and Arrears
5.05     Loan Arrears.  TSKB has a serious problem with arrears.  This problem
first caused concern in 1977. The situation has continued to deteriorate
through 1980, as economic conditions worsened further in Turkey. Details of
the evolution of arrears are in Annex 20. Arrears of more than three months
increased from 3% of total portfolio as of December 31, 1977 to 17.1% in
December 1980. Loans affected by arrears of more than three months increased
from 20% of TSKB portfolio in December 1977 and reached a peak by September
1980 when 61% of TSKB's portfolio was affected. A 6% improvement was achieved
in the last quarter of 1980, half of which was secured by collection and the
balance by rescheduling. The percentage portfolio affected by arrears was
reduced to about 39% by March 1981 and remained at that level to the end of
September 1981. This reduction was primarily due to long-term and short-term
rescheduling of TL 764 million and TL 2,300 million respectively during the
nine months.
5.06     The breakdown of the aging of arrears as of December 31, 1980 is as
follows: 11% are for less than 3 months; 3% are from 3 to 6 months; 18% from 6
to 12 months; 57% from 12 to 24 months; and 11% in court. This indicates that
TSKB has a core of loans that have been in difficulties, particularly in the
last two years. An analysis of the arrears by operating status of borrowers
as of December 31, 1980, based on 1979 accounts, is as follows: operating
profitably, 19.0%; with project under construction, 11.0%; operating at a
loss, 58.0%; not operating or in liquidation, 12.0%. At the end of 1980,
arrears as a percentage of loans outstanding and not yet due accounted for
17%; and affected all sectors to varying degrees; construction, 37%; wood and
paper, 23%; textile, 17%; electric and electronics, 8%. Collection ratios
fell from 85% in 1978 to 67% in 1980 but recovered to 82% in the first half of
1981. They fell again to 51% in the third quarter due mainly to firms
delaying repayment until they received funds under the special rediscounting
facility (para 5.13).
5.07     The major cause of arrears has been the deteriorating national
economic situation with the resulting inflation and devaluation raising the
foreign exchange risk to unmanageable proportions, resulting in a
four-and-a-half fold increase in the debts of sub-borrowers in lira terms for
1977 to 1980, substantial requirements for additional working capital,
inability of project promoters to mobilize additional finance, low capacity
utilization and labor unrest. In addition, no provisions are made in the tax
code for the revaluation of assets, except assets financed from foreign loans,
and this, together with the high taxation rate on "paper profit", has resulted
in cash flow problems even for profitable firms. The Government indicated, in
connection with the second Structural Adjustment Loan, its intention to amend
the Tax Code to permit revaluation of assets. Progress in this area i heing
monitored under the SAL program.  TSKB's position was exacerbated furth'e  by
two additional factors.   Firstly, projects in the less developed regions,
broadly owned or "workers" companies and SMLI's, have been affected more by
the adverse economic conditions than projects financed by well-established



- 30 -
groups in the developed areas. A recent review of TSKB's portfolio shows that
66% of loans in Eastern Anatolia (least developed region) and 70% of SMLI
sub-projects were in arrears. Secondly, as TSKB was not legally empowered to
charge a penalty interest on late payments, some of TSKB's customers were
taking advantage by delaying repayment of their debt. However, the freeing of
interest rates during the second half of 1980 has enabled TSKB to charge a
penalty interest rate of 56.25% and cancel interest rebates.
5.08     TSKB's Efforts to Grapple with the Arrears Situation.  Up to the end
of 1979, TSKB's main emphasis in supervision was on the collection of
arrears. As quick solutions to borrowers' difficulties were not possible and
the existing approach was not yielding results, TSKB decided in April 1980,
following the recommendations of a supervision mission, to re-orient its
supervision operations. The staff of the Follow-Up Department was
strengthened from 16 to 21 and an action plan was established (i) to classify
all accounts with arrears of more than TL 1.0 million into separate groups
according to the seriousness of the problems; and (ii) to undertake an
in-depth reappraisal of all sub-borrowers with serious problems. The
objective of the reappraisal was to identify the structural nature of the
deep-seated problems and to provide technical and financial assistance within
a time frame that would enable its sub-borrowers to resolve them. A permanent
Management Review Committee was set up to review the recommendations, approve
the rehabilitation programs, and monitor the action plan.
5.09     By the end of 1980, the Follow-Up Department reviewed 60% (274
sub-borrowers) of a total portfolio of 460 sub-borrowers.  It classified 146
firms as having "less serious problems" and 128 firms with "serious problems
requiring reappraisal", the latter category defined as firms where problems
would not be resolved by short-term rescheduling. The 146 accounts
represented about 40% (TL 8.0 billion in loans) of the arrears, while the 128
accounts covered the TL 12 billion balance of loans affected by arrears. The
"less serious" arrears were aLssigned to the Treasurer's Department for
collection and/or short-term rescheduling. Of the total arrears on these
accounts as of June 30, 1980, almost all had been collected by the end of
December, 1980.
5.10     In 1981 TSKB completed a review of the 128 firms with "serious
problems", including preparation of revised financial projections for about 40
of the firms. Discussions were held with the sub-borrowers and other
financial institutions with a view to securing additional finance to complete
and operate the projects. New shareholders were secured for 24 firms and
discussions are underway to identify new investors for 22 other firms.
Another 23 firms with technical and management problems have received direct
assistance from TSKB's technical staff as well as help in recruiting
experienced staff and consultants, and in contacting equipment suppliers in
resolving problems. TSKB mediated in disputes between major shareholders and
promoted takeovers by established firms in appropriate cases. Mainly as a
result of TSKB's efforts, additional capital funds of about TL 7.0 billion and
medium-term loans of TL 3.7 billion were identified. In addition, TSKB
estimated that it will have to reschedule a substantial amount of arrears
during the three years 1981-83 (para 5.12). The number of "serious problem"
loans was reduced to about 60 by September 1981. Rescheduling has been



- 31 -
proceeding at a slow pace as firms are experiencing difficulties in complying
with TSKB's requirements, particularly in securing additional equity
contributions from shareholders and by diversion of staff to evaluate the
special discount facility. From January 1980 to March 1981, about TL 1.0
billion of rescheduling for over one year was implemented. The supervision of
TSKB's portfolio will be further intensified in conjunction with the recent
establishment of the Portfolio Management Department and the Problem Project
Task Force (para 4.06).
5.11     Bank Initiatives.  The Bank has kept TSKB's arrears under constant
review and increased the frequency of its supervision missions to TSKB. Bank
missions reviewed a good number of the reappraisal reports and discussed the
proposals with TSKB staff and representatives of the firms involved. TSKB has
made satisfactory progress in identifying the problems affecting its
sub-borrowers, in formulating financial and technical/ managerial
restructuring packages, and in providing technical and financial assistance in
an effort to resolve these problems, while at the same time maintaining
pressure through court action for collection of arrears in appropriate cases.
The restructuring packages are designed to meet financial needs of projects
through the next two years. The mission felt that TSKB's reappraisal did not
include a high enough level of contingencies in its financial projections and
TSKB has taken note of this matter. The restructuring packages should lead to
substantive improvement of the arrears problem provided that economic
conditions continue to improve. However, further restructuring will
undoubtedly be required of some of these firms because good restructuring
practice dictates that funds should only be provided to meet a firm's minimum
projected requirement in order to maintain pressure on the firm, avoid
disinvestment of equity and enable TSKB to monitor financial progress more
closely before further funds are committed. The September 1981 mission
visited a random sample of 18 firms in arrears, 4 from the list of firms for
which provisions were considered necessary, and 3 others from the "serious
arrears" list. Seventeen were in operation and construction was proceeding
satisfactorily on the other. All firms were suffering from an acute shortage
of working capital and the reduced demand in the local market. All were
operating at less than 70% of capacity and most at less than 50%, partly due
to the firms commencing operations within the previous two years. Eight of
the firms were exporting a small percentage of their output. In the mission's
view, 17 of the firms were economically viable in the long run provided that
they can secure finance to tide them over until the domestic market recovers.
One firm, operating at 10% capacity, required complete restructuring.
5.12     During the second half of 1980 the major problems affecting the
private sector changed; firms increasingly faced reductions in local demand,
lack of local funds and high interest rates. During July/August 1981 TSKB
reviewed its portfolio on a loan by loan basis and projected the evolution of
arrears up to December 1983 showing amounts falling due, cash collection,
special rediscounting loans (para 5.13) rescheduling, and arrears for each
account. The projections are based on the inflation rates used in the
financial projections (para 5.19) and the assumption of a gradual improvement
in the domestic economy during the period. A summary of the results is shown
in Annex 21. The projected results are as follows:



- 32 -
2nd       1st        2nd        1st        2nd
Semester Semester Semester Semester Semester
1981      1982       1982       1983       1983
Arrears of more than
three months at end of
the period (TL billion)        6.0       6.0        3.0        1.1        1.0
Percentage portfolio
affected by arrears           34.0%     22.0%      13.0%      10.0%      10.2%
During negotiations agreement was reached that TSKB would take all appropriate
action to keep arrears below the following maximums for total arrears and
percentage of portfolio affected by arrears:
2nd       1st        2nd        1st        2nd
Semester  Semester  Semester  Semester  Semester
1981      1982       1982       1983       1983
Total arrears of more than
three months at end of
period (TL billion)            7.5       7.0        4.0        2.0        2.0
Percentage portfolio
affected by arrears
of over 3 months              40.0%     30.0%      20.0%      15.0%      14.0%
Above maximums to be met
subject to a maximum
rescheduling of
(TL million)                  2.5        3.0        3.0        1.5       1.0
The increase in the maximum arrears level compared to the projected levels was
made to provide a margin for factors outside TSKB's control and to allow for
the penalty interest on arrears which was not increased in the original
projections and which is estimated at TL 0.5 billion in the last semester of
1981. For the purposes of evaluating performance on arrears the above maximum
total arrears will be adjusted for the actual level of devaluation of the TL,
the amount of rescheduling committed and the amount received during the
semester under the special rediscounting facility (Annex 21). A special
arrears return will be submitted to the Bank within one month of the end of
the semester. The present quarterly arrears summary and a summary of the
collection performance on long-term rescheduled accounts will also be
submitted quarterly. If TSKB exceeds the adjusted arrears maximums, the
matter will be reviewed immediately with the Bank to decide on an appropriate
action plan covering inter alia review of TSKB's supervision level, increasing
the level of provision for bad debts, reduction of the "free limit",
adjustment of debt/equity ratio (which would require further share capital
increases), reduction of TSKB's future loan commitments, and reduction of
TSKB's dividends. Agreement was reached at negotiations that if the above
maximums were exceeded, the Bank would have the right to suspend further



- 33 -
commitments. A preliminary report on arrears as of December 31, 1981 shows
that the arrears as of that date were less than the adjusted maximum.
5.13     Government Initiative.  Private industry has been lobbying the
Government since 1979 to provide compensation for the losses incurred on
foreign exchange loans, particularly in view of the abandonment of the foreign
exchange risk guarantee scheme 1/ and the high rates of interest paid in the
past on such loans. The Government in late 1980 requested TSKB to undertake a
sample study of the impact of devaluation on borrowers' cash flow. In May
1981 the Government established a special rediscounting facility of TL 35
billion 2/ to assist all firms that had borrowed foreign currency loans for
investment purposes during the period from May 1976 through January 1980. In
late 1981 the Government extended the facility to cover foreign exchange loans
made since August 10, 1970. The loans under the facility will cover a portion
of the increase in debt service due to TL currency devaluation. Loans are for
a period of from five to eight years, including three years grace, at an
interest rate of 16% with eligibility for normal interest rebates given for
export undertakings or projects in less developed regions. Priority is given
to firms originally covered by the abandoned guarantee scheme. These firms
are eligible for loans for up to 90% of the increase in debt service payments,
whereas other firms are eligible for loans up to 50% of the increase in such
payments. Priority is also given to firms that strengthen their financial
position through increases in equity or similar measures. The facility is
being administered by TSKB which is responsible for evaluation of the firms'
entitlement. In the case of TSKB's clients, loans are being made directly.
TSKB is providing the funds to all its qualified clients except about 60 firms
with serious problems. These latter firms will be provided rediscount
facilities later if a satisfactory restructuring plan is implemented. The
total special rediscounting for TSKB clients under the May 1981 scheme was
estimated at TL 10.5 billion. In the case of firms that did not borrow
directly from TSKB, a review of the firms' entitlement, and income statement
and balance sheet for 1980 was made by TSKB. For firms which TSKB considered
to have a sound financial structure, TSKB is providing the rediscounting loan
directly. Other firms are issued with a statement of their entitlement and
informed that TSKB would make loans to their commercial banks to be relent to
them. In this case, TSKB's risk is substantially reduced since it is relying
primarily on the financial standing of the commercial banks which assume the
primary commercial risk. In these cases, TSKB will evaluate the financial
standing of these banks before making the loans. No review of the economic
feasibility of the projects was undertaken but TSKB has had former
relationships with about 65% of the new TSKB clients covered by direct lending
and is familiar with their operations. The total projected rediscounting
loans covering non-TSKB foreign exchange loans is about TL 21.0 billion, about
1/ A foreign exchange guarantee scheme was operated by the Government during
1977/78 and covered TSKB's loans made during the period but was
unilaterally abandoned by the Government due to the substantial costs
involved.
2/ Maximum TL 11 billion in 1981 and TL 12 billion each in 1982 and 1983 but
this will be increased to cover the extension of the scheme to foreign
exchange loans made since August 10, 1970.



- 34 -
TL 7.0 billion directly to 26 firms and TL 14.0 billion indirectly to about 46
firms. A sample of TSKB's reports was reviewed during the September 1981
mission and it was found thaLt one of the firms recommended for indirect
lending had very serious financial problems. TSKB indicated that this firm
was unlikely to be able to secure the loan through a commercial bank without
restructuring. The other firms had an acceptable financial structure. The
balance of the rediscounting facility of TL 5.5 billion will be lent directly
by the Central Bank to the commercial bank as these loans involve sectors not
within TSKB's mandate. The special rediscounting facility has been operating
satisfactorily except for some delay in disbursement which is affecting TSKB's
arrears level. Efforts are being made to resolve this problem. In addition
to this loan scheme, the Islamic Development Bank (IDB) has agreed to provide
about US$20.0 million equivalent over the three years 1981-83 for equity
investments to be administered by TSKB. DESIYAB and other Turkish banks are
also providing equity and loan financing. In light of this development, it
would appear that enough TL resources have been made available to TSKB to face
the needs of its clients in difficulty over the next two or three years as
well as to provide substantial TL resources for new projects before 1983.
5.14     Provisions for Arrears.  Arrears as a percentage of TSKB's port-
folio increased from 12% to 17% during 1980 but provisions as a percentage of
loan portfolio has remained constant at about 2.1%. TSKB feels that this
level is adequate, given the security held, its record of marginal write-offs
during the past ten years, asnd the level of Government assistance to firms in
difficulty. At the Bank mission's request, TSKB prepared a detailed review of
its portfolio and established provisions on a loan by loan basis, for review
by the external auditor. The auditor's report on TSKB's 1980 accounts
contains a reservation to the effect that, in the auditor's opinion, the
reserves were inadequate and that an additional provision of approximately
TL 260 million should have been made in the 1980 accounts. Adjustment of the
provisions by this amount would have increased the percentage of provisions in
total portfolios to 3.6%, a more realistic figure in the present
circumstances. During negotiations, agreement was reached with TSKB on a
satisfactory procedure for establishing future reserves (para. 6.28).
5.15     Equity Investments.  TSKB's equity portfolio increased from TL 657
million in 1978 to TL 1,338 million in 1980, an increase of 105% in lira terms
(but a reduction of 43% in US dollar equivalent). About 86% of the investment
during the two-year period involved additional contributions to existing
investments to meet cost overruns on investments and the increased need for
working capital; the balance of 14% was invested in 14 new projects. TSKB's
total equity investment portfolio as at December 31, 1980 was made up as
follows: TL 734 million in 39 companies operating profitably; TL 253 million
in 14 companies operating at: a loss; TL 343 million in 27 projects under
construction; and TL 8 million in 2 companies in liquidation. TSKB's equity
portfolio is valued at cost in its accounts. An evaluation of TSKB's equity
portfolio at market prices (or costs where no market price was available)
shows an appreciation by about TL 154 million or 12%. This amount, together
with provisions of TL 61 million, should be sufficient to provide for future
losses in nominal value of t:he portfolio. TSKB's income as a percentage of
average net equity portfolio of 15.2% in 1979 and 15.9% in 1980 was grossly



- 35 -
inadequate in view of the high levels of inflation.  During this two-year
period TSKB lost about 50% (or TL 500 million) of the investment in equity
valued at the purchasing power of the lira on January 1, 1978. However, when
economic conditions improve in Turkey, TSKB will have an opportunity to profit
from this investment in equity.
C.  Creditworthiness
5.16     The past two or three years have been a period of crisis for TSKB,
following the dramatic downturn of the economic conditions in the country.
The principal effects of this difficult period have been the deterioration of
TSKB's loan portfolio resulting in an unacceptable level of arrears; and an
unsatisfactory level of resource mobilization due to the low credit standing
of Turkey with foreign lenders. This had a negative effect on TSKB's staff
and management (para 4.04). Nevertheless, the situation is manageable. The
efforts of management to reorganize TSKB in order to tackle more effectively
the array of problems facing the institution and, in parallel, the
considerable support of the Government in the form both of policy measures and
direct financial support to TSKB, are already showing their effects. These
efforts must be continued. In the context of this appraisal, TSKB, at the
Bank's request, has established collection targets for reduction of its
arrears to an acceptable level (para 5.12) and has implemented a management
re-organization to enable it to meet its future role (paras 4.07 and 4.09).
The increase in TSKB's margin on foreign exchange lending to 5.5% and the
removal of restriction on TSKB's spread on local funds, together with the
quasi-equity loan of TL 6 billion rediscounting facilities and additional
shareholder contributions should give TSKB a satisfactory cash flow and
profitability during the next three to four years (para 5.20). On this basis,
TSKB remains a creditworthy institution. In light of the recent progress
achieved internally and externally, TSKB continues to enjoy a good reputation
with the business community as well as with the Government and its
shareholders.
D. Projections of Operations and Financial Situation
5.17     Operations.  TSKB's projected level of approvals, commitments and
disbursements for the years 1981-84 are shown in Annex 22. Based on estimates
of prospective foreign resources (para 5.22), TSKB expects to commit foreign
investment loans of US$215.0 million equivalent in the two years 1982-83 which
on the basis of a sectoral breakdown of TSKB's present pipeline would be
allocated as follows: engineering industries (42%), textiles (14%), forestry
products (13%), chemicals (9%), food products (8%), and the balance (14%),
with a further US$58.0 million equivalent to be disbursed for export working
capital loans. In 1984, TSKB expects to commit US$145.0 million equivalent
for investment and disburse US$44.0 million equivalent for export working
capital loans. The 1982-83 foreign exchange commitments for investment loans
are 35% higher than those attained during the two years 1979-80, and appear
achievable allowing for inflation on foreign exchange investment of about 10%
per annum on the basis of a detailed review of TSKB's project pipeline
(para 6.05) and an expected growth in investment demand by the private sector
(para 2.16). Nevertheless, because of inherent uncertainties regarding the
timing of renewed investment activity, arrears (para 5.11), and resource
mobilization (para 5.22), there is substantial risk that the actual level of
operations could be less.



- 36 -
5.18     TSKB's local investment program to date has been severely restricted
by a lack of resources. With this problem now resolved by the Government's
quasi-equity loan, the special rediscounting facility, Central Bank
co-financing facility and shareholders' equity (para 5.23), TSKB projects a
disbursement of TL 49.5 billion in current lira terms during the two years
1982-83, or about US$270.0 million in 1981 dollar equivalent. About TL 29.5
billion will be used for rescheduling and providing additional working capital
under the Government TL 35 billion special rediscounting facility. The
balance of TL 20 billion would be provided for new investment. Given the
present refinancing requirement and shortage of local funds, TSKB should not
experience difficulties in rneeting these targets.
5.19     Projected Income Statements, Balance Sheets and Cash Flow for the
years 1981-84 are shown in Annexes 23 through 25. These statements have been
projected in current lira terms based on assumption of inflation rates of 50%
in 1981, 35% in 1982, 20% in 1983 and 10% in 1984 1/ and a devaluation of the
Turkish lira at 10% less than the inflation rate each year. In addition,
TSKB's spread on most foreign exchange loans will be increased from 4.0% to
5.5%; also, the spread on Local funds, other than from the rediscounting
facility and a limited number of Government loans, will gradually increase to
6.5% in 1983. During negotiations agreement was reached that TSKB would
increase its spread on new foreign exchange investment loans financed from
World Bank funds from the present 4% to 5% on January 1, 1982 and to 5.5% on
July 1, 1982 for all existing and new World Bank sub-loans. (TSKB is seeking
agreement with its other sources of foreign exchange for similar increases in
spread.) TSKB also indicated that its policy was to maintain a spread on its
local currency lending activities at levels consistent with its need to assure
a sufficient overall surplus on its operations, to provide adequate provision
for bad debts and other legal reserves and to pay dividends to shareholders
sufficient to attract financial support for TSKB's future expansion. TSKB's
dividend policy would have to be under constant review since it will be
affected not only by its profitability but also by the cost of capital and
shareholders' expectations. For the short term, however, on the basis of the
projected results for 1981 and 1982 (Annex 23) and of discussions in Turkey
with investors, it would seem that a minimum of 40% on nominal share capital
would be advisable in these two years to permit TSKB to diversify its equity
base (para 4.02). If possible, a higher dividend, more in line with the
market interest rate on term deposits (currently of 50-60% per annum), would
be preferable. The Bank will monitor progress in this area during supervision.
5.20     Profitability.  TS'KB's profitability in the immediate future will be
favorably affected by the increase in spread and level of operations. Net
profit after tax is projected to rise from TL 612 million in 1980 to TL 1,286
million in 1981, and to TL :2,402 million in 1982. The results to September
1981 are in line with projections. The equivalent figures in US dollars
(converted at the mid year projected exchange rates) would be US$7.9 million
in 1980, US$12.0 million in 1981 and US$17.0 million in 1982. Earnings before
tax as a percentage of average net worth would increase from 75.1% in 1981 to
1/ Bank projections of inflation in Turkey have been revised in October
1981 as follows: 40% in 1981; 30% in 1982; 20% thereafter.



- 37 -
95.7% in 1982, and are projected at about that level for 1983 and 1984 which
is adequate to maintain TSKB's financial viability. Net income after tax as a
percentage of average net worth would be half the above percentages. A
sensitivity analysis indicates that a further 10% increase in inflation each
year with a parallel increase in devaluation will result in only a marginal
decrease in real profits. Thus, the financing program should ensure TSKB's
financial viability even if inflation is considerably higher than assumed.
The above returns are essential to enable TSKB to re-establish its financial
standing and to raise additional share capital. It is projected to distribute
dividends at the rate of 40% on the par value of shares from 1981 through
1984. This would absorb about 80% of net income in 1981 but fall to about 50%
for 1982 through 1984, which is an acceptable level.
5.21     Balance Sheet.  With the projected level of operations and
devaluation of the lira, TSKB's total assets are expected to increase by 200%
from TL 47.7 billion in December 1980 to TL 144.6 billion in December 1983.
This would represent an increase of about 57% in US dollar equivalent from
US$530.0 million in 1980 to US$835.0 million in 1982. Investments would
increase by about 230% in lira terms or 74% in US dollar equivalent during
this three-year period. On the liabilities side, long and short term debt,
excluding the Government quasi-equity loan, would increase 190% in lira terms
or 50% in US dollars equivalent. Equity and quasi-equity loans would increase
by 490% in lira terms or 210% in US dollar equivalent.
E. Resource Mobilization
5.22     TSKB's efforts to mobilize foreign resources within the next few
years will be contingent on improvements in Turkey's creditworthiness. TSKB's
tentative mobilization plan for the two years 1982-83 is as follows:
US$ million
Estimated resources available
as at January 1, 1982 1/                                    73
World Bank 2/ (excluding US$18 million for T.A.
and imputed foreign exchange)                               82
KfW                                                           10
EIB                                                           40
Others (unidentified)                                         30
Commercial banks (for working capital loans)                  24
259
Commitments - Investment projects            215
- Working capital - 1983         34             249
Balance available January 1, 1984                             10
1/ This balance is in large part restricted to specific purposes (e.g. the
Textile Loan) and therefore is not fungible with the proposed loan in
order to meet its objectives.
2/ In addition the Bank is presently considering using TSKB as an
intermediary for a proposed Fertilizer Sector Rehabilitation II Loan of
$60 million of which about $15 million would be sub-lent at TSKB's risk.



- 38 -
In 1983, TSKB may have difficulties meeting their commitments because of
restrictions on the use of some of its resources. Other than short-term
working capital funds, TSKB is not expected to be in a position to diversify
its foreign exchange term resources during this period by mobilizing funds
from the international capital market. During negotiations agreement will be
reached with TSKB to develop not later than December 31, 1982 an Action Plan
for mobilizing foreign resources.
5.23     TSKB's plan for mobilization of local resources for 1982-83 is as
follows:
TL million
Government quasi-equity loan (1982-83)                   2,473
Special rediscounting facilities for firms
with foreign excihange risk (TSKB's
lending in 1982-83 from TL 35 billion)               22,000
Central Bank co-financing                               11,500
Share capital increase                                   3,000
Bonds and promissory notes                               3,500
Commercial banks                                         1,100
Others                                                   2,300
45,873
The Government's quasi-equity loan and the special rediscounting facilities
have already been approved by the Government (paras 5.04 and 5.13). In April
1981, the Central Bank agreed to increase its co-financing of development bank
sub-loans to 90% for highly encouraged projects 1/ and 80% for other
projects. This co-financing will be the most important TL source for
financing new projects in the next 2-3 years. A substantial portion of this
Central Bank co-financing is based upon TSKB's ability to utilize Bank funds
under this project for TL sub-loans to finance the imputed cost of foreign
exchange of locally produced machinery and equipment (para 6.06). This
requires that appropriate arrangements be made for the Government to take the
foreign exchange risk on loans made in TL and financed with funds from the
proposed loan. It was agreed at negotiations that to permit utilization of
loan funds for this purpose, arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, for
handling the foreign exchange risk must be completed by end September, 1982
(para 6.06). The Government does not expect difficulty in reaching suitable
arrangements by that deadline.  The shareholders have agreed in principle to
subscribe additional capitaL as part of the Government's financing plan.
Plans to raise funds from TSKB bonds, commercial banks and other sources are
still tentative and will depend upon developments in the local capital market
in the short term.  This financing plan is adequate to meet TSKB's requirement
in the 1982-83 period and is a substantial departure from TSKB's perennial
shortage of local resources. The plan was confirmed during negotiations.
5.24     Substantial progress has been made in recent months in resolving
TSKB's longstanding problem in mobilizing adequate domestic resources. In
1/ i.e., projects undertaken by companies with wide-based ownership or
located in least developed regions and export-oriented.



- 39 -
addition to the progress outlined in para 5.23, the Government has recently
reduced the transaction tax on interbank transactions from 25% to 15%, and has
abolished the transaction tax on loans made by development banks. The
desirability of removing the tax on interbank transactions involving
development banks, to better enable them to borrow from this source at
competitive rates, was discussed with the Government during negotiations. The
representatives of the Government indicated that the Government would look
into possible measures to facilitate the ability of DFC's to raise local
currency resources at reasonable costs. The recent enactment of the capital
market bill has removed the interest rate restriction on bonds and thus opened
the capital market to TSKB when conditions in the market are normalized.
Resulting from these changes, TSKB's local currency loans are projected to
exceed its foreign currency loans for the first time since its establishment.



- 40 -
VI. THE PROJECT
6.01     Objectives.  The focus of the Government's current strategy of
economic recovery is to encourage the private sector to expand exports. This
project supports this strategy by;
(a)  financing investments to improve capacity utilization of existing
firms, and develop new, competitive capacity in lines where Turkey
has a comparative advantage, with emphasis on exports of
non-traditional manufacturing;
(b) improving existing export capability of the private sector by
upgrading technological proficiency, improving product quality,
reducing production costs, developing marketing ability and improving
availability of imported inputs;
(c) continuing the devtelopment of TSKB's capability to identify, promote,
and finance export-oriented manufacturing in the private sector,
particularly its capacity to identify technical assistance needs and
help in meeting them.
This project builds upon the thirteenth loan to TSKB (1979) which led TSKB to
allocate an increasing share of its overall commitment to export-oriented
projects and to start improving its institutional development in the area of
export promotion (para 4.16). It also builds on the private sector textile
loan which has fostered a capability to provide technical assistance to
existing and potential exporters (para 4.15) which is a key element in this
project. In addition to the export objectives which give this project the
character of a sector loan, the project aims at assisting TSKB further in
certain facets of its own institutional development, principally improvement
of the quality of its portfolio, mobilization of domestic resources, and
strengthening of its internal organization.
6.02     The project combines elements of credit and technical assistance
needed by the private sector, to be delivered through TSKB, the leading
development bank in Turkey. Though some of the elements of this project are
new to TSKB, they combine to form an integrated package that can be
effectively delivered by TSKB. The main components of this package which are
discussed in detail in the following paragraphs and the amount allocated to
each component are shown in Table 1.



- 41 -
Table 1
Foreign Ex-
change cost    Ultimate         Co-
US$ Million       User       Financing
(a) Financing of fixed assets
(emphasis on export-
oriented projects):
(i) Direct foreign exchange           72.0             Sub-
financing                                          borrowers
(ii) Financing of imputed foreign    14.0               Sub-         TL equiv.
exchange cost of locally                           borrowers   of about
purchased equipment                                (in TL)      70.0 m.n. 1/
(Central Bank
rediscounting)
Sub-total                                 86.0
(b) Financig  of working capital                  10.0      Sub-        At least
for imported raw materials for                        borrowers   20.0 m.n.
firms commencing or expanding                                      (Private com-
exports                                                            mercial banks)
(c) Technical assistance for
export promotion prog-
ram consisting of:
(i) Export firm problem                0.5
diagnosis
(ii) Export market evaluation           0.8             TSKB
(iii) Advisory and consulting            0.5
services
(iv) Training for TSKB staff            0.2             TSKB (for
related to export                                  staff)
promotion
Sub-total                             2.0
(d) Financing of Technical                         2.0     Sub-
Assistance                                             borrowers
Total                           US$100.0                  90.0
1/ Based on TL125=US$1.00. This includes the estimated total expected from Central
Bank sources for the mix of projects to be presented for rediscounting. Due to the
high percent of imputed foreign exchange costs, most of this amount is likely to be
used also for imputed foreign exchange.



- 42 -
A. TSKB Lending for Exports and Use of Bank Funds for Fixed Assets
6.03     Export Targets.  Under the proposed loan the measure of TSKB's effort
in financing fixed asset investment is defined in terms of a percentage of
TSKB's overall operations. Such a target is more appropriate and manageable
than a fixed amount target as was the case under the 13th loan (para 4.16)
because of the continuing uncertainty of investment demand in Turkey
(para 2.16) and because of TSKB's practice of blending funds from various
sources depending upon the specific financing requirements (maturity, source
of procurement, and eligibility requirements by size and subsector).
Specifically, TSKB has agreed to allocate to export-oriented projects (defined
in para 6.04) 50% of its ov,erall lending operations 1/ in 1982, rising to 55%
in 1983 and 60% in 1984--these percentages implying, as compared to the past
and current situation, a significant additional effort from TSKB in favor of
export-oriented investments.   While export-oriented projects were only 8% of
total operations on a commitment basis in 1978, they rose to 15% by 1979 and
more substantially to 37% by 1980 and 1981, reflecting Turkey's policies and
objectives and TSKB's growing capability to identify and promote projects with
export potential. The proposed allocations for export-oriented projects,
though substantially larger than levels reached in the recent past, appear
attainable; their achievement requires that TSKB engage in a substantial
promotion effort in order to create investment demand (para 6.14), but they
also depend on a resurgence of private sector fixed investment (para 2.16) as
well as on the continued effectiveness of export incentives and, to a lesser
extent, on institutional arrangements (para 2.13) for export promotion which
are evolving satisfactorily. Meeting these targets would result in TSKB's
financing export-oriented projects with total investments of nearly US$575.0
million during the 1982-84 period, based upon TSKB's current projected
operations as discussed in para 5.17.
6.04     Definition of Export-Oriented Projects.  The definition established
under the TSKB XIII and the Textile Sector projects two years ago remains
valid. Accordingly, (a) expansion or modernization projects of an existing
enterprise will be considered export-oriented if at least 40% of the project's
incremental output will be exported by the time the project reaches full
capacity; and (b) new projects will be considered export-oriented if at least
30% of their output will be exported by the time they reach full capacity.
Both would also have to pass a net foreign exchange earnings test discussed
below. TSKB's appraisal reports on such projects will have to demonstrate
their bona fide export potential using evidence of price competitiveness and
an adequate marketing strategy. TSKB would have to satisfy itself that
sponsors have obtained available incentives in accordance with their export
targets. The TSKB Loan Agreement will require that minimum export performance
targets be specified in the sub-loan contracts between TSKB and the sponsors
of export-oriented projects. A net foreign exchange earnings test has been
added to the export percentage test used in the prior loan since it would be
possible for a project with a low proportion of value added in Turkey to
1/ This does not include: (a) working capital loans in foreign exchange;
(b) rescheduling; and (c) the special Government facility for
rediscounting (See para 5.13).



- 43 -
export 30% - 40% of output and still not contribute significantly to Turkey's
foreign exchange earnings. Under the net foreign exchange earnings test
projects that are eligible would have to show a rate of return on foreign
exchange of more than 12% which is intended to reflect the opportunity cost of
foreign exchange. 1/
6.05     Financing of Fixed Assets under the Bank Loan.  About US$86.0 million
of the proposed loan would be allocated for the financing of the foreign
exchange costs of fixed assets. This amount, which reflects TSKB estimates of
commitments in 1982-1983, was assessed in the course of a critical review of
the TSKB's pipeline during appraisal (para 5.17, Project File). The pipeline
consists of over 80 projects with an estimated direct foreign exchange
requirement of US$175 million equivalent. About 40% of these projects with a
foreign exchange requirement of about US$80 million equivalent have made an
export commitment or will likely do so. About 42% of the foreign exchange
requirement is for projects in the engineering 2/ industries, which together
with food products (8%) will receive initial promotional emphasis under this
project (para 6.15). The balance is for textiles (14%), forestry products
(13%), chemicals (9%), glass, ceramics and construction materials (7%), and
metals and miscellaneous (7%). Thirty projects with foreign exchange
requirements of US$95 million are under appraisal of which 60-70% will lead to
commitments within the next six to nine months if sufficient foreign exchange
resources are available. Though the remainder of the pipeline is more
speculative, TSKB should normally be able to commit the proposed US$86.0
million for fixed assets during 1982-83. 3/
6.06      The major portion of this component (about US$72 million) would
finance the direct foreign exchange costs of fixed assets. The balance of
US$14.0 million would be made available to investors in local currency
equivalent to finance the imputed foreign exchange costs of locally produced
machinery and equipment, estimated to be about 40% of such investment. This
latter element will encourage the development of the local capital goods
industry. Also, because the new Central Bank rediscounting 4/ policy allows
local currency development bank loans to be rediscounted at between 80% and
90% of the outstanding amount 5/, TSKB will be able to finance domestic and
imputed foreign exchange procurements to a substantially larger extent than in
the past (para 5.23). Terms and conditions of subloans under these components
are given below (para 6.27). The Government must make suitable legal
arrangements to protect TSKB from the foreign exchange risk since
11 More precisely, the flow of export earnings which is equal to the discount
rates at which the flow of direct and major indirect foreign exchange
costs should be greater than 12%.
2/ Metal products, non-electrical machinery, electrical machinery and
transport equipment.
3/ Because of the economic uncertainty surrounding this estimate, we are
projecting that the loan will be fully committed by mid-1984.
4/ Though referred to as rediscounting, this facility results in co-financing
TSKB sub-projects; TL loans for eligible projects are presented to the
Central Bank which shares in their financing in the ratio mentioned above.
5/ Projects which are export-oriented, of widespread ownership or located in
least developed regions are eligible for 90%, all others for 80%.



- 44 -
sub-borrowers would not utilize TL funds to purchase locally produced
equipment if the risk is passed on to them. If arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank cannot be reached by September 30, 1982 this component would be
reallocated for financing direct foreign exchange costs of fixed assets. The
Government does not expect difficulty in making such arrangements and is well
aware of this component's importance to TSKB for providing TL finance to new
projects (para 5.23).
B. Foreign Exchange Working Capital
6.07     Since Turkey's economic crisis began in mid-1977, one important
reason for the fall-off in capacity utilization rates has been the shortages
of imported inputs caused by the scarcity of foreign exchange for working
capital. In order to encourage exports, the Government has initiated various
schemes to facilitate exporters' access to foreign exchange.  The most impor-
tant of these is the foreign exchange retention scheme which allows exporters
access to 50% of their export earnings. Transfers are handled by commercial
banks which minimizes, though it does not eliminate, delays. Under the other
schemes (e.g., import allocations under the temporary import regime and on
undertaking an export commitment), foreign exchange transfers are not
automatic and delays are coimmon, given the limited amount of foreign exchange
available to the Central Bank and other superseding priorities, e.g. the need
to import oil, fertilizers, etc. The acute scarcity of foreign exchange for
working capital is likely to persist so long as the country's balance of
payments position remains tight.
6.08     These delays and uncertainties in obtaining access to foreign ex-
change funds often deter exporters from committing themselves to significant
export contracts because of the risk of not meeting delivery deadlines. Firms
seeking to enter the export market for the first time are having particular
difficulty because their needs are not accorded sufficient priority by
commercial banks. Scarcity of foreign exchange is also a problem for
exporting firms that import increasingly large quantities of raw materials
used in finished products for exports, since these companies must hold large
stock levels in order to maintain production when allocations of foreign
currency are restricted (para 2.15).
6.09     To meet the needs of potential manufacturing exporters principally
among its existing clients, TSKB, with the strong encouragement of the
Government, has formulated plans to operate a foreign exchange working capital
fund. The authorities have granted TSKB the right to hold up to US$20.0
million in foreign exchange in an "offshore" account. This will expedite
TSKB's ability to provide working capital funds without going through the
normal administrative procedures (through the Central Bank). Typical clients
would be firms already evaluated 1/ as creditworthy that are in production but
1/  Since the effectiveness of the working capital credit depends upon making
the funds available to the exporter when the need arises, TSKB will
establish annual credit limits for each individual firm through a sound
financial appraisal as soon as the system is in place. This will enable
appraisal for specific requests to be made without the need for detailed
reviews of the financial position of the firm at the time of loan
application.



- 45 -
operating at below capacity, which need to import raw materials or
semi-finished products for their exports. They would be eligible only if they
are first time exporters or can satisfactorily demonstrate to TSKB that credit
utilization will expand their export sales by at least 5% in real terms during
their following fiscal year. Disbursements would be based on firm export
contracts. Loans would be extended in foreign exchange with terms of from
three months to two years and average maturities of six to nine months. They
would be repaid in the same currency directly out of earnings retained under
the Foreign Exchange Retention Scheme. TSKB rates will need to be flexible in
light of market conditions but will be set at rates at least sufficient to
cover the cost to TSKB of the currency being lent 1/ plus a reasonable margin
at least sufficient to cover TSKB's costs of operations of this scheme. For
sub-loans for Bank funds the cost will be the rate of the Bank loan to TSKB.
6.10     Up to US$10 million of the loan to TSKB will be allocated to finance
working capital in foreign exchange for this purpose on a revolving basis.
Subsequent borrowers from "rolled over" funds would be subject to the same
eligibility criteria as required for initial disbursement. To enlarge the
scope of such financing and as a condition of Bank involvement, TSKB will be
required to obtain co-financing from Eurocurrency sources (principally
European commercial banks) in order to blend Bank funds with other resources,
which have been identified, on a ratio of at least 3:1. 2/ The Bank's
long-term funds would thus not only give more flexibility in the maturities
TSKB could offer but would also induce TSKB to mobilize resources in the
international capital markets. Eurocurrency credit lines of US$15.4 million
equivalent have already been secured from the following banks: Union Bank of
Switzerland, Paribas, Societe Generale de Paris, Societe Generale de Belgique,
and Deutche Bank. Mobilization of the remaining $4.6 million is not needed in
order to start utilizing Bank funds and by the time existing co-financing
lines have been fully utilized TSKB is expected to have secured the balance
required for that purpose.
1/ For concessional funds the rate would reflect the appropriate market rate
for the currency being used.
2/ It would not be practicable to blend Bank funds with other resources for
each individual contract because of procurement ties associated with
foreign lines of credit and differing maturities of such credits.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that the minimum ratio of 3:1 will
be met on the basis of a statement by TSKB to be submitted with each
request for disbursement which indicates that the outstanding balance of
all loans at the end of the immediately preceding month, net of
repayments, is equal to at least three times the outstanding balance of
Bank funds. Agreement was also reached with TSKB to continue to maintain
a minimum ratio of 3:1 on a best efforts basis for the period after Bank
funds have been fully disbursed and to continue to advise the Bank in its
semi-annual report on working capital operations (para 6.29) of the level
of its net outstanding disbursements. Prior to the commitment deadline of
this project (June 30, 1984) if this level falls below three times the
outstanding balance of Bank funds the Bank will review the situation with
TSKB to consider re-allocating the funds for financing either fixed assets
or technical assistance.



- 46 -
6.11     The level of working capital operations (as measured by the
outstanding balance of loan,s disbursed) would be initially limited to US$30
million in 1982 while TSKB is gaining experience in this operation. 1/ TSKB's
right to hold no more than US$20 million in an "offshore" account sets a limit
on the foreign exchange in the account at a given time but the amounts that
are actually loaned during a year could exceed this amount due to roll-overs.
TSKB will not have a significant foreign exchange risk from this operation
because borrowers will repay in the same currency as borrowed. In the case
of contracts financed by the Bank (which would be entirely financed by Bank
funds), sub-borrowers will assume the foreign exchange risk due to the Bank's
pooling system. TSKB does not anticipate that sub-borrowers will be deterred
by interest rate uncertainty because of the expected demand for this
facility. With regard to idle funds held between transactions, the risk seems
relatively minor since only short periods are anticipated and would be
compensated for by small changes in the overall interest rate. Given the
magnitude of the private sector's foreign exchange working capital
requirements for manufactured exports (estimated at nearly US$400.0 million in
the first year of the loan), TSKB's working capital operations would only
complement existing commercial bank financing. They will give TSKB a
fundamental instrument, however, to better serve the export-oriented clientele
which this project will try to develop 2/ and TSKB's eligibility criteria will
ensure that TSKB's working capital operations will lead to direct increases in
exports.
6.12     TSKB's working capital operations will be managed by staff from
TSKB's foreign exchange department. Two department managers were placed in
local banks for on-the-job training for about four weeks. In addition TSKB is
financing from its own resources an experienced advisor for one year
commencing January 1982 to assist TSKB in launching this new activity. TSKB's
revised policy statement (para 4.01) now reflects its entry into this type of
operation.
C. Technical Assistance
6.13     Background.  The groundwork for the technical assistance program
planned under this project in support of its export promotion program was laid
in the two most recent Bank loans to TSKB. Under the thirteenth loan TSKB
began a program of export market screening which provides the sectoral focus
for the promotional program planned under this project (para 4.14).
Institutional capability tco obtain statistical and bibliographic information
1/ The extension of the definition of the debt/equity ratio (to include debt
of short-term maturity para 5.04) would also have a constraining effect on
the expansion of TSKB's; short-term lending activity. It is felt that
these activities, which are traditionally covered by commercial banks,
should remain limited compared to the long-term financing role of TSKB.
2/ The various financial components of the proposed loan (fixed assets,
imputed cost of local machinery, rediscounting facilities and TSKB's other
resources in TL, foreign exchange working capital) should all enable TSKB
to provide "package" financing to its customers, thereby meeting all the
needs of export-oriented firms.



- 47 -
was developed and staff capabilities to analyze it were strengthened. Under
the private sector textiles project, with the help of outside experts, TSKB
has begun to develop a capability to identify technical needs of firms and
help to formulate programs to meet them (para 4.15).  Under both projects TSKB
has initiated sectoral programs of systematic contact with potential investors
which will be intensified under this project. For this project a major
increase in Technical Assistance is expected, with two objectives in mind.  On
the one hand, in order to respond to the Government's goal to achieve an
acceleration of exports from private sector initiative, TSKB must expand its
expertise in export matters (technical as well as marketing expertise). On
the other hand, as a result of that improved capability, TSKB must be able to
convince firms to export through promotion activities and other actions.
Technical assistance is therefore the key to this project which has four
sub-components (Item (c) of Table 1 of para 6.02) which deal with these
concerns.
(i) a problem diagnostic program for export-oriented firms (para
6.15-6.16);
(ii)  a market evaluation program (para 6.17-6.19);
(iii)  an advisory and consulting service program (para 6.20-6.21);
(iv)  a TSKB staff training program (para 6.22).
These sub-components are summarized in Table 2 and elaborated in the
paragraphs below. TSKB has undertaken a program of this magnitude because the
institutional framework for technical assistance in Turkey is still relatively
under-developed (para 2.13-2.14).
6.14     Priority sub-sectors and product groups in terms of export potential
have been identified in a general way as the result of a year-long, ITC
assisted screening, completed in March 1981, largely financed by the
thirteenth Bank Loan to TSKB (1948-TU). This screening, which covered nearly
500 manufacturing product lines led to a short list of about 30 priority
product groups in nine subsectors 1/ (Annex 28), based on (a) size and recent
growth rate of international markets; (b) present or potential Turkish supply
capability and cost; and (c) ability of TSKB to provide technical assistance.
1/ For the purposes of TSKB's export promotion program the manufacturing
sector has been sub-divided into 15 subsectors which roughly correspond to
a 2-digit SITC level of aggregation (e.g. food products, electrical
machinery). They are convenient groupings for allocating responsibility
to TSKB sectorally specialized staff in the Lending and Investment
department. The approximate 500 product groups included in the original
screening which represent about 70% of total manufacturing are at a 3-5
digit level of aggregation. Examples of product groups at this level from
the above two sub-sectors are cheese and curd, and switch gear. This
level contains more products than would be made in a single factory which
is termed a product line, but is appropriate for statistical analysis of
opportunities for export promotion.






- 4F -
Table 2
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR TSKB EXPORT PROMOTION PROGEAM
Principal
ACeitilies              TSKB Unit                                                                 Foreign
pcOnao lnce        of lczvoleed             Respoesible         Friar Prepaar-ioo              Output               Excbange Costs        tUcoS Coats  I/              Inreteer
(us$)           (TL molloo_)
(a) Peo-lel-            - Factory V-siti              Lendieg sad   - Peegers escabliohed  - List of firse for              $500,000                    b6.5             A DCW pr-ra-l far
lrlaSnoas  of         by TSKB Staff               Inestment        in l9S0  ooysera- C9onaur org aed/or                 ($30,000-50,000                              TSKl.  Teebereol
Sopues Fierce         aaonsted by orator-         Deport-eet       ti-ally cotact            t-echnical assisceace      per sob-sector)                              ac-s yancc  as sarey-
all supecialized                            firma atilirieg           with diagoosis of                                                        og   nurkish  flns
I(bout                             seteorally spetial-    problems of tires;                                                         neded because a_  i_
40 mao-macta)                                ieed TIKB scoff          rreermendatioa  foe                                                     axperience    osatl,
Fellow-op                                                               esponiatly cc dealing
- Asseosment of peab-                                                      vti, peobnrb1o Of
Sees at aol-seater                                                      cisecog f(-us
lecel, tecnmenomdatienos
foe possible fclew-up
.S-itoh'-jab tt--is
far ToKB atofl
inn) Efport barket       - Capor  mdket itodiLa Ltedisg and  - ITC Traioing                    - Analysis at pree-           $800      'pl"             17.0              A etin i-o9ru pfogeara
fvauna fire           by ncnsultants assisted    Investment        Sensrs                    feaoabilicy dept at        $100 000 to be                                 ta-tecn  3n.ee  Ibib
by lOfB seccoral staff    Depsrtment         (1908-gi)                sele -ted  pradacts          _c ftieancd undmc                           TStL  loon
_         _ctsed on 1rioeicy pcI:-        - ITE-usnister             pricisy product groups  TSKB XIII io.n)
done liceI  Inr each oh b-                   srreieng of              in selseced markets
s      (crce foiro.c 64 man-                appro. 500             - Oner-eie  of other mar-
mothbs)  (1-3 otudi-s                       product liars             ket uppo_tueities fee
yet oub-sectir.  total                    - Th-ee moetkting          pri-rity peodacto
of aboat 15 ssadies)                         atudies Iudertakon   -On-the-job  troLing
109O-8l                  of TSKB saeff
- bet-op  It Dteent-
sat-nr Ceter, mid-
1080, mith ITC
- Surey nf   n-OECD           Lecdilng and  - ITC-as-i,ted            - Statistical en-lua-   $s 5,ouo (to be
export oppocrro1ities       Iooroie.eetscreenirg abovr                tien bibIipgrayhy,         fin-ned -nder
ait  Irc asoistaner         Depaetment                                onsesameot af pendant    ISd CLII loan)
(bread surrey of all                                                 drooups
anb-esectors (about
enmdn moetas)
Ad-s-y pnd         - foil o-op nicuc- by          No,n-Tuenle  - Teechn-cl sosoScanto - DOa sorry at eupoet            $500,0ou                     47.8              M--rt  -sata-e doe
S-siltiLng            tAD scoff as-isted by:    Coastlct n        peegAc-  to pencte        ..rIeting as-is tIee                                                     cot no-rlap wich a-ti
......s           1-- roacdent espect           Depactmeet      te-tile aod ga--ett       "epes tile dote"; and                                                     IiLtynr(.i) anond
Iotpetieirncin                           snb-sentxrrs  rasirr5    - lo-lepbh asse-saent                                                     (exporteacri sendy).
ansaitLice firma to                      eesident and elect-    of technicol assistance                                                     Aill            - tohit t  aot-
e-port - 24 .a.-.onths)                  teem experts             needs: preearation of                                                     port intproicaog
-- abort-sect specigalists                                           teshnitol asistancte                                                       pension arnseancee
i12 oae-m-ntth)                                                   program; ideetuie  -tio,                                                   Ioloend to suit credo
of delivrey sources                                                       of iorlnidaal fire.
(ceoalutoets, licensees,
coant aeninee partners,                                                  s0iri  are groe copanads
etc.)                                                                     cnutnyatvte
- On-the-job teanonte ef                                                    biyomrI te. til.  and
oneb   atut s TOES to
tile of irteerrredioey.
(in)  TSKB  Stff         -                            Lortshops ann  tendiag and               - Improved diog-osnce         j200,000                     17.0             tOKI s  -boi I plan
frarrien            seminars in Tarkec          Inrencrert                                capability of staff                                                        c ot         b   3,
areasged by ITC            Departtent                                 i- suppert of i)                                                          19N2 far tra..i.g
duriag Ist yeae to                                                    above                                                                     after Frot ye
teain T3tB staff in
diogs..ie of p-ebbemo
i_pe_iing epoetI  at
firm levcel
labort 1 ean-monthsS
TOTAL                                                                                                                 $,150                       195.9
Le- Finotcing from TSKB CIII Loam                                                                                        ISO,D
$2,000,000
T-C = leerretonal Trade Center
toter  1/ Baseid a  TL L25/US01






- 49 -
The priority product lines are chosen from the following sub-sectors: food
products; electrical machinery; non-electrical machinery; transportation
equipment; metals; metal products; industrial chemicals; resins, rubbers, and
light chemicals and non-metallic minerals. Their comparative advantage is
largely based on one or more of the following factors; availability of
unexploited local raw materials; existence of a relatively mature industry
with adequate skill/technology and excess capacity; intensive use of skilled
labor or engineering; significant transport costs, and nearby markets rapidly
expanding. For most priority product groups it will be necessary to identify
Turkish firms that can export products within those groups, diagnose their
problems and then provide for financing and/or technical assistance,
especially export marketing assistance to enable them to export. The
technical assistance program will help to accomplish these objectives. This
program will focus on the thirty or so priority product lines in a systematic
fashion over a three-year period according to an agreed timetable (Annex 29)
beginning February 1982.
6.15     (i)  Problem Diagnosis of Export Firms.  This is a program to survey
firms in the priority product groups of the sub-sector, which will;
(a) identify those with present or potential exporting capability;
(b) provide, for selected (8-20) firms in each sub-sector a preliminary
diagnosis of the most important constraints and problems at both the firm and
sector level that prevent exporting capability from being realized (high cost
or poor quality raw materials, lack of capacity, bottlenecks, obsolete
technology, lack of working capital, poor quality of product line, inadequate
management, etc.); and (c) recommend how TSKB can assist the firm, through
investment financing, working capital, technical assistance or some
combination of the three. Four sub-sectors (food products, and three
"engineering" sub-sectors, electrical machinery, non-electrical machinery, and
metal products) will be surveyed the first year (commencing in February 1982)
and the balance the following year. This component will be carried out by the
Lending and Investment Department. Firms will be selected by TSKB primarily
on the basis of the quality and dynamism of their management, their
willingness to participate and interest in exporting, their financial
condition, and an assessment that problems or constraints can usefully be
addressed by means of technical assistance.
6.16     To assist the Lending and Investment department in diagnosing the
problems of the firms identified by TSKB staff as having export potential and
to provide on-the-job training, TSKB will use experienced sectorally
specialized foreign experts who are production and technology oriented, but
have broad practical experience including export matters. One or two
(depending on the sub-sector and number of priority product groups) will be
required for each sector for three to four months each. The project will
therefore provide for about 40 man-months for this program. For these
services TSKB will contract with one or more established consulting
organizations with strong international experience in exports and industrial
development to ensure promptness in delivery of short-term specialists, a
strong organizational back-up, continuing links to export markets, and a
follow-up effort on the training of TSKB staff. The estimated cost for this
component is US$0.5 million. This is based on an average man-month cost
including salary, costs, fees, overseas allowances, and international travel
of US$11,800. 1/. Additional amounts have been allowed for administrative
1/ In 1981 prices.



- 50 -
supplies, price escalation, and contingencies. These estimates reflect TSKB's
prior experience in obtaining consultants of the requisite quality and
experience. TL costs including local travel of consultants and TSKB staff, a
portion of subsistence, and taxes to the extent due, will be borne by TSKB and
financed from additional spread (para 6.31). Consultants will be selected in
accordance with Bank Guidelines for Consultants (August 1981) (para 6.31).
TSKB has developed a satisfactory short list of consultants and prepared
detailed terms of reference and required qualifications for the first year
short-term experts (Annex 30, Project File). Final appointment of a
consulting firm based on an evaluation procedure satisfactory to the Bank is
to be made by mid-February and would if necessary be a condition of
effectiveness of the loan. Bank approval of the final contract will be
required.
6.17     (ii) Export Market Evaluation.  The export market evaluation program
is intended as a basis for export marketing assistance to potential exporters
(especially firms from the export firm identification program (para 6.16)) and
for use by TSKB in planning future promotion efforts. It will consist
primarily of export marketing studies for selected priority product groups.
There will also be a component for additional research into non-OECD markets
for broad categories of products as discussed below (paras 6.18-6.19). The
export marketing studies, which are a continuation of the program of export
market studies begun under the 13th TSKB loan, will be conducted by
consultants assisted by TSKB staff. Each study will normally provide:
(a) in-depth analysis of at least one or two specific products in the priority
product line in a specific important market (e.g. the opportunity fur power
take-off generators, 5-20 kw size (which is one of the many product lines in
the products in the priority product group "electrical power machinery") in
the West German markets) which can be used by firms to develop an export
marketing plan; and (b) a broad overview of the rest of the products and
markets in the priority product line to assist in focusing subsequent
promotion and follow-up efforts by individual firms and/or the Technical
Services Department.
6.18     Given TSKB staff constraints, about 15 studies can usefully be
conducted over a three-year period. The specific product lines and the
markets to be analyzed will be determined after the potentially interested
export firms have been identified in the relevant product group. The studies
are expected to require four to six months to complete, involve two TSKB staff
(engineer and economist) in addition to the foreign experts, and cost on
average about US$60,000 each for a total of US$900,000, including travel and
per diem of TSKB counterpart staff and involve about 52 consultant man-months
of effort. 1/ The first six studies will be launched before December 31,
1982, for which TSKB will submit a detailed outline and terms of reference and
qualifications of the consultants who will be individually procured for each
study, for Bank approval prior to disbursement of this component.
1/ Only US$800,000 is required from this loan because US$100,000 can be
financed by the thirteenth TSKB loan which has funds allocated for this
purpose.



- 51 -
6.19     Because the focus of the ITC-assisted screening effort (para 6.14)
has been on trade with OECD countries which accounted in 1980 for 58% of
Turkey's exports, TSKB's Export Market Evaluation will include a study to
develop statistical as well as qualitative information about markets in the
non-OECD countries, especially the Middle East which is the fastest growing
market area for Turkey. The output of the study will be an analysis of past
market trends at the broad product group level (3 digit SITC 1/),
bibliographic references, and preliminary conclusions about promising product
areas. While this study is intended to help to focus subsequent promotional
programs, its results could modify the present program planned for the second
or third years. The study will be undertaken by the Research Department with
the assistance of ITC. It will commence before June 1982 and is expected to
be completed by December 1982, and to cost about US$50,000 and will be
financed under the thirteenth TSKB loan. Detailed terms of reference for the
study are to be satisfactory to the Bank prior to disbursement.
6.20     (iii) Advisory and Consulting Services.  A program of advisory and
consulting services to potential exporters in Turkey, will be developed.
Administered by TSKB, this program will help potential exporting firms
(especially those firms involved in the initial identification and diagnostic
program), to recognize their deficiencies, formulate remedial actions,
identify and obtain appropriate sources of assistance (consultants, licensors,
joint venture partners, etc.) and consider special financing if needed
(discussed below, para 6.25). Some of the potential clients of this program
will also be prospects for investment financing from TSKB that first require
remedial assistance. This latter group is an important source of potential
export expansion. However, export expansion will not emerge concretely unless
technical assistance to this group is actively promoted because most Turkish
firms are reluctant to recognize deficiencies and seek outside assistance.
Thus while TSKB prefers in the long run to limit its role to promoting and
financing technical assistance, and not to delivering it, (especially among
firms that do not have immediate plans to finance investment), it recognizes
that under present circumstances it needs the ability to assist firms in
export marketing and related areas. This will help to overcome their
reluctance and thereby open the door to other types of assistance which TSKB
would not deliver but could help find and finance. Accordingly, TSKB's
advisory and consulting services for this purpose will consist of the
following activities:
(a)  Delivery of export marketing and related types of assistance to firms
(utilizing export market studies of priority product groups (paras
6.17-6.18) as an important input if available).  Export marketing is
an area in which there is strong demand because firms in less
traditional sectors have so little experience. The ability to assist
firms in export marketing will help to overcome their reluctance to
accept technical assistance generally and help to open the door to
other types of assistance that may be needed which TSKB would not
deliver but can help to find and finance.
1/  See para 6.1 ,, footnote 1 for explanation of SITC levels of aggregation.



- 52 -
(b)  Assistance in assessing technical requirements that go beyond (a)
above, preparing technical assistance programs, and identifying
sources to deliver them.
(c)  Technical appraisal of loans to finance agreed technical assistance
programs above.
6.21     While TSKB now has relevant experience in the textile sub-sectors
(para 4.15), it will need outside assistance to accomplish the above
activities in other sub-sectors to be promoted. The project will therefore
provide for the services of a senior expert, experienced in assisting firms to
export, to be resident for a 24-month period commencing not later than May 1,
1982 to help TSKB organize and operate this promotion program and to train at
least two counterparts who would be recruited for this purpose. The project
would also provide for the services of twelve man-months of short-term experts
to be used in connection with the export marketing assistance rendered to
specific firms. This is needed as a supplement and follow-up to the export
market studies (para 6.18) which would typically not provide guidance of
sufficient scope and depth to enable individual firms actually to begin
exporting. in order to improve coordination of its technical assistance
programs TSKB will look to the same internationally recognized technical
service or consulting organizations as for the sectoral consultants for export
firm problem diagnosis (para 6.16), to provide experts whose services are
expected to cost about US$0.5 million based on estimated man-month costs of
about the same level (US$11,800), and will be financed by this loan (Tables 1
and 2, item (c)(iii)). Terms of reference for the resident expert (Annex 30,
Project File) were reviewed at negotiations and are satisfactory. Selection
will be in accordance with Bank Guidelines (August 1981) following the same
procedures throughout as for the sectoral consultants which is to be completed
by February 15, 1982 (para 6.16). It is estimated that 30-50 firms could
receive significant consultancy services from this program over a three-year
period (excluding loans discussed below, para 6.25).
6.22     (iv) Training Seminars and Workshops.  Although TSKB's staff already
possess the basic skills required to assume the new export promotional
activities, these skills will be further developed by means of a program of
workshops and seminars especially designed to achieve a better understanding
of the main impediments at the enterprise level to efficient export expansion,
and their possible solutions. A selected group of 10 to 15 sectorally
specialized TSKB staff will receive this training in Turkey for six weeks
during 1982 in two three week programs. The Program, for which a satisfactory
program outline has been prepared (Project File, Annex 30) will be arranged by
the ITC and is planned to commence in March 1982 and will require about
9 man-months of effort by ITC consultants. The cost of this program is
US$90,000 (including an allowance for follow-up training after 18 months). In
addition, $US110,000 has been allocated for further export-related training
activities in the light of experience with the above. An outline of the
proposed additional training program will be provided to the Bank for review
before December 31, 1982.



- 53 -
6.23     Staffing and Organizational Implications of Export Promotion Program.
The export promotion program is a key element of this project that involves
new activities and will utilize a substantial amount of staff time from
several TSKB departments. In large part it can be implemented by existing
staff on the basis of the technical assistance program proposed above.
However, it requires continued close coordination and control for which
satisfactory arrangements have been made as follows. TSKB plans to utilize a
single consulting firm to provide short-term experts for export firm problem
diagnosis (para 6.15) and the resident expert for its advisory and consulting
services (para 6.21). The resident expert would be responsible on behalf of
the consulting firm for the delivery and control of consulting services.
Coordination will be further improved as a result of the new TSKB organization
(para 4.06). The two departments which have most of the responsibility for
executing the technical assistance program for export promotion (Loan and
Investment, and Non-Textile Consultancy Departments) are both under the same
senior assistant general manager. Finally, the post of Export Project
Coordinator has been created, responsible to the same senior assistant general
manager whose primary functions are to plan, coordinate and monitor this
program. An experienced senior staff member who has been responsible on
behalf of TSKB for preparing the technical assistance program bas been
appointed to this post.
6.24     Agreement has been reached with TSKB to provide semi-annual reports
describing progress in implementation. There will be a special joint
Bank-TSKB evaluation of TSKB's technical assistance program by December 31,
1983 to identify any changes necessary to improve its effectiveness. In
preparation for this review TSKB will prepare an evaluation report under terms
of reference that must be acceptable to the Bank.
D. Loans for Technical Assistance
6.25     US$2.0 million is earmarked for medium-term loans up to a maximum of
US$250,000 per loan on the basis of simplified procedures that focus primarily
on an appraisal of the needs for technical assistance (no free limit is
envisaged) of TSKB clients engaged in or contemplating exports. TA programs
to such firms will be appraised by TSKB, and foreign consultants to deliver TA
to TSKB clients would be selected in agreement with TSKB. An estimated twenty
firms would receive loans from this fund. TSKB's semi-annual reports on
export promotion (para 6.24) will list commitments, approvals, and status of
projects in the pipeline. The Bank will receive every fourth appraisal report
of the technical assistance loans made by TSKB for ex post review. The
Government has confirmed it will grant automatically the Certificate of
Eligibility that is required for all DFC loans on request of TSKB after making
its appraisal. Although TSKB plans to charge for technical assistance
rendered by its staff and consultants in accordance with its present policies,
those charges will be far less than the program's cost in order to encourage
firms to participate. As an added incentive to further encourage promising
firms to undertake technical assistance programs that go beyond what TSKB can
deliver and borrow from TSKB for them, TSKB has agreed to make grants for
local costs of up to the TL equivalent of one-half of the foreign exchange
costs of technical assistance loans (both short and medium term) up to a
maximum of US$50,000 per project and a total maximum of US$500,000. This



- 54 -
amount is sufficient to have impact and can be financed with other technical
assistance elements by means of a one per cent additional spread (para 6.30).
Only first time users of technical assistance would be eligible for this
assistance and the appraisals would have to show expected economic benefit
substantially in excess of the value of the foreign exchange cost of the
services to be provided under the loan. Since demand for technical assistance
loans remains uncertain (a significant pipeline has not yet been identified) a
portion of this component could be reallocated, if necessary, to the financing
of fixed investment with Bank approval after the special joint Bank-TSKB
evaluation (para 6.24).)
E. Loan Features
6.26     Fixed Assets.  An amount of US$72.0 million is allocated for direct
foreign exchange financing of fixed assets. For sub-loans under this
component TSKB will charge an interest rate equal to the weighted average cost
of all of its outstanding foreign exchange borrowings (updated every six
months) plus a spread that will increase to 5.5% by June 30, 1982
(para 5.19). With the spread increase, the rate to final borrowers is 14% at
current costs before taking into account charges for the interest rate fund
and interest rate subsidies (para 3.10). As the foreign exchange risk will be
entirely borne by the sub-borrower, these rates are positive in real terms.
For the component of US$14.0 million for the imputed foreign exchange cost of
locally produced machinery and equipment sub-loans will be dominated in TL;
TSKB will charge a rate in line with the market rates as normally evidenced by
commercial bank rates for comparable loans. With interest rate rebates that
the Government uses to encourage priority activities, this results for most
projects in a level between 20-28% which is marginally positive for medium and
long-term loans, given current inflation forecasts of 30% for 1982 and 20%
thereafter. As noted above (para 6.06) implementation of this component
requires the Government and TSKB to make arrangements that are satisfactory to
the Bank before September 30, 1982 that safeguard TSKB from the foreign
exchange risk.
6.27     Typical sub-loans for fixed asset financing components (direct and
imputed) are expected to have 8 to 10-year terms including grace periods of 2
to 3 years. The maturity of sub-loans will be commensurate with the economic
life of the project and the borrowers' debt-servicing capacity. The final
amortization schedule of the Bank loan to TSKB will be determined after the
loan has been fully disbursed, so as to reflect the aggregate amortization
schedules of individual sub-loans; it would not exceed 15 years. For indirect
financing of fixed assets (US$14 million) a fixed amortization schedule of 15
years with 5 years' grace is proposed since the exchange risk is not passed on
to the sub-borrowers. No increase in the "free limit" level of US$4.0 million
is envisaged for this project (because of inflation this results in a
reduction in real terms), given shortcomings observed in recent appraisals and
the recent additions of inexperienced staff. To ensure that projects are
economically viable TSKB will continue to calculate ERR for all projects in
excess of $US2 million: these must normally be in excess of 15% to be eligible
for Bank financing. About 25 sub-projects will be financed, of which 10-12
are expected to be above the free limit, accounting for about two thirds of
the value of investment. For projects below the free limit, TSKB will submit



- 55 -
to the Bank annually the appraisal reports of a sample of 20% of
export-oriented projects selected by the Bank from the list of approvals
committed during the previous year. To prevent pre-emption of this loan by a
few large borrowers and to encourage co-financing, a ceiling of US$9 million
has been set on Bank financing for a single project. 1/ Based on present
expected commitment rates (para 6.05), the final date for project submission
under this loan will be June 30, 1984.
6.28     Auditing.  TSKB will continue to provide the Bank with audits of its
accounts by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank within five months of
the end of TSKB's fiscal year. In order to deal with the problem of
provisions (para 5.14), agreement was reached that TSKB will estimate the
provisions for doubtful debts on a case-by-case basis, and establish
appropriate provisions, commencing with the accounts for the year ending
December 31, 1981. In addition, if TSKB's auditor's report is qualified, TSKB
management will so inform the Bank prior to making any recommendations to its
Board on profit allocation including dividends. TSKB wishes to introduce
gradually the development of sound auditing practices among its borrowers.
TSKB agreed to require in its sub-loan agreements the use of auditors
satisfactory to TSKB for all projects whose total cost exceeds US$10.0 million
equivalent whether or not financed by Bank funds. TSKB also agreed on a best
efforts basis to try to achieve the same audit standards for companies with
broad-based shareholding irrespective of the size of the project.
6.29     Working Capital.  Agreement was reached at negotiations that the
portion of the loan extended for foreign exchange working capital financing
(US$10.0 million) will have a fixed amortization schedule of ten years
including three years of grace. TSKB will submit copies of the appraisal and
the eligibility documentation for the first ten approvals in excess of
US$100,000 for ex post review by the Bank. TSKB will also provide a
semi-annual report on its working capital operations, including names of
individual firms assisted and their sub-loan terms, their prior export levels,
types of imports financed, forecast exports, and the status of resource
mobilization efforts.
6.30     Technical Assistance.  The portion of the loan for technical
assistance to TSKB (totalling US$2.0 million) will also have a fixed
amortization schedule of ten years including three years' grace. To finance
the costs of the technical assistance program, including grants (para 6.25),
which go well beyond TSKB's usual DFC activities, TSKB will retain 1% as
additional spread on the proposed loan which will be added as a cost in
computing its overall cost of borrowing under its usual procedure. The
portion for medium-term loans for technical assistance (US$2.0 million) will
be amortized on the basis of an aggregate of the amortization schedules of the
individual sub-loans. Typical technical assistance sub-loans would amortize
over a period of 8-10 years with grace periods of 3 years. The interest rate
for such loans would be at a positive spread over TSKB's average costs of
foreign exchange. Reporting is as discussed above (paras 6.24, 6.25).
1/ i.e. somewhat less than TSKB's maximum exposure limit of US$13 million in
1983.



- 56 -
6431     Procurement.  Since TSKB routinely ensures that appropriate
procurement procedures are followed that ensure competitive prices
(para 4.10), these procedures will be used for most contracts to be financed
under the loan to TSKB. For contracts in excess of US$2.5 million, however,
TSKB will use international tendering procedures developed for the private
sector textile project (para 4.10). These procedures require, in particular,
limited international advertising and award of the contract to the lowest
evaluated bidder and will affect contracts with a total value of from US$10-15
million. With regard to procurement from local sources for which Bank
financing of imputed costs under the loan to the Government is sought, TSKB
will satisfy itself that the costs are reasonable in comparison to available
alternatives. With regard to technical assistance, consultants for export
firm problem diagnosis (para 6.15) and for the advisory and consulting
services (para 6.21) for which costs are estimated at US$1 million, selection
will be made in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Consultants (August
1981) and will be awarded to a single firm. The average man-month cost
including salary costs, fees, overseas allowances, and international travel
for these services has been estimated at US$11,800 (paras 6.16, 6.21). TSKB
has developed a satisfactory short list of consultants, prepared detailed
terms of reference, and developed adequate procedures for consultant
evaluation.
6.32     Disbursements.  Disbursements will be made against standard
documentation in respect of (i) 100% of c.i.f. foreign exchange expenditures
for fixed assets under the loan to TSKB; (ii) 100% of foreign exchange
expenditures for technical assistance, training and research and related
travel costs; (iii) 40% of loan disbursements for local currency expenditures
for machinery and equipment. With regard to working capital, disbursements
will be made against 100% of the incremental c.i.f. foreign expenditures for
commodities and spare parts on the basis of standard documentation (invoices,
independent evidence of shipment, etc.) plus a TSKB certification that
contracts comply with eligibility criteria. To meet the blending
requirements, TSKB will provide the Bank with a statement with each request
for disbursement that shows the outstanding balance of all working capital
loans at the end of the immediately preceeding month net of repayments. In
order for a withdrawal application to be eligible for Bank financing this
value must be at least three times the value of net outstanding Bank
disbursements. Agreement has also been reached that after Bank funds have
been fully disbursed, TSKB will continue to maintain this ratio on a best
efforts basis. Prior to the deadline for commitments of June 30, 1984
(para 6.27), if this ratio falls below 3:1 the Bank and TSKB will review the
situation to consider re-allocation of undisbursed Bank funds for financing
either fixed investment or technical assistance. TSKB must also present with
each withdrawal application a statement that, at the time of approving the
loan, the net oustanding balance of all loans from Bank funds is greater than
total withdrawals. This ensures that new Bank funds are not withdrawn unless
amounts already withdrawn are being fully utilized. Documentation regarding
eligibility and blending requirements will be annually audited by independent
auditors. TSKB's accounting and auditing procedures are adequate and can be
relied upon to handle these procedures in a satisfactory way. The closing
date for this loan will be June 30, 1987.



- 57 -
F. Benefits and Risks
6.33     Benefits.  A major element of the Government's strategy for economic
recovery is the promotion of exports through the private sector. TSKB, as the
leading private sector development bank, is a pivotal instrument in the
implementation of this strategy. The proposed project will enable TSKB to
provide private firms (which do not necessarily need to expand their existing
fixed assets) with the needed investment, technical assistance and working
capital financing for expansion of exports through product development,
technological upgrading, improved product design, increased productivity and
the development of export marketing capability. The project will also enable
the private sector to increase capacity utilization, re-orient existing and
new industry toward exports, and finance export-oriented investment in areas
where Turkey has a competitive advantage, with long-lasting effects for the
country's development. In the process, TSKB's specialization in export
promotion activities will also be enhanced. It is estimated that this loan
will finance fixed assets for about 25 projects. As a result of the project,
about US$250 million of export-oriented fixed investment would be established,
yielding exports of about US$90 million per annum when projects are fully
operational, a significant contribution to the country's economic prosperity.
Working capital financing from Bank funds will generate an additional
US$40 million of exports per year.
6.34     Risks.  The risks of this project are relatively high in view of the
adverse economic circumstances prevailing in the country and the inherent
difficulties in export-related activities, particularly under the conditions
of continued stagnation in major market areas. Timely disbursement of
sub-project financing depends on the rate at which growing investor confidence
is translated into significant investment increase, which is still uncertain
under present changing economic conditions. The complexity of this project
places significant demands on TSKB's organization and management at a time
when it is strained from loss of staff and the need to increase attention to
portfolio management and control arrears. These difficulties could affect not
only the achievement of the export-related benefits of the project
(establishment of investment capacity, expansion of exports, promotion and
financing of technical assistance) but the financial health of TSKB itself.
Success in resolving these problems, however, rests not only on effective
efforts by TSKB but primarily on the continued steady progress of the
Government program in controlling inflation, reviving the economy, maintaining
the effectiveness of export incentives and a realistic foreign exchange rate,
and improving the institutional framework for export promotion. The progress
of this program is being monitored in the context of the Bank's structural
adjustment lending to Turkey. The risks on this project are acceptable and
fully justified as the objectives of the project are vital to the continuing
recovery of the Turkish economy. There are specific risks that attach to
individual components of the loan. Short-term financing is a new activity for
TSKB and therefore forecast levels may not be achieved as a result of lack of
experience. This risk is worth taking in view of the direct contribution to
exports and to TSKB's integrated program to promote exports in less
traditional sectors. The advisory and consultancy services program to export
firms and associated lending for technical assistance is dependent upon
overcoming deep-seated industry resistance and could fall short of forecast



- 58 -
benefit levels. The risk is justified, however, because of the high returns
to technical assistance in Turkey and the need to develop institutional
capabilities to foster its use; if unused, the funds can be re-allocated as a
last resort. To minimize the risks, the Bank also intends to devote more than
normal supervision efforts to this project.



- 59 -
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01     The Bank has reached agreement with the Government and TSKB on a
project to lend US$100 million to TSKB with the following components;
(a) US$86 million to finance fixed assets, of which (i) US$72 million is
for direct foreign exchange financing (paras 6.05-6.06) and
(ii) US$14 million is for imputed foreign exchange costs of local
equipment (paras 6.05-6.06);
(b)  US$10 million to co-finance a working capital fund of at least
US$30 million for financing imported raw materials for firms
commencing or expanding exports (paras 6.10-6.12);
(c)  US$2 million to finance technical assistance for a TSKB administered
export promotion program consisting of:
(i)  problem diagnosis of export firms, US$0.5 million
(paras 6.15-6.16);
(ii)  export market evaluation, US$0.8 million (paras 6.17-6.19);
(iii)  advisory and consulting services, US$0.5 million
(paras 6.20-6.21);
(iv)   training for TSKB staff, US$0.2 million (para 6.22);
(d)  US$2 million to finance technical assistance programs of
sub-borrowers (para 6.25).
7.02     Agreement was reached with TSKB on the following points:
(a)  TSKB will report to the Bank, prior to June 30, 1983, in connection
with its 1982-83 agreed capital increase, how it proposes to
diversify its shareholding (para 4.02);
(b)  TSKB will submit to the Bank before December 31, 1982 a strategic
plan for review prior to implementation (para 4.07);
(c)  The debt/equity ratio will be 10;1 with equity to include Government
quasi-equity loan, and debt to include all borrowings irrespective of
their maturity as well as uncovered letters of credits and guarantees
(para 5.04);
(d)  Financial projections will be prepared on a three-year basis, updated
quarterly (para 5.04);
(e)  TSKB will follow a policy to maintain a spread on local currency
lending consistent with the need for adequate provisions and other
legal reserves and pay dividends to shareholders sufficient to
attract financial support for expansion (para 5.19);



- 60 -
(f) TSKB will develop an Action Plan for mobilization of foreign
resources not later than December 31, 1982 (para 5.22);
(g) TSKB has an acceptable Local Resource financing plan and procedures
for informing the Bank of changes (para 5.23);
(h) TSKB will estimate provisions on a case by case basis commencing with
December 31, 1981 accounts (para 6.28);
(i) TSKB will require the use of auditors in sub-project agreements, for
companies with projects whose total cost exceeds US$10 million
(para 6.28);
(j) TSKB will meet the objectives of arrears reduction in accordance with
agreed maximums, and procedures for reporting, and action if maximums
are exceeded (para 5.12);
(k) Allocations for overall lending operations for export-oriented
projects will be 50% in 1982, 55% in 1983 and 60% in 1984 (para 6.03);
(1) The definition of export-oriented projects under TSKB XIII will be
used with the added requirement that they pass a net foreign exchange
earnings test (para 6.04);
(m)  The operation of the foreign exchange working capital fund includes
use of eligibility criteria (para 6.09), limit on the overall level
of operations in the first years of operations to no more than the
US$30 million (para 6.11); blending of Bank funds to other resources
on a ratio of 1:2 (para 6.10), handling of foreign exchange risk
(para 6.11), specified disbursement procedures, reporting, etc.
(para 6.29, 6.32);
(n) TSKB will implement a technical assistance program on the basis of an
agreed timetable beginning February 1982 (para 6.14); terms of
reference and qualifications of consultants for each component to be
satisfactory to the Bank (paras 6.16, 6.19, 6.22); selection of
consulting firm for Export Firm Problem Diagnosis and for Advisory
and Consulting Services in accordance with Bank Guidelines
(paras 6.16, 6.22, 7.08); preparation of a report on program
effectiveness by December 31, 1983 (para 6.24); retention of 1% as
additional spread to finance technical assistance (para 6.30);
(o)  Loan and sub-loan features for direct and indirect foreign exchange
financing of fixed assets include interest rate spread (para 6.27),
final amortization schedule on basis of aggregate amortization
schedule, free limit at US$4 million, ceiling on Bank projects of
US$9 million for single project, ERR calculation on all sub-loans in
excess of US$2 million, final date for commitments of June 30, 1984
(para 6.28);
(p) Sub-loans for technical assistance include eligibility criteria,
simplified procedures for appraisal, grants to sub-borrowers, and



- 61 -
provision for re-allocation with Bank approval after December 31,
1983 (para 6.25);
(q) TSKB will agree on procurement and disbursement procedures and
closing date of June 30, 1987 (paras 6.31, 6.32).
7.03     Agreement was reached with the Government and TSKB to increase TSKB's
spread on foreign exchange loans to 5% on January 1, 1982 for new projects and
to 5.5% on July 1, 1982 for all projects (para 5.19).
7.04     Agreement was reached with TSKB on the following conditions of
effectiveness: (a) TSKB to provide the Bank a satisfactory plan and schedule
for carrying out a study to prepare the strategic plan (4.07, 7.02(b); and
(b) appointment of consultants for export firm problem diagnosis (para 6.16).
7.05     Satisfactory arrangements to protect TSKB against the foreign
exchange risk on TL loans for the imputed foreign exchange costs of local
equipment would be a condition of disbursement for this component (para 6.06).



- 62 -
ANNEX 1
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S. (TSKB)
COMMODITY COMPOSITION OF EXPORTS
(In million of US dollars)
1972          1973          1974          1975          1976          1977          1978         1979          1980         1981
(Jan.-Oct.)
Agriculture and Livestock         607.4          832.0         851.9         792.6      1,254.5       1,041.4       1,542.8       1,343.6       1,671.7      1,664.1
Cereals and Pulses             36.2           64.2          22.4         28.1          70.6         120.4         262.2         164.2        181.0         262.5
Nuts, Fruits and
Vegetables                   197.4          259.0        295.2         275.4         375.3         440.0-        560.5        647.7         753.9         595.1
Hazelnuts                 116.5          121.7         173.2         154.1         203.2        251.0         330.9         353.0         394.8        252.6
Raisins                    30.5           56.7          53.9          45.5          52.6          75.0         99.7         114.8         130.3        101.4
Others                     50.4           80.6          68.1          75.8         119.5        114.0         129.9         179.9         228.7        241.1
Industrial Crops             337.6          456.8         463.0         435.1         733.6        432.0         617.9         448.0         605.9         614.5
Tobacco                   130.9          132.9         204.5         183.2         251.3        175.8         225.3         177.0         233.7        273.8
Cotton                    191.3          305.8         235.3         225.2        434.2         214.1         352.9         227.8         322.6        293.6
Others                     15.4           18.1          23.2          26.7          48.1         42.1          39.7          43.2          49.6         47.1
Livestock Products            27.0           41.0          56.5          41.1          62.7          37.2         77.8          62.0         108.2         172.3
Fishery Products                9.2           11.1          14.8          12.9         12.3          11.6          24.4          21.7         22.7          19.7
Mining and Quarry Products         35.1           41.7          79.8         105.6         110.0        125.9         124.1         132.5         191.0        159.0
Industrial Products               242.4          443.4         600.4         502.9        595.8         585.8         621.3         785.1      1,047.4       1,672.3
Food and Beverages             87.3          149.1        130.4         116.7          86.8         127.4          95.0        135.0         190.2         293.5
Tentiles                       54.8          105.6        147.8         135.5         272.7         265.9        321.6         390.7         439.8         599.8
Forestry Products               4.9            8.0         21.2           9.1           5.6           3.0           3.3          4.7           8.1          13.8
Hides and Leather
Products                      21.5           45.3         74.0          64.9          59.9          52.0          40.1         43.6          49.5          67.8
Chemicals                      11.2           19.6         36.3          37.7          46.7          36.4          26.0         27.2          91.9         127.9
Petroleum Products             22.3           48.9         85.9          36.1          16.1           0.0           0.0          0.0          38.5          62.5
Cement                         15.2           14.8           8.0         24.2          16.3           9.2          40.5         44.9          39.6         143.7
Glass and Ceramics              3.7            6.6          12.5         17.9          20.9          27.4          30.1          37.1         35.9          76.6
Non-ferrous Metal               5.9           17.3         34.0          12.7          16.9          20.1          11.5          14.6         18.3          24.2
Iron and Steel                  7.4           13.4          19.3         20.3          22.1          14.4          21.2         31.1          33.9          68.4
Metal Products and
Machinery                      4.1            8.6          16.1         13.9          16.5          14.0          18.0         18.1          29.8          59.7
Electrical Appliances           0.9            1.5           1.0          0.8           1.1           3.1           3.7          4.5          11.5          16.6
Motor Vehicles                  0.3            0.9           6.0           8.1          9.3           9.2           6.7         26.6          50.3          89.7
Others                          2.9            3.8           7.9           5.0          4.9           3.7           3.6           7.0         10.1          28.1
TOTAL EXPORTS                     885.0        1,317.1       1,532.2       1,401.1      1,960.2       1,753.0       2,288.2       2,261.2      2,910.1       3,495.4
Source: State Planning Organization.
EMENA/IDF
January 1982



ANNEX 2
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S. (TSKB)
GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF EXPORTS
(In millions of US dollars)
1972           1973          1974           1975          1976           1977          1978           1979          1980         1981
(Jan.-Oct.)
OECD Countries          650.1          949.0        1,081.0         985.1        1,483.2       1,234.7       1,506.8        1,446.4       1,679.7       1,719.6
EEC                347.0           611.5         717.3          615.1         958.0          868.0       1,090.1       1,097.5        1,251.0      1,166.4
USA                 103.5          130.8         144.2          147.1         191.4          121.8         153.2          104.5         127.4         178.2
Japan                15.1           16.6           18.1          28.7          36.0           36.5          36.0           22.4          36.7          22.2
Other OECD          184.5          190.1         201.4          194.2         297.8          208.4         227.5          222.0         264.7        352.8
Countries
Bilateral Agreement
Countries               41.8           50.8           78.2          73.2           81.1          80.4         108.3          127.1         178.6         144.8
Other Countries         193.1          317.3          373.0         342.8          395.7         437.9          673.1         687.7       1,051.8       1,631.0
TOTAL EXPORTS           885.0        1,317.1        1,532.2       1,401.1       1,960.0        1,753.0       2,288.2        2,261.2       2,910.1       3,495.4
Source: State Planning Organization and Ministry of Finance.
EMENA/IDF
January 1982



TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S.
Commodity Composition of Exports and Contribution to Export Growth, 1972-1980
Percent Composition        Contribution to
Export Values ($ mn)    Percent Composition        Industrial Exports       Growth, 1972-80 (2)
1972    1980              1972   1980              1972   1980           Total  fn-dustr-ial
Agriculture and livestock               607.4  1,617.7             68.6   57.4                -      -              52.6
Mining and quarry products               35.1    191.0              4.0    6.6                -                      7.7      -
Industrial Products                     242.4  1,047.4             27.4   36.0             100.0  100.0            39.8    100.0
Food and beverages                     87.3    190.2              9.9    6.5              36.0   18.2             5.1      12.8
Textiles                               54.8    439.8              6.2   15.1              22.6   42.0            19.0      47.8
Forestry products                       4.9       8.1             0.6    0.3               2.0    0.8             0.2       0.4
Hides and leather products             21.5      49.5             2.4    1.7               8.9    4.7             1.4       3.5
Chemicals                              11.2      91.9             1.3    3.2               4.6    8.8             4.0      10.0
Petroleum products                     22.3      38.5             2.5    1.3               9.2    3.7             0.8       2.0
Cerent                                 15.2      39.6             1.7    1.4               6.,3    3.8            1.2       3.0
Glass and ceramics                      3.7      35.9             0.4    1.2               1.5    3.4             1.6        3.6
Non-ferrous metals                      5.9      18.3             0.7    0.6               2.4    1.7             0.6        1.5
Lroit and steel                         7.4     33.9              0.8    1.2               3.0    3.2             1.3       3.3
Metal products and machinery            4.1      29.8             0.5    1.0                1.7    2.8             1.3       3.2
Electrical appliances                   0.9      11.5             0.1    0.4               0.4    1.1             0.5       1.3
Motor vehicles                          0.3      50.3              -      1.7               0.1    0.5             2.5       6.2
Others                                  2.9      10.1             0.3    0.3               1.2    1.0             0.4       0.9
Total *Merchandise Exports          885.0  2,910.1            100.0  100.0                _       -           100.0        -
EMENA/IDF
November 1981



TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S.
7.1.1981 - 12.31.1981
TSKB Interest Rates
Final Cost to the Borrower
Transaction                     Interest Subsidy Rates  1/
Interest    Fund Premium    Commission            Tax          Total      0      25%      35%      40X      60%
I. Foreign Exchange Loans
A.  Investment loans                            12.5             1.25             -               -          13.75      -    10.625    -         8.75    6.25
B.  Export (working capital                     12.5             1.25             -               -          13.75      -       -       9.375    -         -
loans)
II. Turkish Lire Loans
A. Those benefitting from
Central Bank rediscount
facilities
1. Investment loans
a. Export guaranteed                     25.25            2.5              2               -          29.75       -       -        -      19.65   14.6
b. Other                                 29.0             2.9              2               -          33.9        -    27.6        -     22.3        -
2. Working capital loans
a. Export (short-term)                   27.0             2.7              2               -          31.7        -       -     22.25       -        -
b. Other (medium-term)                   29.0             4.35             2              4.65        40.0    40.0        -        -        -        -
c. Firms in underdeveloped
regions                             29.0             2.9              2             4.65         38.55      -    31.3        -        -        -
B.  Other Turkish Lire Loans                                                                                                                                                a
1.  Investment loans                       45.0             4.5              -               -          49.5        -    38.25       -      31.5    22.5
2.  Working capital loans
a. Firms in underdeveloped
regions                          45.0             4.5              -              6.75         56.25      -    45.0        -        -        -
b.  Other firms                        45.0             6.75             -              6.75        58.5    58.5       -         -        -        -
C.  Special Medium-Term Loans
(benefitting from Central Bank
rediscount facilities)
1. Directly from TSKB to the firm
a. Export guaranteed 2/               14.1             1.4              -               -          15.5       -       -        -       9.9       7.0
b. Other                              15.75            1.58             -               -          17.33      -    13.4         -     11.0        -
2. Through the intermediary of
Commercial Banks
a. Export guaranteed                    For detail see Appendix I                                  17.1       -       -         -      11.6      8.9
b. Other                                For detail see Appendix I                     21.3           -      17.425   -       15.1        -
III.  Firms in default                               56.25             -              -               -           56.25   56.25    -          -                 -
IV.   Loans for short-term relief                    45.0              -              -               -           45.0    45.0       -        -
1/ Loans for export or projects in underveloped regions 60%, other export oriented projects 40%, other projects in underdeveloped regions 40%,
other investment projects and working capital loans in underdeveloped regions 25X, short-term export credits 352.
2/ Firms which may profit again from exemption from taxes and duties.



- 66 -                      ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S.
Cost of Special Medium-Term Loans
Through the Intermediary of Commercial Banks
Export
Guaranteed                Other
Central Bank rediscount rate                       10.1                  10.0
Stamp duty                                         0.1                    0.1
Transaction tax                                      -                    1.52
TSKB spread                                         1.13                  1.13
TSKB interest rate                                11.23                  12.75
Transaction tax                                     1.68                  1.91
Commercial Bank spread                             0.84                   0.84
Commercial Bank interest rate                      13.75                 15.50
Commercial Bank commission                         2.0                    2.0
Transaction tax                                      -                    2.25
Central Bank fund premium                           1.38                  1.95
Total cost to the borrower                         17.13                 21.30
EMENA/IDF
November 1981



- 67 -                          ANNEX 5
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S. (TSKB)
List of Shareholders as of June 30, 1981
Percentage
Name and Nationality                            Amount Subscribed         of Total
(TL '000)
Turkish
Turkiye Is Bankasi A.S.                          1,105,689.0             36.85
Turkiye Is Bankasi A.S. Pension Fund                74,064.0              2.47
Osmanli Bankasi A.S.                               303,870.0             10.13
Milli Reasurans T.A.S. Pension Fund                 12,108.3              0.40
Anadolu Anonim Turk Sigorta Sti.                    71,600.0              2.39
Istanbul Ticaret Odasi                              59,978.5              2.00
Turkiye Garanti Bankasi A.S.                       132,485.3              4.42
Istanbul Ticaret Borsasi                            75,260.0              2.51
Turk Ticaret Bankasi A.S.                          300,000.0             10.00
Yapi ve Kredi Bankasi A.S.                          86,966.2              2.90
Istanbul Sanayi Odasi                               40,643.7              1.36
Akbank T.A.S.                                      155,629.0              5.19
Dogan Sigorta A.S.                                   8,576.4              0.28
Akbank T.A.S. Pension Fund                         122,612.2              4.09
Other                                              357,418.1             11.91
Total Turkish Shareholders                    2,906,900.7            96.90
Foreign
Fidelity International Bank (USA)                    2,677.5              0.09
L'Union des Assurances de Paris (France)               934.5              0.03
Total Foreign Shareholders                        3,612.0             0.12
International Organizations
International Finance Corporation                   89,487.3              2.98
Total Shareholders                            3,000,000.0           100.00
EMENA/IDF
November 1981



TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S.
ORGANIZATION CHART
(As of March  31, 1981)
rGENERAL MANAGER|
|  Ozhan EROGUZ 
ASSISTANT GENERAL MANAGER                     |     ASSISTIANT GENERAL MANAGER                     |     ASSISTANT GENERAL MANAGER 
Metin TOKPINAR                 r      |             Alparslan ALAGOZ               r       |Ibrahim ONGUTr
TREASURER'S DEPARTMENT                               RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT                             LOAN AND INVESTMENT
SECRETARY GENERAL                              Yilmaz TASCI             Treasurer                   Ertugrul IBRAHIMOGLU   Manager                       Zekai UNLU               Manager
Namik AYARCI   Secretary General               Guven OBALI              Asst. Treasurer             Ahmet ARZAN              Asst. Manager               Tamer ERGIN              Asst. Manager
Lahut TIREGUL   Asst. Secretary General        Gunhan OZCICEK           Asst. Treasurer             Turgut DAGDELEN          Asst. Manager               Ulku KISMIR              Asst. Manager
P: 7                          NP: 15           Hikmet VERIM             Asst. Treasurer             Izzet PEKARUN            Asst. Manager               Ergun Sonmez             Asst. Manager
P: 12                          NP: 30                P: 8                           NP: 4                P: 15                           NP: 1
LOAN AND INVESTMENT FOLLOW UP
PROGRAM, BUDGET, RESOURCE PLANNING                     TECHNICAL SERVICES                                  Afif CAMLIBEL             Manager
INTERNAL AUDITING                          Ahmet DEMIREL            Manager                       Sezai KAYATURK           Manager                     Metin CAGLAR             Asst. Manager                r)
Esref OZDAG             Manager            Zeynep TURKERI           Asst. Manager                 Dundar AYTAR             Asst. Manager               Serif ELCI               Asst. Manager                o
P: 3                      NP: 1            P: 4                           NP: 1                   P: 8                           NP: 3                 Hayati OZKAN             Asst. Manager
Erol UYEPAZARCI         Aesst Manager
P: 22                          NP: 1
SECTOR PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
ADVISER TO THE GENERAL MANAGEMENT                    CONTROLLER'S DEPARTMENT                             DATA PROCESSING CENTER                             Tolgay CAVUSOGLU         Manager
Aykut USMAN                                     Ismail EMEN                                Metin DEMIRKIRAN         Manager       _Okem CINAR                          Asst. Manager
P: 1                              P: 7                    NP: 16                      P: 6                       NP: 7                   Aydin    KORUR           Asst Manager
LEGAL DEPARTMENT                                                                                     LOAN AND INVESTMENT COORDINATION
Necati YAG LI           Marnager                                                                     Dilek ERZIK              Manager
GRAND TOTAL                                           P: 2                      NP: 2                                                                      P: 5                     NP: 12
(P)  Professionals      144
(NP) Non Professionals    106
General Service          65
315
World Bank - 22888
Source:   TSKB



TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S.
ORGANIZATION CHART
As at January 1, 1982
General Manager
Ozhan EROGUZ
Senior Assistant                                                                                                                                  Senior Assistant
General Manager                                                                                                                                   General Manager
Ibrahim ONGUTT                                                                                                                                    Metin TOKPINAR
Exp Project
Coo rdiln atilon
AVkut UZMAN
Asststant General Manager
Lending and                                            Economic Analysis             o         P                   A
Investment                                               and Research              Corporate Planning              Administration                  Treasurer
Zekai ONLU                                          Ertugrul IBRAHIMOGLU             Ahmet DEMIREL                 Nomuk AYARCI                 Atif CAMLIBEL
Xssistant General Manager                               Assistant General Manager    Assistant General Manager    Assistant General Manager        Asst. General Manager
Loan and Investment A         Textile Consultancy           Economic Analysis                                          Organization and                                            Problem Project
Metin CAGLER          *   Sezan KAYATURK                 and Projections                                              Procedures                 T.L. Operations                 Task Force
Director                     Director               Erdgnc OZSCENCUK                                             To be appointed               Yilmaz TARCI                Erol IYAPAZACI
Director                                                                                                             Director
Loan and Investment B             Non-Textile                Special Research                                              Computer                                                   Portfolio
Izzet PEKARUN                Dundar AYTAR                 Ahmet ARZAN                                              Metin DEMIRKIRAN                F.E. Operations                Management
Director                     Director                     Director                                                   Director                  Hikmet VERIM                  Guven OBALI
Director
Loan and Investment C |Information Cente                                                                                Administration                Capital Market                 Accounting
Ulku KISMIR       lTo be appointed                                                                                 Lahut TIREGUL                   Operations                    Serif ELCI
Director                                                                                                            Director                  To be appointed                  Director
Legal
Necat YAGLI
Progtr m andi                                                                                             Director
Budgeting                Petso  l Planni nDog
Zeynet TURKERI                 Tamer ERGIH                                                                I        Ad
internal Audit
Esry OZDAG
Director
World Bank-23575



- 70 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S. (TSKB)
Summary of TSKB's Policy Statement
(As adopted by TSKB's Board in 1978)
Economy and Social Criteria
Projects supported by TSKB should take into consideration the
economic and social development targets set out in the Turkish Development
Plans and should benefit the Turkish economy as a whole. In particular,
emphasis is put on the following: (a) enhancing the competitive position
of Turkish industry in foreign markets by promoting export-oriented indus-
tries; (b) reducing dependency on foreign markets for intermediate and
capital goods; (c) securing the participation of a wide section of the
public in the capital of industrial enterprises; (d) creating employment
for and raising the living standards of people in all the regions of the
country.
Within the scope of these objectives TSKB will give priority to
(a) restructuring industry in order to meet both the domestic and foreign
demand in the most effective way and improve utilization of industrial
capacity; (b) creating new facilities which will contribute to the balance
of payments and opening up Turkish industry to international competition.
To meet these objectives TSKB will identify priority sectors and develop
programs covering project identification, selection and management as well
as the provision of consulting services.
Project Development and Allocation of Resources
TSKB is to provide extensive services, ranging from basic research
and preparation of feasibility studies to promotion and implementation of
projects. In this context, TSKB is to guide and assist entrepreneurs in
project preparation with special emphasis on firms in the less developed
regions, and also play a key role as a financing leader and an intermediary
for joint financing. To limit the risk, TSKB must observe the following
constraints:
-   Not more than 15% of TSKB's equity and quasi-equity (subordinated
loan from the Government) may be committed to any single project
or any single company;
-   Not more than 5% of TSKB's equity and quasi-equity may be com-
mitted to equity investments in any single company;



- 71 -                         Annex 7
page 2
Not more than 25% of the subscribed capital of any single company
may be purchased by TSKB, unless TSKB acts as an underwriter, in
which case the limit is raised to 50%; and
Total equity investments may not exceed TSKB's paid-in share cap-
ital plus reserves;
-   In addition to these policies TSKB also normally requires
investors to provide no less than 50% of the cost of a project in
the form of equity funds.
Lending Policies
TSKB extends short, medium and long term loans. TSKB loans are
used to cover in part or in full the short, medium and long term loan
requirements estimated in the financial plan of the projects and/or
enterprises. Loan transactions cover all types of lending operations
including the purchasing and underwriting of bonds and papers issued by
corporations and guaranteeing loans, bonds and papers issued on the
domestic or foreign markets.
Financial Objectives
TSKB levies charges to cover expenses and provisions, provide
adequate reserves and pay a reasonable dividend to its shareholders.
TSKB's ultimate goal is to generate its own resources and diminish its role
as a conduit of funds from international institutions. To this end TSKB
will make special effort for securing resources from the domestic and
foreign financial markets and assist in establishing an effective capital
market in Turkey.
EMENA/IDF
January 1982



ANNBX 8
- 72 -
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S. (TSKB)
Summary of Operations - 1976-1981
(TL million)
1976       1977       1978       1979       1980        1981
APPROVALS                                                                                      (9 months)
Loans:  Foreign Currency 1/              1,442.3   1,895.7   2,140.1   2,882.9   7,197.4   3,318.0
Local Currency (net of            357.7      358.5      331.0      100.0   1,134.8   1,446.3
cancellations) 1,800.0   2,254.2   2,471.1   2,982.9   8,332.2   4,764.3
Equity Investments                         353.7      183.5      337.4      293.1      541.5      769.3
Guarantee of Bond Issues                    15.0       30.0       -          -          -          -
2,168.7   2,467.7   2,808.5   3,276.0   8,873.7   5,533,6
US$ million equivalent          (135.1)   (139.42)  (118.50)   (93.98)   (119.59)   (52.Y)
COTfMITMFNTS
Loans:  Foreign Currency                   841.2   1,391.0   1,433.5   2,258.9   4,964.0   5,344.5
Local Currency                    283.9      371.0      346.8       52.5      722.2      712.7
1,125.1   1,762.0   1,780.3   2,311.4   5,686.2   6,057.2
Equity Investments                         210.4      131.0      213.5      293.1      541.5      712.7
Guarantee of Bond Issues                    15.0       30.0       -          -          -          -
1,350.5   1,923.0   1,993.8   2,604.5   6,227.7   6,769.9
US$ million equivalent           (84.14)  (108.6)      (84.13)    (74.71)   (83.93)   (64.47)
DISBURSFMENTS
Loans:  Foreign Currency                   874.9   1,015.5   1,591.9   1,774.4   4,407.5   5,439.0
Local Currency                    320.0      341.3      278.6      183.8      570.6      629.9
1,194.9   1,356.8   1,870.5   1,958.2   4,978.1   6,068.9
Equity Investments                         147.3      127.3      197.2      288.1      455.7      731.3
1,342.2   1,484.1   2,067.7   2,246.3   5,433.8   6,800.2
US$ million equivalent           (82.62)    (83.84)    (87.24)    (64.44)   (73.23)   (64.76)
Number of Foreign Loans Approved            80        103         88         49         39         22
Number of Local Loans Approved               -         64         40         14         21         19
Number of Ecuity Investment- Committed   29            27         26          7         27         22
Number of Bond Issues Guaranteed             1          3          -          -          -          -
Rate of exchange for US$1.0 to Lira   (16.05)    (17.7)         (23.7)     (34.86)    (74.20)  (105.0)
1/ Cancellations of approvals for foreign currency loans were as follows:
1977 - TL 208.9 (US$11.8) million;   1978 - TL 187.2 (US$7.9) million;
1979 - TL 711.1 (US$20.4) million;   1980 - TL 4,266.5 (US$57.5) million;
9 months 1981 - TL 2,658 (US$25.3) million.
The major part of the 1979-81 cancellations were in respect of loans approved
prior to 1979.
EMENA/IDF
January 1982



TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S. (TSKB)
Gross Approvals of Loans by Size 1977-1981
(TL million)
1977                      1978                       1979                     1980                 1981 (6 months)
No.of                     No. of                    No.of                      No.of                      No.of
Loans   Amount    %       Loans   Amount    %        Loans   Amount    %       Loans   Amount    %        Loans   Amount    %
Size Distribution
Under TL         500,000         -       4.2    0.2        -        3.5    0.1        -        2.4    0.1        -       0.7    -
500,001  -  1,000,000         1        5.9    0.2        1       11.8    0.5       -        3.1    0.1        2        6.7    0.1
1,000.001  -  2,000,000          1       8.2    0.3        -        9.1    0.3        -       10.4    0.3       -        3.4      -       3      44.6    1.4
2,000,001  -  3,000,000          3       8.1    0.3        1       18.4    0.7        -       12.5    0.3       1        9.3    0.1
3,000,001  -  5,000,000        11       44.8    1.9        4       29.6    1.1        3      43.1    1.1        4       36.3    0.4
5,000,001  - 10,000,000         28     221.3    9.1       21      219.8    8.5        3       76.7    2.1        1      36.7    0.4
10,000,001 - 20,000,000         41     583.8   24.0       28      439.2   16.9       13      256.6    6.9        4      71.8    0.7  )
20,000,001 - 30,000,000         10     237.9    9.8       17      398.0   15.3        8      204.7    5.5        8     268.5    2.7       3       94.7    3.0
Over 30,000,000                 21   1,318.0   54.2       24   1,473.3   56.6        26   3,119.5   83.6       40   9,624.8   95.6    19   3,066.3   95.6          1
116   2,432.2  100.0       96   2,602.7  100.0        53   3,729.0  100.0        60  10,058.2  100.0    25   3,205.6  100.0    @
Average Size                           21.0                       27.1                       70.4                     167.6                     128.2
EMENA/IDF
November 1981



TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S. (TSKB)
Loan Commitments -/ by Industry 1977-1980
1977                      1978                       1979                       1980
(TL Million)     %        (TL Million)      %        (TL Million)    %          (TL Million)    %
Food                                  182.1      10.6            151.1       8.5            155.8       4.9            239.8       3.5
Beverages                              15.6       0.9              0.3        -              71.7       2.3              -          -
Textiles                              151.5       8.9            375.8      21.1             76.6       2.4         1,191.8       17.5
Forestry Products                     369.0      21.6            102.9       5.8           448.9       14.2           139.3        2.0
Pulp and Paper                         18.9       1.1            101.4       5.7             85.9       2.7           861.2       12.6
Leather and Leather Goods              36.2       2.1              3.0       0.2             15.0       0.5             12.7       0.2
Rubber Products                        11.2       0.6             19.1       1.1             67.6       2.1              -          -
Plastics                                8.2       0.5              0.9       0.1               -         -               -          -
Chemicals                              24.8       1.4              -          -                -         -             587.2       8.6
Ceramics                                -          -               1.3       0.1            182.4       5.9             35.0       0.5
Glass                                   -          -               -          -              32.5       1.0            799.0      11.7
Cement                                 13.7       0.8              5.2       0.3              5.7       0.2            100.0       1.5
Non-Metallic Mineral                  137.2       8.0            248.3      13.9             97.4       3.1            247.6       3.6
Iron and Steel                        111.0       6.5             48.7       2.7           102.3        3.2           695.7       10.2
Non-Ferrous Metals                     22.5       1.3             89.3       5.0            483.2      15.3            264.7       3.9   1
Metal Products                         40.7       2.4             73.6       4.1             98.3       3.1         1,245.0       18.2  _
Machinery Manufacturing               198.3      11.6            358.8      20.1            557.7      17.6            271.4       4.1
Agriculture Machinery                  48.9       2.9              -          -                -         -               -          -
Electrical Machinery
and Electronics                  181.8      10.6            170.4       9.6            387.3      12.3             64.6        0.9
Motor Vehicles                          8.0       0.5              9.2       0.5               -         -               -          -
Industrial Services                    67.7       4.0              0.1        -                -         -               -          -
Other Industries                        -          -              19.9       1.1            111.2       3.5              -          -
Mining and Processing                  63.2       3.7              1.0       0.1            181.1       5.7             71.1       1.0
1,710.5    100.0          1,780.3    100.0            3,160.6    100.0          6,826.1    100.0
1/  Excluding cancellation and changes due to exchange rate fluctuation.
EMENA/IDF                                                                                                                                  z
November 1981                                                                                                                              o



TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S. (TSKB)
Sectoral Distribution of Outstanding Loans and Equity Investments at December 31, 1980
Loans               Equity Investment                 Total
No.       Amount         No.       Amount        No.       Amount          %
(TL Million)             (TL Million)            (TL Million)
Food                                     81       2,948.1          13         108.0        94       3,056.1        7.6
Beverages                                 3         331.1           1          75.0         4         406.1        1.0
Textiles                                 67       7,245.1           8          91.8        75       7,336.9       18.3
Forestry Products                        25       3,781.0           5          52.8        30       3,833.8        9.6
Pulp and Paper                           12       1,846.0           4          38.2        16       1,884.2        4.7
Leather and Leather Goods                 8         359.0           2          11.5        10         370.5        1.0
Rubber Products                           3         172.3           -           -           3         172.3        0.4
Plastics                                  8         221.1           1           1.5         9         222.6        0.6
Chemicals                                23       3,057.9           7         120.0        30       3,177.9        7.9
Ceramics                                  9         931.1           2          14.2        11         945.3        2.4
Glass                                     5         901.3           1          10.0         6         911.3        2.3
Cement                                    4       1,617.7           1          15.6         5       1,633.3        4.1
Non-Metallic Minerals                    36       1,717.2           4          42.4        40       1,759.6        4.1
Iron and Steel                           17       1,050.6           2         156.4       19       1,207.0         3.0
Non-Ferrous Metals                        -       1,551.9           6          91.2         6       1,643.1        4.1
Metal Products                           39       2,046.6           6         106.5        45       2,153.1         5.4
Machinery Manufacturing                  35       3,700.1           6         136.1        41       3,836.2         9.6
Scientific Equipment                      1           6.1           -           -           1           6.1        0.1
Electrical Machinery & Electronics   27           2,879.8           7         170.5        34       3,050.3         7.6
Motor Vehicles                           22       1,062.6           -            -         22       1,062.6         2.7
Industrial Services                      11         192.6           2          20.0       13          212.6        0.5
Mining and Processing                    20         902.1           2            9.4       22         911.5         2.3
Other Industries                          4         210.9           2          65.0         6         275.9        0.7
460      38,732.2         82        1,336.1      542      40,068.3       100.0
EMENA/IDF
November 1981



TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKSASI A.S. (TSKB)
Geographical. Distribution of TSKB's Loan and Equity Approvals
1977 - 1980
(TL Million)
1977                      1978                      1979                       1980
No.   Amount       '    No.   Amount   _           No.   Amount        %      No.   Amount        %
Eight Most-Developed Provinces 1/
Loans                              37      533.8              23      544.3             17   1,729.7               15   3,214.2
Equity Investment                   4       18.3              10      128.7             13      250.4              16      375.3
41      552.1   21.3      33      673.0   22.9       30   1,980.1   46.7       31   3,589.5   33.6
Semi-Developed Regions I/
Loans                              32      983.9              31      972.5             17   1,224.1               19   2,959.3
Equitv Investment                  10       76.5              10       96.0              9      151.0               4       86.1
42   1,060.4   40.9       41   1,068.5    36.3    26   1,375.1    32.4         23   3,045.4    28.5          1
Least Developed Regions. 1/ 
Loans                              47      914.4              42   1,085.9              19       775.1             26   3,884.7
Equity Investment                  13       64.7              17      112.7             13      113.8              13      174.4
60      979.1   37.8      59   1,198.6   40.8        32      888.9   20.9      39   4,059.1   37.9
TOTAL
Loans                             116   2,432.1               96   2,602.7              53   3,728.9               60  10,058.2
Equity                             27      159.5              37      337.4             35      515.2              33      635.8
143   2,591.6  100.0   133   2,940.1  100.0           88   4,244.1  100.0    93  10,694.0  100.0
EMENA/IDF
November 1981



- 77 -                     ANNEX 13
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S. (TSKB)
Economic Rates of Return of Projects
Total
1977     1978      1979      1980    Projects
Projects with:
ERR of 10 - 15%                 2         3         1        -          6
15 - 20%               15        20         6         9         50
20 - 30%               13        19         6         7        45
Over 30%                 9       12        14        10         45
Total Projects                   39        54        27        26       146
EMENA/ IDF
November 1981



M1NEX 14
-4 0S                   0
B~~~~  o                         _ 4
0      '   oC         4           
S >  .               ' e
V                                                                         0
04        4        ojX                                           0 
0,1 S       4                        '
7     - o     - 
00    -0>                                            00    0
G. 7'
U     < _                                                    I



- 79 -                            ANNEX 15
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S. (TSKB)
Export-Oriented Projects Approved in 1979 and 1980
% of TSKB's Total
Foreign Exchange    Total Foreign    Foreign Exchange
Lending        Exchange Lending        Lending
($ '000)           ($ '000)         in that Region
1979      1980     1979      1980      1979    1980
A. Seven Provinces
Izocam (Mersin)                  5,260
Halit Keles (Istanbul)             253
Pasabahce Cam (Istanbul)         2,200
Koruma Tarim                     6,450
Topkapi Sise Cam (Istanbul)   6,777
Lassa Lastik (Kocaeli)                     2,350
Adsas Agir Dol                             7,000
Maline Takin (Kocaeli)                     5,750
Kordsa Kordbezi (Kocaeli)                  7,500
Total                       20,940   22,600   40,580   30,629    51.6    73.8
B. Semi Developed Regions
Serel (Manisa)                     200
Nasas (Bolu)                     6,100
loprak Seniteri (Bilecik)        3,600
Eti Cida (Eskisehir)               890
Tetsas (Kirklareli)                        4,600
Komili Kimva (Balikesir)                   1,450
Artema (Bilecik)                           7,000
Pevsan Armatur (Bilecik)                     252
Pagmat Pamuk Gida (Manisa)                   172
Nisel Armatur (Bolu)                      4,150
Turkmen Kadife (Tekirdag)                  5,180             _
10,790   22,804   25,669   30,645    42.0    74.4
C. Least Developed Regions
Yontas (Samsun)                    520
Sinop Cam (Sinop)                  680
Gabosan (Gaziantep)              1,90n
Gurkan Suni Mermer (Ankara)        600
Asas Filtre (Hatav)              1,555
Adel Kalemcilik (Giresun)        1,450
Sagra Gida (Ordu)                   23
Camsan (Ordo)                              5,900
Sema Makarna (Gaziantep)                   2,000
Baliksan Balik (Sinop)                       450
Adel Kalemcilik (Giresun)                     80
Orta Anadolu Seramik (Nigde)               7,120
Gurkan Suni Mermer (Ankara Bala)              78
7intas (Kastamonu)                           900
Anadolu Biracilik (Konva)                  5,034
Yifas (Malatya)                              694   ___  _                         _
Total                        6,728   22,256   16,231   35,728    41.5    62.3
Grand Total                 38,458   67,660   82,480   97,002    46.6    69.8
EM.NA/IT)F
November 1981



- 80 -                                                  ANNEX 16
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S. (TSKB)
Projected Exports from TSKB Export-Oriented Projects
(million U.S. i) 1/
Commitment   Type        No. of
Year     Project    Projects        1979      1980      1981     1982      1983      1984      1985     1986      1987      1988      1989     Total
1979      New               7        -         3.23    15.15    22.39    32.08    36.14    31.82    23.09    21.66    20.54    20.96    227.07
Expansion        11       9.28    10.10    18.66    36.62    43.45    37.44    25.15          2.49      2.49      2.49      2.49    190.66
Subtotal       18       9.28    13.33    33.81    59.01    75.54    73.58    56.97    25.58    24.15    23.04    23.45    417.73
1980      New               9        -         -          .04     8.84    16.95    21.67    24.80    20.39    20.19         3.80      -        116.69
Expansion        11        1.20    14.58    16.94    33.41    42.08    43.25    45.89    45.07    39.24    29.32            -       310.98
Subtotal      20        1.20     14.58    16.98    42.26    59.03    64.92    70.79    65.46    59.44    33.13           -        427.67
1981      New               4        -         -        8.64    12.15    18.23    20.42    21.49    22.60    18.66    20.55    20.96    163.69
(1st 6 nos) Expansion         3        _    -             -          .31      4.99      7.68     8.29      9.05      3.90     3.98    -           38.19
Subtotal        7       -         -         8.64    12.46    23.22    28.10    29.78    31.65    22.56    24.53    20.96    201.88
Total     New              20        -         3.23    23.83    43.38    67.26    78.23    78.11    66.08    60.51    44.89    41.92    507.45
Expansion        25      10.48    24.68    35.60    70.34    90.52    88.37    79.43    56.61    45.63    35.79             2.49    539.83
Grand Total   45       10.48    27.91    59.43   113.72   157.78   166.60   157.54   122.69   106.14    80.68    44.41   1047.28
Total adjusted to
constant 1981 U.S.S
1/ Constant u.s.$ of year of commitment.
Source; TSKB Project Files.
EMENA/ lDF
November 1981



- 81 -                                      ANNEX 17
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANYASI A.S. (TSKB)
Income Statements 1975 - 1981
(TL million)
1980
Adjusted            1981
1975   1976   1977      1978       1979       1980      for Auditors'       (9 months)
Income                                      (----------------- Audited ------------------)         retservation)l/
Interest on liquid funds                  26.0   25.0   21.7       15.0       31.8        63.1           63.1            40.9
Interest onloan portfolio                449.5  611.4  849.1  1,652.8   3,442.8        6,389.6       6,389.6          5,954.0
Commissions and other income              33.8   39.1   46.5       60.3      .78.2        221.8         221.8           168.0
Dividend income                           23.7   43.1   45.3       61.8      117.1        176.4         176.4           182.9
533.0  718.6  962.6  1,789.9   3,669.9        6,850.9       6,850.9          6,345.4
Gross capital gains                       17.3   98.6    -         25.5        1.9          -             -               -
Other extraordinary income                 5.6    2.3    8.3        2.9       26.5         48.5          48.5            16.7
555.9  819.5  970.9  1,818.3   3,698.3        6,899.4       6,899.4          6,362.1
Expenses
Personnel expenses                        47.8   60.8   82.6    132.0       222.6        438.0          438.0           317.1
Directors and staff bonus                  5.7    7.9    8.3       15.7       27.3         37.6          37.6            _
Administration expenses                    9.9   18.8   23.1       29.9       31.4         68.4          68.4           120.4
Depreciation                               3.2    3.1    3.0        2.8        3.1         10.0          10.0             6.4
Provision for retirement                   4.7   10.0    7.5       20.0      40.0          -              _
Taxes, duesand fees                       21.1   45.6   21.5       41.6      56.8        128.8          128.8            96.1
Interest charges                         326.7  452.6  607.3  1,111.3   2,437.9        4,519.4       4,519.4          3,663.0
Provision for losses                       8.3   49.6   32.5    130.0       310.0        450.0          710.0            -
Project promotion expenses                 3.9    5.8    7.3        8.9      26.8         85.0           85:0           113.0
Total expenses                     431.3  654.2  793.1  1,492.2   3,155.9         5,737.2       5,997.2          4,316.0
Profit before taxation                   124.6  165.3  177.8    326.1       542.4      1,162.2         902.2          2,046.1
Tax on profit                             41.0   50.3   52.9    101.5       167.7        549.9          549.9         1,016.1
Net profit                          83.6  115.0  124.9    224.6        374.7        612.3         352.3          1,030.0
Appropriation
Dividends                                 32.8   54.2   64.7    116.8       178.8        485.9         485.9
Legal reserves                             7.9   11.3   12.9       24.1       35.1        75.9           75.9
Other reserves                            42.9   49.5   47.3       83.7     160.8         50.5         (209.5)
83.6  115.0  124.9    224.6       374.7        612.3          352.3
Ratios
Total income as percentage of
average total assets                    12.5   14.0   12.9      16.7       19.2         18.9          18.9
Administrative expenses as percentage
of average total assets                  1.3    1.4    1.4       1.4        1.3          1.5           1.5
Interest charges as percentage
of average long-term debt               8.7    9.1    9.5       11.9       14.7         14.3          14.3
Interest income as percentage of
average loan portfolio                 12.5   13.2   13.8       17.8       20.7         21.2          21.2
Dividend income as percentage of
average equity portfolio                10.1   16.1   11.0      10.9       15.2         15.9  1       15.9
Earnings before tax as percentage of
average net worth                       27.0   29.9   25.1      38.8       38.0         49.1           38.1
Net profit as percentage of
average net worth                       18.1   20.8   17.6      26.7       26.3         25.9          14.9
Not nrnfit se nercentase of
share capital                          43.2   35.0   29.6       52.8       25.0         27.9          16.1
Dividend as percentage of
net income                              39.2   47.1   51.8      52.0       47.7         79.3         137.9
Dividend as percentage of
par value                              15.0   18.0   18.0       25.0       30.0         30.0          30.0
Interest coverage                          1.43   1.53   1.38       1.49      1.41         1.41          1.41
1/ The Auditors' Report on FY1980 accounts stated that in their opinion provisions for losses
were TL 260 million short of requirements.
EMENA/ IDF
January 1982



- 82 -
ANNEX 18
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S. (TSKB)
Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1975-1980, and Sept.30, 1981
(TL million)
Sept. 30,
Dec. 31,    Dec. 31,    Dec. 31,        Dec. 31,      Dec. 31,      Dec. 31,        1981
1975         1976         1977          1978          1979          1980      (9 months)
(-----------------------------  Audited ---- ------- -          - - ----- --  r   (Inter rW
ASSETS
Cash                                       386.6        663.1        288.2         240.3          507.0       2,018.7       1,480.0
Accrued income                             172.0        245.6        435.3          874.5       2,448.6       5,452.6       2,237.1
Receivables and prepayments                 18.1         23.9         31.0           27.8         121.0         168.0       2,860.0
576.7        932.6        754.5       1,142.6       3,076.6       7,639.3       6,577,1
nvestments
Loans 1/                                 4,076.7      5,191.8      7,111.1      11,490.9      21,399.2       38,915.6      47,758.6
Less provisions for losses               (22.4)       (70.0)      (102.4)       (217.4)       (512.3)        (962.3)       (962.3)
Equity participations                      260.8        348.1        472.8         657.1          885.4       1,338.8       2,059.5
Less provision for losses                (28.2)       (30.8)       (30.8)         (45.8)        (60.8)        (60.8)        (60.8)
4,286.9      5,439.1      7,450.7      11,884.8      21,711.5      39,231.3      48,795.0
Government bonds                            82.0        141.7         86.5           89.4         153.4         311.0         222.2
Other bonds                                 37.7         25.9          -              -             -             -            -
4,406.6      5,606.7      7,737.2      11,974.2      21,864.9      39,542.3      49,01.7.2
Fixed assets (net)                          52.6         61.3         56.8          55.0           48.4          76.6          66.3
Prepaid taxation                            27.9         53.6         70.8         135.3          285.7         524.3         524.3
TOTAL ASSETS                          5,063.8      6,654.2      8,419.3      13,307.1      25,275.6      47,782.5       56,184.9
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Bank borrowings                              -            -           7-             -            120.0         740.0         290.1
Current liabilities                        132.7        178.8        275.8         383.7          826.5       1,602.5       3,263.4
Taxes due                                   67.7        103.4        104.5         229.7          469.5       1,070.7       1,415.6
Dividends                                   32.8         54.2         64.7         116.8          178.8         485.9            3.4
233.2        336.4        445.0         730.2       1,594.8       3,899.1       4,972.5
Long-Term Debt
Government subordinated loan               368.1        368.1        368.1         368.1          368.1         368.1       2,938.9
Other Government loan                       89.8         81.2         70.2         299.9          384.1         308.4
Turkish local bank loans                     -            -            -              -           646.7       1,384.4
Bond issues                                300.0        481.8        568.0         680.4         626.3       1,011.6        1,034.0
IBRD                                     1,836.6      2,185.7      2,927.2       5,294.4       9,845.4      19,171.5
IDA                                         26.5         16.0         12.8           8.7            -                   )
IFC                                        360.6        961.7      1,094.0       1,333.3       1,745.8       1,848.9
KfW, AID, EIB, PRB, FE(x), EF x)         1,357.4      1,564.3      2,114.6       3,640.9       8,015.5       14,199.3
Treasury loans                               -            -            -              -             -         2,720.7           -
4,339.0      5,658.8      7,154.9      11,625.7      21,631.9      41,012.9       46,504.2
Staff Retirement Fund                       17.0         27.0         34.5           54.5          94.5          94.5         94.5
Shareholders' equity
Share capital                              193.4        328.7        421.5         425.4       1,500.0       2,195.0        3,000,0
Paid-in surplus                              7.1          7.1           7.1           7.1           7.1           -             -
Reserves and retained earnings             274.1        296.2        356.3         464.2          447.3         581.0       1,614.7
474.6        632.0        784.9         896.7       1,954.4       2,776.0        4,614.7
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY          5,063.8      6,654.2      8,419.3      13,307.1      25,275.6      47,782.5       56,185.9
Guarantees                                   248.5        229.3        249.3         181.7          162.4         124.3          100.9
Loan commitments                             258.3         337.3       557.0          571.0       1,026.0       1,561.4        2,759.0
1/ Includes unutilized letters
of credit                                 249.2        223.0        372.3         898.4       1,864.8       4,231.7        5,081.6
EMENA/IDF
January 1982



ANNEX 19
- 83 -
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S. (TSKB)
Debt/Equity Ratio Calculations
(TL Million)
Debt                                          1977         1978         1979         1980
1.  Long-term debt, per balance sheet        7,154.9    11,625.7    21,631.9    41,012.9
Less:  Unutilized L/Cs                   372.3       898.4      1,864.8      4,231.7
Plus:  Guarantees                       249.3        181.7        162.4        124.3
2. Long-term debt outstanding, per
proposed definition                   7,031.9    10,909.0    19,929.5    36,905.5
Less:  quasi-equity 1/                  242.0        242.0        187.9        148.5
3. Long-term debt outstanding,
per definition under TSKB-XII         6,789.9    10,667.0    19,741.6    36,757.0
Plus:  Unutilized L/Cs                  372.3        898.4      1,864.8      4,231.7
Loan Commitments                 557.0        571.0      1,026.0     1,561.4
4.   Long-term debt outstanding,
per IFC's definition                  7,719.2    12,136.4    22,632.4    42,550.1
Equity
5.  Shareholder's equity                       784.9        896.7     1,954.4      2,776.0
Plus:  quasi-equity 1/                  242.0        242.0        187.9        148.5
6. Equity as defined under TSKB-XII
and IFC's Loan Agreement              1,026.9      1,138.7      2,142.3      2,924.5
Ratios
Per old IBRD definition (3:6)                6.6          9.4         9.22        12.6
Per Revised definition (2:5)                 9.0         12.2        10.2         13.3
Per IFC's definition (4:6)                   7.5         10.7        10.56        14.5
1/ Quasi-equity is that portion of the Government subordinated debt which matures
after the last installment due by TSKB on World Bank loans.
EMENA/IDF
November 1981



TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S. (TSKB)
Summary of Arrears 1974 - 1981
(TL mlllion)
December 31,                                                                                 Mar. 31    June 30    Sept. 30,
1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    Mar. 1980    June 1980    Sept. 1980    Dec. 1980                1981        1981        1981
Arrears                                                                                           1
Principal
Less than 3 months  12.5    10.4    12.3    30.4    51.5   223.9            344.3          436.7          516.3          338.8         300.5       143.9       232.2
More than 3 months  52.2    45.5    43.5    45.5   182.5   690.0           1330.8         1930.0         2465.8       2,457.6        2,467.6     2,499.5    3,335.3
Interest
Less than 3 months  22.6    29.0    35.3    61.5   101.1   439.4            298.8          784.7          234.8          442.8         187.9       250.1       179.4
More than 3 months  23.5    41.1    65.4   166.8   404.5  1201.0           1792.0         2524.3         3302.2        3,752.5       3,544.6     4,727.5    4,275.2
Total
Less than 3 months  35.1    39.4    47.6    91.9   152.6   663.3            643.1         1221.4          751.1          781.6         488.4       394.0       411.6
More than 3 months  75.7    86.6   108.9   212.3   587.0  1891.0           3122.8         4454.3         5768.0        6,210.1       6,012.2     7,680.6 2/ 7,610.5
110.8   126.0   156.5   304.2   739.6  2554.3         3765.9         5675.7         6519.1        6,991.7       6,500.6     8,074.6    8,022.1
Loans affected by
arrears of more
than 3 months    151.9   345.3   668.6  1463.3  3625.1  6272.5    13228.9             13138.4         20140.2      19,617.9      14,644.3    15,298.6   17,581.0
Total loan
portfolio        3099.4  4076.7  5191.8  7111.1 11478.6 21399.2    28177.3            33226.0         33107.4      36,248.9      37,252.0    40,559.0   44,818.0
Arrears of more
than 3 months
as Percentage
of Portfolio:
- Principal            1.7%    1.1%    0.8%    0.6%    1.6%    3.2%          4.7%            5.8%           7.4%         6.8%            6.6%      6.2%        7.47
- Interest             0.8%    1.0%    1.3%    2.3%    3.5%    5.6%          6.4%            7.6%          10.0%       10.4%             9.5%     11.7%        9.5%
- Total                2.4%    2.1%    2.1%    3.0%    5.1%    8.8%         11.1%           13.4%          17.4%       17.1%            16.1%     18.9%       16.9%
Total arrears as
?ercentage of
Portfolio;
- Principal            2.1%    1.4%    1.1%    1.1%    2.0%    4.3%          5.9%            7.1%           9.0%         7.7%            7.4%      6.5%        7.9%
- Interest             1.5%    1.7%    1.9%    3.2%    4.4%    7.6%          7.4%           10.0%          10.7%        11.6%           10.0%     12.3%        9.9%
- Total                3.6%    3.1%    3.0%    4.3%    6.4%   11.9%         13.3%           17.1%          19.7%        19.3%           17.4%     19.9%       17 8%
Portfolio affected
by arrears of more                                                                                                                                                       >
than 3 months       4.9%    8.5%   12.9%   20.6%   31.6%   29.3%          47.0%          40.00%          60.8%       54.1%            39.3%     37.7%       39.2%
1/  It appears that an error was made in completing the quarter's report which TSKB
crnnot now identify.
2/ Error in addition of return of TL 453.6.
EMENA/IDF
January 1982



TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S. (TSKB)
Projected Evolution of Arrears
(TL billion)
Semester Ending
December 31, 1981        June 30, 1982        December 31, 1982         June 30, 1983        December, 31, 1983
Opening balance of arrears (more than 3 months)                  6.0                     6.0                     3.0                    1.1
Current maturities - Principal & Interest                        7.2                     8.3                    9.3                    10.0                    9.9
Total amount to be collected                                           15.3                 14.3                    15.3                   13.0                     11.0
Cash collection                                                  3.6                     5.3                    6.5                     7.1                    6.9
Special rediscounting loans                                      3.7                     2.5                     2.0                    2.3                    2.3
Rescheduling                                                     2.0                     0.5                     3.8                    1.7                    0.7
Liquidation                                                      0.0                     0.0                    0.0                     0.8                    0.1
Total credits                                                           9.3                  8.3                    12.3                   11.9                     10.0
Arrears at the end of the period (more than 3 months)                         3.0                  1.1                     1.0
Portfolio at the end of the period                                          56.7                 72.7                     92.3                  112.1                    128.0
Portfolio affected by arrears                                               19.3                 16.0                     12.0                   11.2                     13.1
Percentage portfolio affected by arrears                                    34.0X                 22.0%                   13.0%                  10.0%                    10.2%
Cash collectioin as percewntage of current maturities                       63.9%                69.9%                    71.0%                  69.7%
Cash plus rediscounting loans as percentage
of current maturities                                                    101.4%                94.0%                    91.4%                  94.0%                    92.9%
AGREEMENT REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS ON ARREARS
December 31, 1981        June 30, 1982        December 31, 1982         June 30, 1983        December, 31, 1983
Maximum Total arrears of more than three months    7.5                              7.0                      4.0                  2.0                     2.0
Total Percentage portfolio affected by arrears
of more than three months                              40.0%                    30.0%                     20.0%                15.0X                  14.0%
The Borrower shall prepare a report comparing the actual arrears with the maximum for total arrears and percentage of portfolio affected by arrears
and shall submit it to the Bank within one month of the end of the semester. In preparing the report the following adjustments will be made for the
purposes of evaluating performance on arrears:
(a)   The maximum for total arrears expressed in TL terms shall be adjusted for the actual exchange rates of the TL compared to the exchange rates
used by the Borrower in the arrears projections in September 1981 1/.
(b)   In computing the level of arrears for the purpose of the above report, the actual rescheduling committed during the period will be included
subject to the following maximum levels:
Semester Ending (TL billion)
December 31, 1981        June 30, 1982        December 31, 1982         June 30, 1983        December, 31, 1983
2.5                     3.0                   3.0                      1.5                    1.0
(c)   If the amounts of committed rescheduling during each of the three semesters ending December 31, 1982 are less than the maximum in (b) above,
the Borrower may add to the maximum arrears above as follows:
(i)     for December 31, 1980, 75% of the uncommitted balance of target rescheduling for the December 1980 semester listed in (b) above;
(ii)    for June 1982, 50% of the uncommitted balance of target rescheduling for the June 1982 semester listed in (b) above; and
(iii) for December 1982, 25% of the uncommitted balance of target rescheduling for December 1982 semester listed in (b) above.
(d)   The targets for collection of cash under the Special Rediscounting Facility of the Central bank are as follows:
Semester Ending (TL billion)
December 31, 1981        June 30, 1982        December 31, 1982         June 30, 1983        December, 31, 1983
3.7                     2.5                   2.0                      2.3                    2.3
If in any semester the actual amount of cash received under the Special Rediscounting Facility is less than the above targets, the difference
may be added to the maximum arrears listed above for that semester.
1/ Projected exchange rates for TL to US$1.00 used in arrears projections: end of 1981 = TL 125; end of 1982 - TL 157; end of 1983 = TL 173
EMENA/ IDF
January 1982



ANNEX 22
- 86 -
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S. (TSKB)
Projected Operations
(a)  Foreign Currency Investment Loans (US$ million)
1981      1982       1983       1984
Approvals                                   60.0     114.0      144.0      174.0
Commitments                                 70.0      95.0      120.0      145.0
Disbursements                               70.0       80.0     100.0      122.0
(b)  Foreign Currency Working Capital Loans (US$ million)
Disbursements                                4.0      24.0       34.0       44.0
(c) Local Currency Investment Loans including Rescheduling of Arrears
(TL million in current terms)
Disbursements                           11,000.0  22,000.0  27,500.0  23,000.0
(d)  Local Currency Equity Investments (TL million in current terms)
Approvals                                 1,000.0      700.0     800.0      900.0
Commitments                                 928.4     745.0      740.7      799.3
Disbursements                               858.0      773.3     748.8      786.7
EMENA/IDF
November 1981



ANNEX 23
- 87 -
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S. (TSKB)
Projected Income Statements 1981- 1984
(TL million)
1981           1982            1983           1984
Income
Interest on loan portfolio                    9,709.2        15,980.6        24,915.8      34,328.0
Interest in liquid funds                         206.6          308.7           586.2          856.9
Dividend income                                  147.3           230.7          299.2          359.6
Capital gains on equity investments              100.0          150.0           200.0          250.0
Commissions and other charges                    134.5          256.3           346.9          417.7
Other income                                       0.0             0.0            0.0            0.0
Total Income                        10,297.6        16,926.3        26,348.1      36,212.2
Expenses
Interest expenses                             6,063.1         9,661.4        15,422.4      21,347.9
Personnel expenses                               379.0          390.3           402.0          414.0
Director and staff bonus                          81.5          157.6           268.5          397.7
General administrative expenses                  113.5          115.7           118.0          120.3
Expenditure tax                                   97.2          156.5           246.4          323.4
Project promotion expenses                       130.0          143.0           157.3          173.0
Provision for retirement and dismissal            80.0          100.0           125.0          156.2
Depreciations                                      8.0             7.9            7.7            7.5
Other expenses  1/                               406.9          580.1           745.6          896.6
Total Expenses                        7,359.2       11,312.5        17,492.9      23,836.6
Gross earnings                                 2,938.4        5,613.8         8,855.2      12,375.6
Provision for losses                             374.0          755.8           630.4          333.0
Earning before tax                            2,564.4         4,858.0         8,224.8      12,042.6
Taxation                                      1,278.8         2,456.0         4,191.4       6,149.1
Net Income                            1,285.6        2,402.0         4,033.4        5,893.5
Appropriations
Dividends                                     1,012.8         1,455.1         2,129.0       2,665.1
Legal reserves                                   165.9          272.4           430.5          590.9
Other reserves                                   106.9          674.5         1,473.9       2,637.5
1,285.6        2,402.0         4,033.4       5,893.5
Ratios
Total income as % of average
total assets                                      17.4           19.4            21.0           23.1
Interest charges as % of average
debts                                             11.2           11.7            13.5           15.8
Interest income as % of average
loans outstanding                                 14.2           16.7            19.2           21.2
Earnings before tax as % of average
net worth                                         75.1           95.7           102.8          106.4
Dividend as % of net income                         78.8            60.6           52.8           45.2
Dividend as % of par value                          40.0            40.0           40.0           40.0
1/  This is an adjustment account for inflation on operating expenses and interest on
loan portfolio.
EMENA/ IDF
November 1981



ANNEX 24
- 88-
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S. (TSKB)
Projected Balance Sheets 1981-1984
(TL million)
1981              1982               1983              1984
ASSETS
Cash                                        2,979.3            6,125.6           8,701.9           11,352.8
Accrued income, receivables
and prepayments                           1,037.5            1,697.0           2,527.2            3,210.1
Maturities under one year                  10,000.0           13,700.0          23,300.0           32,500.0
14,016.8          21,522.6          34,529.1           47,062.9
Investments
Local currency loans                       18,046.4           35,926.0          60,417.9           76,035.9
Foreign currency loans 1/                  44,764.2           59,425.2          69,610.8           73,935.8
62,810.6          95,351.2          130,028.7         149,971.7
Less maturities under one year            (10,000.0)         (13,000.0)        (23,300.0)         (32,500.0)
Equity Investment                           2,096.7            2,720.0           3,268.8            3,805.5
Provision for losses                       (1,397.1)          (2,152.9)         (2,783.3)          (3,116.3)
Government bonds                              475.8              744.9           1,175.4            1,766.3
53,986.0          82,963.2          108,389.6         119,927.2
Other Assets
Fixed assets (net)                           60.6               52.7              45.0               37.5
Prepaid taxes                               764.8            1,218.4           1,618.8            1,878.1
825.4           1,271.1           1,663.8            1,915.6
TOTAL ASSETS                      68,828.2          105,756.9         144,582.5          168,905.7
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities                           830.2            1,623.6           2,547.5            3,289.7
Taxes and dividends                         2,613.7           4,522.3            6,989.3            9,471.2
Short-term loans and maturities
under one year                            8,534.2          13,820.6           23,085.1          30,251.4
11,978.1          19,966.5          32,621.9           43,012.3
Foreign currency debts                     38,657.2          48,972.9           54,025.2          53,343.4
TSKB bonds                                  1,400.4            1,478.1           3,392.8            3,278.6
Central Bank discounts                        666.5           4,427.6           10,002.5           19,493.3
Other Lira debts                            8,242.7           18,795.0          28,107.8          29,975.6
Total Long-Term Debts              48,966.8           73,673.6          95,528.3          106,090.9
Staff Retirement Fund                         174.5              274.5             399.5             555.7
Subordinated Government Loans               3,855.1           5,541.7            6,327.8           6,313.6
EQUITY
Share capital                               3,000.0           4,500.0            6,000.0           6,000.0
Legal reserves                                379.6              652.0           1,082.5            1,673.4
Other reserves                                474.1            1,148.6           2,622.5           5,260.0
Total Equity                        3,853.7            6,300.6           9,705.0           12,933.4
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY       68,828.2          105,756.9         144,582.5          168,905.7
DEBT/EQUITY RATIO                              8.1:1              8.3:1             8.4:.1             8.2:1
1/  Excludes unutilized letters of credit  5,181.0              10,377.6          16,318.0          21,953.7
EMENA/IDF
November, 1981



ANNEX 25
- 89 -
Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A.S. (TSKB)
Projected Cash Flow 1981-1984
(TL million)
1981          1982          1983         1984
Sources
Local currency collection                  298         1,111         2,008        7,382
Foreign Currency collection              6,435         8,220        12,513       16,764
Increase in local currency debt         10,300       18,000         23,500       18,000
Increase in foreign currency debt        7,766       11,238         16,318       21,089
Equity sales                               100           150           200          250
Provisions and retained earnings           735         1,811         2,668        3,726
Capital paid in during the year            805         1,500         1,500          -
26,439        42,030        58,707       67,211
Applications
Local currency debt repayments             547         1,381         2,780        4,611
Foreign currency debt repayments         6,435         8,220        12,513       16,764
Increase in local currency loans       11,000         22,000        27,500       23,000
Increase in foreign currency loans    7,766          11,238         16,318       21,089
Increase in equity investment              858           773           749          787
Increase in Goverment bond
required by law                          166           272           431          591
Net changes in current assets/
liabilities                             (333)      (1,854)        (1,584)         369
26,439        42,030        58,707       67,211
Increase in cash                          960         3,146          2,576        2,651
EMENA/IDF
November 1981



ANNEX 26
- 90 -
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S. (TSKB)
Resource Position as at December 31, 1980
Original                              Last                        Undisbursed      Available
Year When       Loan              (%)             Maturity    Outstanding    Commitments             for
Source of Loan            Loan Signed   Amounts 2!    Cost to TSKB             Years         Amount 2i   and Approvals   Commitments
(TL Million)                                      (------------- TL Million --------------
A. Foreign Borrowings
IBRD, Loans VIII, IX, X         (1969-1972)     9,559.2       6-1/2 - 7-1/4            15           4,274.6            -               -
IBRD, Loans XI, XII             (1975-1977)   12,609.0             8 - 8-1/5           15          12,257.6           665.2            -
IBRD, Loans XIII, XIV           (1979-1980)   10,870.1             7-9/10              15           2,639.3        5,266.4          7,620.0
AID (2nd loan)                     (1968)         682.8            9-1/2               15             127.8            -               -
EIB (four loans)                (1973-1980)   12,854.8        5-1/2 - 11-5/100    . 15-12           4,661.4            27.9         4,561.3
KfW (twelve loans)              (1969-1978)   12,617.7             5-1/2               15           6,989.5           295.8           534.1
Paribas (two loans)             (1977-1978)     3,986.0            9.42            5 + grace        1,411.1           364.2            _
Exportfinans (Norway)              (1978)       1,773.0           10.73          4-7 + grace          819.6           133.4            _
Finnish Credit                     (1978)         910.4            9.74          5-7 + grace          189.7           497.5            -
TFC (three loans)               (1973-1976)     5,462.4        8.875 - 16               7           1,849.0           -                -
Sub-Total                                                                                    35,219.6         7,250.4        12,715.4
B. Domestic Borrowings
Bonds (ten issues)              (1973-1980)    1,486.8              32                  7           1,011.6
Gov't Subordinated Loan            (1966)         368.1           3-1/2                35             368.1
Central Bank Discounts          (1979-1980)       265.8       26, 21-1/2 3/             -             265.8
Treasury Loans                     (1980)       2,720.7          31-1/2                 5           2,720.7
Commercial Bank Loans           (1979-1980)     1,385.0             22                  5           1,384.3
Central Bank Loans                 (1980)       1,500.0          15-3/4                 - 4/          740.0
Government Loan                 (1967-1969)        57.5           5-1/2            15 + grace          42.6
Sub-Total                                                                                     6,533.1
C. Equity (paid-in capital,
reserves, provisions)                                                                           2,776.0
TOTAL                                                                                        44,528.7
1/ Conversion to TL is at the exchange rate as of 12/31/80 US$1 = TL 89.71.
2/ Excluding undisbursed portion of anproved L/Cs.
3/  Lower rate of interest for export-oriented projects.
4/ These are short-term loans renewed every 4 months.
EMENA/IDF
November 1981



ANNEX 27
- 91 -
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S. (TSKB)
Projected Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
FY1982    FY1983    FY1984    FY1985    FY1986    FY1987
Annual                 1.0       24.0      33.0       25.0      12.0        5.0
Cumulative             1.0       25.0      58.0       83.0      95.0      100.0
EMENA/IDF
November 1981



ANNEX 28
- 92 -
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S.
Priority Product Groups of TSKB
Sub-Sectors
Processed Food                 Bakery products
Cheese and curd
Wine of fresh grapes
Frozen fruits and vegetables
Metals and Metal Products       Iron and steel structures
Iron and steel castings
Household and Sanitary Equipment
Electrical Machinery           Switch gear
Electric power machinery
Measuring & controlling instruments
Insulating equipment
Domestic refrigerators
Non-Electrical Machinery       Agricultural machinery
Piston engines, non aircraft
Pumps for liquids and gases
Tractors, non-road
Cocks and valves
Packaging and filling machinery
Machine tools, especially lathes
Industrial and Heavy           Boric Oxide and Acid
Chemicals                    Borates, Perborates
Non-metallic Minerals          Micronized metals
Porcelain-ceramic group
Marble
Glass and glassware
Transport Equipment            Bus parts
Automobile parts
Precision Instruments          Meters, counters (non-electric)
Instrument parts and accessories



TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S. (TSKB)
Time Table for Technical Assistance Program
for Export Promotion
1981                            1982                                     1983                                     1984
Project Preparation
Prepare TOR,
Short-List Consultants          -
Review Proposals,
Select Consultants
Export Firm Identification
1st Four Sub-Sectors  I/
TSKB Staff                           |            .
2nd Five Sub-Sectors  2/
TSKB Staff
Seminars and Workshops  3/
Export Marketing Studies
1st Year (6 studies)
2nd Year (6 studies)
3rd Year (3 studies)
Technical Assistance Promotion
Resident Expert                                                                            _____
Short-term Experts  4/                                                      _              __      _     _ 
Notes;   l/  Food products, metal products, non-electrical machinery,  electrical machinery (2 beginning April 1,  2 beginning September 1, 1982.
2/ Light chemicals and related, industrial chemicals, non-metallic minerals, metals, transport equipment.
3/ In 2 modules of 3 weeks each.
4/ Approximately 12 man-months over 2 year period.
EMENA/IDF
January 1982



- 94 -
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S.
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.    TSKB Organization and Finances
1.               TSKB's Financial Plan for 1981-83, TSKB, May 1981.
2.               Detailed Financial Projections, TSKB, September 1981.
3.               Government Instruction and Conditions on Special
Medium-Term Industrial Investment Rediscount Credits,
20 May, 1981.
4.               Accounts and Auditors Report as of December 31, 1980
for TSKB.
5.               Quasi-Equity Loan Agreement between TSKB and
Government.
B.    Reports and Studies Relating to Project
1.               TSKB Exporting Assistance Project, PA Management
Consultants Limited, October 1980.
2.               The Impact of Export Incentives on the Export
Competitiveness if Five Selected Engineering Goods,
Guven Nil, October 1980.
3.               Screening Study for TSKB;  Methodology and Major
Results.
4.               Staff Training for the Turkish Industrial Development
Bank (TSKB), International Trade Center, August 1981.
5.               Proposal on the Foreign Exchange Working Capital
Fund, TSKB, May 1981.
C.    Selected Working Papers Related to Project
1.               Turkey:  Export Promotion and Incentives, April 1981.



25'                                                    30.35                                                                                                         40-
B U L G A R I A           \_
BULGA IA,J      -...                                                                                                                                                                  U.  S.  S.  R.
'> KIRKLARELI
LI-              TFKI1'DAK/                                           0              KASTAMONU  S/NOP/
0      \ISTANBUL               6~ZONGLJLDAK   (~                      0
7 ~ ~            ~ ~~~~   B 0 EsFLR U A N           >                         o\                       oREZNCN)     
\  Idopoo~1, t_           B KTH  \L) 0  C     R               \                         5>D,    /         0 AF TRABZON)                                    KA R S
g \0@Xr -S S F ;O N v X / 'VSEU                                                                                               SUN                                             KARS- - t'OV 
CANAKKALE                     BU RSA  (/0   %6GJM USHANE
'                    UL   \/   - -                                                                 a AAN                                   4         R ANK                MARZURUM-J>
C F.NTRAL,-                       YOZGAT               S I VA S                ES                           TO L YA\
, ,\rr)  M  e  r   s                                                              l     n O, 'S_GA ZIA N T EP   7' U N  -
)                                 [                                      HATAY- )J TATOYURKEYI
K/RO
_  35,            SAHISA                                                                                            Y R IeXKIRSEHIR7>  A                   *M-L o ANGOS    AD S                           TIRAN
IW'-"   ?NEVSEHIR                                                    ko    ~      "o~~A"                 >0 VAN
C Y P~VJERNIUS K  RSLEVKAYSR EPI  RGELAZIG 
K ONYA   T,~A   f   DIYARBAKIR 
) DENIZL               3                                                                                                              -I-PARA  PONI MARASSII
MUGLA                                                                                                                                                    ARLA  I  
,-~~  /       URFA           I      0               o~
A NTA LYA                                                                                                                                             IRA
GA7ZIANTEP
HATAY                                       ~~~TURKEY
OF /EVELO(MrHr OF FROVlHCEFS DOES HOr COHFORM IW p   IMOSTIDE ELOPEDUPROVAICES ASS MUNICIPAL TIES
_N~                                                                                                                        SYRIA                                              OF ANiASA ANDuDse OFISCENDERUN.UT WAS IHI  T   4 D    vNDDE R
SEMI DCVE LOPED) PROVINCES
CYPRUS                                                          1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LEAST DEVELOPED REGIONS
CYPRUS                                                            H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G~~I-iONAL BOUNDARI ES
KILOMETERS
0     PROVINCIAL CAPITALS                     'UZC2
0  5000 00   .o.  ro oe 00000INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES        o,o..,.
300                           350                 or roD 000 0                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40                                       La 



