Document of                TILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3199-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
A PROPOSED LOAN
TO
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR AN
EXPORT-ORIENTED INDUSTRIES PROJECT
January 29, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TURKEY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Weighted Average to 1976)
Value of US$
1959                                      TL   9.00
1970                                      TL  11.50
1971                                      TL  14.90
1972                                      TL  14.15
1973                                      TL  14.15
1974                                      TL  13.90
1975                                      TL  14.45
1976                                      TL  16.05
1977  January                             TL  16.05
Marchi                              TL  16.05
September                          TL  19.45
1978  March                               TL  25.25
1979  April                               TL  26.35
June                                TL  47.10
1980  January                             TL  70.00
April                               TL  73.70
August                              TL  80.00
December                           TL  91.75
1981  April                               TL  98.20
September                          TL 121.10
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Turkey                       March 1 to February 28
Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A.S.   January 1 to December 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
DESIYAB             Devlet Sanayi ve Isci Yatirim Bankasi
DYB                 Devlet Yatirim Bankasi
IDB                 Islamic Development Bank
ITC                 International Trade Center
SAL                 Structural Adjustment Loan
SEE                 State Economic Enterprise
SMLI                Small- and Medium-Scale Labor Intensive Project
SYKB                Sinai Yatirim ve Kredi Bankasi
TSKB                Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi
TL                  Turkish Lira



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
EXPORT-ORIENTED INDUSTRIES
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower;          Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A.S. (TSKB).
Guarantor;         Republic of Turkey.
Loan Amount;       US$100 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms.             Interest rate at 11.6 percent per year, with repayment
as follows;
(a) $74 million to be repaid substantially in con-
formity with the aggregate of the amortization
schedules for sub-loans, with a maximum repayment
period of 15 years;
(b) $14 million to be repaid in equal installments over
15 years, including 5 years of grace; and
(c) $12 million to be repaid in equal installments over
10 years, including 3 years of grace.
Relending Terms;   TSKB would lend foreign exchange for fixed assets
sub-loans at a spread of 5.0 to 5.5 percent over the
average cost of foreign funds, for technical assistance
sub-loans at a positive spread, and for working capital
sub-loans at a spread over the Bank rate sufficient to
cover costs, with the sub-borrowers bearing the exchange
risk. TSKB would lend Turkish Lira (TL) for fixed
assets at market interest rates (currently varying from
30-50 percent after taxes but before rebates). Typical
fixed assets and technical assistance sub-loans would
have terms of 8 to 10 years, including grace periods of
2 to 3 years. Working capital loans would have terms of
3 months to 2 years.
Project
Description;       The project is aimed at supporting the Government's
policy of rapidly expanding Turkish exports. TSKB is
being used as an instrument to facilitate this national
objective. The loan would; (i) finance private sector
manufacturing investments with emphasis on investments
expected to lead to exports; (ii) provide foreign
exchange required for imported inputs needed by
exporters; and (iii) assist TSKB's export promotion
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
capability through diagnosis of problems of firms with
export potential, export market evaluation, provision of
an advisory and marketing consultancy service to
potential exporters, staff training, and financing of
technical assistance.
The loan would finance sub-loans to private sector firms
for the direct foreign exchange costs of fixed assets
investments ($72 million), short-term working capital
loans for the imported input requirements of exporters
($10 million), technical assistance loans for foreign
consultancy services ($2 million), and sub-loans for the
imputed foreign exchange costs of locally produced
machinery and equipment ($14 million). The balance of
$2 million would finance consultants' services and
training of TSKB staff.
Project Benefits
and Risks;          This loan is expected to finance fixed assets for about
25 sub-projects. As a result of the project,
export-oriented investments are expected of about
S250 million, generating exports of around $90 million
per year. The working capital financing is expected to
finance inputs required for about $40 million of exports
per year. The export promotion program would enable
TSKB to identifv the problems and requirements of
Turkish firms with export potential, and review the
export prospects of products they might export. In
addition, about 50 firms are expected to benefit from
TSKB's export consultancy services and about 20 firms
from consultancy services financed under technical
assistance loans.
Project success depends upon the success of the
Government's structural adjustment policies and the
capacity of Turkish firms to adjust to the new economic
environment. There are risks attached to some aspects
of this project, as the technical assistance program may
meet with resistance from industry and working capital
financing is a new activity for TSKB. These risks are
reduced by the success to date of the Government's
structural adjustment program (being monitored under the
Bank's structural adjustment loans), and by intensive
Bank supervision planned during project implementation.
The risks are justified by the importance of the
objectives involved for the economy as a whole.



- iii -
Disbursements;
Bank FY        1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
…U..           S $ Milli1a…
---------  US   illon ----------  --~
Annual          0.1   10.2   30.3   31.9   17.6    9.9
Cumulative      0.1   10.3   40.6   72.5   90.1  100.0
Financing Plan:
Foreign Exchange Costs                          US$ Million
Bank                                              100.0
Commercial Banks                                   20.0
TOTAL                                         120.0
Local Costs will be met from TSKB resources and funds of
sub-borrowers.
Appraisal Report;  Report No. 3655-TU, dated January 29, 1982.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR AN EXPORT-ORIENTED INDUSTRIES PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A.S. (TSKB) with the guarantee of the
Republic of Turkey, for the equivalent of US$100 million to help finance the
expansion and strengthening of the export capability of private sector
industries in Turkey. Amortization of $74 million for financing fixed assets
and technical assistance sub-loans will conform substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules for these sub-loans, and will not exceed 15
years; amortization of $14 million for sub-loans to cover indirect foreign
exchange costs of locally produced equipment will be over 15 years including 5
years of grace; and amortization of $12 million for financing working capital
sub-loans, consultants' services and training will be over 10 years including
3 years of grace. The interest rate will be 11.6 percent per annum. Bank
funds provided to TSKB for financing working capital sub-loans will be matched
by at least twice that amount from other foreign sources.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The last economic report entitled "Turkey:  Policies and Prospects
for Growth" (No. 2657a-TU) and the Postscript thereto, were distributed to the
Executive Directors in December 1979 and March 1980 respectively. Updating of
economic prospects as well as indepth economic analysis and dialogue has since
been undertaken through the continuing work on structural adjustment loans
(SALs) to Turkey, and two special economic missions. The report of the
special economic mission in November/December 1980 to evaluate the investment
program and entitled "Turkey: Public Sector Investment Review" (No. 3472-TU)
was distributed to the Executive Directors in December 1981. The draft report
of another special economic mission in May/June 1981, to review Turkey's
industrialization and trade strategy, has been recently discussed with the
Government and is expected to be distributed to the Executive Directors
shortly. Its analysis is also reflected in this Part. Annexes I-A and I-B
contain the Basic Country Data and relevant details about recent economic
developments.
Characteristics and Development Constraints
3.       Turkey is a country about as big as France and Germany combined, with
an estimated GNP per capita of $1,460 in 1980. With a population of around 45
million, the density is low (78 per square kilometer of agricultural land),
although the rate of urbanization is high (about 45 percent). Educational
enrollments have expanded greatly, but the rate of adult literacy remains
relatively low (60 percent). Although population growth is not high by
middle-income country standards (2.2 percent per annum), the employment
situation has deteriorated steadily, with an unemployment rate of about 16
percent, despite rapid economic growth, substantial emigration of workers to
Western Europe in the early 1970s and the more recent flow of workers to the



- 2 -
Middle East. There is little or no absolute poverty, but income distribution
is still relatively skewed. Data for more recent periods is incomplete, but
indicates a worsening especially of the position of wage and salary earners
over the last few years with a sharp real decline in the minimum wage. There
are also considerable regional differences, and large rural-urban disparities.
4.       Agriculture is the most important sector in the economy. It
contributes 23 percent of GDP (1980), employs about 55 percent of the labor
force, and provides about half of merchandise exports. Turkey is one of the
very few developing countries which is self-sufficient in food. Yet,
agriculture has been given a secondary role compared to industry in the
development strategy. The main sector objectives have been to: (a) expand
food supply for a growing population; and (b) provide exports to finance
industrial development. Turkish agriculture is dualistic; a modern irrigated
commercial sector using modern inputs in coastal areas, produces cash crops
and most exports; traditional rainfed agriculture emphasizing grains and
livestock, is practised on the Anatolian plateau where only a small part of
the irrigation potential has been developed, despite massive investments
through slowly implemented and long-gestating projects.
5.       With its natural and human resources, Turkey has considerable
potential for expanding agricultural production and exports. The major
constraints on growth and productivity are: (a) limited development of
irrigation/drainage facilities and poor utilization of what has been
developed; (b) small and fragmented farm holdings; (c) inadequately funded and
poorly coordinated research and extension services; (d) insufficient
availability of credit; and (e) inadequate marketing arrangements, especially
for exports. Increased productivity could be realized with a somewhat larger
and more efficient allocation of investments, backed by more coherent credit
and price policies and support services.
6.       Reflecting the heavy emphasis of the development strategy on rapid
industrialization, industry has absorbed up to 30 percent of total
investment. Consequently, it today accounts for 19 percent of GDP, 48 percent
of exports (mainly textiles, processed foods and leather products), but only
14 percent of employment. The private sector is overwhelmingly dominant in
exports, and accounts for some 60 percent of value-added and an even higher
share of employment. Industrial policy has sought to achieve self-sufficiency
through import substitution, use of advanced technology and greater depth of
integration in productive processes, with consequent priority for
capital-intensive investments in basic and intermediate products. Exports
have generally been given a secondary role, and accounted for only about 4
percent of sector output in 1979. The principal policy instruments used have
been large public investments in inefficient State Economic Enterprises
(SEEs), and generous incentives combined with high levels of protection for
private investments. These policies yielded high growth rates, domestic
production of some key basic and intermediate goods based on domestic
resources, adoption of modern technology, a skilled labor force, as well as
some dispersal of industries to less developed regions. But they also
resulted in the establishment of a number of uncompetitive industries,
wasteful of scarce capital and too dependent on imported inputs, with low
employment and limited export possibilities.
7.       The major sector constraints which the Government is now attempting
to overcome, are: (a) low levels of capacity utilization; (b) limited export
capability in some subsectors; (c) inefficiency of the manufacturing SEEs;



- 3 -
(d) lack of sufficient long-term financing for industry; and (e) excessive
dependence on imported inputs and low productivity. Apart from import
protection, several factors have adversely affected productivity, of which a
marginal research and development effort and inadequate labor training are of
particular importance. Export efforts have also been hampered by the
limitations of marketing facilities.
8.       Turkey has large underdeveloped energy resources (hydropower and
lignite), but little petroleum. Energy consumption has grown in line with
GDP, but remains below the per capita average for middle-income developing
countries. However, imported oil accounts for over 85 percent of oil
consumption and about 45 percent of total energy consumption. As a result,
the oil bill was $3.6 billion in 1980, equivalent to 122 percent of exports,
probably the highest figure in the world.
9.       Hence, the energy situation has become a major preoccupation of the
Government, and the sector has been accorded the highest economic priority.
Prices for most products - especially petroleum products - have since 1980
been brought into line with prices in Europe and other indices of real costs
to the economy. Investments in energy now have the largest share in the
public investment program. The principal sector constraints are;
(a) organization and management of institutions in the sector; (b) the lack of
comprehensive demand-management and conservation programs; (c) insufficient
resources for exploration; and (d) poor project implementation capacity,
especially in the power and coal/lignite sub-sectors.
Government Policies Until 1980
t0.      Economic policies until the mid 1970s were responsible for the
achievement of rapid economic growth, with substantial growth in industrial
capacity. However, both the pattern of growth and the excessive recourse to
external finance, especially in the seventies, resulted in the substantial
problems which Turkey is confronting today. At the same time, income
distribution remained relatively unequal; employment creation inadequate;
savings performance poor; and the industrial sector mostly inefficient,
despite sizeable investments, and not contributing sufficently to either
exports or employment.
II.      In the past decade, economic management suffered further due to
political instability, which thwarted effective decision-making. At the same
time, economic problems were aggravated by serious economic shocks emanating
from abroad: international inflation, leading to a sharp rise in Turkey's
import prices (including oil) and a significant deterioration in her terms of
trade; high interest rates resulting in an increased debt servicing burden;
and recession in Europe leading to reduced export prospects and emigration
possibilities. Inappropriate expansionary policies in response to these
factors delayed Turkey's adjustment to the changed international environment,
80 that by 1977 the country was set on a course of rapidly growing inflation
and an inexorable foreign exchange crisis. By 1977, the inflation rate had
escalated to 25 percent against 15 percent in 1976, and was rising: the
budget deficit as a percentage of GDP increased to over 6 percent; with a
tripling of imports between 1973-77 to $5.8 billion and merchandise exports
and workers' remittances equalling only $1.8 billion and $1 billion in 1977,
the balance of payments deficit soared to $3.6 billion, or over 6 percent of
GDP. The Government's response to the crisis emerging since 1973 was to
increase external borrowing, mainly short-term. Consequently by end-1977,



-4-
total external indebtedness surged to $11 billion, of which short-term debt
alone was $6.2 billion. A crisis of confidence developed, the inflow of
external capital nearly ceased and Turkey faced a host of severe interlocking
domestic and external problems. Since January 1980, to achieve its goal of
reestablishing viable growth and increased efficiency of resource allocation,
through greater reliance on market forces and the introduction of an outward
orientation in economic policy, the Government has adopted a series of
measures in the areas of exchange rates, export promotion, protection policy,
interest rates, SEE prices, taxes, investment criteria and incentives, and
institutional reforms. A number of additional medium-term policies continue
to be initiated, and it is clear that the Government is determined to follow
through with its newly adopted development strategy.
Government's New Policy Priorities and Actions
12.      The new regime, which took over following the military intervention
on September 12, 1980, has vigorously pursued these new policies, pari passu
with efforts to restore political order following a period of rampant
terrorism, paralysis of the constitutional process, and widespread labor
unrest. It has also emphasized, unlike previous military regimes in 1960-61
and 1971-73, that it will transfer power to civilian authorities once order is
restored and a new viable democratic system suited to Turkish circumstances
has been constitutionally established.
13.      Especially since September 1980, there has been substantial action on
economic policies, although the severity of the economic crisis has forced the
new government to continue to focus much more on short-term than on
medium-term concerns. In view of the severity of the crisis, and the urgent
need to bring down inflation and stabilize the balance of payments as quickly
as possible, it has accepted the need for a temporary sacrifice of growth and
social objectives. However, while financial aspects of economic management,
especially availability of foreign exchange and balancing the budget, have
come to dominate policy concerns, fairly drastic structural changes have been
made or initiated in the operation of the exchange rate regime, the tax
system, interest rate policy, export strategy, the SEE sector and public
investment policy.
14.      On development issues, a welcome change is beginning to be apparent
in the scope as well as in the sectoral emphasis to favor the development of
energy, infrastructure and agriculture, at the expense of manufacturing,
especially as far as the allocation of public sector resources is concerned.
There is acceptance of the division of labor between the public and the
private sectors, with the former now expected to concentrate on the provision
of infrastructure while the latter provides the main impetus to industrial
growth and exports. The administrative arrangements in the agriculture sector
are being drastically recast to provide better service support to the
farmers. The development strategy has also changed, to give much greater
weight to exports relative to import-substitution. Finally, and most
significantly, reliance on the market mechanism is being emphasized as against
more centralized planning, including in the inefficient SEE sector. Given the
long period of inward orientation, detailed planning and administered prices
prevalent until January 1980, the impact of these changes will take some time
to manifest. They also need to be complemented by further actions, which the
Government proposes to pursue, to fully implement the new development strategy.
15.      The retrenchment following the financial crisis resulted in both
public and private investment declining in real terms since 1977. The overall



level of investment in 1980 was around that in 1975, with private investment
being barely larger than in 1974. The extreme shortage of domestic resources,
resulting from the Government's restrictive policies on credit and high
interest rates aimed at bringing down inflation, has necessitated rationing of
investible funds. The high oil import bill also forced a drastic reduction in
capital goods and raw materials imports needed for public and private sector
investments. The private sector, which to some extent has also continued to
adopt a wait-and-see attitude before investing, has been particularly affected
by the shortfall in resources, high cost of credit, and the lack of a
developed capital market.
16.      Despite the Government's attempts to reduce the investment-savings
gap and improve on the poor savings performance of the past years, the results
in 1979-80 continued to be poor as the Government had to bear the large
financial losses of the SEEs. However, as a result of major tax reforms in
late 1980/early 1981 and improved expenditure discipline, there was a
significant improvement in public accounts in FY81. The budget deficit is
expected to be about 1 percent of GDP vis-a-vis 5 percent in FY80; the SEE
financing requirements are estimated to have been reduced to 8 percent of GDP
in 1981, compared to 11 percent in 1980.
17.      The new Government's policies to reduce the size of public
investments, stimulate the private sector to take the slack, and overall, to
further reduce the gap between savings and investments, will need to be
vigorously pursued. In the last three to four years, the strategy has been to
meet the gap by tapping external financing on a prudent basis, which practice
is expected to continue. Turkey obtained increased support and debt
rescheduling from OECD countries and diversified its aid relationships with
OPEC countries, especially Saudi Arabia and Libya. Loan commitments, which
totalled p2.5 billion during 1972-75, increased over threefold to $8 billion
during 1976-79, and the gross public M&LT disbursements in 1980 reached about
$1.5 billion.
Effects of the 19 80-81 Policy Measures
18.      These new policy directions are beginning to show results.  The
recent results are provided in Annex I-B. Briefly, the average annual rate of
inflation has been successfully brought down from 107 percent between
January-December 1980 to around 35 percent for the same period in 1981. The
flexible exchange rate policy under which the TL has been adjusted daily since
May 1981, together with the new export oriented policies, have led to an
unprecedented export growth in 1981; exports are estimated to be over $4.5
billion, or over 55 percent higher in dollar terms over the 1980 level.
Increases were concentrated in manufactured goods, which experienced a rise of
nearly 120 percent; product groups with the largest increases included
textiles, clothing, cement, iron/steel, and non-electrical equipment, with the
Middle East becomming an increasingly important market. A new and rapidly
growing source of foreign exchange is income earned from construction
contracts (with a gross value of nearly $7 billion in 1981) in the Middle East
and North African countries. These activities are also expected to add to the
normal flow of worker remittances, which remained strong throughout 1981.
Although import growth continued to be strong in 1981 (around 14 percent of
GDP), import volumes had declined sharply in 1978-79, and as a proportion of
GDP, will remain well below the 1974-77 average. Given these developments,
the current account deficit in 1981 is expected to be about t2.6 billion (4.1
percent of GNP) compared to $3.2 billion in 1980 (5.5 percent of GNP).



19.        In response to the freeing of interest rates, total deposits in July
1980-June 1981 increased by 97 percent and time deposits (including
certificates of deposit) by an astonishing 265 percent over the corresponding
period in 1979-80. Since July 1981, private companies have been free to set
their own bond rates in competition with banks, and can use flexible rates if
they so choose. The Capital Market Law was passed in July 1981 and steps are
being taken to establish a capital market. Following steps to improve SEE
financial performance - by freeing most SEE prices and gradually exposing SEEs
to market forces - the SEE losses are projected to be only TL 5 billion in
1981, compared to TL 72 billion in 1979. This gain was partly offset by the
increases in SEE investment expenditures which in 1981 stood at TL 534
billion, compared to TL 460 billion in 1980. The major tax reform initiated
in late 1980/early 1981 is now beginning to show effect. The overall deficit
on public account in 1981 is estimated to be about 1.5 percent of GDP,
compared to 4.5 percent in 1980.
Medium Term Prospects
20.        Making a reasonable assumption that the Government's new economic
policies will continue and be followed-up by further necessary measures, one
can tentatively project that the investment rate over the next 5 years could
average 23 percent of GDP and gross domestic savings 19 percent of GDP, with
the current account deficit remaining on average close to the 1980 level of
about $3 billion. This could allow the economy to grow at an annual average
of between 4-5 percent during 1981-85. The gross capital inflow required to
meet the financing needs would reach $6 billion in 1985, as against slightly
over $3 billion in 1981. The past and prospective movements of macroeconomic
indicators are surnarized in the Table below.
Lev 1s               Average  _ I
Actual       Projected    Real Growth Rates /1
1975    1980       1985      1975-80   19S0-85
(Units)
A. GDP            1980 TLbn    3,818    4,325     5.287         2.5      4.1
- Consumption                3,342    3,660     4,244         1.8       3.0
- Investment                  997      994      1,216         0.0       4.1
B. Exports of Goods  Current  1,402    2,910      9,086         6.4      18.8
$bn
Imports of Goods    "        4,739    7,667    13,842        -3.7      4.8
- Oil: value        "         808    3,552      6,585         -         -
Current Account
Balance      Current $bn   -1,892   -3,196    -3,164
Gross Capital
Inflows      Current $bn    2,067    4,057    6,010
C. Investment/GDP    2           23.7     23.0      23.0
Savings/GDP                  15.3    15.4        19.0
D. Exports of Goods/GDP  x        3.2     5.2       10.0
Oil imports/Exports
of Goods                  57.6    122.1       72.5
E. Debt Service Ratio /2          8       11.5      33.2
/1 This does not reflect the latest (January 1982) estimates of GDP growth (4.4 percent) and
exports of goods (i4.5 billion) in 1981
/2 Total debt service as percent exports of goods + NrS + workers' remittances.



21.       The balance of payments picture in the 1980s could however be less
severe if: (a) worker remittances increase by 2-3 percent in real terms,
instead of remaining constant as assumed in the above table; (b) remittances
from overseas construction activities annually average about $300 million
during the 5-year period (instead of $15-20 million assumed earlier); and
(c) average import elasticity is between 1.0-1.1 (instead of an assumed
1.1-1.2). The current account deficit in 1985 could then be below $2 billion,
necessitating gross capital inflow of $5 billion in 1985.
22.       The viability of prospects in the table are briefly discussed below.
Continuation of economic and fiscal policies give room to expect that the
inflation rate can be progressively brought down further between 1982-85.
Policies, including continuation of the present exchange rate policy, and the
excellent 1981 export performance, should also make it possible for Turkey to
achieve a real growth of exports of about 19 percent per annum during
1980-85. The export growth rate appears attainable, taking into account the
low export base and market prospects, especially in the Middle East and North
African countries, and the present underutilization of industrial capacity.
However, as the economy returns to a normal growth path, non-oil imports as
well as the demand for energy should pick up significantly. Although
government policy is to substitute domestic energy resources, especially
lignite, for imported oil to the extent possible in all major consuming
sectors, Turkey will have to continue to rely heavily on imported oil. The
oil import bill is estimated to increase from $3.6 billion in 1980 to S6.6
billion in 1985; but as a percentage of exports of goods, it is likely to
decline to 73 percent in 1985 from 122 percent in 1980. The pressure of oil
imports on the balance of payments position will thus continue.
23.      A significant determinant of future prospects, in addition to
increased aid flows, will be the negotiation of substantive improvements in
trade policies towards Turkey. Revised agreements between the EEC and Turkey
in 1977 and 1980 have partly compensated for the erosion caused by EEC
restrictions on labor movement and textile exports, and offer hope for a
better future relationship. The EEC could provide a large and growing market
for Turkey's engineering products, as well as textiles and clothing - if their
quality and product composition is upgraded. Moreover, Turkey has recently
succeeded in diversifying its trade to include larger shares for the Middle
East and North African countries, from 14 percent in 1978 to 44 percent in the
first ten months of 1981. While these markets are becoming increasingly
important to Turkish firms, exports from Turkey represent only a small
proportion of the manufactured imports of these countries. Hence, while one
should cautiously interpret the recent upsurge in sales to Iran and Iraq,
Turkey has excellent possibilities to increase exports of relatively simple
engineering goods, cement, and various chemicals, in addition to processed
food, to these markets, in view of its geographical proximity and cultural
ties.
Creditworthiness
24.      At the end of 1978, Turkey faced an overwhelming debt burden of $7.5
billion in short-term debt and $6.8 billion in M&LT debt. Turkey was faced
with service payment obligations (mostly on short-term debt) of $5.1 billion
(including arrears), or nearly three times the value of merchandise exports in
1977. Prolonged discussions with over 200 creditor banks resulted in an
agreement in July 1979 to reschedule a total of $3.0 billion in short-term



- 8 -
liabilities, including some $2.4 billion in convertible Turkish Lira deposits
and $400 million banker's credits (both at 1.75 percent above the London
Inter-Bank Offer Rate (LIBOR), with 7 years maturity including 3 years grace)
and $300 million in third party reimbursement credits (also at 1.75 percent
above LIBOR, but with an accelerated repayment schedule). Some t300 million
in oil loans were also rescheduled in 1979. At the end of 1980, arrears on
unguaranteed trade credits were consolidated in an amount of around $1
billion. As a result of these exercises, short-term debt outstanding at
end-1980 was reduced to $2.8 billion, the balance having been converted to
M&LT debt. Finally, in January 1981, leading commercial banks agreed in
principle to extend the terms of the 1979 commercial debt rescheduling. A
series of large-scale rescheduling operations relating to M&LT official debt
also took place. In 1978, 1979 and 1980, OECD member creditors rescheduled
$1.0, $1.1 and $2.5 billion respectively of debt service obligations and
accumulated arrears (the last exercise including some re-rescheduling). The
terms of the 1980 rescheduling were 8 to 10 years including 4 to 5 years of
grace, and provided debt relief estimated at $1.1 billion in 1980 and another
$0.8 billion in 1981, with smaller amounts thereafter. Without these
reschedulings, the debt service ratio would have been around 29 percent
instead of 12 percent at the end of 1980, on short-term debt of $2.8 billion
and M&LT debt of $14.3 billion. On all aspects of economic analysis, the IMF
and the Bank have coordinated closely with each other, and Turkey continues to
be in good standing with the IMF. A three-year standby arrangement in an
amount equivalent to SDR 1,250 million was approved by the IMF's Board and
became effective on June 18, 1980. Under the arrangement, Turkey has thus far
made six purchases totalling SDR 760 million, including the tranche for SDR
100 million released in January 1982.
25.      Nevertheless, debt service obligations are likely to remain high over
the coming years. The ratio is likely to rise to about 33 percent in 1985,
and still be around 30 percent if the favorable assumptions spelled out in
para. 21 are realized. The high ratios in the mid to late 1980's are partly
the result of repayment, which would amount to about $1.0 billion in 1985
alone of rescheduled debt carrying a very high interest rate, and partly due
to the need to borrow additionally in the coming years to enable the economy
to achieve a modest level of growth and revived vitality. However, despite
the rapid increase, the debt burden should remain manageable, provided current
policies are successfully implemented, the export drive is sustained, and
Turkey continues to receive further international support from private and
official donors.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
26.      The Bank/IDA have to date lent about $3,292 million, through 65
projects. Agriculture accounts for 20 percent of funds lent, industry and
DFCs (including structural adjustment) for 41 percent, power for 12 percent,
and urban development, transportation, education and tourism for the rest.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1981, with notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
27.      The implementation of private sector projects has been satisfactory.
Political instability, limited coordination amongst ministries, staffing
problems and the serious external and domestic financial crisis since 1977



- 9 -
have seriously affected project implementation in the public sector. A system
of joint project reviews between Turkey and the Bank was instituted in June
1975. This has resulted in distinct, but modest, improvements. The broad
reform of the public sector launched in January 1980, and pursued with new
measures since then, allows cautious optimism that performance can be
gradually improved further, provided it is not eroded by new factors,
including shortages of resources.
28.      Bank lending is aimed at supporting the economic policies initiated
in January 1980, especially: (a) the pursuit of an export-oriented
development strategy; and (b) domestic economic policies aimed at establishing
a macro-economic balance, increasing domestic savings, restraining public
investment and reorienting it to reflect the new Government priorities
(completion of ongoing projects, emphasis on quick-yielding new investments,
and balance of payments impact). The Bank has discussed with the Government
how its overall lending can best contribute to the latter's medium-term
objectives, and help remove past policy and institutional constraints. A
series of structural adjustment loans (SALs) are envisaged, at the
Government's request, to support its program of structural adjustments that is
being implemented. Agriculture, industry and energy will be the key sectors
for project lending. In agriculture, projects emphasize livestock, exports,
and rural development; in industry (including DFCs), the emphasis is on
promotion of exports and employment, and the gradual strengthening of the
SEEs. Energy projects underway are in power generation based on domestic
hydro and lignite resources; future projects will emphasize the oil/gas
sub-sector and coal/lignite. Projects for urban development and public
utilities may supplement these efforts. The close macroeconomic and sector
dialogue established with the Government in recent years is expected to be
pursued on key issues. The economic and sector work undertaken over the last
15 months includes special studies of the public investment program, of
industrialization and foreign trade strategy, and of the energy sector, and
completion of sector memoranda on agriculture and industry. In addition, the
progress made in fostering structural adjustment will be monitored in the
context of each future structural adjustment loan.
29.      Besides the proposed project, other loans expected to be ready for
consideration by the Executive Directors in this fiscal year are for rural
development, a third structural adjustment loan, sewage disposal, further
rehabilitation of the fertilizer industry, and a supplement to the Elbistan
loan.  Projects being processed include;  highway rehabilitation, agricultural
credit, and rehabilitation of the paper and cement industries.
30.      The Bank Group's share of the estimated total external debt was
8 percent in 1980, and is expected to grow to about 11 percent by 1985. Its
share of total debt service payments (excluding debt rescheduling) is
projected to increase from about 10 percent in 1980 to about 12 percent in
1985.
31.      IFC has invested in synthetic yarns, pulp and paper, glass, aluminum,
iron and steel products, motor bicycle engines, piston rings and cylinder
liners, and tourism. It has also invested in the Turkish Industrial
Development Bank (TSKB). As of September 30, 1981, gross IFC commitments
totalled about $226 million, of which $92 million were still held by IFC. New
investment opportunities are being pursued.



- 10 -
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR, THE FINANCIAL SETTING AND THE BORROWER
The Industrial Sector
32.      The importance of the industrial sector to the economy and its
structure and problems, given Turkey's past policies towards
industrialization, have been summarized in paras. 6-7 of Part I.  About 30
percent of sector output comes from the manufacturing SEEs which are primarily
concentrated in capital-intensive industries, although they cover a few light
industries such as textiles. Many of them are inefficient due to frequent
management changes, overstaffing, uneconomic facilities, bottlenecks in
operations, insufficient salaries for technical and managerial staff,
inadequate pricing policies and lack of competition. Their poor financial
performance and ambitious investment plans have been a major burden on the
Government's budget. Reform of the SEEs has been an important component of
the Government's structural adjustment effort begun in January 1980, and is
being vigorously pursued. For more details see the President's Report for the
Second Structural Adjustment Loan (P-3034-TU) dated April 20, 1980.
33.      Turkey's private sector is primarily involved in light industries.
Except for a few large holding companies, it is fragmented into a large number
of small establishments concentrated in Istanbul, Marmara, Izmir, Adana and
Ankara. In spite of the large investments made in the public sector since the
early sixties, the private sector has continued to be the more dynamic
component. In 1980, it accounted for about 60 percent of industrial
value-added, 65 percent of employment and 85 percent of manufactured exports.
34.      Past policies stressing capital-intensive and import-substitution
projects, in a highly protective environment fostered by import barriers,
investment subsidies, negative real interest rates and overvalued exchange
rates, produced rapid growth of the industrial sector. But they also
introduced large inefficiencies. Not only have SEEs been plagued by operating
and political difficulties, but the private sector has also been constrained
in its ability to operate by its dependence on SEEs for basic materials and by
the ease of making profits behind high tariff barriers. In addition, policies
favoring capital-intensive investments led to lower rates of growth in
industrial employment. This inward-orientation also resulted in a very low
export to GDP ratio equal to about 4 percent in 1980, against an average of 20
percent for 55 middle-income countries. In spite of a large and diversified
industrial sector, industrial exports in 1980 accounted for only 3 percent of
total industrial production. About three-quarters of these exports were of
traditional commodities, such as textiles (42 percent), processed foods (18
percent) and leather (5 percent).
35.      Since January 1980, exports have become a top priority of the new
government's structural adjustment policies, supported by the Bank's SALs. To
this end, a series of measures liberalizing interest rates, decontrolling most
SEEs' prices and instituting a flexible exchange rate policy were enacted. In
addition, specific initiatives designed to remove the bias against exports
were taken, consisting of: (i) improvement in the foreign exchange retention
scheme, giving industrial exporters access to 50 percent of their export
earnings, instead of the previous 25 percent; (ii) the freeing of imports of
inputs for export products, irrespective of the trade regime, and their
exemption from customs duties and other fees; (iii) a preferential credit



- 11 -
mechanism giving exporters priority access to working capital and investment
credits at concessional rates; and (iv) tax benefits on export earnings. In
addition, some steps have recently been taken to liberalize the import
regime. Further liberalization measures will have to be pursued on a step by
step basis to continue the effective rationalization of industry.
36.      The new policy initiatives, together with sluggish demand at home,
have produced an environment more conducive to exports. After a long period
of stagnation, exports have increased steadily and their spectacular growth,
especially in 1981, as well as their shift from Europe to Middle East markets,
have been summarized in para. 18 of Part I. Bank analysis indicates that with
appropriate policies, industrial exports should increase annually by at least
20 percent in real terms between 1980-85 and total exports by 14 percent
between 1982-85. Although this target is ambitious, it is consistent with
Turkey's export potential. With its location and large endowment in natural
and human resources, Turkey has a comparative advantage in non-process,
labor-intensive and semi-skilled industries, particularly where the product
value is sensitive to transportation costs. These include traditional
commodities as also subsectors such as glassware, mineral-based chemicals,
construction and light engineering. Although most of these industries are
already exporting, there is considerable scope for expansion through
diversification in products and markets, and rationalization to improve
productivity and enhance international competitiveness.
37.      In spite of its recent performance, one has to be somewhat cautious
about the ability of Turkish industry to overcome its traditional
inward-looking orientation and limited export experience. To overcome the
obstacles, the key requisite is that the current economic program be continued
so as to establish the investor confidence needed to support industrial
restructuring. In addition, a number of specific initiatives are required,
including a more systematic and organized effort in export promotion, the
provision of adequate working capital and investment finance in foreign
exchange to secure imported inputs for industry, and steps to meet the needs
of Turkish firms for assistance to develop the technical, marketing and other
managerial skills required to compete successfully in export markets. The
proposed project is designed to assist in addressing these issues.
The Financial Setting
38.      Turkey has a large and well-developed banking system.  In addition to
the four investment banks (para. 39), there were 39 banks operating in 1980;
of them, 27 were private, and 4 foreign owned. The remaining 12 were
controlled by the State and served specific policy purposes. The banking
system, which has been characterized by a high degree of concentration and
specialization, is beginning to face competition as a result of interest rate
deregulation and expansion of unregulated financial institutions. It is also
under-capitalized due to inflation, but equity is being increased at
government insistence.
39.      While about 40 percent of total private fixed investment is financed
internally and 10 percent is from bond issues and direct foreign financing,
roughly 50 percent is provided by the banking system. Commercial banks
account for about 35 percent of total private fixed investment. Their
activities have traditionally consisted of short-term rolled-over loans; but
in response to new regulations, they have increased their medium-term



- 12 -
portfolio significantly in recent years. The other main sources of finance to
the private sector are the investment banks, of which TSKB is the largest
lender of long-term foreign exchange, financing about 6.5 percent of total
private fixed investment. The others include SYKB which is predominantly
involved in lending in local currency, and DESIYAB which tries to mobilize the
savings of Turkish emigrant workers. A fourth investment bank, DYB, serves
only SEEs. A rudimentary capital market has not been a significant source of
long-term finance. The stock market is virtually dormant with no active
secondary trading per se and very few new share offerings. The bond market is
dominated by public bonds sold essentially to the banking system.  Until July
1981, the flotation of private bonds was hampered by the existence of rate
ceilings.
40.       Since 1980 the Government has been endeavoring to improve resource
mobilization. In July 1980, the Government deregulated interest rates and
instituted a market-determined interest rate system on both TL loans and
deposits. These are now collectively determined by the banks and are revised
every 6 months in the light of prevailing inflationary expectations and market
conditions. The effective rate on long-term TL loans, after taking into
account taxes and fees, varies from 30-50 percent, compared to inflation
forecasts of 30 percent in 1982, and 20 percent in 1983. Taking account of
interest rebates granted by the Goverment for priority activities, interest
rates vary from 28 percent to 15 percent (for export undertakings in less
developed regions). Thus real interest rates are positive over the life of
medium- and long-term loans for most projects.
41.      Since the deregulation of interest rates, foreign exchange rates of
industrial development finance institutions are no longer linked with those
applied on TL loans. They are based on the weighted average cost of the
intermediary's foreign borrowings, plus spreads which have been increasing
recently. Taking account of the increases in costs of foreign exchange
borrowing, the effective costs of foreign exchange loans in the second half of
1982 is expected to reach about 16-17 percent (prior to Government rebates 1/
for export-oriented projects or projects in less developed regions), with the
borrower assuming the full foreign exchange risk. These rates are in line
with the cost of resources in international markets.
42.      While the liberalized interest rate regime has fostered a dramatic
increase in deposits, the cost of intermediation remains very high, partly as
a result of the taxation of banking transactions. The Government has recently
reduced the tax on banking loans from 25 percent of the base interest rate to
15 percent. Development finance companies like TSKB are now exempt from this
tax on their lending. However, loans made to DFCs by commercial banks are
still taxed, which is an impediment to the diversification of DFC funding
sources. The Government has indicated that it would look into possible
measures to facilitate the ability of DFCs to raise local currency resources
at reasonable rates. In a further step to develop the capital market, the
Government has recently enacted legislation designed to; (i) establish a
legal framework for the issue and trading of shares and bonds; (ii) improve
the availability of information to potential investors through requiring the
opinion of independent auditors and other pertinent information on public
companies; and (iii) promote the development of stock investment funds. The
1/ The effective cost of loans eligible for such rebates would be 10-1/2 to
13 percent.



- 13 -
ceiling on private bond rates has been lifted to make the purchase of bonds
more attractive. Although these measures are essential steps in the direction
of a more viable capital market, time is needed before bonds and shares start
making a significant contribution to the financing of industry.
The Borrower: TSKB
43.       Established in 1950, TSKB is one of the oldest and most experienced
development finance companies associated with the Bank Group. Its principal
shareholder is Turkiye Is Bankasi, Turkey's largest private commercial bank,
which together with its pension fund owns 39 percent of the capital. The
balance is distributed among eleven Turkish institutions (46 percent) and some
private individuals (12 percent). IFC is the only significant foreign partner
with a 3 percent shareholding. TSKB intends to broaden its shareholding base
to better represent the private sector and establish links with the
international community. While this cannot be expected until confidence in
Turkey's economic growth has been restored, TSKB will report to the Bank by
June 30, 1983 on its efforts to diversify its shareholder base (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.14).
44.      TSKB is managed by an experienced team, some members of which have
been associated with the firm since its establishment. However, the difficult
economic conditions during the last three years have placed a severe strain on
TSKB's finances and organization. The high level of inflation coupled with
devaluations increased sub-borrowers' indebtedness to TSKB by more than four
times in TL terms from 1977 to 1980, and resulted in a very severe arrears
problem (para. 49). TSKB's organizational structure proved inadequate to cope
with the difficult situation and a new structure was introduced in November
1979. The reorganization did not yield all the benefits expected, due mainly
to a further deepening of the economic crisis in 1980 and the resignation of
about 45 of TSKB's experienced staff (or 30 percent of professional staff)
prior to the enactment of a national law which reduced substantially the
gratuity on retirement. Increasing competition from other private sector
institutions has since taken away additional staff. In response, TSKB's
management embarked upon a critical review of its organization, with the
assistance of a senior DFC consultant financed by the Bank. An interim
reorganization plan has been developed and reviewed during negotiations. This
plan, recently approved by the TSKB Board, is now being implemented. It
includes organizational improvements and clarification of functions and
responsibilities. Staff recruitment is underway and a training program will
be completed before June 30, 1982. These measures adequately deal with the
immediate problems of portfolio control and management of this project. The
plan also includes the establishment of a corporate planning unit to enable
TSKB to prepare a strategic plan for the longer term, which requires a
definition of TSKB's role in the eighties in the light of expected
developments, including a review of objectives and strategy, an identification
of specific areas into which TSKB should diversify, a review and revision of
TSKB's statutes and policy statement, and assessment of the staffing,
organizational and financial implications. TSKB has undertaken to complete
these tasks by end-1982, for review and comment by the Bank. Submission of a
satisfactory plan and schedule for these tasks is expected by March 1, 1982
and is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01 (b)).



- 14 -
45.      TSKB's Policy Statement adopted in April 1978 listed its objective as
contributing to the economic development of Turkey by providing assistance
to: (i) enhance the competitiveness of industry and the development of
exports; (ii) promote new entrepreneurs; (iii) generate employment;
(iv) foster regional development; and (v) improve the mobilization of
resources for the financing of industry by taking equity participations,
floating bonds for its own account and underwriting issues of other private
sector firms. TSKB's performance against these objectives was reviewed by the
Operations Evaluation Department in its report "Sector Operations Review: The
Industries and DFCs program in Turkey" (No. 3077, dated July 18, 1980). The
report concluded that while TSKB was remarkably successful in matters within
its competence such as project financing, its efforts to achieve the broader
objectives of employment generation, diversification of industrial ownership
and resource mobilization were frustrated by the prevailing economic
environment. TSKB's Policy Statement was recently amended to reflect the
intention to place increased emphasis on investments in export-oriented
industries (reflecting the recent changes in Government policy), as well as
TSKB's increased responsibilities for sector work, technical assistance,
promotion, and provision of working capital finance.
46.      The Bank/IDA have provided 15 loans and credits to TSKB, aggregating
$446 million; of this, $246 million has been repaid. One of the outstanding
loans (Loan 1748-TU) also emphasizes the development of exports, together with
the continuation of TSKB's efforts to promote projects in less developed
regions and small- and medium-scale labor-intensive projects (SMLI). In such
areas as resource mobilization, SMLI and less developed regions, achievements
have been below targets agreed under this loan. This is largely attributable
to the difficult economic conditions in the last few years. On the other
hand, TSKB's performance in meeting targets in export promotion, project
identification and lending for export industries has been commendable. The
full amount of Loan 1748-TU is expected to be committed by mid-1982. Loan
1754-TU (Private Sector Textile Project) of September 1979 also involves TSKB
in export promotion and technical assistance. Performance has been
satisfactory, although commitments have recently slowed due to the economic
downturn.
47.      From 1977 to 1980, TSKB took part in the financing of projects
totalling TL 63 billion ($1.5 billion), which provided 36,000 jobs. This
involved the approval of about $417 million in loans, and around $60 million
in equity investments. Loans were essentially extended in foreign exchange,
as TSKB's local financing capacity remained limited. The difficult economic
and political climate since 1977 has reduced new commitments in foreign
exchange, which dropped from $79 million in 1977 to $67 million in 1980. With
the new emphasis on export-oriented projects, TSKB has changed its focus from
projects located in less developed areas towards larger investments in
traditional industrial centers. As a result, investments in the most
developed regions now account for 40 percent of the portfolio compared with 20
percent in 1978, and the average size of loans has doubled from $1.2 million
to $2.3 million.
48.      TSKB's annual net earnings after tax as a percentage of net worth
have averaged about 26 percent since 1977. In real terms, these returns have
been negative since 1978, given the high inflation rates of 65 percent in 1979
and 105 percent in 1980. Following the sharp reduction in inflation, the
freeing of interest rates (para. 41) and increases in TSKB's spread (para.
'), the net return on equity in real terms is expected to become positive



- 15 -
again in 1982. As a result of the successive devaluations of the TL, the
debt/equity ratio as defined under the previous loans rose above its agreed
limit of 10:1 at the end of 1980. Following consultations between TSKB, its
shareholders, the Government and the Bank, the Government has agreed to extend
a TL 6 billion 10-year quasi-equity loan on the understanding that
shareholders will increase the paid-in capital by TL 3 billion to TL 6 billion
in 1982. Accordingly, an agreement has been reached to amend the definition
of the debt/equity ratio to include the Government subordinated loan in
equity. The definition is being further amended to include in the ratio the
short-term debt and uncovered letters of credit. The limit for the
debt/equity ratio remains at 10;1 (Loan Agreement, Section 4.06).
49.      TSKB's arrears position, which first started raising concern in 1977,
worsened to a point that, at the end of 1980, arrears over 3 months amounted
to 17 percent of the portfolio (TL 7 billion) and affected 54 percent of loans
outstanding (TL 20 billion). In most cases, this deterioration stemmed from
the general economic situation, and more specifically from the liquidity
squeeze resulting from successive devaluations, high interest rates and low
domestic demand. TSKB responded by tightening collection and supervision
procedures, changing penalty rates, accountability, data collection, and
management reporting. A detailed review of the portfolio was conducted in
1980 to identify ways of assisting sub-borrowers in resolving their problems.
TSKB then helped them develop appropriate strategies, including securing about
TL 11 billion in additional capital and loans. The review also indicated that
substantial rescheduling would be required to ensure sub-borrower financial
viability in the short-run. Since then, the Government has set up a TL 35
billion three-year special rediscounting facility to assist firms that have
borrowed foreign exchange for investment purposes during the period between
1970 and January 1980. The facility is administered by TSKB with the credit
risk borne either by TSKB (if TSKR makes the loan directly to a qualifying
firm) or by commercial banks (if TSKB onlends to them to make direct loans).
Thus TSKB's financial risks are essentially limited to about TL 10.5 billion,
which it estimates will be lent directly. The facility will enable
sub-borrowers in difficulty to refinance during the next three years up to
50 percent (90 percent in the case of those who had participated in a foreign
exchange risk insurance plan subsequently abandoned by the Government) of the
increase in their foreign exchange debt service obligations due to the
devaluation of the TL. The refinancing will be through 8-year loans,
including 3 years' grace, with an interest rate of 16 percent. TSKB is
evaluating the firms for which it is taking the credit risk, and requiring
restructuring programs where appropriate. TSKB thus appears to have enough
resources to meet its sub-borrowers' needs until the domestic market improves.
50.      TSKB has been working to reduce arrears though reappraisal of
projects, formulation of financial and technical/managerial restructuring
packages, and provision of technical and financial assistance. At the same
time it has maintained pressure through court action in appropriate cases. As
a result, TSKB had reduced the percentage of its loans with arrears exceeding
3 months to 37 percent of its portfolio in June 1981 as compared to 54 percent
in December 1980. The reorganization plan (para. 44) includes improved
arrangements for following up accounts with serious problems. A Portfolio
Manager with primary responsibility for collection of arrears and monitoring
of borrowers has been appointed and sufficient professional staff assigned to
work under his supervision, in accordance with the reorganization plan. TSKB
has agreed to take all appropriate action to reduce arrears to agreed levels,



- 16 -
as well as the percentage of loans with arrears exceeding 3 months to 20
percent of portfolio by the end of 1982 and 14 percent by the end of 1983. If
these targets are not met, the matter will be reviewed with TSKB, and the Bank
would have the right to suspend new commitments for fixed assets sub-loans
until an action plan acceptable to the Bank is developed for coping with the
situation (Loan Agreement, Section 3.13).
51.       In view of the auditors' reservation on the adequacy of the
provisions for doubtful debts in the balance sheets as of December 31, 1980,
TSKB will, beginning December 31, 1981, employ procedures acceptable to the
Bank for establishing such provisions (Loan Agreement, Section 3.12).
Provisions will be estimated on a case by case basis. TSKB has indicated that
it would inform the Bank, prior to making any recommendation on declaration of
dividends, of any qualifications in the auditors' report on the adequacy of
provisions.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
52.      TSKB XIII (Loan 1748-TU), approved in 1979, included funds to explore
the export potential of the private sector and build TSKB's capabilities in
export promotion. Some 30 promising product groups in nine sub-sectors have
been identified and will be the focus of the export promotion effort under the
proposed project. It also builds on the experience of the Private Sector
Textile Loan (1754-TU) which has fostered a capability within TSKB to provide
technical assistance to existing and prospective exporters. The proposed
project was appraised in March 1981, with a follow-up mission in September
1981. Negotiations took place in Washington in December 1981, with a
delegation headed by Mr. Tevfik Altinok, Chief Financial and Economic
Counselor of the Turkish Embassy, and including representatives of the
Treasury and TSKB. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Turkey -
Export-Oriented Industries Project" (No. 3655-TU, dated January 29, 1982) is
being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of
the loan and project are listed in the Loan and Project Summary and in
Annex III.
Project Objectives and Loan Features
53.      The principal objective is to help the industrial private sector to
expand manufactured exports. Specifically, this entails providing a
combination of investment financing, working capital financing for imported
inputs, promotion and technical assistance designed to help the private sector
to (i) exploit Turkey's comparative advantage more effectively and, in
particular, diversify exports in terms of both markets and products; and
(ii) upgrade the quality of Turkish exports and improve their overall
competitiveness. The project also aims at continuing to develop TSKB's
capabilities in export identification, promotion, and financial and technical
assistance, and at further strengthening TSKB's institutional development
efforts, particularly in the fields of portfolio quality and domestic resource
mobilization.



- 17 -
54.      The proposed loan of $100 million would consist of:  (i) $72 million
to finance the direct foreign exchange costs of investment projects submitted
by sub-borrowers; (ii) $14 million fo finance the imputed foreign exchange
costs of locally manufactured machinery and equipment for such investment
projects; (iii) $10 million for establishing a foreign exchange working
capital facility of at least $30 million, for firms commencing or expanding
exports; (iv) t2 million to finance the foreign exchange costs of a technical
assistance program of TSKB for preparing export market evaluations, providing
advisory and consulting services to export firms and firms with export
potential, and for holding workshops and seminars for TSKB staff; and
(v) $2 million to finance the foreign exchange costs of technical assistance
for firms needing consultants on export-related issues. The foreign exchange
working capital facility would be cofinanced with loans of at least $20
million, obtained mostly from foreign commercial banks. To date $15.4 million
of cofinancing has been obtained from Union Bank of Switzerland, Paribas
(France), Societe Generale de Paris, Societe General de Belgique, and Deutsche
Bank.
Project Components
55.      Financing of Fixed Assets.  The project will significantly enhance
TSKB's role in the financing of export-oriented investments, pursuing a
process initiated with Loan 1748-TU. Since TSKB blends funds from various
sources depending upon specific eligibility requirements, targets for support
of export-oriented investment projects are expressed in terms of TSKB's
overall lending operations rather than in terms of Bank funds. TSKB has
agreed to allocate 50 percent of its overall lending operations for
export-oriented projects (defined below) in 1982, with the share increasing to
60 percent in 1984 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07). These percentages
represent a continuation of TSKB's program for increasing its export
orientation, under which commitments for export projects rose fourfold to 37
percent between 1978-81. Based on projected levels of operations, annual
commitments for export-oriented projects will nearly double by 1983 to reach
$66 million. This challenging objective is achievable, given the Government's
policy of increased incentives for export and the export promotion effort that
TSKB will undertake under the project. This is supported by TSKB's pipeline,
which consisted of 83 projects with foreign exchange requirements of
$175 million at the end of September 1981. It is expected that Bank funds
will finance about 25 sub-projects, of which 10-12, accounting for about
two-thirds of the value of investment, are expected to be above the free limit
of $4 million.
56.      As under Loan 1748-TU, export projects are defined as those which
will lead to exports of at least 40 percent of incremental output in the case
of expansions or improvements, and 30 percent in the case of new firms, by the
time the project is expected to reach full capacity. TSKB's appraisal reports
will demonstrate the export potential of each project, using inter alia
evidence of price, marketing channels abroad, past export performance and
export studies. A minimum export performance will be specified in loan
contracts between TSKB and sub-borrowers. To qualify as an export project, it
would also have to meet a net foreign exchange earnings test requiring the
discount rate equalizing foreign exchange earnings and costs to be at least
12 percent. This component also includes $14 million for financing the
indirect foreign exchange costs of locally produced machinery and equipment,
estimated to be about 40 percent of the overall investment. This provision
will help to encourage the development of the local capital goods industry and



- 18 -
give TSKB a greater capability to finance domestic procurement than in the
past, provided satisfactory arrangements can be made regarding the foreign
exchange risk (para. 72).
57.      Foreign Exchange Working Capital Facility.  Continued and timely
access to foreign exchange is critical to export development, because of the
high dependence of industry on imported inputs. The new foreign exchange
retention scheme (para. 35) has greatly facilitated existing exporters' access
to foreign exchange. However, the procedures involved remain subject to
delays and uncertainty; new exporters or enterprises with growing exports
often have little or no access to working capital in foreign exchange. To
assist in alleviating these difficulties, which often deter exporters from
committing themselves to significant export contracts, TSKB, with the
encouragement of the Government, has formulated plans to set up a foreign
exchange working capital facility, under which exporters will borrow and repay
directly in foreign exchange.
58.      Its main purpose is to finance incremental import requirements needed
to expand exports. Firms will be eligible if they are first-time exporters
and can demonstrate export orders, or existing exporters if they can
demonstrate that the utilization of the credit will increase their annual
exports by at least 5 percent in real terms. TSKB will set up lines of credit
annually on the basis of the exporters' creditworthiness, working capital
needs, imported input requirements and export performance and projections.
Withdrawals under the lines of credit will be conditional upon presentation of
firm export contracts and evidence of imports. Borrowings from this facility
would be for terms ranging from 3 months to 2 years, with average maturities
of six to nine months. The loans would be at a rate of interest equal to the
cost of the currency being lent plus a margin at least sufficient to cover the
costs of operation of the working capital fund (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4).
Borrowers' repayments would normally be made out of the earnings retained from
the export sale under the retention scheme. To assist in the start-up and
running of this new activity, TSKB will hire a resident advisor with
commercial banking experience. TSKB's foreign exchange department staff will
also receive on-the-job training in local commercial banks.
59.      It has been agreed that the average net outstanding balance would be
kept below $30 million during 1982, to limit the risks to TSKB while it is
gaining experience. The Bank would provide $10 million from the proposed
loan, under disbursement arrangements which would ensure that the Bank's share
would not exceed one-third of the sub-loans. TSKB has already secured
Eurocurrency credit lines from commercial banks for $15.4 million equivalent
and is in the process of securing additional funds. It is expected that the
remaining $4.6 million of external financing needed to enable TSKB to fully
utilize Bank funds earmarked for working capital loans, will be secured in
time to avoid delay in utilizing these funds. Eligibility requirements would
be maintained while funds are being rolled over. The fund is projected to
expand gradually to $44 million by 1984 through additional funds obtained from
foreign commercial banks. Although TSKB's role in working capital financing
will initially be marginal compared with the total foreign exchange working
capital requirements of the private sector (estimated at $400 million in
1982), the fund's establishment will improve significantly the financial
support available to those who want to begin or expand exports.



- 19 -
60.      Technical Assistance.  This component is the continuation of the
initiatives taken in export promotion and technical assistance under the
previous loans to TSKB. A study financed under Loan 1748-TU identified about
30 priority product groups with export potential upon which TSKB's promotional
effort could focus. These belong to non-traditional sectors, and include food
products, electrical and non-electrical machinery, transport equipment, metals
and metal products, industrial and light chemicals, and non-metallic
minerals. To expand exports, Turkey's private sector requires not only
capital financing, but also improved knowledge of export opportunities,
marketing techniques, and changes needed in products and methods to enhance
the competitiveness of exports from the standpoint of cost and quality. To
this end, the technical assistance component includes: (i) diagnosis of the
requirements of potential exporters; (ii) export market evaluation studies;
(iii) an advisory and consulting service program; (iv) seminars and workshops
to train TSKB staff; and (v) provision for loans to individual firms for
technical assistance. It is expected that about 130 man-months of foreign
experts' services would be provided to TSKB, at an average cost of $11,800 per
man-month. Terms of reference would be agreed with the Bank and consultants
selected in accordance with Bank guidelines (Loan Agreement, Schedule 3).
61.      (i)  Export Firm Identification and Problem Diagnosis.  TSKB staff
are identifying firms best suited to exploit the opportunities for increasing
exports. Consultants would assist TSKB in making diagnoses of what the firms
require in terms of investment, improvement in production techniques, product
development, and marketing capabilities to realize their potential, and
suggest actions to assist these firms. This component is expected to require
40 man-months of foreign experts and cost about $0.5 million over a period of
three years. Terms of reference for the first year's program of studies have
been agreed with the Bank. Selection of a consulting firm is a condition of
effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(a)).
62.      (ii)  Export Market Evaluation.  The export market evaluation program
is intended as a basis for export marketing assistance to potential exporters
and for use by TSKB in planning future promotion efforts. It would consist
primarily of export marketing studies for selected priority product groups.
There would also be additional research into non-OECD markets. About 15
export marketing studies would be conducted over a three year period,
utilizing consultants selected on an individual basis for each study, assisted
by TSKB staff. To finance the costs of consultant services, $800,000 would be
allocated from the proposed loan plus $100,000 still available under the
technical assistance component of TSKB XIII. These services are estimated to
require 53 man-months of foreign consulting services (excluding services
financed under TSKB XIII).
63.      (iii)  Advisory and Consulting Services.  Administered by TSKB, this
program will be available to all exporters and potential exporters and in
particular, to firms selected for the program of export firm diagnostic
studies. The program will be designed to help these firms recognize their
deficiencies and formulate remedial actions, and will provide advice on
appropriate forms and sources of technical assistance. Further, to overcome
the firms' initial reluctance to use consultants, this unit will itself
provide assistance primarily in marketing, an expertise generally lacking in
Turkey. The project includes provision for about 2 years of assistance by a
senior foreign expert, experienced in helping firms to export. His function
will be to help in the start-up and running of TSKB's program of advisory and
consultancy services and train two local counterparts. The project also



- 20 -
provides for 12 man-months of short-term marketing experts to be hired for
specific assignments. Altogether, these services are expected to cost about
$500,000 and benefit 30-50 firms over a three-year period. Detailed terms of
reference for the resident expert and a short list of suitable firms have been
discussed with the Bank, and selection is expected to be completed shortly.
64.       (iv)  TSKB Staff Training Program.  Although TSKB's staff already
possess the basic skills required to assume its expanded export promotion
responsibilities, these skills will be further honed by means of workshops and
seminars especially designed to provide a better understanding of the main
impediments to exports at the level of the firm, and their possible
solutions. Fifteen to 20 selected TSKB staff members will be trained over a
16-month period; this program is being arranged by the TTC.
65.       (v)  Financing for Technical Assistance.  TSKB clients can hire
foreign consultants to assist in improving their export prospects, up to a
maximum of $250,000 per loan. The Bank would receive every fourth appraisal
report for ex post review. To reduce processing time, the Government would
grant automatically for such loans the Certificate of Eligibility required for
DFC loans.
66.       The services rendered by TSKB's staff and consultants will be subject
to a fee. To promote the use of technical assistance in cases where the
requirements fall beyond TSKB's capabilities and require technical assistance
loans, TSKB will provide grants for up to one-half of the loan amount, subject
to a maximum of $50,000 per project and an aggregate maximum of $5oO,o00, to
assist in financing the local costs of foreign consultants' services (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 3, para. G).
67.       The technical assistance component will require a substantial number
of TSKB's staff to become engaged in new activities. An experienced senior
staff member has therefore been assigned to manage the preparation and
start-up effort. To cover the financial costs involved, TSKB, when computing
the average cost of its foreign borrowings (para. 71), will add 1 percent to
the cost of the Bank loan (Loan Agreement, Section 3.15 (b)). TSKB will
furnish a report, with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, on the
effectiveness of the technical assistance program by December 31, 1983 for the
Bank's evaluation (Loan Agreement, Schedule 3, para. H).
68.       TSKB's Future Operations and Financing Plan;  TSKB's foreign exchange
commitments during calendar years 1982 and 1983 are projected to aggregate
$215 million, besides $58 million in working capital loans. As a result of
funds made available from the capital increase and quasi-equity injection
(para. 48), the special rediscounting facility (para. 49) and Central Bank
rediscounting, and the borrowing capacity made possible under the new capital
market law (para. 42), domestic currency lending operations are expected to
reach sizeable levels for the first time in many years. They should amount to
about TL 50 billion ($270 million equivalent) during 1982 and 1983.
69.       Out of TSKB's abovementioned foreign exchange commitments, about $73
million will be financed from existing funds not yet fully committed. This
includes about $38 million under previous Bank loans. Loans for another $50
million are under discussion with the European Investment Bank and
Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau. The $72 million under the proposed loan for
foreign exchange fixed assets sub-loans would help to cover the balance. In
the current economic circumstances, TSKB is not expected to be in a position



- 21 -
to mobilize other funds in the international market (other than short-term
capital funds) during 1982. However, it should be able to begin mobilizing
additional funds by 1983, and will prepare an action plan for doing so by
December 31, 1982 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.11).
70.      TSKB's profitability in the immediate future will be favorably
affected by the increase in spread and level of operations. Its net profit
(after tax) as a percentage of net worth, is projected to rise from about 38
percent in 1981 to 48 percent in 1982 and 51 percent in 1983. This would
result in about breakeven levels in real terms in 1981, and a substantially
positive return in 1982 and thereafter. These levels are adequate to ensure
TSKB's financial viability. The interest coverage, at around 1.4 times, will
remain comfortable through 1984. The debt/equity ratio, as amended to include
the quasi-equity, short-term debt and uncovered letters of credit, will stay
within its limit through 1984, even if inflation and devaluation are
20 percent higher than assumed.
Other Project Features
71.      Onlending rates;  The $74 million provided for fixed assets and
technical assistance sub-loans would be onlent to sub-borrowers at a spread
agreed between the Government, the Bank and TSKB, over the average cost of
TSKB's foreign borrowings. The rate would be adjusted every six months (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.15 (a)). The agreed spread for fixed assets sub-loans
would be 5 percent prior to July 1, 1982 and 5.5 percent thereafter, and be a
positive spread in the case of technical assistance loans. TSKB's onlending
rate for fixed assets financing currently amounts to 13.75 percent (with the
current 4 percent spread) after taxes and fees, but excluding various rebates
and subsidies available to export-oriented projects or projects in less
developed regions. With the increased spread and the higher interest rate on
the proposed loan, TSKB's lending rate is expected to increase to about 17
percent. In addition, recipients would bear the foreign exchange risk. This
onlending rate would also apply to new sub-loans made under prior Bank loans
to TSKB and, after July 1, 1982, to existing sub-loans financed with Bank/IDA
funds (Loan Agreement, Section 3.16). The interest rate to be charged for
Bank funds used in working capital financing will be not less than the Bank
lending rate plus a spread sufficient to cover the costs of operation of the
fund (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para. 5).
72.      The $14 million for financing imputed foreign exchange costs will be
onlent in TL at interest rates in line with market rates. These currently
vary between 30 and 50 percent, including taxes and fees but excluding any
rebates. These rebates would bring the interest level for most eligible
projects to between 20 and 28 percent. This is marginally to substantially
positive, given current inflation forecasts. Drawdown of this component would
be conditional upon arrangements acceptable to the Bank being worked out
between the Government and TSKB prior to September 30, 1982, to protect TSKB
from the foreign exchange risk on this amount. If this condition is not met,
the $14 million would be reallocated for financing the direct foreign exchange
costs of fixed assets sub-loans (Loan Agreement, Section 2.02 (d)).
73.      Repayment terms:  $74 million intended for financing of fixed assets
and technical assistance sub-loans would be amortized in conformity with the
aggregate of the amortization schedules for such sub-loans, with a maximum
repayment period of 15 years. The $14 million for financing the indirect
foreign exchange costs of locally produced machinery and equipment would be



- 22 -
repaid over 15 years including 5 years of grace. The balance of the Bank
loan, earmarked for working capital financing ($10 million), and technical
assistance and training for TSKB ($2 million), would be repaid over 10 years,
including a grace period of three years.
74.      Procurement and Disbursements:  For contracts to be financed in
foreign exchange that exceed $2.5 million, TSKB wilL use international
tendering procedures similar to those for the Private Sector Textile Project,
which require international advertising and contract award to the lowest
evaluated bidder. It is estimated that a total of $10-15 million of contracts
will be affected by these procedures. For contracts of less than $2.5
million, TSKB's usual procedures will be used; these require private sector
firms to obtain at least four quotes, from suppliers in three different
countries. These procedures are satisfactory. For procurement from local
sources, for which the imputed foreign exchange costs are to be financed under
the loan, TSKB will assure itself that the costs are reasonable in comparison
to available alternatives.
75.      Disbursements will be made against standard documentation for;
(i) 100 percent of c.i.f. foreign exchange expenditures under fixed assets and
technical assistance sub-loans; (ii) 100 percent of TSKB foreign exchange
expenditures for technical assistance and training; (iii) 100 percent of the
incremental loans not financed from other sources for foreign inputs financed
under the working capital facility, subject to a statement from TSKB
indicating that such financing would not take the Bank's share of such loans
from all sources above 33-1/3 percent; and (iv) 40 percent of local currency
expenditures for machinery and equipment under fixed assets sub-loans (Loan
Agreement, Section 2.02 (a) and Schedule 4, para. 6).
76.      Auditing;  TSKB will continue to provide audits of its accounts by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, within five months of the end of
TSKB's fiscal year (Loan Agreement, Section 4.02). To develop sound auditing
practices in Turkish industry, agreement has been reached that TSKB would
require in its sub-loan agreements that the accounts of the sub-borrowers be
audited by independent auditors satisfactory to TSKB, whenever the total
project cost exceeds $10 million (Loan Agreement, Section 3.10). TSKB will
also endeavor to obtain such audits in cases where a sub-borrower has
broadly-based shareholders, regardless of project size.
Benefits and Risks
77.      The project supports Turkey's export development strategy and tackles
three of its main constraints, viz, scarcity of foreign exchange, lack of
local resources, and generally low level of export experience among Turkish
industrialists. It will enable TSKB to provide private firms with the foreign
exchange needed to orient part of their production towards exports and make
them more competitive in international markets. It will also allow them to
develop the skills required to adjust, develop and sell their products
successfully abroad. In addition, the project will assist the local capital
goods industry by financing the foreign exchange component of domestically
produced machinery and equipment. From a macroeconomic standpoint, it will
lead to a higher capacity utilization rate, help reorient industrial
production towards foreign markets and restructure the industrial sector along
lines of comparative advantage. In the process, it will strengthen TSKB's
growing specialization in export activities and initiate a more systematic
approach to export promotion. By providing fixed asset financing for about 25



- 23 -
projects, the loan will create about 4,000 jobs. Incremental exports are
expected to reach $90 million per annum, from fixed investments having a total
cost of $250 million.
78.      Realization of the project's full potential benefits, the
strengthening of TSKB as an effective financial intermediary, and progress in
controlling its arrears, depends on continuation of the Government's
structural adjustment program, and the private sector's capacity to adjust to
the new domestic and international economic climate. There are some risks
attached to individual components. Working capital financing is a new
activity for TSKB; the development of the technical assistance program may be
held back by industry's traditional resistance to outside help. But project
risks are considerably reduced by the Government's program which has already
significantly boosted exports. Furthermore, TSKB has made encouraging
progress over the last year in adjusting its operations to the new economic
circumstances and developing improved organizational arrangements. The Bank
intends to devote more than the normal supervision efforts to this project, to
minimize the risks. The objectives at stake are crucial to the recovery of
the economy and for this reason, the risks involved are justified.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
79.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and TSKB, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Bank, and the
report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The special features of the Loan Agreement are referred to in the
text and listed in Section III of Annex III.
80.      Special conditions of loan effectiveness are; (i) appointment of a
consulting firm to carry out diagnostic studies for firms with export
potential; and (ii) submission of a plan and schedule satisfactory to the Bank
for carrying out a study to determine TSKB's long-term objectives and a
strategy for achieving them (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01). A condition of
disbursement for the financing of imputed foreign exchange costs of locally
produced equipment would be agreement on satisfactory arrangements to protect
TSKB from the foreign exchange risk on this component (Loan Agreement, Section
2.02 (d)).
81.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
82.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
January 29, 1982
Washington, D. C.






- 24 -
ANNEX I-A
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
TURKEY 1MTAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TURKEY                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV',RAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                           -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             780.6                                 MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            INDUSTRIALIZED
AGRICULTURAL     554.5               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b               EUROPE              MARKET ECONOMIES
GNP PER CAPITA jUS5)                  300.0        550.0    1330.0                   2609.1                    9444.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      254.3        504.1     806.5                  2368.4                    7896.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 27509.0       35321.0   44237.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.7          38.4      46.5                    53.2                      76.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        69.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         114.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        35.2         45.2      56.7                    80.6                     142.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      51.0         64.0      77.8                   133.9                     523.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          41.2         41.0      39.2                    30.1                      22.8
15-64 YRS.                          55.2         54.3      56.3                    61.5                      65.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.6          4.7       4.5                     8.3                      11.6
POPULATION UROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.8          2.5       2.5                     1.5                       0.8
URBAN                               6.1          5.1       4.6                     3.1                       1.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      42.5         38.0      34.2                    22.9                      14.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      15.5         12.5       9.7                     9.1                       9.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.1          2.6       2.3                     1.6                       0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..         65.6      66.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MRRIED WOMEN)   5.3            8.2      38.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           96.0       100.0      112.0                   119.8                     112.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   110.0       111.0      115.0                   125.7                     131.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           81.0        80.0       82.0                    92.5                      98.1
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        24.0        26.0       24.0                    39.7                      62.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      23.0         15.0       9.0                     3.4                       0.6
HEALTH
tE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    50.8            57.1      61.6                    68.9                       73.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           194.0        153.0/c      ..                    25.2                      12.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        52.0       75.0
URBAN                                          51.0       70.0
RURAL                                ..        53.0       80.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..
URBAN                                ..           ..      20.0
RURAL                                ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2799.6      2227.6    1770.3                    973.3                     621.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      1883.8    1461.3                    896.6                     217.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             59O.O/d     490.3      505.8                   262.3                     119.4
URBAN                             190.0/d     313.4      312.5                   191.8                     120.9
RURAL                                *'      5912.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            . .        20.2      22.3                    18.2                      17.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.7          5.9
URaAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..         2.2
URBAN                               2.0         1.9
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              29.0         41.1      57.0
URBAN                                ..         78.2
RURAL                               2.0         18.0



- 25 -
ANNEX I-A
TABLE 3A                                           Page  2  of  5
TURKEY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TURKEY   -                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVYRAGES
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b               EUROPE              MARKET ECONOMIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 75.0        110.0      105.0                   105.9                      99.6
HALE                  90.0        124.0     115.0                   109.6                      102.1
FEMALE                58.0        94.0       95.0                   102.2                      101.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  14.0        27.0       41.0                    66.3                      89.3
MALE                  20.0        38.0       57.0                    73.2                       83.3
FEMALE                 8.0        15.0       26.0                    59.5                       85.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  18.0          14.0       18.0                    28.4                       18.1
PUPIL-TEACIIER RATIO
PRIMARY                            46.0         38.0       30.0                    26.8                      21.2
SECONDARY                           19.0        28.0       27.0                    23.6                      16.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         38.0        55.5/e    60.3/h                   75.4                       98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0          3.9       11.5                    83.9                     349.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         49.1         87.7      101.3                   181.6                    1018.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.0          1.8       54.0                   131.1                     400.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   51.0          ..         ..                   123.8                     336.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1.1           6.7         ..                     5.7                        4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13782.1       15817.7   19220.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   40.2         37.2       36.3                    32.9                      36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               78.0        67.7       54.3                    34.0                       6.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 11.0         12.1       12.9                    28.7                      37.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 50.1        44.8       43.4                    42.3                      45.7
MALE                                  58.7        55.7       54.4                    56.5                       58.9
FEMALE                                41.2        33.6       32.1                    28.5                      33.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9          1.0       1.0                     0.9                        0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST S PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   33.0/f        32.8/g
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61.07f        60.6/j    56.5/i
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.27/         2.97       3.47?.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.67f         9.        11.47.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      342.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      270.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..      220.0                   385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among tbe indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1967;  /d 1962;  /e Six years and over;  /f 1963;  /g 1968;  /h 1975; /i 1973.
May, 1981



* 26 -
ANNEX 1-t.
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL IaPICATORS
go.s. :AIthouh t1he data ar  Amen trf l-         n  generll1y judsed the goat authoritative end -Iieble. it ehoold also be ootnd that they -y no  heitr
;;ti-nlly cnperebl. be....r .f the i1ch of .. eodardiead defititione and -oncpte uead by different cou--i.. tIcolotn   the data..Tedc.Ar nae
th.1... .. cefu1 to deecolbe o-der. of  agitude, ldic.ta t-nde, end obmr-terig  cetain eaJor differTa.c.  be tent co.. trig..
The  efrec  grop   re() the  ama countr~Y_grup of the .obj.ec  coun.try and (2) a  -outy 9roup aith enenha  higher average irct  than th. country group
of the- ltubj1ctfiuatry  (aucep  for -Cai-- ur.plu  dtl         ortE .  9rouP nier  "Silddl. Inc-   North Africa and niddlo font' i. chree. hecon.. of gr-g-
euoto-cuittal effinitee)    it th  referencegroup d ht cite averag.  .reprpuAtaton nighted -ihth-tic  -en  fcr%-uh iniao        It bnt  nye
naritof h   onrn   I     ru   o  dt   o   hthdtao.SnethLoeaeo  tuaiesuathe ind 'caicr  depend  ton tlnavatlebilty of dens
end isoat uiform.Osutin   .atbe nercieed in reletin    avrge f ran indicato  to another Th..  .... serge I       ra onl..y ...efu1 Ircaai    h   alue of
neindiuetor at Atiea          the County  ndrfenc  grop..
Tot1 - T-t1 enrfac  eye.cnmptetg land n-aad  oedneeaZuh.d Lrurl)  irted  y' -hi                                                            - repodi -ube   topia  bade
AAaric1t.ral- telet   f  gicultra ma-             e  tenp-rethy or  pe-aetly                     avialInpflcndpie    aea   n                            epceta  bonpinn  endin
for 0Pg, Peeture   -arht end hltohan gardene or no lii.elo;tl   aa                           hbltto    etr ffoepitaIa ar  nnbleat                   iprannlygAfe
SUP PR CAiTA (UtS   . GIto  par caphi eit      teatcren   a              rbn.cl-da  rar I                      r-  non thnildad.  aurbl hpIteg  hneI er Pincud  heal..th
1u9ete  byen   ovrtc    nhda   cld1979ita.   il-                     ate    96.an  eira1 .                     en. r  n_ t pemnnl   tfe   yaPhy   Icis  (hot by A
hill, and lilt data.                                                    .e-dta  aeent. Iu_. a~idfe, etc.)  hitch offeritpt,               n  srr--
ENERGY CONSUOTIM PU CAPITA   -,t,co                                     ~~~~~datiu  end provide A liamnd moan. of meic_l faclies   Pr   Iai-
POPOLATIOSI MIS titAn. STAtlitiCt~~~~h-Pt.l  i"d.WM.pl
Total Pt. la6i  19 Kid-year (i9o.. Sd.)i- de ofhJuly.l;  AlI. 1-10. endyliltcape tig
Mmn   cnti.   9id- 1910 atnd lilt dAte                                                nbf JoIYald9for 1tatletdca97purpose..
::!nltlan   roj c -   f                        l..t.i-                                    Oversee StIn  of H ... te (pa.torn-thotl, urban. and'! mot   Aeag  n
doelna   a,e   00     ovn   n,lno rtinun   r   en   n  ithro   een   e  roobilin all urban,l and  rural  ocuidh,                                          nntaa
Palcinpnme. fo   rnliymn  cnre  o   he   evteem-uolptdprs
level  en fiallienprny   dtblaa    t1.   ec.                          th par-                 Coretfna   dein otbt lZ  tIt,i  iin    ure. an id"I
fnrtittyacordna 9t indo 1eo7i and:f roa  fmiy paninfAIfnIfe
eachti. countr  tehhoraehanldOefo the.ttutrobinttca f1mrtann                              EICATC
end fertIlity  teede for prnletton porpneen.ddiuigeed Enrollmet geInoa
itatto tar  Pnnlat c-  ftae-ralttaY  papuanlo  tf th..n no growt  etocA                       Pimr -    tind   p.totl   aeadf         l-ra    oal   aesdtl
I_eniat         d7 o  th7itnte  t th  -njernd oareoerttio   ofthfppu-tonsic                                pert, lear  he..  ordllishateofca.coiae
Pet so  he.    Kid-asttppulaton p            d squre  il thns  (101 hete.tee) of-                  - ocaninea   enAlaa ieneth of ioden 1-   voAtina   nenoft-oa
ertel area;  f96i,f-ill tndc1919 data.                                    toisoldetcil  tednetnial.an --IIn pragrea ehildb Wtrt   (Imiped
Paha.  hel. 1eicltri  ladI       Coptda.aoe.u.etolua   lea                                      emil  or  Ae deraadane o d    eand_  r  inatth.oft,iana.  ..  io; 
ofy1q0  191""     sa itlt, detls.   Th       tiil-teatbn  rtioh                                                     nsaf  o   eedn    - tna  ea-den  enralla   i
6Apae,adrtire   (65i of p   n   er   .prtaee   fedya  pup-                               rrnepani-glvl                I.
meSon;  i6d. 190, and1919 daa.                                                   Adut litercy rat  faacoet1 h  terettidnite (blehnoreed en  matte
Peohu    ylt 2000 Gro dt a ht in et. of datal    f Annua  gract rAtlo total_nod                  eennr4 ntgeh      f tta  ada   pu,nltn  age -d 15 per   a   vr
latlosfi or      P.16,16-i,sdll-i                                                              Pee   id.n fore (Oa  thoead 1eeolatoschAcege  care. coPineeao
Cand  gith ate  mar h  I.nad   .. hnua  liv Th. riF   par -titnee   f  i-ercaegaig  este pigrppr1ne;seluds  abnnn.e, heerea  sa_
population    196,190.   an d' 199 data                                                       etclod.r vthcbe.1.,i p
pod  St  ane(gr       .ha Idl - Annual denit  per f.caede fc1.1 ai-yea                        gadi    y -svr A ea  thaneaad nofe. .  I.. .y    l  yo   frcevr   o   ai
pouato;  790,10.ad99 ddI7   .Ata                                                        rodseenogtaa  pulcprtonn  of- po gletn  sacio                            " as
her napel.   rerdriv    old   if.. e .. geenss   rson f ega --roi in f-                        noemein"fet   aafrmae   nr   s   o   ernaai   ln
tityvt.; .19,A.l fireyea  evgt  age  ednin16,90,ndi1mAd-t c=ethe  sho~Li-eAadl licaneing.,
of  ioh-onro  dn teeunernu pca.ofnaioalfaIl  plnigof         ge.                 eaa  publi  per tof  -s1dpolpopletins   gulde  onLir           Id =t   7"ei"n
1a950lania- mae(srn   f  at0             ta)-Patnueo   erndi   onrs   n  it607years190                               then.  rgn tp of-p T  ant  assin p fart
alld Btcrie  conen        %:d)- I-111  bitchame. ag,..group.-                                   onlarrn of  daIy Ieea  intrnt   -ecrept' datted  .                    peridil
196,   79 d.c..                                               i~~~~~~~~~~~pulict- io dntedptaiytornoiggnea   es    t  sonoee
producDtio  of.(7 all f n        - o  -ludale   Podanh In gec-ednann  nof   en  and            nohon  geld  (P.tn.thyerinldg   Adlant'n  t  drvei                         ct
teaiare an p-d-d)      -Agre-iepoduoioiof       oc  countr in.. .tea  onfi                 1*161         II PittS!        fc~. I-c    y   tb.cWcb
eaionaylncrg  prdcr         .rc        .nghe   .d6i-st, 1910, ned0 1,199date                toalLaorot   (h"nadl-snamtlyatr    enn                              nldn
Per .neinaeeroo  caoIn  ofemto _i           qudrigetal      onfnn   fromarmd L.                 r- rsenad Iueryed hot nacld Tn ituetlne  Indaa  nef..t
viny_.  ted  P-daltit onn -idering soc969a_tatte0atnre  body ~ca-ig . age                    Cnusr  ieretl-  aorSnr                  in  i       ..g oneou thon   meaef ofri
and .  o ensdier fotondo  populaion, and-eloing -ii peren  for f-dn  atd                      andt -bntid ot     tor anh   g F  sa ra-etge n  none  labo  fo- e; 1966.
househld len;  96-c5  1910.  and; 19161date                                                   lilt end9791919 date.i
eat  appy offoo  perday   letenplyof  foodi. dt) -a C e aove   an                  atiitrtanrcngt d a. totI,  al,  andtae  lbo  farms
quiomete forI_ aol conre f ndtabliett-ed  bylOOIA provid  far mn.mint                       pe_netrges      Or~Itil   ae  n    al    oato of        all a-gee rneIen-nicsipll
eloeoc n.     6  grabm  ofp tota  protein pe  dayi anod 20area o i   etmlad10. 1910 ."land 196 197dne   Wbe  ace9 bae   n  L'  erii-t                                 e
potleprtein,  of d thicfk 10 gram  ehood he.. aIma  drtir. t hesei..    eed                  r     ...nn   agese   _ hrnotr  of. Iho  op_aion, n--ed megtime noed.
_re rt loe  tenths  of 15O greta nf phy        nl prnis1  and  25c gram      i-"-                                 g of  ttn 1entbetetore from960ti1970eni19n9
anima  prW   i   e enh overage. for-th 1maci,  trp.ad  boyP0inteTrdcotn   aedtr Satin -.--b   f.nto If iopulnt co2n                                 ioda  19sa  0ed-cler
reerd  Pondl.tarvy    of1-5  091  ad 1911 data                                               no9 fc-..cI the total labo  for.dM    ." - V         -     I cf..    90
rivedfrom  nimae sadpale  In gam  pr day  196-65,  910  nd 1919d0a.  dtc       1979iT dIi tlt
Chil  inae 1-1 tertalty Sne  m   tho An) -   eal deat. .. ar thonf ed c.in         Peromtee.s of Privte Inca  (bthi c etab. and  fInd1   gosvdb             cih
trin   datay dof nd fro  durn   NthIe  1960, 19   anod  1919f- dAt.                           of hI-antse1hadid.a..  .-  A
Li.1 eennaeof an Slot            I ennel -  Acesg   ne ya ofd 2nar  of life  ann              h  fnllemimg0;_111  enImtarerveprna I'lleomen of. -povern lpa
at irt;1 '6 117  ead- 111   aa                                                           n   bedh "nerreedc thc                pai,rela ca        -attie.W.
.mfe .  -onln 1-ct c gep fhae.i- f 75 n=Iuo d-at1  of..  Ainda  2nd3  ann Pee                 cntmnefeean   Poetyinnem  leII .....                 ahe       ehm~rea 
of ea  per     . A.nnn   lic  -birtha   ~                      AO.           ildal-te povernY hraj in iS                             pp them  inc   le l hele  nidr e65 mm
mertetagge  f ther neaeetivepepeiahene   In e    drbatem  public-.                 pesoa  l         of the r     both L. -na   lve  i  dk icd  oo a-yWbe ctMaat
teasenet_l  sao d_        Spyte  the 'bl  heeat   r 19o6he0e,hl                                 n  cnl- ema  of970   e97eint t.ibet hd-rend.)2.d  sen-  abeFlet
de gao hers en epand a dinproportineete pert of the day inh. f11eno-hing- the                              pp--t.               o  F---peon"
folle rap i toads.'-    -                                 "'-fl'-c- -
anano tnnn   Slesl  nret  fparlno -tk tota i rbat.   ad- r-a  -.c.                               l   .it
1ro   mpe(aa,uh,  -d ee uAl) sevd  byMreF                                                                                I pen  s
the cllnatnn  mA depbil.wth.  ar nitheInt toeeet   f  esgert                                                                 !nric ma   eilSas-vso
1cr       W      -              fM :            t-metall Attona.p-any 19911
!raaI9..n .!beo       -  ouaio    iie  by n, bl, -Of                                           i-1rectiting.  piphfyat-                                           -
t     "            c1   cho  at        . u Ivety level.o.
Paean      .dan -aet    c=oneefn    - t Pe1.4ntion dielddd by ,eat ofiprarntning
maIn en   t  Iae   grden..rea   preo Ioa  serene  en   eietno  nurs.) .



- 27 -
AMNI I-A
Pag 4 of 5
TURKYY-COUNTRY DATA
Population.        44.8 million (198n)
GtP Per Capita.  US$1460 (1980)
Amount              Average Annual Increase (2)            Share of GDP at Market Prices ()
(million US$            (at constant 1980 prices)                     (at current prices)
Indicator                                    at current prices)
1980               1965-70    1970-75    1975-80          1965       1970      1975      1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a                         56,617                  6.6         7.5         2.8         100.0     100.0    100.0   100.0
Agriculture                                   12,112                   3.1        4.4         2.7          30.7       26.4      26.2    21.4
Industry lb                                   13,529                   9.5        9.5         2.9          16.6       17.2      18.0     23.9
Services                                      27,925                   8.2        8.0         3.7          42.9      46.5       46.0      54.5
Consumption                                       47,918                  5.8         7.0         2.5         84.6       82.8       84.8    82.4
Gross investment                                  13,022                 11.7        12.9         1.8          16.7      20.1       23.7     25.4
Exports of goods and NFS                           4,130                  7.9         7.3         0.9           6.1       5.8        6.1      7.1
Imports of goods and NFS                           8,453                 11.2        13.8       -3.5            7.4       8.7       14.5     14.8
Gross national savings                             9,764                 11.6        11.9         3.3          15.8      18.8       18.4     20.1
Average Annual Increase (2)           Composition of Merchandise Trade (2)
(at constant 1980 prices)                   (at current prices)
1970-75        1975-g0             1965      1970       1975     1980
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                                2,910                      -0.8        4.6                 100.0     100.0      100.0   100.0
Primary /c                                     1,863                      -4.3         4.6                 80.0      83.0       64.1    64.0
Industrial products                            1,047                      17.0         4.7                 20.0      17.0       35.9     36.0
Merchandise imports                                7,667                      12.4       -4.7                100.0      100.0     100.0   100.0
Food                                              308                      9.9       -17.6                  6.0       9.3        8.3      4.n
Petroleum                                      3,620                      18.5         9.9                 10.0        7.0      17.0    47.2
Machinery & equipment /d                        1,435                      9.9       -16.2                 39.9       39.8      38.5      18.7
Other                                           2,304                     12.1        -6.4                 44.1      43.9       36.2      30.1
1975       1976        1977        1978       1979        1980
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE
GDP deflator                                                   15.1       17.7        22.1        30.2       48.3       100.0
Exchange rate                                                  14.4       16.1        18.0       24.3        36.4        76.4
Export price index                                            60.4        62.8        68.9        73.0       85.9       100.0
Import price index                                            48.6        49.1        54.2       61.7        72.8       100.0
Terms of trade index                                         124.3       127.9       127.1       118.3      118.0       100.0
As % of GDP
(at current prices)
1965        1970        1975        1980
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                          15.0         22.6        22.0        19.8
Current expenditure                                                      10.0         11.8        12.6        11.5
Surplus (*) or deficit (-)                                               -2.0         -2.3       -0.4        -4.8
Investment expenditure                                                    4.7          5.7         4.2        3.9
Transfers                                                                 5.0          7.5         5.5         9.2
Foreign financing                                                         1.8          1.6         0.3        0.2
1965-70    1970-75    1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (2)                                                              6.8         7.7         2.6
GNP per capita growth rate (2)                                                   4.1         5.0         0.3
ICOR                                                                             2.9         2.9         5.7
Marginal savings rate  (X)                                                      28.2        19.5        30.8
Import elasticity                                                                1.7         1.8       -1.3
/s   At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
/b   Includes mining and quarrying, manufacturing, and electricity, gas, and water.
/c   Includes agriculture and mining and quarrying.
7T    Includes metal products and machinery, electrical appliances, and transportation vehicles.
EM2DA
11/2/81
(01841)



- 28 -
AIWn l-A
Pase S of 5
TUtW-8ALA  E of PAIIlur8S EMUIA   CAPITAL AND DCET
(fillice USf   t carest  rices)
Popolatiec        44.8 aillioc  (1980)
CNP Per C-pit-l  US11460 (1980)
1970      1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980        IiTx      ...   i95
BALAN4CE OF PAYMEh'S
Net coporto of goods & bPS                                                   342      3067      2993      3880      1953      2442      4293         3853    3937    3537
Eports of goeda 8 RFS                                                     754      2152      2742      2556      3106      3257      4102        5530    8295   12271
luporta of goodo &  'FS                                                  1096      5219      5735      6436      5059      5699      0396        9383   12232   15808
Workers' Rosittoosa                                                          273      1312       983       982       983      1694      2071         2500    2916    3354
NEt trocfas91                                                                           23        15         12        -          -         -           -        -        -
Correct otccoot balacce                                                      -58    -1892    -2295    -3572    -1710    -1771    -3196             -2634   -3035   -3164
Direct private ie.-t-et                                                       92       251       163       169       147       200       100          220      284      369
Poblic 1HAT (groac) /I                                                       271       334       720       997      1017      4321 /d  2489          2453    3082    3521
A-ertioatioc o.  /AL o (ecol  debt relief)                                  -146      -175      -203      -234      -336      -414      -914        -982   -1992   -2424
Poblic LMLT foot) /a                                                         125        159      517       763       681      3907      1575         1471    1090    1097
Dtbt Relief (ortfl.tioo ecly)                                                  _         _          _         _         _        -       814          533     811    -224
Other otpitel /b                                                              27      1065      1503      2074      1030    -2410       1099          651    1072    2175
Chage inreeervee (-  - i .crecee)                                           -186       417       112       566      -148        74      -192        -241    -222    -253
Iocercatiooal recervee                                                       612      1404      1292       726       874       800      1192        1433    1825    2312
foservosa*- ecctha of ieports                                                  7         3         3          1        2         2          2           2        2        2
1972      1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980
GROSS DI18BU85EhXTS
Official gra.to
Cros diabo-seeeota of M&LT I.e..                                             372       324       720       997      1017      4321 /c  2489
Coocas iocaf                                                              261       100       167       193       227       596       909
Bilateral                                                             139         69       81        130       192      510       849
104                                                                      4        18        21        19         8         3         -
Other seltilatecal                                                     118        13        61        44        27        83        60
Noc-,ooceasi  a1                                                          151       224       553       804       790      3725 /c  1580
Official  oxpert c.edita                                                 1        47        57        47        91       202       283
178R                                                                    25        91       117       146       165      277        313
.cher  eltilteral                                                       27        48        54         5        35        11        35
Privte /c                                                               50        38       325     '606        499      1235 /c   949
EXTERNAL8 DEBT
Debt oftatodieg and disborsed /d                                            2538      4475      6883     10943    14313    15791       17119
Official                                                                 2273      2980      3275      3648      5970      7198      9265
1BRD                                                                    92      288       391        512      648       890      1157
IDA                                                                     99       144       163       181       188       190       184
Other                                                                2082      2548       2721     2955      5134      6118      7924
Private - a                                                               246       340       558      1104      1144      4101 /c  5007
Short-ter-                                                                    19      1155      3050      6191      7199      4492      2847
Debt ootstaodiog i            -ccidiog ocdiobor-ed (public aed private)     3560      6086      9203    13736    12554    19794    22875
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service L.                                                        224       291       368       418       532       689       712
Pay_eta                                                                   161       175       203       234       336       414       100
Ioterest                                                                   63       116       165       184       196       275       612
Total debt sereice  as 2 exports of goode   N FS
o  -orker-' reeitt-oce                                                   11.8       8.4       9.9      11.8      13.0      13.9      11.5
Total debt cervico as 2 GNP                                                  1.3      0D8        0.9       0.9       1.0       1.2       1.2
Aver-ge interest  rate cn ceo boos (2)                                       4.4       7.3       7.2       7.6       6.9      11.2       8.5
official                                                                  4.5       6.4       7.1       7.6       6.3       4.4
P    tr v1: 6.8                                                                     8.I       7.8       7.6       0.5      13.7
Average  atuity of oco boos (yes)                                           22 1      13.1      12.7      11.7      13.2      11.1       8.2
Offici.l                                                                 26 0      18.6      17.3      14.5      15.6      23.5
p-Lvot.                                                                  11.0       5.1      10.2       8.9       7.6       7.1
BANK GROUP EXPOSURE (2
tBRI DOD/total DOD                                                           3.7       8.7      10.2      10.8       9.5       7.7       6.8
IBRD dihbor-ecenta/totgl gross diaber.eeets                                  6.7      27.2      16.3      14.6      16.2       6.4      12.5
IRD debt servite/totol  debt  service /e                                    5.1      10.5      11.7      15.0      15.4      15.3      18.8
IDA DOD/total DOD                                                            3.9       4.3       4.3       3.8       2.7       1.6       1.1
IDA diebraets/to1 gross disboroseect                                         1.1       5.4       2.9       1.9       0.8       0.1       -
IDA debt seeviceltotel debt service Ie                                       0.4       0.6       0.6       0.5       0.4       0.4       0.4
As 2 of Debt Ooeetacdicg
at 0n4 of Nest Deceet
Year (1980)
TERMS STRUCTURE
Katerity otr-ct-re oE debt o-tst-edisg t2)
-otcrities doe vithic 5 yeora                                                                     40 .7
IMat-rities doe cithic 10 yeore                                                                   60.3
Ietere-t strortore of debt oetetc.dicg (2)
Ictorest doe -itbic  first y-ar                                                                    5.7
1- loclodee priv-te go-rocteed aed c.c-goareteed debt.
/b   Icclodes errorsad .oi.sic.a. a.d foe projected years it irclodee cot IMF1, acd ocide-tified carital ioflo.
/0   Icclodee 82,638 oillion of co.eclidated  hort-teec  debt.
7E    Icoldesedtoob of ohort-tero, acd debt relief, bat eccldes llP borrtiog.
/1  T0k60  .ccooct of debt rlief dee tc  debt roethbdolio.g  aed aoclodes icterest cc ehort-ter  debt.
t92DA



- 29 -
ANNEX I-B
Page 1 of 4
Recent Economic Developments and Policy Changes
1.        Against a background of deepening economic crisis, the authorities
announced a policy framework in January 1980 to initiate a major shift
over the medium-term in the orientation of economic policy from detailed
regulation of the economy towards greater reliance on the market
mechanism. Overall, progress in the program to date has been encouraging.
(a) During the second half of 1980, there was a marked decel-
eration in the rate of inflation from a peak of 120 percent in March 1980
to 80 percent by December 1980, and less than 35 percent by October 1981.
While this deceleration did not proceed evenly, the overall trend is
unmistakable, and is due to a combination of factors. First, the effect of
the major upward adjustment of SEE prices in February 1980 and the large
depreciation of the lira in January 1980 which contributed to the initial
upsurge in the rate of inflation has largely passed. Second, a tight
monetary policy was maintained, together with a marked increase in interest
rates to positive real levels on deposits which arrested the flight into
goods. Third, with some easing of external financial constraint, there was
a marked improvement in the availability of fuels and other key inputs;
(b) From September 1980, once work stoppages were terminated by
the military government and the supply of imported inputs was eased,
economic activity rebounded somewhat from the severely depressed levels
earlier in the year;
(c) With domestic demand still weak, much of this increased pro-
duction was channelled into exports, which improved markedly; during the
first eight months of 1980 the year-on-year rate of growth was only 6
percent, while for the rest of the year the rate increased dramatically to
60 percent. This reflected a major expansion in industrial and mining
exports. These trends have continued over the whole of 1981; as a result,
export earnings are likely to exceed $4.5 billion in 1981, i.e. a growth of
about 60 percent over 1980. The direction of export trade has been
generally shifting away from the industrial countries of Western Europe and
towards Middle Eastern and East European countries, partly reflecting the
sluggish growth in many of the industrialized countries, and also Turkey's
interest and success in developing new export markets within its region.
Their share in total exports rose from 14 percent in 1978 to 44 percent
during the first ten months of 1981. The war-affected economies of Iran
and Iraq were a factor influencing these developments; export receipts from
these countries over the first eight months of 1981 were nearly four times
the level of the same period of 1980. Iraq is now second only to Germany
in Turkey's export trade. Exports have responded to the exchange rate
depreciation and the strengthening of the export incentives which have been



- 30 -
ANNEX I-B
Page 2 of 4
further improved during the first half of 1981 through better preferential
credit facilities, increased tax rebates for industrial exports, and the
instituting of a system whereby exporters may deduct 20 percent of their
foreign exchange receipts from taxable income.
(d) Workers' remittances also picked up sharply between
July-December 1980 in response to the interest rate adjustment and the
flexible exchange rate. They have remained strong in the first half of
1981, prompted by further increases in interest rates and a new savings
scheme for workers abroad which allows them to deposit their foreign
currency in Turkish banks, and redeem in Turkish lira on maturity at the
prevalent rate of exchange (they are not redeemable in foreign currency).
In addition a new and rapidly growing source of foreign exchange is income
earned from overseas contracting activities, mostly in the Middle East. By
August 1981, contracts outstanding totalled nearly $7 billion, of which $5
billion were in Libya.
2.       Serious imbalances, however, persist on the external account.
While total current receipts have grown considerably over the last 12
months, the same is true on the payments side. Substantial external assis-
tance permitted an increase in import volume of around 12 percent in 1980
(compared to export volume growth of around 9 percent), and import growth
has continued to be strong in the first half of 1981. Import volume,
however, had declined sharply in 1978-79, and, as a proportion of GDP,
remains well below the average for the years 1974-77. The terms of trade
have deteriorated for the fourth consecutive year, with import prices in
1980 rising more sharply than in any year since 1974, due mainly to the
increase in oil prices. As a result, the current account deficit rose to
$3.2 billion in 1980, (about 5.5 percent of GNP, compared to about 2.5
percent in 1979) and is expected to be about $2.5 billion in 1981 (4.2
percent of GNP).
3.       The problems connected with external indebtedness continue to
constrain rapid recovery. As of end-1980, the total external debt was
estimated to have increased by around 11 percent to $18.2 billion, inclu-
sive of IMF debt, reflecting substantially increased disbursements by the
OECD member countries, Saudi Arabia, IMF and World Bank. The maturity
structure has improved over previous years, partly on account of three
rescheduling arrangements with OECD member countries and two rescheduling
arrangements with cormnercial banks. Consequently, the share of M&LT debt
in the total has grown from 48 percent in 1978 to 79 percent in 1980.
Moreover, commercial arrears have declined t722 million since December
1980. While the term structure of the total external debt has improved,
debt service payments have grown rapidly on account of new borrowings to



- 31 -
ANNEX I-B
Page 3 of 4
finance the expanded current account deficit in 1980, the inordinately high
interest rates on rescheduled commercial debt (close to 20 percent because
of the surge in LIBOR rates), and higher interest rates even on the debt
rescheduled with OECD countries than when the debt was originally
contracted. Equally worrisome is the possibility that net capital inflows
from M&LT sources might decline markedly over the next few years. This is
due to the substantially higher debt amortization payments to be made over
the period 1984-89 when the debt relief afforded by the rescheduling
arrangements falls due, as well as to expected reductions in official debt
relief, in new commitments and disbursements of OECD and in credits from
banks.
4.       Domestic savings have for years lagged behind investment needs.
In 1980, the investment rate was 23 percent of GDP while the savings rate
was about 16 percent of GDP; the latter represented a decline of about 3
percent since 1978. Public savings have declined particularly sharply,
from 8 percent of GDP to 4 percent of GDP over these years. The
Government's response 1981 has been to implement a major tax reform, grant
greater pricing autonomy to the SEEs, restrict public investment, and
improve private savings through increased interest rates and a regulated
capital market. The need for a major tax reform had become critical.
During the years of rapid inflation in 1978-80, the elasticity of the tax
system with respect to GNP declined from around 1.2 to 0.8-0.9, and the
ratio of tax revenue to GNP declined from 19 percent in 1978 to 16 percent
by 1980. There had also been a marked shift in tax structure due to the
failure to adjust the tax system to inflation. The distribution of the tax
burden had become highly skewed and inequitable, the incentives were
distorted, and tax administration had become even weaker. A major tax
reform package was passec in late 1980/early 1981 with the objectives of;
(a) increasing the yield and future buoyancy of the system; (b) making the
tax structure more equitable; and (c) improving the efficiency of
collection. The package is now being implemented, but it is too early to
evaluate the results; the main impact of the new taxes, especially those on
non-wage earners and the agricultural sales tax, will only be seen later in
the year, and progress in their implementation is being monitored under
SAL II. Initial indications are that the tax reform is generating more
revenue than originally expected.
5.       Following the deregulation of commercial bank interest rates in
July 1980, and particularly after the breakdown of the "gentlemen's
agreement" between the banks at the beginning of this year, interest rates
have increased sharply and are now positive in real terms. There has been
a sharp rebound in bank deposits, particularly in time deposits (including
the new certificates of deposit). Between July 80 and June 81, total
deposits increased by 97 percent and time deposits (including certificates
of deposit) grew by an astonishing 265 percent. The deregulation of
interest rates has been further extended by the freeing of private bond
rates in July 1981. Private companies are now free to set their bond rates
in competition with the banks and can use flexible rates if they so chose.
In addition, the Government announced an increase in three-month Government
bonds' interest rate to 34 percent, comparable in after tax yield to bank



- 32 -
ANNEX I-B
Page 4 of 4
deposit rates. In response to the recent emergence of "brokers" offering
monthly interest rates of 10 percent, which threatenes to destabilize the
financial system, the Government issued a decree requiring all dealers to
register with the Finance Ministry and obtain Central Bank approval of
their advertising.
6.       The long-awaited law setting up a regulatory framework for the
capital market was passed in July 1981. This law among other things:
(a) regulates the public offering and sale of financial assets; (b) sets up
an independent Capital Market Board with seven members selected by the
Council of Ministers, with one seat nominated by the bankers association
and the rest nominated by the Government; (c) regulates non-issuing
secondary institutions and provides for investment funds and companies; and
(d) provides that the companies and intermediaries coming under the law are
subject to audit by the Board's auditors. The Board is expected to be
functioning within six months, and all institutions must conform to the
requirements of the law within 12 months.
SEEs
7.       To improve overall SEE financial performance, the Government began
in 1980 by freeing most SEE prices and by initiating steps to begin to
expose SEEs to market forces. This was followed in 1981 with additional
steps aimed at furthering their market exposure and improving their opera-
tional efficiency, culminating in a far-reaching reform package which has
been finalized as a draft law to be submitted to the "Parliament". The
initial steps taken were; all SEEs (except two agriculture service SEEs)
were cut off from the Central Bank, and a larger portion of budgetary funds
was channelled through DYB. These steps, particularly the freeing of
prices, have had some effect. SEE losses declined substantially, from
TL 72 billion in 1979 to TL 23 billion in 1980, and are projected by
Government to be further reduced to about TL 5 billion in 1981. However,
in terms of its impact on Government finances, this was more than offset by
the increase in SEE investment expenditures from TL 172 billion in 1979 to
TL 476 billion in 1980. As a result, budgetary transfers to the SEEs as a
proportion of total Government expenditure rose to around 20 percent in
FY80 as against 15 percent in FY79. IMF limits for 1981 on public sector
borrowing from the Central Bank and budgetary transfers to SEEs are
designed to reduce this drain in real terms. While the granting of pricing
autonomy to SEEs was a necessary adjustment, there was little improvement
in SEE operating efficiency, so that in many cases users of SEE products
and services were paying prices set at levels high enough to cover SEE
inefficiencies. In addition, there was a sharp build-up in commercial
arrears and tax and social security arrears, amounting to TL 209 billion,
in 1980, or 44 percent of total investment (compared to 10 percent in 1979).



- 33 -                         ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1981)
Loan
Number    Year   Borrower                   Purpose                           Bank       IDA   Undisbursed
Twenty-eight loans and fourteen credits fully disbursed                       986.7      177.4
844-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey         Istanbul Water Supply              37.0                  7.9
883-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey         Ceyhan Aslantas                    44.0                 17.3
957-TU   1974   Republic of Turkey         Antalya Forestry                   40.0                  0.1
1023-TU   1974   TEK/TKI                    Elbistan Power                    148.0                 30.9
1130-TU   1975   Republic of Turkey         Rural Development                  75.0                 32.8
1194-TU   1976   TEK                        Power Transmission II              56.0                  5.6
1248-TU   1976   Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)           Agriculture Credit                 54.3                28.1
1258-TU   1976   State Pulp and Paper
Industry (SEKA)         Newsprint                          70.0                 5.6
1265-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey         Livestock III                      21.5                  8.7
1310-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey.        Tourism                            26.0                 20.6
1379-TU   1977   DYB                        Industry                           70.0                 14.3
1430-TU   1977   TSKB                       Industry                           74.0                  6.1
1585-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey         Northern Forestry                  86.0                 66.3
1586-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey         Livestock IV                       24.0                 20.8
1606-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey         Erdemir Steel Stage II             95.0                 57.4
1741-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey         Ports Rehabilitation               75.0                 68.7
1742-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey         Grain Storage                      85.0                 85.0
1748-TU   1979   TSKB                       Industry                           60.0                 42.9
1754-TU   1979   TSKB                       Private Sector Textiles            65.0                 54.0
1755-TU   1979   SYKB                       Private Sector Textiles            15.0                 14.1
S-15-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey         Ankara Air Pollution Control        6.0                  5.7
1844-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Karakaya Hydropower               120.0                116.6
1847-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Sumerbank Cotton Textiles          83.0                 81.8
1862-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Livestock V                        51.0                 91.0
1916-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Petroleum Exploration              25.0                 25.0
1917-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Oil Recovery                       62.0                 60.0
1952-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey         Labor Intensive Industry           40.0                 40.0
1967-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey         Second Fruit and Vegetables        40.0                 40.0
1985-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey         Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                 110.0                110.0
1987-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey         Second Structural Adjustment   300.0                   218.1
1998-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey         State Industrial Enterprise
Finance                         70.0                 70.0
Total                                                      3114.4      177.4   1405.4
of which has been repaid                                  263.5        7.4
Total now outstanding                                      2850.9      170.0
Amount sold                        3.6
of which has been repaid        3.6                       - 0 -     - 0 -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a                          2850.9      170.0
Total undisbursed                                          1405.4      -0-     1405.4
/a Prior to exchange adjustments.



-34 -ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1981)
Fiscal                                                    Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligor       Type of Business                   Loan   Equity    Total
1964     TSKB          DFC                                 -        0.92     0.92
1966     SIFAS I       Nylon Yarn                         0.90      0.47     1.37
1967     TSKB II       DFC                                 -        0.34     0.34
1969     TSKB III      DFC                                 -        0.41     0.41
1969     SIFAS II      Nylon Yarn                         1.50      0.43     1.93
1970     Viking I      Pulp and Paper                     2.50      0.62     3.12
1970     ACS           Glass                             10.00      1.58    11.58
1971     NASAS         Aluminum                           7.00      1.37     8.37
1971     SIFAS III    Nylon Yarn                          0.75       -       0.75
1971     Viking II    Pulp and Paper                       -        0.05     0.05
1972     SIFAS IV      Nylon Yarn                          -        0.52     0.52
1972     TSKB IV       DFC                                 -        0.43     0.43
1973     TSKB V        DFC                               10.00       -      10.00
1973     Akdeniz       Tourism                            0.33      0.27     0.60
1974     Borusan       Steel Pipes                        3.60      0.43     4.03
1974     AKSA          Textiles                          10.00       -      10.00
1975     Kartaltepe   Textiles                            1.30       -       1.30
1975     Sasa          Nylon Yarn                        15.00       -      15.00
1975     Aslan         Cement                            10.60       -      10.60
1975     DOKTAS        Steel                              7.50      1.37     8.87
1975     TSKB          DFC                               25.00      1.23    26.23
1976     NASAS         Aluminum                           1.58       -       1.58
1976     TSKB          DFC                               25.00       -      25.00
1976     Asil Celik   Steel                              12.00      2.20    14.20
1977     Borusan       Steel Pipes                         -        0.06     0.06
1978     DOKTAS        Steel                               -        0.09     0.09
1979     Ege Mosan    Engines for Mopeds                  2.15       -       2.15
1979     ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories       8.85      0.45     9.30
1979     Asil Celik   Steel                                -        1.80     1.80
1979     Trakya Cam   Glass                              33.15      2.25    35.42
1980     TSKB          DFC                                 -        1.09     1.09
1980     ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories        -        0.95     0.95
1980     MENSA         Textile and Fibers                 4.00       -       4.00
1981     Kirklareli
Cam Sanayii
A.S.       Glass Tableware                    13.63      -       13.63
Total Gross Commitments                        206.34    19.33   225.67
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments, Repayments
and Sales                                   129.28      4.31   133.59
Total Commitments now held by IFC               77.06    15.02    92.08
Total Undisbursed                               10.64     0.0      10.64



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981 1/
Ln. No. 844, Istanbul Water Supply Project; TJS$37 million loan of June 30,
1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
After initial delays, construction moved swiftly in 1977 and the two
major water resources development programs were completed in early 1979.
Substantial improvements to the distribution system were subsequently
completed, and tariff increases implemented. As of September 30, 1981, an
amount of $7.9 million was held in the loan account pending settlement of
final payments. Of this, $4.9 million have since been disbursed and
withdrawal claims for the balance are being processed.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project: US$44 million
loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973. Effective Date; March 20,
1974. Closing Date: December 31,1983.
Following delays due to difficult rock conditions and inappropriate
tunnelling methods, two diversion tunnels have been completed, about two years
behind appraisal estimate. The main dam construction is progressing
satisfactorily, with 70 percent of the works completed and the spillway ready
for evacuating the floods in the 1981/82 season. The installation of the
power plant has been started. The construction of the irrigation system is
progressing, with the system now supplying water for about 30,000 ha, one
third of the target. On-farm works are progressing steadily, with about 60
percent completed. Tile drainage is expected to be completed in 1983.
Staffing of the extension service is satisfactory, except as regards consul-
tants; the Government is taking steps to hire the latter. The project is
expected to be completed by end-1983.
Ln. No. 957 Antalya/Akdeniz Forest Utilization Pro ject: US$40 million loan of
January 28, 1974. Effective Date: May 26, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,
1982.
Construction is substantially completed. The saw mill will be ready
for operation in October 1981, and the pulp and paper plant in May/June 1982.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project; US$148 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: June 1, 1976. Closing Date: July 30, 1982.
Project implementation had been delayed by critical problems,
including insufficient staff, inefficient management, inadequate coordination
among various agencies and unsatisfactory performance of civil contractors.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Following continuous Bank and co-lender reviews of the situation with the
Turkish authorities from early 1977, the remedial measures initiated by the
Government resulted in some improvement of project execution, until mid-1979.
However, continuing and serious shortage of local funds then affected project
progress, which has been aggravated by staff and management deficiencies. The
Government's timely provision of adequate local funds for this high priority
project from the Structural Adjustment Loan counterpart funds has helped
resume momentum. The colenders and the Government agreed in November 1980 on
a detailed program of action to overcome remaining implementation problems;
this program is now being implemented. Further measures to strengthen project
implementation and to meet remaining foreign exchange needs are being
considered by the colenders and the Government.
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankiri Rural Development; US$75 million loan of June 23,
1975. Effective Date: January 22, 1976. Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is in general progressing satisfactorily although because
of disruptions in construction, the irrigation works will be completed only by
end-1983. The Corum dam has been completed as also the works to divert
run-off from 5 nearby watersheds. The Kumbaba pumping station is ready, and
irrigation has started. The Alaca dam, delayed because of extra excavation
required due to bad rock, is expected to be completed by end-1982. Damage to
the Alaca diversion tunnel, because of rock slides, has been repaired and the
tunnel lining is completed. Contracts for the irrigation system of the
Guldercek area have been awarded and work is in progress. The project
extension service is operating successfully and its impact on agriculture is
promising. Village roads, water systems, small irrigation facilities and
electricity works will be completed by end-1982. The project is expected to
be substantially completed by end-1983.
Ln. No. 1194 Second TEK Power Transmission Project; US$56 million loan of
June 14, 1976. Effective Date: April, 21, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Procurement action is complete, somewhat behind schedule, and almost
the entire loan is committed, but deliveries of some equipment are delayed.
The loan is expected to be closed shortly.
Ln. No. 1248 Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries: US$54.3 million loan of
May 5, 1976. Effective Date: May 11, 1977. Closing Date: June 20, 1984.
The ferryship component has been implemented, and the two roll-on and
roll-off ships purchased under this project and the First Fruit and Vegetable
Export project are now operating a regularly scheduled service between ports
in Turkey and two ports in Italy. The implementation of the agro-industries
component is delayed, mainly due to investors' reluctance to assume the
foreign exchange risk. The Government is reviewing possible measures to
overcome this problem. The Agricultural Bank (TCZB) has introduced improved
lending procedures for its ongoing supervised credit program, and this



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
component is being implemented satisfactorily. After considerable delay, the
consultants have completed the study of TCZB's structure and procedures. At
the Borrower's request, a cattle-fattening component of the Project, and
US$7.7 million of the original loan amount of $63 million allocated for this
purpose, were cancelled on May 5, 1977. Also, as provided for in the Loan
Agreement, $1.04 million for training was cancelled on December 22, 1977,
following approval of UNDP funds for this purpose.
Ln. No. 1258 Balikesir Newsprint: US$70 million loan of May 21, 1976.
Effective Date: October 15, 1976. Closing Date; December 31, 1982.
The project is nearing physical completion. The sawmill and
newsprint plant have begun operations although wood supply and marketing
problems for sawn wood need to be resolved.
Ln. No. 1265 Livestock III; US$21.5 million loan of May 26, 1976. Effective
Date: February 25, 1977. Closing Date; March 31, 1982.
After a slower than anticipated start-up, project implementation
improved but has been affected by deterioration in financial situation and
cash flow problems of farmers, causing some withdrawals from the project.
This has adversely affected the preparation of farm development plans. Though
project area offices have been established, they are not fully staffed. The
Govermnent has taken some measures, and is reviewing others, to correct the
situation. A higher than expected proportion of sub-loans has been made to
small farmers. An extension of the Closing Date is being considered.
Ln. No. 1310 South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure; US$26 million loan of
July 9, 1976. Effective Date; March 1, 1978. Closing Date; December 31,
1982.
Implementation of most project components is underway, with progress
being made in preparation of specifications and project design work, although
the pace of overall project implementation is somewhat slower than expected
due to staffing constraints and difficulties in ensuring adequate
inter-ministerial and inter-agency coordination. However, measures to
strengthen the Project Unit and its consultants, the Tourism Bank, are being
taken.
Ln. No. 1379 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey); US$70 million loan of
March 23, 1977. Effective Date: July 21, 1977. Closing Date; March 31,
1982.
The loan has been substantially committed. DYB still has severe
staff constraints, which it has in part overcome by recruitment of additional
junior staff. Actions already initiated to recruit senior staff on improved
contract terms are expected to overcome staffing constraints by mid-1982.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Ln. No. 1430 TSKB XII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey);  US$74.0
million loan of June 3, 1977. Effective Date: August 29, 1977. Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
Progress is satisfactory and the loan has been fully committed. TSKB
has essentially reached its agreed targets for allocation of its resources to
projects in less developed regions and export-oriented industries. It has so
far been unable to raise resources as expected in international capital
markets because of Turkey's economic difficulties, but the interest of several
financing sources is anticipated once conditions permit renewed efforts. The
loan is expected to be closed shortly.
Ln. No. 1585 Northern Forestry; US$86.0 million loan of June 5, 1978.
Effective Date; October 30, 1978. Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Depressed timber sales have reduced complementary funding for the
project but action has been taken to remedy the situation through stimulation
of sawn timber exports and expansion of housing construction. Revision of
forest management plans is expected to be completed by the end of 1981, and
proposals have been approved to prepare new plans for all productive forest
areas. Action for recruitment of project consultants and fellowship training
is underway. Procurement is making steady progress.
Ln. No. 1586 Livestock IV; US$24.0 million loan of June 5, 1978. Effective
Date: October 31, 1978. Closing Date; June 30, 1985.
The supervised credit program for farm development has been
initiated. The milk industry study has been satisfactorily completed.
International recruitment of technical specialists, considerably delayed, is
underway, as also action for meeting staffing requirements agreed upon with
the Bank. Project farms are experiencing cash flow problems, inducing
withdrawal of many potential beneficiaries and resulting in lower demand for
sub-loans. The Government is considering measures to improve efficiency of
milk production and to develop an effective cadre of trained field staff.
Ln. No. 1606 Erdemir Stage II Steel; US$95.0 million loan of June 30, 1978.
Effective Date; July 30, 1979. Closing Date; June 30, 1983.
Procurement for the phenol treatment plant, the raw material handling
system and the hot rolled shear line has been completed. Product selling
prices have been substantially increased in January 1981. Production from
existing facilities has been severely restricted from time to time because of
the lack of raw materials due to the limited availability of foreign exchange.
Ln. No. 1741 Ports Rehabilitation: US$75 million of July 2, 1979. Effective
Date: January 22, 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Procurement of
equipment is well advanced, with $43 million committed. Technical assistance,
training, costing and port sector studies, as well as procurement of civil
works are in progress.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1742 Grain Storage: US$85 million of July 2, 1979. Effective Date;
January 21, 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Project implementation has begun. Consultants have been appointed
for engineering design and supervision of construction. A prototype of hopper
wagons has been designed and is under evaluation.
Ln. No. 1748 TSKB XIII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey); USt60 million
of July 12, 1979. Effective Date; October 25, 1979. Closing Date;
December 31, 1982.
After initial delays, the progress is now satisfactory with over 80
percent of the loan committed. Targets for SMI and least developed regions
are not however being met, in view of current policies' impact on small
enterprises, the need to focus on rehabilitation of existing firms, and export
promotion projects. The planned program for training and export development
has been implemented.
Lns. Nos. 1754 TSKB (US$65 million) and 1755 SYKB (US$15 million) Private
Sector Textiles loans of September 17, 1979. Effective Date; February 29,
1980. Closing Date; December 31, 1984.
The consultants for technical services and for extension services are
in place. Revised Action Plans are being prepared. Approval of sub-projects
has begun, and about 40 percent of the loan has been committed.
Ln. No. S-15 Ankara Air Pollution Engineering: US$6 million loan of December
12, 1979. Effective Date: April 4, 1980. Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Equipment for modification of the Seyitomer plant is being installed,
and is expectd to be commissioned in January 1982. Pollution monitoring
equipment is being procured. Consultants are being selected for project
studies.
Ln. No. 1844 Karakaya Hydropower; US$120 million loan of May 21, 1980.
Effective Date; August 15, 1980. Closing Date; December 31, 1988.
Project implementation is making progress.
Ln. No. 1847 Sumerbank Textiles Modernization and Rationalization; US$83
million loan of May 28, 1980. Effective Date; February 27, 1981. Closing
Date; June 30, 1984.
Project implementation is in progress. Consultants have been
recruited and procurement actions have been initiated.
Ln. No. 1862 Livestock V: US$51 million loan of June 6, 1980. Effective
Date; October 22, 1980. Closing Date; June 30, 1987.
Project implementation has begun. Consultants have been selected for
some components.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 1916 Petroleum Exploration Project: US$25 million loan of November
24, 1980. Effective Date; June 30, 1981. Closing Date; December 31, 1984.
Geophysical and geological studies are making progress and seismic
surveys have begun. Consultants for carrying out energy audits are expected
to be recruited by the end of the year.
Ln. No. 1917 Bati Raman Enhanced Oil Recovery Field Demonstration Project;
US$62 million loan of November 24, 1980. Effective Date; June 30, 1981.
Closing Date; December 31, 1984.
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Detailed
engineering designs for the Bati Raman Enhanced Oil Recovery sub-project have
been completed, and all major equipment ordered. The designs for the water
disposal system in the Raman field component is under review. The stimulation
of the Thrace gas field, now in progress, is expected to be completed by end
November 1981.
Ln. No. 1952 Labor Intensive Industry Project; US$40 million loan of
March 13, 1981.  Effective Date;  June 12, 1981.  Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
Sub-loan approvals have begun.
Ln. No. 1967 Second Fruit and Vegetable Project: US$40 million loan of
April 6, 1981. Effective Date; August 1981. Closing Date; June 30, 1986
Projection implementation has begun satisfactorily. Action has been
initiated for recruitment of consultants for horticultural production
marketing and studies. The articles of agreement for the Regional and the
Central Marketing Corportions have been finalized, and the Government has
initiated efforts to establish them as private entities.
Ln. No. 1985 Fertilizer Rationalization and Energy Saving Project: US$110
million loan of May 15, 1981. Effective Date; August 28, 1981. Closing
Date; December 31, 1986.
Project implementation is according to schedule. Some consultants
have been appointed, and action has been initiated to recruit others.
Procurement action also has begun.
Ln. No. 1987 Second Structural Adjustment US$300 million loan of May 15,
1981. Effective Date; August 17, 1981. Closing Date; November 30, 1982.
Loan disbursements were $81.9 million as of September 30, 1981.
Ln. No. 1998 State Industrial Enterprise Finance Project: US$70 million loan
of June 3, 1981. Effective Date: August 27, 1981. Closing Date;
December 31, 1986.
Project implementation has commenced satisfactorily. Action has been
initiated for recruitment of consultants by the beneficiary enterprises and is
expected to be completed by March 1982.



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY - EXPORT-ORIENTED INDUSTRIES PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to               About one year
prepare project;                            (February 1980 -
February 1981).
(b) Agency which prepared the project.         Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma
Bankasi (TSKB).
(c) First presentation to the Bank;            February 1981
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission;            March 1981
(e) Negotiations completed;                    December 14, 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness;             May 1982
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
Closer than usual supervision.
III. Special Conditions
A.   Special Conditions of Effectiveness;
(i)    Appointment of a consulting firm to carry out export firm
diagnostic studies for firms identified as potential
exporters (para. 61).
(ii)   Submission of a plan and schedule satisfactory to the Bank
for carrying out a study to determine TSKB's long-term
objectives and a strategy for achieving them (para. 44).
B.   Special Condition of Disbursement;
(i)    Disbursement for the financing of the imputed foreign
exchange costs of locally produced equipment would be
conditional upon agreement on satisfactory arrangements to
protect TSKB from the foreign exchange risk on this
component (para. 72).



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
C.   Other Main Conditions;
(i)    If targets for phased reduction of arrears are not met, the
Bank would have the right to suspend new commitments until
an agreed action plan is developed for dealing with the
situation (para. 50).
(ii)   TSKB will allocate 50 percent of its overall lending
operations for export-oriented projects in 1982, rising to
60 percent in 1984 (para. 55).
(iii)  TSKB would utilize agreed eligibility criteria and interest
and repayment arrangements for the working capital facility
and will restrict the facility during 1982 to $30 million
(paras. 58 and 59).
(iv)   In the case of loans by TSKB for technical assistance which
meet agreed criteria, TSKB would provide grants to assist
in financing the local costs of foreign consultants'
services (para. 66).
(v)    TSKB will prepare a program to plan for its changing role
in the longer term, for Bank review by end-1982 (para. 44).
(vi)   TSKB will prepare an action plan by December 31, 1982 for
trying to mobilize additional funds in the international
market (para. 69).
(vii)  TSKB will charge an interest rate on foreign exchange fixed
assets sub-loans financed under this loan of 5.5 percent
(5.0 percent prior to July 1, 1982) over its average cost
of borrowing, and in this calculation will add one percent
to the actual cost of funds provided under the loan to
finance the technical assistance program. Similar
arrangements would apply to fixed assets sub-loans financed
under prior Bank/IDA lending to TSKB (paras. 71 and 67).
(viii) Unless otherwise agreed, TSKB would require that
sub-borrowers with projects costing over $10 million would
have their accounts audited by independent auditors
(para. 76).






IBRD 11656R
30                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUGUST ig70
U LG'A~R IAB/ a ck                                                            S e a
Edirne  Kr IIreI fl u                                         Sinop                                                 U,   S.  S.   R.
ekIr ~~  ~~   ul    ~ Z  Karass    E~~~~Ii  Kostam   nu                      TtrvinO
Troy  Canatrkole~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a r
p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a
Od Iemis  r' isi        ki ehir  rNe~hi                       ys
LLJ--                                                              Yocj u?i F W                                             W
Marre alm  Ktn                                                                                                                   TQ
M e a i t  r r a n eo h S e 3  | f PNULTI EE;0                        IRANSPORTAI!TrN 'AND  MtAJOR              
ui~~~~~~~~~~~~ Kieh,                                                                                  ingdl                          R  1AN00ff0   
Nevie ir                                                  us      TV;    Van;; @ I U6R K E
MILES                   / f  ;        f      mfefel,                § ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S  S- Rt-    -   A
Mai /5 ' '3w.n:\': rs  m vX 'iC N : l: <9'^' CyNTEESt                        'tYR~  IA)N i d  _
0    TTO,         ur~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J00
Inteneotiona! boundarres  ( ~ ~ ~ Ere Io  Eu
o  tOO   200      000 ~~~~nt                 roanp au  rera                        tre                     CAes
m                 s~~~~~ttt.~                                    I 5  e  RUR  A O
Aiit ~       ~ntefl~ k                                          -Q
MILES                                                                               CYPRUS6J~~~~~~~~ ~ Y    IQ
Moi                                                                    J road  osP JLASYR IA N FR



