OCUN1    LOAN NUMBER 2093 TU
Loan Agreement
(Export-Oriented Industries Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S.
Dated        L         ?           , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2093 TU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated 014YC4         , 1982, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S. (hereinafter called
the Borrower), a company established and operating under the laws
of the Republic of Turkey.
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower under Part A or B of the Project out of the proceeds
of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project
and "free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined,
which qualifies as a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provi-
sions of Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
(b) "Working Capital Loan" means a loan made or proposed to
be made by the Borrower under Part C of the Project out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
(c) "Technical Assistance Loan" means a loan made or
proposed to be made by the Borrower under Part E of the Project
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(d) "Investment" means an investment, other than a Sub-loan,
Working Capital Loan or Technical Assistance Loan, made or pro-
posed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan
in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project.


﻿-2-
(e) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
the Borrower proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan, Working
Capital Loan or Technical Assistance Loan or in which it proposes
to make or has made an Investment.
(f) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-loan, Working Capital Loan, Technical
Assistance Loan, or an Investment.
(g) "Liras" and "TL" mean the currency of the Guarantor.
(h) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor.
(i) "Statutes" means the statutes of the Borrower dated
May 12, 1950, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(j) "Statement of Policy" means collectively the Policy
Resolution No. 1193/5 of the Borrower dated April 8, 1977, the
Statement of the Borrower entitled "Policies of Turkiye Sinai
Kalkinma Bankasi", dated April 21, 1978, and Resolution No. 1294/1
of the Borrower dated December 25, 1981, as amended from time to
time.
(k) "Prior Loan Agreement" means any loan or credit agree-
ment executed and delivered between the Bank or the Association
and the Borrower or the Guarantor, respectively, before the
date of this Agreement; and "Prior Loan" means any loan or credit
provided for therein.
(1) "1966 Loan Agreement" means the agreement dated Febru-
ary 18, 1966, between the Ministry of Finance of the Guarantor and
the Borrower, under which the Ministry of Finance granted to the
Borrower a long-term loan of TL368,086,259.96, as amended from
time to time by the parties thereto.
(m) "Quasi-Equity Loan Agreement" means the agreement
dated June 5, 1981, between the Guarantor and the Borrower under
which the Guarantor granted to the Borrower a long-term loan of
TL6 billion, as amended from time to time by the parties thereto.
()  'Sub-idiary" ieans any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned rc effectively coltrolled by the Borrower or by any one or


﻿-3-
more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or
more of its subsidiaries.
(o)   "Export-Oriented Project" means an Investment Project
of which it is estimated that (i) in case of expansions or im-
provements of Investment Enterprises' facilities the equivalent of
not less than 40%, and in all other cases not less than 30%, of
the output of the facilities to be provided or improved under the
Investment Project will be exported in each year after such
Investment Project is expected to have reached full capacity, and
(ii) such Investment Project would show a discount rate equalizing
foreign exchange earnings and costs of not less than 12% per
annum.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
million dollars ($100,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account: (i) for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall
so agree, for amounts to be paid) on account of withdrawals made
by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan or Investment (1)
under Part A of the Project to meet the reasonable foreign cur-
rency cost of goods and services required for the Investment
Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account
is requested, up to an aggregate equivalent of $72,000,000,
unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, and (2)
subject to the provisions of paragraph (d) of this Section,
under Part B of the Project to meet forty per cent (40%) of the
local cost (exclusive of local taxes) of equipment required for
the Investment Project in respect of which withdrawal from the
Loan Account is requested, up to an aggregate equivalent of
$14,000,000, unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree; provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made in
respect of a Sub-loan or Investment unless: (A) the Sub-loan
or Investment has been approved by the Bank; or (B) the Sub-loan
is a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank has authorized with-
drawals from the Loan Account; (ii) on account of expenditures
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) to finance the
reasonable foreign exchange cost of technical assistance for an


﻿-4-
export promotion program pursuant to Schedule 3 to this Agreement,
up to an aggregate equivalent of $2,000,000, unless the Bank and
the Borrower shall, otherwise agree; (iii) for amounts paid (or,
if the Bank shall agree, for amounts to be paid) on account of
withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a Working
Capital Loan to meet the reasonable foreign currency cost of
imported raw materials and spare parts required for the Investment
Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account
is requested, up to an aggregate equivalent of $10,000,000, unless
the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree; provided, how-
ever, that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of a Working
Capital Loan unless it meets the requirements of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement; and (iv) under a Technical Assistance Loan to meet
the reasonable foreign currency cost of goods and services
required for the Investment Project in respect of which withdrawal
from the Loan Account is requested, up to an aggregate equivalent
to $2,000,000, unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree; provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made in
respect of a Technical Assistance Loan unless it meets the re-
quirements of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b) A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $4,000,000 equi-
valent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed
or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
or of any Prior Loan the proceeds of which have been or are being
used for financing goods and services directly and materially
related to such Investment Project, the foregoing amount being
subject to change from time to time as determined by the Bank.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be made on
account of: (i) expenditures before the date of this Agreement; or
(ii) expenditures by an Investment Enterprise in respect of a
Sub-loan subject to the Bank's approval or in respect of an
Investment if such expenditures shall have been made more than
ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have re-
ceived in respect of such Sub-loan or Investment the application
and information required by Section 2.03 (a) of this Agreement or,
in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan, more than ninety days prior
to the date on which the Bank shall have received in respect of
such free-limit Sub-loan the request and information required by
Section 2.03 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿-5-
(d) No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account under
paragraph (a) (1) (2) of this Section unless the Bank, the Bor-
rower and the Guarantor shall have agreed on arrangements to
protect the Borrower from fluctuations in foreign exchange on
Sub-loans under Part B of the Project. If such agreement shall
not have been reached by September 30, 1982, or such other date as
may be agreed by the Bank and the Borrower, all amounts under such
paragraph (a) (i) (2) shall be reallocated to paragraph (a) (i)
(1) of this Section upon notice thereof from the Bank to the
Borrower.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than
a free-limit Sub-loan) or an Investment to the Bank for approval,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of
the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment
Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed thereunder; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of
the Sub-loan or Investment, including the schedule of amortization
of the Sub-loan or of repayment; (iii) a detailed analysis of the
export potential of an Investment Enterprise in case of Export-
Oriented Projects; and (iv) such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Invest-
ment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a descrip-
tion of the expendi-ures proposed to be financed thereunder; and
(ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented
to the Bank on or before June 30, 1984.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-6-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn pursuant to Sections 2.02 (a) (i)
(1) and (iv) hereof in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Column 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such
Schedule shall be amended from time to time by the Bank to the
extent required to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to
the aggregate of the amortization schedules applicable to Sub-
loans and the schedules of repayment to the Bank in respect of
Investments, which have been approved or authorized for with-
drawals from the Loan Account under Sections 2.02 (a) (i) (1) and
(iv) of this Agreement; and (ii) take into account any cancella-
tion pursuant to Article VI of the General Conditions and any
repayments made by the Borrower under Section 2.10 of this Agree-
ment; provided that any such amendments to the amortization
schedule permitted hereunder shall not authorize repayments of the
principal amount of the Loan beyond the latest repayment date set
forth in such Column 1 of Schedule 1. Repayments due hereunder
shall be made on February 1 and August 1 in each year. Such
amendments of such Column 1 of Schedule 1 shall include amendments
to the table of premiums on prepayment, if necessary.
(b) With respect to Sub-loans and Investments under Part A
of the Project and Technical Assistance Loans, the amortization
schedule applicable to each such Sub-loan and Technical Assistance
Loan and the schedule of repayment to the Bank in respect of
each such Investment shall provide for an appropriate period of
grace, and, unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree: (i) shall not extend beyond fifteen years from the date of
this Agreement; and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal
semiannual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of principal and
interest or approximately equal semiannual, or more frequent,
payments of principal.
(c) With respect to the Sub-loans under Part A of the
Project and Technical Assistance Loans, the Borrower shall trans-
mit to the Bank, for its prior approval, any substantial changes
proposed to be made by the Borrower in respect of the repayment
provisions of any such Sub-loan and Technical Assistance Loan.


﻿-7-
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) (i)
(2) hereof in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Column 2 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) (ii) and (iii) hereof
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Column 3
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree as to Sub-loans or Investments under Part A of the
Project and Technical Assistance Loans:
(a) If such a Sub-loan or a Technical Assistance Loan or any
part thereof shall be repaid to the Borrower in advance of
maturity or if such a Sub-loan or such an Investment or a Techni-
cal Assistance Loan, or any part thereof shall be sold, trans-
ferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by the Bor-
rower, the Borrower shall promptly notify the Bank and shall repay
to the Bank on the next following interest payment date, together
with the premiums specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement or
in any amendment thereof under Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement,
the amount withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of such
Sub-loan or Investment or Technical Assistance Loan or part
thereof and not theretofore repaid to the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank as follows: (i) in the case of such a Sub-loan or a
Technical Assistance Loan, to the maturity or maturities of the
Loan in amounts corresponding to the outstanding amounts of the
maturity or maturities of the Sub-loan or Technical Assistance
Loan so repaid or disposed of; and (ii) in the case of such an
Investment, pro rata to the maturity or maturities of the Loan
reflecting amounts to be repaid on account of such Investment.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.04 of the.General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of
this Section.
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in financing such productive facilities, services and


﻿-8-
resources for private enterprises in the Republic of Turkey as
will contribute to the economic and social development and the
export capacity of the country. The Project consists of the
following Parts: (i) Part A: the financing of the direct foreign
exchange costs of fixed assets for development projects including,
without limitation, a reasonable number of Export-Oriented Pro-
jects, through loans to, and investments in, private enterprises
in the Republic of Turkey; (ii) Part B: the financing of the
indirect foreign exchange cost of fixed assets for development
projects including, without limitation, a reasonable number of
Export-Oriented Projects, through loans in Liras to private
enterprises in the Republic of Turkey; (iii) Part C: the financing
of foreign exchange costs for working capital purposes for
imported raw materials and spare parts through loans to private
enterprises engaged in exports; (iv) Part D: the financing of
technical assistance to the Borrower to assist it in carrying out
an export promotion program; and (v) Part E: the financing of
foreign exchange costs of technical assistance through loans to
private enterprises in the Republic of Turkey.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the kzoject and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel,
and in accordance with the Statutes and the Statement of Policy.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan, Working Capital
Loan, Technical Assistance Loan or Investment will be made on
terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written contract with
the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means,
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the
Borrower, including, in the case of any Sub-loan, Working Capital
Loan or Technical Assistance Loan and to the extent that it shall
be appropriate in the case of any Investment, the right of the
Borrower to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out
and operate the Investment Project with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii)
require that: (1) the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price,
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of
delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and avail-
ability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and,
in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of


﻿-9-
the parties rendering them; and (2) such goods and services shall
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the
Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(iv) require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise shall take out
and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (2) without any limitation upon the fore-
going, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely
usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such
goods; (v) in the case of Export-Oriented Projects, require that
the Investment Enterprise shall meet export targets referred to in
Section 1.02 (o) of this Agreement, except as the meeting of such
targets by exporting at or above cost is not possible or prevented
by factors which are beyond the Investment Enterprise's control;
(vi) obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the adminis-
tration, operations and financial condition of the Investment
Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the Investment
Project; and (vii) suspend or terminate the right of the Invest-
ment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon
failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations
under its contract with the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect
the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with
its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment
Projects, the Sub-loans, the Working Capital Loans, the Technical
Assistance Loans and Investments and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from the foregoing.
(b) Within six months following the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a


﻿- 10 -
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Investment Projects, their costs and the benefits derived and to
be derived from them, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank
of their respective obligations under this Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan and the Government
Loan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its
obligations under the 1966 Loan Agreement and the Quasi-Equity
Loan Agreement or other agreements under which funds have been
lent or otherwise put at the disposal of the Borrower by the
Guarantor or its agencies or others for relending, in- estment
or management. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of
any action which would have the effect of assigning, or of
amending, abrogating or waiving any material provision of, any
such agreement.
Section 3.05. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any
subsidiary, the Borrower shall cause such subsidiary to observe
and perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the
extent to which such obligations shall or may be applicable
thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such
subsidiary.
Section 3.06. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, when making Sub-loans or Investments for Invest-
ment Projects the value of whose fixed assets shall exceed the
equivalent of $2,000,000, the Borrower shall ensure that such
Sub-loans or Investments shall produce an economic rate of return,
which in the opinion of the Bank shall normally be above at least
15%. The economic rate of return shall be calculated in accordance
with the "Guidelines for Calculations of Economic Rates of Return
of DFC Sub-Projects" dated June 4, 1974, prepared by the Bank's
Central Projects staff.
Section 3.07. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall approve financing for Export-Oriented Projects,
whether or not financed out of the proceeds of this Loan, of at
least (1) 50% in 1982, (2) 55% in 1983, and (3) 60% in 1984 of its
total new fixed asset financing in such year.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall carry out Part C of the
Project in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
Section 3.09. The aggregate amount of Sub-loans or Invest-
ments shall not exceed the equivalent of $9,000,000 in any single
Investment Project.
Section 3.10. Unless the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall include in its agreement for financing any project,
whether or not from the proceeds of the Loan, having a total cost
in excess of $10,000,000 'a provision that under the terms of such
financing the sub-borrower shall be required to furnish the
Borrower with an audit of its accounts in such detail as the
Bank may reasonably request.
Section 3.11. Not' later than December 31, 1982, the Borrower
shall furnish the Bank with a plan to mobilize foreign resources
for the Borrower's operations. for the period from 1983 through
1985.
Section 3.12. Commencing with the accounts for the year
ending December 31, 1981, the Borrower shall establish procedures
acceptable to the Bank concerning establishment of reserves for
bad debts.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall take all appropriate action
to reduce arrears on outstanding loans to levels agreed by the
Borrower and the Bank and should such levels not be obtained the
Bank shall have-a right to suspend further approvals and autho-
rizations under Sections 2.02 (a) (i) (A) and (B) of this Agree-
ment.
Section 3.14. The Borrower shall report to the Bank, not
later than June 30, 1983, on its efforts to increase its share-
holder base-.
Section 3.15. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-,
wise agree:
(a) each Sub-loan under Part A of, the. Project and each
Technical Assistance Loan shall have an interest rate to be
adjusted every six months with respect to such Sub-loan or Techni-
cal Assistance Loan at a spread agreed between the Guarantor, the
Bank and the Borrower over the weighted average interest rate of
all the Borrower's outstanding foreign exchange borrowings of
greater than one year duration;


﻿- 12 -
(b) in such calculations of weighted average interest rate
the interest rate on withdrawals under this Agreement shall, until
June 30, 1989, be calculated at 1% more than the rate set forth in
Section 2.06 hereof; and
(c) each Sub-loan under Part B of the Project shall have an
interest rate comparable with market rates charged by commercial
banks for similar loans in Liras (without deduction of any
Guarantor Rebates).
Section 3.16. (a) Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall charge interest on all new
loans financed by funds obtained under any Prior Loan Agreement at
the same rate as determined under Section 3.15 (a) above, and
effective June 30, 1982 shall charge such rate on all existing
loans financed by funds obtained under any Prior Loan Agreement.
(b) The provisions of this Section 3.16 shall supersede any
applicable inconsistent provisions of a Prior Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project
and of each Investment Project (including its cost and the bene-
fits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish
to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later
than five months after the end of each such year, (A) certi-
fied copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.


﻿- 13 -
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt, except as otherwise currently reported or disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any subsidiary as security for any debt,
such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that
in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory
lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower- or of any
subsidiary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at
no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall: (i) conduct Its operations and affairs in
such manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.06 of
this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
the Borrower's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such
reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring
such ratio within such limit.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall notify the Bank prior
to making any repayment in advance of maturity in respect of the
1966 Loan Agreement, the Quasi-Equity Loan Agreement or of any
other borrowing from the Guarantor or its agencies for medium and
long-term relending, or from any foreign and local source and
shall not make any such repayment which in the judgment of the
Bank would materially affect the Borrower's ability to meet its
financial obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any
debt if, after the incurring of such debt, the consolidated debt


﻿- 14 -
of the Borrower and all its subsidiaries then incurred and out-
standing would be greater than ten times the consolidated capital
and surplus of the Borrower and all its subsidiaries. For the
purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or
any subsidiary;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement and any Prior
Loan Agreement) on the date and to the extent the amount of the
loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan contract
or agreement; (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into but
only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding; and
(iii) under a letter of credit, on the date such letter is issued
to the extent such letter is not covered by cash collateral;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Liras debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the pur-
poses of servicing such debt;
(d) "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsid-
iaries" means the total amount of debt of the Borrower and its
subsidiaries, including an7I debt owed by the Borrower to its
shareholders but excluding aij debt owed by the Borrower to any
subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower or to any other
subsidiary;
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up
capital, surplus and free reserves of the Borrower and its sub-
sidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall repre-
sent equity interests of the Borrower in any subsidiary or of any
subsidiary in the Borrower or any other subsidiary. For the
purposes of this definition, such term shall include the amounts
provided by the Guarantor to the Borrower under the Quasi-Equity
Loan Agreement; and
(f) the provisions of this Section 4.06 shall supersede
any applicable inconsistent provisions of a Prior Loan Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary -to protect itself against
risk of loss-resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between the currencies (including Liras) used in its operations.
Section 4.08. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views through
their representatives with regard to the administration, opera-
tions and financial condition of the Borrower and its subsid-
iaries, and the-Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Borrower and its subsidiaries.
- Section 4.09. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's. represen-
tatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this
Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
.(a)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Statutes or in the
Statement of Policy without the Bank's consent; and
(c) a subsidiary or any other entity.shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect ..the conduct
of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial condition
or the efficiency of the Borrower's management .and personnel
or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph
(b) of Section 5.01 shall occur; and


﻿- 16 -
(b) the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower has employed the consultants referred to
in Paragraph D of Schedule 3 hereto relating to Paragraph A (i) of
such Schedule; and
(b) the Borrower has submitted a plan and schedule satis-
factory to the Bank for carrying out a study to determine the
Borrower's long-term objectives, and strategy for achieving them,
in the light of expected economic conditions in Turkey over the
next seven years.
Section 6.02. The date of     J%xA,L 4 1 Lq 7     is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 17 -
For the Borrower:
Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma
Bankasi A.S.
Meclisi Mebusan Caddesi 137-137/1
Findikli
Istanbul, Turkey
Cable address:                     Telex:
KALKINMABANK                       821-24344 TSKBTR
Istanbul
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S.
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of
Principal
Column    Column     Column    expressed in
Date Payment Due         1*        2          3      (in dollars)**
August 1, 198_        105,000              855,000       960,000
February 1, 1986      815,000              855,000     1,670,000
August 1, 1986      1,995,000              855,000     2,850,000
February 1, 1987    2,770,000              855,000     3,625,000
August 1, 1987      3,230,000    700,000   855,000     4,785,000
February 1, 1988    4,005,000    700,000   855,000     5,560,000
August 1, 1988      4,005,000    700,000   855,000     5,560,000
February 1, 1989    4,005,000    700,000   855,000     5,560,000
August 1, 1989      4,005,000    700,000   855,000     5,560,000
February 1, 1990    4,005,000    700,000   855,000     5,560,000
August 1, 1990      4,005,000    700,000   855,000     5,560,000
February 1, 1991    4,005,000    700,000   855,000     5,560,000
August 1, 1991      4,005,000    700,000   855,000     5,560,000
February 1, 1992    4,005,000    700,000   885,000     5,590,000
August 1, 1992      4,005,000    700,000               4,705,000
February 1, 1993    4,005,000    700,000               4,705,000
August 1, 1993      4,005,000    700,000               4,705,000
February 1, 1994    4,005,000    700,000               4,705,000
August 1, 1994      4,005,000    700,000               4,705,000
February 1, 1995    2,715,000    700,000               3,415,000
August 1, 1995      2,660,000    700,000               3,360,000
February 1, 1996    1,950,000    700,000               2,.60,000
August 1, 1996      1,230,000    700,000               1,s30,000
February 1, 1997      460,000    700,000               1,160,000
*    This part of the Amortization Schedule is subject to amend-
ment pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan
Agreement.
**   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are' specified as the premiums
p -yable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions or to Section 2.10 (a) of the Loan
Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
Not more than three years                            2.30%
before maturity
More than three years but not                        4.65%
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                          8.50%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                      10.05%
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years                            11.60%
befote maturity


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions
of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.04:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and
the application of such prepayment in addition to, or in
substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.04."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have
been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of
the Loan, or having been so received, shall have been denied,
or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall
remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank
shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to
Section 6.07 with rspect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank
may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of the
Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with
respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the
giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan
shall be cancelled."


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Technical Assistance
A.   In order to carry out Part D of the Project the Borrower
shall implement a program consisting of the following compo-
nents:
(i) Diagnosis of the problems of firms identified* by. the
Borrower as potential exporters, consisting of.about 40
man-months of short-term technical assistance in sub-
sectors satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii) ExPort market evaluation, consisting of about 15 market
studies of product lines under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank;
(iii) Advisory and consultancy services, consisting of about
24 man-months of long-term experts in export development
and about 12 man-months of short-term experts primarily
in export marketing; and
(iv) Seminars and workshops for the Borrower's staff.
B.   The"proceeds of the Loan shall be allocated under Part D of
the Project in the following amount under Paragraph A above,
subject to adjustment between categories with the consent of
the Bank:
(i) Paragraph A (i)          :       $500,000
(ii) Paragraph A (ii)         :       $800,000
(iii) Paragraph A (iii) : $500,000
(iv) Paragraph A (iv)                 $200,000
C.   Part D of the Project shall be carried out in accordance
with an implementation schedule acceptable to the Bank, which
shall commence in February 1982.
D.   The Borrower shall employ consultants under Paragraphs A (i)
and (ii) above and a resident expert under Paragraph A (iii)
above whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank; such


﻿- 22 -
employment to be made in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Bor-
rowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.
E.   In connection with each sub-sector to be studied under para-
graph A (i) above and each market study under Paragraph A
(ii) above, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank for its
approval the terms of reference of such study.
F.   In connection with the seminars and workshops under Paragraph
A (iv) above, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank for its
approval the training program proposed.
G.   The Borrower shall provide adequate funds to finance local
currency costs incurred in carrying out Parts D and E of the
Project, including provision for making grants to Investment
Enterprises, up to a maximum of $50,000 equivalent per
Investment Project or one-half of the amount of the Technical
Assistance Loan to such Investment Enterprise, whichever is
less, but subject to an aggregate equivalent of $500,000 for
all such grants, to assist Investment Enterprises to finance
local currency costs of foreign consultant services where the
Borrower finds: (i) the Investment Enterprise has not made
use previously of significant foreign technical assistance;
and (ii) the expected economic benefit of the Technical
Assistance Loan is substantially in excess of the cost of the
technical assistance.
H.   The Borrower shall prepare a report as to the effectiveness
of Part D of the Project, with terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank, and submit such report to the Bank for its
comments not later than December 31, 1983.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Working Capital Loans
Unless the Bank and 'the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall establish a fund for making loans for working
capital purposes and shall comply with the following provisions as
to such fund and Working Capital Loans:
1.   The aggregate amount of the Borrower's outstanding
loans from such fund shall not exceed the equivalent of $30
million during 1982.
2.   Loans from such fund shall be provided only to Invest-
ment Enterprises which are either first time exporters or can
demonstrate that credit utilization will expand the value of their
export sales by at least 5% in real terms during their following
fiscal year.
3.   The Borrower shall only permit withdrawals under loans
for such fund upon receipt of appropriate documentation evidenc-
ing firm export contracts fulfillment of which requires importa-
tion of raw materials or spare parts.
4.   Loans from such fund shall be made in foreign exchange
with repayment due between three months and two years after
disbursement.
5.   Working Capital Loans shall bear interest at a rate
of not less than the rate on the Bank Loan plus a spread sufficent
to cover the costs of operation of such fund.
6.   In presenting withdrawal applications to the Bank for
Working Capital Loans, all of which shall be presented on or
before June 30, 1984, the Borrower shall include: (i) evidence of
purchase and delivery of the items being financed; (ii) a certifi-
cation that the contracts for the purchase of such items and the
Working Capital Loan comply with the Loan Agreement; (iii) a
statement of the outstanding balance of all loans (computed as
at the end of the immediately preceding month) under the working
capital fund, net of repayments, including Working Capital Loans
and loans financed from other sources, evidencing that the aggre-
gate amount of Working Capital Loans in the fund, including the
proposed Working Capital Loan, does not exceed one third of the
aggregate loans for working capital purposes in the fund; and (iv)


﻿-24-
a statement evidencing that, at the time of approving the Working
Capital Loan for which the withdrawal is requested, the net
outstanding balance of all Working Capital Loans, including
the approved one, exceeds total withdrawals on account of such
Loans by an amount equal at least to the requested withdrawal.
7.   Repayments to the Borrower of working Capital Loans, net
of repayments to the Bank by the Borrower, shall be retained in
the fund and be utilizing by the Borrower for additional loans for
werking capital purposes and the Borrower shall make best efforts
to maintain in the fund a ratio of funds from sources other than
the Bank to Bank funds of at least two to one.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 5
Technical Assistance Loans
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, Technical Assistance
Loans shall comply with the following provisions:
(1) Technical Assistance Loans shall not exceed in the
aggregate the equivalent of $250,000 for any single Investment
Enterprise.
(2) Each Technical Assistance Loan shall be repayable in
the same currency as disbursed over a term not to exceed 10
years including a grace period of not more than 3 years.
(3) Technical Assistance Loans shall provide that the
Investment Enterprise shall only employ consultants whose quali-
fications and experience shall be satisfactory to the Borrower.
(4) Technical Assistance Loans shall only be granted if
presented to the Bank on or before June 30, 1984 and if the
Borrower determines that the following criteria of eligibility are
met:
(a) the technical assistance program of the Investment
Enterprise is likely to significantly enhance such
Investment Enterprise's ability to export;
(b) the Investment Enterprise is creditworthy; and
(c) adequate arrangements have been made to permit the
technical assistance program to be implemented
effectively.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this I       day ofAAh, , 198 2.
FOR SECRETARY


