Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONL
WRp  No.  12045
PROJECT CON   TION REPORT
SRI LANKA
FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJECT
(CREDIT 1562-CE)
JUNE 22, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12045
Type: PCR
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Baik authorization.



0
ii         II  .t
4)                &
21 iIai !II
04                                         -
I!             WI                      it
*1 tfr4e                          4
U
Ii'kbii                           r
4..
ii   0                  4) jIi.viI  ii      if
r    IT   iiii                              I
Co                   1j0
I.        dill               I               Ii
a                   I
JiD                              .1II
*1
If
p      4I
Ii              41
ji
ii



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
cubic meter (m3)                  1 c308ucbic yards
1 kilomater (kn)       =           0.62 miles
1 meter (m)            =           1.09 yards
1 kloram (kg)          =           2.2 pounds
1 hectare (ha)                     2.47 acres
1 square meter (m2)    =           10.76 square feet
1 metric ton (t)       -           2205 pounds
ACRONYMS
ADB           Asian Development Bank
COP           Cost of Production
CrC           Cut, Tear and Curl (tea)
RR            Economic Rate of Return
FRR           Fmanca Rate of Return
FICP          Fourth Tree Crops Project
IDA           International Develoment Assocatio
IU            Institutional Development Unit
DMB           Investment Moniting Board
EIM          International Monetary Fund
JEDB          Jatha Estates Development Board
MTIP          Medium Term Ivestment Program
NSA           Net Sales AverWe
ODA           Overses Development Administration
of the UK Goverment
PCR           Project Completion Report
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SCF           Standard Conversion Factor
SLSPC         Sri lanka State Plantations Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



.
*   nnunnnnnn i nnunhunnnF 
4SX r-  I:ss  



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJECT
(Credt 1S62-)
Table of Coen_t
Preface                                                                                     i
Evluation Summary                                                                         ii
PAItT k       PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK}S PERSPECTIVE
L     Project Identity                                                       1
2.    Background                                                             1
3.    Project Objectives and Desciption                                      2
4.    Project Design and Organization                                        3
5.    Project Implemeon                                                      4
6.    Project                                                                7
7.    Projet Sustnabilit9
&     Bank Performance                                                       9
9.    Borrower Performance                                                  10
10.    Project Robtiousbip                                                   10
11.    Consulting Services                                                   11
12.    Project Documentation and Data                                        11
PART 11       PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWVR.S PERSPECTIVE                                   12
PART I:       STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loans and/or Credits                                     14
2.    Project imetable                                                      1
3.    Credit Disbursement
A.    Estimated and Actual Di                                         16
(IDA Creit)
B.    AnnualDibursements                                             17
(AU Co4lnancers)
4.    Major Indicators of Project Implementation                            18
5.    Project Costs and Fmancng
A.    Project Costs                                                   19
B.    Project Fmancing                                               20
6.    Project Result
A.    Dire  Benefits                                                  21
B.    Economic Impact                                                22
C.    Financ ia Impact                                               22
D.    Studies                                                        23
7.    Status of Covenants                                                   24
&     Use of Bank Resources
A.    Staff Inputs                                                    27
B.    Mission                                                        28



A.NNEXS
Annex 1              Re-Estimation of the Economic and Financial Rates of Retu          29
Annex 2              Fmancial Performance of JEDB and SLSPC                             54
Annex 3              Area of Old Seeding and Vegetatively Prpagted Tea                  55
Annex 4              Procurement of Vehides and Factory EquipmeDt                       56



- 1 -
POJECCOrIWFIP   ON RlEPRT
SRI IANK&
FOWT TaEE CROPS PROD=
(Cred L
Pehee
L     Is is the ProjectCompletion Report (MCR) for the Fth Tree Cops Project i Sri L a, for whih
Credit 1562-CE in the amount of SDR 565 minai (US5S.0 million eqvalet) was approved on March 21,
1985. The original losing dafte (June 30,19I0) was eufteded twice, first by one year and then by ski months,
to Decmber 31,1991, and the ed  accot was keptg open for for months beyond the findl osing date. With
tih last paymen  made on May 27, 1992, the Credt was fully dismired.
2.    Parts I and MI of dth PCR w    preprd by the Agriculture Operations Division, Country Departmen
A  South Asia Region, and Part   l by the Borrowe. ITh PCR   based, IMLA   a, on the Staff Apprasa
Repor the Deveopment Credit Agreement;  peavisio rprts               betwe thk Bank and the
Borrower intemal Bank memowanda interisA review documet of the Bank and co-b_sande; and field work
by a PCR miss_o which viited SrA La1k in JnJuly 1992. In June 1992, the Technical Asstac Team,
acing on behalf of the Dutch and Nowegian Governments, undetook a reew of the Soa Wellue compo
which was taken into account in prepuing this PCR The Asian Deveopmen Bank (ADD) itnds to prep
is own PC



- ili -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJECT
(Cret 162-CE)
Evaluation Summary
1.    The Fourth Tree Crops Project was the last in a series of four Bank supported operations designed to
incrmese tree crops production in a context of public sector management and a policy, institutional and regulatory
enviroment ciaracterized by heavy taxation and contr'Js.
objetives
2.    ITe main objective of the Fourth Tree Crops Project was to reverse the decline of tea, rubber and
coconut productin on the pubhc sector estates which were operated by tae Janatfa Estate Development
Corporation (JEDB) and Sri Lanka State Plantation Corporation (SLSPC). The project was designed to provide
funds totallig US$211.8 million over a five-year period with an IDA contribution of SDR 565 million
(US$55.0 million) and co-financing (Part M/5B) by the Asian Development Bank (loan equivalent to US$45.0
million), the Netherlands, Norway and the Unked Kndom (grants equivalent to US$8.0 million, US$55 milion
and US$55 million, respective), and the Government of Sri Lanka (counterpart funds equivalent to
US$9.8 million). The funds were provided to: improve estate productivy, manly through mvestments i field
deveopment and factory rehabiitafion; strengthen the management and financal control capabilties of the two
corporais; and raise the qualiy of life of estate workers through improvements in housing, as wel as healt
and social welfare facilities.
ImpemtatonExperie
3.     Disuption from civil unest in 1988/89 contributed to extensmn of the five-year project period, initially
by a year to June 1991, and therafter to December 199L The IDA credit was fully disbursed, and the credit
account was closed on Apri 30, 109Q The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) provided an apoprpate frame Aork for implementation. Comprehensive implementaton data
was colcted at estate level, but the eportg formats itsed for agegtio of information by the corporations
and the Investment Monitoring Board (PMB) did not full) meet requirements for monitoring progress in relation
to stated project objectives (par 12.2). Project accounting and audng procedures were generally satisfactory,
although submiion of required reports was frequentl,- delayed (Part 111/7).
4.     Technically, the field program was stifactory, reflectig the generally good operating standards achievd
by estate staff often during dicult, or dangu>cus, circumstances. However, substial larger areas of tea and
rubber were replanted tan envisaged at appraisal (para 5.5), causing an escalation in counterpart funding
requirements as the workers involved were part of a fisxd labor force whose employment was mandatory and
for whom no other productive use was available. The original IDA disbursement percentage for field
develaopment was ineased to reduce the drain on counterpart funds, and two credit reallocation; were made
to support field development activities. While inadequate attention was paid by JEDB and SLSPC to insttuuoal
strenghening the main problems were more fundamentaL JEDB and SlSPC were two of the largest plantation
cor           in the world but several factors combined to erode their corpate efficiency and financial positon.
These were:
(a)    absence of the financial direion and corporate management sills required for enterprises of
such size and complext,
(b)    iapropriate accounting policies and financial reportn



- iv -
(c)    persstent polical and buaucratic interference in management at all levels
(d)   inappropriate lbor and wage policies imposed on the corporadons resulting in low labor
effedenc and  crased operating costs;
(e)    ufoeseen mojor decies in  mmodity prices from the exceptionally high levels used in
project appraisal; and
(f)    excessive product taoD, ;dg a highly detrient*l ad valorem sales tax which acted as
a disincentive to quality i
Results
5.     The project has ceed the opportunity to improe estate petfomance fom s nay  creased
assets. Re-estimated economic benefits from the project are consderably below apprisal estnates, mainy
because of the decine in projected commodity prices and an increase in the econoc cost of productio  Tea
and rubber production has so far delned with the project, due to the higher than expected proportion of
immature stands, which in the case of rubber w  lasrely due to the need to uproot newly planted ares that
were susceptible to disease, and the low tha expected emphas on yield stiulatin md slaughter tapping.
Main ecoomic benefits ae expected to be raied when tees planted under the project come into beang
(Annex 1).
6.     Some 400,000 estate work          benefited from improved housing and ;ealth care faciit
Advantage was taken of exch    rate mvement to expand construction of key socal welfare facilities on
estates. As a result, the disparity in lving conditions and health indicators between resident estate famie and
the populo at lge has contiued to be reduced (par 6.5 and Part m/4 and 6A).
Sustanablty
7.     The need for the istional osa     af .JEDB and SISPC has been largely ovtaken by the
recent (June 1992) transfer of plantation   from the coporti  to twey-two Govnment owned
companies run under contact by pdvamte      companies. Since most of the new companes are invilved
in downsteam (procesing and/or marketig) actidves in    tree crops industry, they have a vested interest in
maintining and improvig upon the advanc  gned under the project Reduco  in expert taxation (which
have also assited tea and rubber      outside the prject) have graduall improved producer incentives
and should subsantassist the new mc companies to benefit fiom project investment  Labor and
wage polcies and practices rem3in to be reformed.
Findigs and Lesons Lernd
8.     Despite the poor financal management of JEDB and SLSPC and the corporations' vuneabiliy to
politaly detemined wage increases and other fators wh resulted in their eventual insolvency, the project
provided a major injectoln of funds whi will help to sustai the planation industry for the medium and longer
term  Continued IDA associati  with JEDB and SLSPC has maintained the dialogue with Government on key
policy ies and facitated the eveal move towards the ivwolvement of pnvate sector management. Several
major lessons may be drawn from this projee
(a)    As businsses tree crops plati   should be managed by independent, autoanmous priate
sector agen who have either ful ownership rights or long-term leases;



(b)    To permi such agnt to opere efficenty, the policy, istitutiona and regWaty envonment
govning the tree cops ssector should be as free as possile of export taes, polta
Interference, restrictive labor pohcies and practices and marketing regulations;
(C)    With a complex proect involng seveal co-financiers and exeutig agncies, thee is a need
to ensure a fim  commitment by donos to financing specfic components and estabhlish
apprvpriate implementation and monitng procedures. More frequent donor supervisian in
the early stags of the pr4ject could assist this procus.
(d)    In dealing with commodity-based enterprises of the size and complky of JEDB/SLSPC, there
is a need to apply iteratioa sandards of accointing, reportn and control over corporate
finances to permit approprie management responses to be made to cbanges in financial
conditions, coast of production, fiscal policy and internation  market opportuniies Improved
financial direction would have stengthened the corpoations  ability to resist unwarranted
interrence by demonstraig the consequences.
(e)    Investment in social welfare developmen is valuable ven in tbe contxt of a commercially
based program, partiuarly in view of its contibuton towards improvements in labor
attendan  and fitness for work.
(f)    There is etive, if not quite up-to-date, tehnical knowledg avalable locally in the plantatio
industry. This, togther with the qualy of tcnical support which coud have been proided
by dons during supervion, should have ensured adoption of optmal field production and
ploesing procedur in relation to changes in oprtg circumstances. Howver, this was not
fuly achieved in pacce.
(g)    To maintain its comparative advantage in the tree crop sector, Sri Ianka needs to ensure that
research programs reflect the existing know   base and adequately address the evolving
commercial requements of the intational industy and do not remain confined to
investigtions of acadmic or insular interest.
(g)    Ipexpnse monitorin& by use of local resourcs, of the qualiy of work performed under a
project, as distinct from the more readiy available physical and fisnncial data, couWd provide
a valuable indicadto of stin  .



PROJECT COMPLETION REORT
SRI LANKA
FOURTH T.XE CROPS PROJECT
(CREDIT 1562-CE)
PART L PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Projec IdUtty
Name                 : Fourth Tre Cmp Pec
Credit No.           : L5624C
RVP IJnit            : South Asia Region
Country              : Sri anka
Setor                : Agri
Subsector            : Te Crops
2. Background
2.1   In the decade prior to appraisa in 1984, the conibution of tree crops to export eanins fell fram 87%
to 47% and to GDP from 15% to 11%. The re-vitalization of the plantation sement of the tree crop industry
(responsible for some 57% of Sri Lankas tea-culiated area, and 35% of rubber-culivate area) was tWeor
a major goverment objective Declie was to be reversed through insttutional and polcy improvments, and
the rehabilitation of the productive base in the public sector under the Janatha Estates Development Board
(JEDB) and the Sri Lanka State Plantations Corporation (SLSPC)/, which had assnued respnsbit  for
estate operations folowing natiliza    in the mid-1970s. A con&uing World Bank objectie has been to
chnel resources into a sector in whic Sri lanka has a comparativ advantae in order to sabiit In the
short tem, and promote sustinable export growth in the medium term. The approach has led to a sei  of
ivestmnt in agictre, indudig sessive projects in support of tree crops (Part M/1). T   sratW has
epasid: (a) rehabiitation of the exing capial base; and (b) improvd opeation and maintenance of estate
asseK
2.2    The threat of  atintion prior to the land reforms of 1972 had causd          of estates
As a result JEDB and SISPC inheaited estates i wbich ifrastructure had become ru down, tree plant  and
plnation manteance neglected, and sol erosion widespread. Under the oporatons, upkeep of the esttes
gradually improved, albeit at a sower rate than expected mainly due to goenents  adequa  sctral
plannig policies, oapzationa probloms in the corpatioiis themelve  and imposition of excesv export
taxes (especialy on tea) which acted as disincentiv  to production and specificaly discowaged qual
improvements.
2.3    Goverment repo           for the aricul   sector has been dipere among miistries without
functonal aison, often pemtting co ditory decisions to be made, and polcies to be eablsd or coodnted
which detracted fiom the stated dojective of reving the tree crop indusry. In I977 in collboraton with the
IMP, govement intrdud a series of polcy reforms designed to liberalize the economy and allow a greater
role for the private setor. Howv, investments in the tree crop sub-ector cninued to focus on the
opeations of JEDB and SISPC. Until 1983, JEDB/SLSPC corporate planning had been rericted to the annu
budgeig process rather than being linked to a longer-term ivestment strategy, and the tree crop sub-stor
had contnued to decline or at best stgnae. With IDA asitance, the govn ment therefore formulated the
/ Refered to below as the corporations.



-2 -
Medium Term Investment Progam (MTIP) to group five-year investment proposals for the corporations' 530
estates into regional plans for implementation by their Regional Boards, wvich were then amalgamated into
JEDB and SLSPC corporate plans as the basis of a single inxestment program for plantations. The establishment
of MTEP was viewed as a major, positive step in promoting improved collaboration for corporate and sub-sector
policy formulatiot between t0te corporations and the Ministry of I nance and Planning
2.4    The Fourth Tree Crops Project (FTCP) was designed to provide funds during the period 1985-1990 for
MTIP. FTCP 4"iding permitted estate-level and institution building investments to be substantialy increased.
The equivalent o0 JS$211.8 million was to be provided through cofinancing arrangements (Part M/SB) involving
IDA (SDR 56.5 million), the Asian Development Bank [ADB] (SDR 45.17 million), Government of the
Netherlands (Dfl 27 million), Government of Norway (US$5.5 million), Overseas Development Administration
(ODA) of the UK Government (f 5 million), Bank of Ceylo. (local funds equivalent to US$10 mEion) and the
Government of Sri Lanka (local costs equivalent to US$82.8 million).
2.5 Despite MTIP and the activities of the project, athc introduction of economic policies continued to
occur. The authority of both Central and Regional Management Boards of the corporato  was undermned
by poitical interference in day-to-day affairs, adding to difficulties ready beig experienced due to major
inadequacies in corporate planing and financial direction. In addition, unanticipated increases in production
costs (para 5.9) coincided with substan  decreases in commodity prices, especially of tea As a result; by 1988
the corporations had become insolvent requiring major policy shifts to be considered for austaining the sub-
sector, and financil support mechanisms to be installed for both corporations.
2.6    As a result of supervon mission recommendations, government has examined all aspects of the sub-
sector to ident  options for increasing estate productivity. Under the modified political Apeci  of the
present government (reflectng global di ent with the concept of a centrally planned economy) there
has been a growing recognon of the need to reintroduce private sector involvemet in the plantation indusry
to increase opratil efciency, inject greater dynamism and re     into the sub-sector, and balt the
continuous, hea  drain on public resources by JEDB and SLSPC. This has led to the contracting of estate
management to private companies. Wie, at this junctwe, estate ownersip remains vested in the state, twenty-
two management companies have been established to run the 450 estates which are condered viable, with
government overseeing the operations of these companies through its contol of the twenty-two newly establshed
Boards. Initially the oporatis will only retain responsibility for about 50  -caled non-vable estates.
3. Project Objecdves and Dscption
3.1    Proj   Ob         The project was designed to reverse the decline of tea, rubber and coconut
production through improvements in the productivity of all public aector estates, rehabilition of factories,
adoption of soil conservation measures, provision of field and nursery equipmeot and procurement of v£hides
The project was to strengtheon JEDB/SLSPC management and fnancial control capabilities and raise the qualit
of life of estate taborers through improved housing, health and social welfare programs.
3.2                Project investents were based on requirements identified by estate suendet and
Regional Boards of the corporations as part of MTIP plans, annual work programs, and the annual budget
preparation process in JEDB and SLSPC. Project components were intended to be mutuay supptive to
promote improved estate productvity and corporation control. The main components were:
(a)    Field Development infilling and new planting in tea, and replanting in tea, rubber and coconuts
as the basis for sustainable increases in estate produ ty.  Soil conservatin measures were
to be promoted wher necessary.
(b)    Provbion of fild and nurser equipment.
(c)    Vebicles: for estate transport input and product haulage), and program supemsion.



-3.
(d)    Factory RehabilUtaon:
Tea -quality improvements were to be made through rhabiiion of 134 JEDB factories and
138 SLSPC factories provided their projected econmic rate of return (ERR) was greater than
10%; exp e on was to be made wih conveion to 'cut, tear and curr (Crc) tea
mufacture;
Rubber - rationalization of processing capaciy was anticpated; speified levels of production
of sole crepe, pale crepe, and latex concentrate w     establshed as thresholds for factory
investment;
Coconuts - provisions were made for renovation of processing facilities, and new installations
of inexpen  technology associated with copra producion.
(e)    Renovaton of Minihydros: rehabilitatio of up to 140 mini-hydro schemes, provided their
projected ERR was greater than 10%, in order to supplement power from the ational grid and
contribute to savings in crop processing costs
(f)    Housing: provWision or renovation of labor and staff quarters
(g)    Socdal Welfare: improvement of child care and medical facilities
(h)        tutonal Developmt: esblishment of Planning Units in each corporation to aid
improvement of management and operaonal dsills and procedures at all levels in JEDB and
SLSPC, establishment of the independet Inestment Mitoidng Board (1MB) to report on
physi  progress, particularly in quliaive terms, provson of funds for sudies leading to a
smallholder MTlP.
4. Proje  Design and Orgunzation
41    The prqectls concept was consstent with governments empai on supporting JEDB and SLSPC, and
took account of lessons learned from previous projectl Under MTIP, overal project management rested with
the Central Boards of JEDB/SLSPC, rather than an individual poject manager. FTLCP activities then became
part of the recogized functions of existin techn    and managerial staff. With the exception of the CrC tea
emponent, the project was not designed to be inoive  but to use proven production and processing
technology. Any new deveopments wore to come  m pras of the respeive research institutes whose
responsiveness to subsector needs was assumed at app LT   A reductio in the dipaity in welfare status
between estate familes and the population at t ge, conidered a prerqusite for improved labor relations on
esates, was to result from the combined effec.s of the housing and social welfar components. Project
montoring was assigned to an indqeedent body regitrd under the State Agiculturl Corporadons ACLZ/
4.2    The project proided an approprate balance between mprovements in estate in6rastructure (eg. factory
rehailittio  housing and social welfre programs) to generate immediate beneft, and investments with a
longer term prectv (chiefly field de lopumet and insitudona          ). The fic  status of the
coporation during the 1970s had prevented adequate prams of inf&ilng, rep  g, factory renovation,
housing improvement or social welfare. The scale of the problem was such that only part of the bacldog of
maintenance requirements was to be tacked by the project, with cepndiu   decisis concerning production
and proceing to be based on firm economic criteria. At the time of appraisa hower, as a result of politca
manipulation in a major producing wuntry, tea pres we  extreme high and both copoan were profitable
andhad accumulatedsubstanal financialreseres. Unfortunatelythe temporaynature ofthis phenomenonwas
not adeqately re ized. Assumptis were made concerning the cpraton' ability to fmance the project,
which took iufficent account of the inevitable decine in tea prices lTe project dedgn suffied a further
severe weakness in not recogizing the need for the copation to be adequately capitalized before incurring
A/     IDA has subsequently funded the Agicul Resarch Prjet (Credt I71     which Icludes upport to the
Tea, Rubber and Coconut Research  1aiutes
Z/     Subsequent9 y gazetted as the Inestment Monit4oig Board (1MB) on September 10, 1985 (Gazette No. 366/7).



-4-
abnormaly high expenditure which was essentially for maintenance (Le. of eisting plantations and factories).
The financial and accounting implications of having to undertake a major catching up process to overcome past
neglect, were not given adequate attention.
43    While the fragility of the corporations in relation to future commodity price projections was insufficiently
reconized, minimum debt service ratios were built into project design to act as financial safeguards.
4A     The design reflected major policy concerns shared by government and IDA. The maintenance of
adequate producer margins was recognized as critical and had already led to government's establishment of a
Working GroupV in 1984 to ensure inter alia  (a) the continued adequacy of producer margins pending
restrucuring of tree crop taxation; (b) achievement of a non-distortionary tax and subsidy rate across the various
tree crops; and (c) allocation to producers of a greater share of international prices without unsustainable loss
in government revenue. Resultant taxation changes are summarized in Annex 1, Table 16.
S. Project ImplementatIon
5.1    Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up. Credit 1562-CE was sigped on May 9, 1985 and became
effective on September 23, 1985. The first disbursement under the project was made on November 15,1985 with
the transfer of US$32 million to the Special Account.
52 Implementation Schedule. FTCP was to be implemented over a five-year period from September 1985
to June 1990. Tne original closing date was extended, initially to June 1991 and later to December 1991, and
the credit account was kept open until April 30, 1992 (Part m1/2).
53    Disburwments. FoUowing reallocations between categories and an increase in the disbursement
percentage for field development from 35% to 90%, IDA funds were fuly disbursed by the end of the project.
Exchange rate movements led to the equialent of US$73.6 million being disburwsed from the credit which had
originally been equivalent to US$55 millon. The equivalent of US$46.4 million was disbursed fiom the ADB
loan wh chldosed on June 30, 1992. ADB disbursements for factory rehabiliation were lower than expected,
permitn  reallocatons to be made to cover esallating field development costs. Due to exchange rate
movements, balances of Dfl 4.9 million and NKr 32 million remain in the Dut and Nor an grants, despite
phyical targets being exceeded in the social welfare componentY ODA funds were withdrawn from the
project, precluding implementaton of the mini-hydro component
5.4    Separate project accounts were mataed by JEDB and SLSPC which were audited by the office of
the Auditor GeneraL Early misunderstandings in the operation of the Specil Account were successfully
resolved, but there was need for reminders to be issued by both IDA and ADB concrning receipt of audit
reports as pre-requisite for further disbursement against Statements of Expenditure (Part m/7).
1/    The Workin Group includes reprsentatives of the Central Bank, the Mnstries of Policy and Pamung Plntaton
Industres and Fmance, the Sri Lanka Tea Board and the Rubber Conmission
Funds remaiing under the Dutch/Norwegian grants are being used to prpare for fuwthw asstae under a
Plantations Health, Housing and Socal Welfare Tru to be supported by new grants from the Netherlands and
Norway. Establhment of the Trust wM enable socia welfare  ment to condue, despite p*atlzation of estate
managmen.



e 5 -
5.5   Crtic  Variances in 1mp)emeajion. held Development The area affected by field development (tea,
rubber and coconut), including development funded by ADB after IDA funds were drawn down, was 11% of
the appraisal emate (art Im/4). However, the corporations placed far greater emphasi on replanting
(162% of appraisal estimate) than infilulng, which (including underplanting of coconut) amounted to only 499o
of the appraisal estimate (42% for tea alone). The total area of new plantng was 84% of appraisad estimates
The corporations concentrated on replanig and planting for severa reasons: the stitus of many seedling tea
fields was such that infihling was no longer approriate; many fields required comprehensive soil restoration, soi
conservation and drainage works; given the fixed and excessive labor force, replanig provided more employment
with greater future benefits; and, since replantg was capitmd (para 9.2), the effect was to reduce the
apparent cost of production (COP).
Factory Rehablitaon: Based on earlier project eperience, the staff appraisal report (SAR) recommended a
tukey approach to factory rehabqitation. This approach was not followed by either orporation. JEDB
aggregated its rehabilitation requirements following the required economic assessments of factory utilization but
this approach greatly slowed proement By contrs, SLSPC carried out procurement on a piecemea basis
rather than making and evaluatig comprehensive programs of factoy renovation. Only 37% of total estimated
rehabilitation expenditures were incurred before the decision was taken (May 1991) to realocate funds to meet
rising field development costs.
M'inh4ydro Renovation: Despite reports confirming schemeviability based on an analsis of potential pilot
schemes /2, ODA withdrew its funds. A valuable opportunity to reduce factory operaig costs as a
conuion to improved estate vablity was therefore lost.
Housing and Socal Welfare: The component was modified from the SAR on clearer assessments of estate needs
made during implementation. The emphasis on creches and dispensaries/health centers was reduced, whie
provision for latrines ad re-roofing of housing was increased. Advantage was taken of exchange rate movements
to fund additioa houses, water schemes and maternity wards (Part m/4).
lnttutlonal Dwdopment: Considerable efforts were made during successive supervision mssions to encourage
esablshment of the Institutional Deveopment Units (IDUs) in JEDB and SLSPC. SLSPC never appraed
te- need for institutional development and only used funds under this component for procurement of a small
amount of equipment. JEDB established its IDU and consuants were engaged to design and implement JEDB
tainig pograms in association with the Natio  Institute of Plantati  Management However, training was
perceived as a one-time activity rather than a continuous process for upgrading operating standards. SLSPC
reluantly established a smal Planng Unit and conitently ignored it. JEDB, on the other hand, had a
competent unit but did not utilize it effectively. Consequendy there was a continued ladc of strategc coporate
planning and polic formulation in the manament of both orgniations
5.6    Variatons from the SAR could have been reduced through effective financial control and managerial
responsveness within the corporations, and (in the case of mini-hydro renovation) greater recognion by the
donor of joint responsibilities and funding complementart. Components funded by dferent agencies tended
to be viewed as discrete activities. Inspite of frequent discussions during supervision missions and joint
participaton in the Mid-Term Review, inter-agency contac has been used more for information purposes than
for continuous overall policy review and sustined project overview.
11    PFiures are based on DMB summaries and indude all development under the projet regadless of funig sourcO
However, discrpandes occur in field development data as presented by MB and the corpons wic have not
been sasfacory explained
Z/    Sri Tank Mii-hydro Rehabiation Project, Finl Report by Salford Cril BE eing Ld in assodadon with
Binnie and Partners for ODA, August 1986.



-6-
5.7    A succssd innovation in the pret was the establishment of MB. Operating with a competent board
and very smal staff and relying on local onsulants to undetake al field work  MB proved cost effective. Its
repors on the qualiy and standard of work in field development factory rehabilitation and contructon for
social welfare prvded a unique perspctiv on project progress which has been imitated in other projects in Sri
Lanka and elsewhere.
5.8    Risk Idenfia   The bigh noioal cost of replanting and long pay back period wer stressed in the
SAR, which required an ERR of at least 10% to justify the acviy. However, the corporatios faced with
gurpls labor as a fied cost found replantig to be more attractive than tIe leffective infilling of old seedling
tea. As tea prices declined and the copoatons reseres were expended, the high proportion of field
development costs shouldered by the corpoatn   had to be financed by expensie overdrafts. Institutional rsks
were not anticipated at appraisal, possibly because too much was expected from plnnig units, insfitutional
development and consulants proposals on aco unting practices. Perhaps because of the obvious competence
of many JEDB, SISPC managers in planting, the absence of Financial Directors with the experence and stature
to handle billion-dollar corporations was not seen as a risk to project implementa  In fact a lack of efficiency
at aU leves made both corporations more vulnerable to the shifts in COP and commodity prices xperieed
during the project period. Sensitivity analysis should have taken explicit account of fluctuations in commodity
prices. Since the analysis was only made in economic terms, it did not demonstrate the grave risks to corporate
financal vbility which major increases in COP and wide, and largely downward, price fluuatins imposed.l/
Relevant commodity prices and projections are given in Annex 1, Table 10 which show current projections of
world prices in constant US dollars some 30-50% below those used in the appraisal analys.
5.9    Unfaseen Factors Affeg lmemouneiam  The apprsal could not foresee the damaging, politicay
imposed, excessive wage inceases, nor the imposition of a guaranteed six-day work weec, which made labor a
fixd cost A sbstant  increase in wage rates imposed in late 1984, together with further increases during the
project period, made without due reference to the potential impact on COP and the crpoatn' financial
viability, was a sgnificant contributory factor to the continuing financial crisis in JEDB and SLSPC. Under the
combined effect of the six-day weel/ and wage increases, estate labor now represents a fied cost, accountig
for ove 65% of total cost The effect of increased labor costs on corporate performance during the project was
eamerbated by the relatively low labor efficieny in the public sector. Further, since the field development
component of FTCP initially had a high level of countpart fuding (55% fom the corporation), the lvel of
ficld crop development reqired under the project bwcme an ineasig burden on corporate finances The
effect was compounded by the emphasis on replanting rather than infMling of tea However, given the inflexible
quantum of labor, management behaved logically in using the surplu for productive invesmnt Funding
reallocations and changes in disbursement peretage (para 53) were made in response to the deterioration
in coroation finances and to minimized overdraft financing of field investments.
5.10   The unrest and insurgeny in 1988/1989 caused major disruptions to the project. At least 25 estate
superintendenswere murdered as part of an effort to disupt the economy and destabiize the government. That
any project activity was continued under such cicumstanc  is a credit to both JEDIS and SLSPC, and in
paricar the estate staff who were completel exposed to tefrorist actvity throughout the period The succssu
physical achievements in field development sere as a monument to thew loyaly and bravey.
1/    Commodity prce changeswe not ncluded In the SAR senstvity analyss, although swicng vauee for benefits
were cdulated.
2/    Imposition of the six-dy week alone (equialent to offering 18 cta days to the entire work force) repnted a
5.6% Incremental cost haapk i of Gowmnme*at Poliie on she Fusancio Perfimaaaiae of JEDB and SLSPC. Wodd
Beak 199L



-7-
5.11   The inertia often associated with the management of large parastatal organizations and the persstent
poitical and bureaucratic interference were not recognzed as risks in the SAR. However, experience under
the project confirms that JEDB and SISPC lacked the flexibility of response and strategic planning capability
to anticipate or accommodate adjustments in produion, processing and marketing to meet changin market
circumstances. Durng most of the implementation period, each corporation was configured as a ministry with
His Excellency the President as minister. This arrangement inevitably restricted access by IDA supervision
missions to the principal decision maker. With the change of government in 1989 the corporations were placed
under the new Misty of Plantation Industries. The first two ministers to hold the portfolio held diametrically
different views The first abolished the Regional Offices and created aclusteraw (of estates) as management units.
His successor immediately reversed this arrangement The resulting confusion and demoralization severely
damaged the corporations. JEDB in partcuar suffered from the changed management approach. Many
competent managers were lost and the fnanil and accounting services virtually collapsedL During the last year
of the project, financial control broke down in both corporations and losses escalated inexplicably.
5.12 A completely unanticipated, but potentially positive, influence on the plantation industry has been the
change in political climate in Sri Lanka under the present government with its interest in increasing the role of
the pivate sector. Wbile the major impact on estate performance will be felt after the end of the project period,
the poicy changes also affected government's attitude towards reduction in exort taxation (the need for which
had been cntinuously promoted by IDA) and fical planning during the project period, improving the investment
cimate for prducers.
5.13   Actions not Taken which Influenced lInIme  t   Some provisions were made at appraisal to
improve financial and managerial control Seve  key design requiements remained unmet including: (a) the
appointment of sufficient board members external to the corporations; (b) the appointment of suitably qualified
and expeienced financial directors to the Central Boards; (c) adequate follow-up of technical and financial
recommendations made by DMB and donor supevision missions; and (d) close monitorng of corporate finances
and associated management actions in relation to crieria identified at appraisal and specfied in the Development
Credit Agremenet.
5.14 The corporations were obliged to utilize obsolete planting materials and relied heavily on famiia;r field
techniues and processing technology. The tree crop research institutes have been widely criticized for failing
to conduct research to alow Sri Lanka to keep pace with developig international trends in technology (especially
as regards tea processing), and failing to broaden the aviable genetic base with imported, high yieldg  lone
Heavy reliance in rubber replanting on the localy developed clone RRIC 103 led to severe l6ses following its
field suseptblity to Connsgow     disease.
6 PoJect Resiuts
6.1    The fiul effect of the project in reversing the decine in tree crop production cannot yet be quantified.
Even without the disruption by the insurgenq in 1988/89, only the earliest project rubber plants would now
come into bearing, and tea plantings reach their third year of produco  However, the standard of planting is
reportd by 1MB to be generally good, which indicates that future performance should be satisfactory. Wbile
the tlecnical performance of the corporatio  has been adequate to maintain estates in a generally satisfactory
condition, many improvements couild have been made in production practices. Bureaucratic procedures and lack
of icentive deterred many             from  making the necessary extra effort. Corporation financial
peformanc has been hindered by shortcomin  in manaemet procedures, crippling increases in production
costs, simultaneous reductions in commodity prices and lower than expected production from existing areas./
X/     Emphasis on replanting in both tea and rubber has iaeead the propordon of inmature stands with consequet
short-em reductions in producton.



-8-
62    EconDmicRate ofRetum  MR. The re-calculated ERRs for tea and rubber are 9.6% and 112% fow
JEDB, and 10.9%o and 15.0% for SLSPC, respectively. Returns are substantil lower than appraisal estimates.
Compario of Average Economic Prices, Costs and Retuns
(1985 constant prices)
Tea                  Rubber
Average Economic Price 1995-2004 (Rs/kg)         38.6           44.5   25.6          31.4
Average Economic Cost 1995-2004 (Rs/kg)           25A           16.6   11.4           7.8
ERR                                               10%           30%    13%           26%
The main reasons for the lower returns in the PCR are (i) lower projected long run prices for both rubber and
tea; and (ii) higer projected economic costs. Increases in cost projectios stem almost entirely from an incease
in the economic conversion factors used for Sri Lanka)/ Increases in real wage rates have on average been
offset by prqected inceased efficenc and reduction in other costs. Details of the re-estimation of the ERR
and discussion of factors contributing to the lower returns are presented in Annex L
63    Financial Rate of Return (FRR). The recent fiancial performances of JEDB and SLSPC are
sumnmaized in Anex 2. At appraisal an overal FRR of 18% was estimated for the project by comparing 'with
project and 'without project projections. Re-estimation of the FRR, assuming that future taxes average 20%
of net sales average (NSA) for rubber and 10% of NSA for tea, gives returns of 6.6% and 6.9% for tea and 7.8%
and 9.4% for rubber for JEDB and SLSPC, spectively. Both corporations are technicay islvent and, at the
ime of estate transfer to the private managment companies, were bemg sustained by government sbventn
Of some Rs 400 milion (UJS$9.5 million) per month to pay wages and cover overdraf interest. Given this
unfortunate base situation, projected FRRs would be too low for the project to be financially susinable without
major changes in organizatio.
6.4    oiWecImgnat  Etstate level investments under F'CP have helped the privatization process by increasng
the asset value and productve potential of the estates, hence increasing their attractiveness to private
management companies The pressures exerted on government to reduce export taxation on tea and rubber have
improved the economic climate for tree crop invesment, both in the plantation and smaMhlder sectors The
continued inadequacies of JEDB/SLSPCs strategic planning and (especially) finaCial direction prevented the
corporations from taklng full advantage of either the gradual tax reductions or estate level investment
opportuit
6.5    Significant improvements have been made to the housing and social welfare facilities avaihble to resident
estate workers (numbering some 400,000) as evdened by the physical progres under those components and
the positive trends reported in health indicators.
6.6   Increased tree cover from replanting and infilling programs, diversifaon into fuelwood and the
planting of shade trees in tea, together with physical soil conservation measures, have provied improved
environmental protection Non-complance with the covenant concerning control of rubber factory effluents, due
to ladk of counterpart funds, continues to be a cause for concem
1/    At appraisal the convrion fstor for labor and most inputs was 0.6; now it is 0.9. Had 0.6 been used in this
analysb, economic coat would have been tea Rs 16.9/kg and rubber Rs 7.6/kg, virnua  the same as at appnisal



9 -
7. Prjwect Sustabuablilty
7.1    Expocted institutional benefits have been largely ovaertaken by the trander of management responsibility
from JEDB and SLSPC to prvate sector management However, indiiduals associated with and taned under
the project are remanig in the industry which will continue to benefit from their experience. Technical
advantages gained at estate level are expected to be retained and improved upon, since most of the new
management companies are involved in downstream  activs in the industry (eg. commodity brokerage and
marketing), and have a vested interest in maintaining high estate standards. Howver, the susamabDlity of
project bnefits under the new management system remains at risk in several ways should the compames: (a)
fail to reduce production costs and improve labor efficiency, (b) be unwiling or financially unable to conine
to undertake necessary mainanc and production investments to keep the plantations and facilities at optimum
capacity; (c) be unable to invest in modern processing technolofg, and (d) fail to respond at estate level to
changing market demands. It wM be important for govment to avoid undue interference in the acfivities of
the private sector, and to maintain appropriate incentives for the companies' continued involvement A major
extenl risk factor is the trend of future commodity prices and the impact of prices on the companie' abiit
to maintain adequate producer margins/
& Dank Performance
81 IDA has given high priority to the tree crop sub-xsector and supported a series of ivestment prjects
for both plantaio  and smallholders (Part M/i). Following a tree crop sub-setor review in 1983 (Report 4890-
CE), continuing dialogue with govenment aowed the pr-appraisal of FTCP to move quickly to appraisa
Twelve months elapsed between the first two Bank supervisions of the project (Part r/8B), but thereafter more
frequent visits were made. Folowing intificaton of the financal crises in JEDB and SISPC m early 1988
a thorough Mid-Term Review was carred out in September 198 in collaboration with other donors. Thereafter
atention became more heavily focused on financial management isues, possibly reducing attention to technical
considerations. With more frequent superision early in the project, the imporance of adopting strong financial
control procedures could have been given greater emphasis from the outset. Inti difficuties with Speial
Account opeation and regular auditing may then have been forestalled. The differences which emerged between
JEDB and SISPC in both the inerpretation of the SAR and the emphasis each placed on physical content and
procedural aspects of implenttin, may also have been minmied. The positive guidance provided through
superision mins has been supplemented in 1991 by detailed technical studies undertaken as part of the
ongoing restructuring of the tree crop sub-sector associated with the Government/IMP/World Bank dialogue
for strtu  support, and the progress towads renewed private sector involement in the management of the
plntation industry.
8.2    Project experience suggests the need for: (a) ensuring apropiate operating and monitoring procedures,
and a correct inteprtatn of project desg; (b) more intensive monitoring of finacial procedure and results;
and (c) greater assurance of folow-up actions being taken in response to recommeda, and of adherence
to provisions embodied in the Development Credit Agreement. In the case of FTCP, dealing with major
corporations, a closer monitoring of corporate finakncial management, accounting and financial reporting, in
accordance with intrnational accounting standards, coupled with timely, independent audit from the outset of
the project would have been beneficiaL
1/     Prite sector proder margns have cons     been some 200% above those in the public sector over the project
peiod.
Z/    An assessment of the hnpact of COP macases on corporate finances was made by the Banl's Januaiy 1988
wpeavion misdon. ADB missions were financiallUy oriented from the outset of te project but more concemed
with disbursements and accounting tan oveall financ  managm    and control sqtems of JEDB and SLSPC.



-10-
9. Borrower Perormance
9.1    Government polcies on the employment, utilization and remuneration of labor and the continued
imposition of commodity export taxes, albeit at gradually reduced rates, have been counter-productive to
acbieving the stated objectives of the project. The agro-technical pefomance of the Bower has generally
been satisfactory and, with the variations outlined above, allowed estate level investments to be sustained under
often extremely difficult circumstances. In view of the importance of reducing overall costs of production and
the restrictions imposed by labor reuations, the corporatio  should have placed greater emphasis on adding
value to their products tbrough increased attention to pro ing, including ensuring the availabity of modern
Processing technology.
92    Major weaknesses relate to the overal management and financial control capabilities of JEDB and
SLSPC, declining staff morale associated with the lack of incentives to reward initiative, orgaonal onfusion,
and a growing disillusionment with the public sector's control of, and poltical interference in, the stictly
commercial aspects of the platation industry. Different and unc     procedures of accounting for
replanig were adopted by each corporation. By capitalizing replaning costs, JEDB created an over-optmstc
view of its financuil status. SLSPC switched between aptaln replanting costs, and including them in the
profit and loss account, as deemed expedient, to present its financial position in a more advantageous llgk Such
procedures encouraged the false assumption that JEDB/SLSPC could absorb proposed wage increases. With
the benefit of hlindsigt, JEDB and SLSPC may concur with the Banks earlier insistence on the importance of
th  institutional development component, the need for competent Fnance Directors on the Boards, and
adherence to high standards of account  financial reporting and financial controL Had financial planning skms
in the corporations been greater, JEDB and SLSPC would have been in a stronger osition to resist poltically
motivated interference in thetr affas The lack of adequate flexibility in bureaucratic public instiu     to
respond to changing commercial requirements is widely recgnize  The Government of Sri Iana has evidently
now moved towards a similar view by intducing private sector management into its plantation comp
9.3 Estabhlishment of FTCP within the framework of MTIP gave the corporations considerable management
leeway and permitted diferences to arise in both SAR itepetabon and implementaton emphasis. In
retrospect, this degree of independence was not always justified. Given the size of the corporate entities
oncerned and the lack of corporate (as distinct from estate) management skils, consdeation could have been
gen at apprais to provision of a senior finandal director of intenaionl statue in each corporatio
9.4    Government has been faced with sevre problems of insurgency and political pressures from poweru
labor unions. In response, employment conditions have been introduced which haw increased the immobility
of estate labor and advrsely affected labor efficient and estate productivity. The resultant effects on the
financial status of JEDB and SLSPC, and current projections of economic benefits, place a heavy burden on the
new management companies to seek innovative ways to reduce estate production costs and improve labor use
efficiency in order to maintain a viable plantation industy.
10. ProJect Relationship
10.1   The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower and the implementing agencies has generally been
very good. However, instances have occurred where conants have not or could not be fully met (Part m/7),
and where agreed actions hav subsequently been ignored or inadequately folowed up. Because of the unsettled
political and security situation and the frequentty precarious financial state of the corporations, it was not always
feasible for government to fuly comply with all covenats.
10.2   Relationships among the external co-financers generally have been satisfactory, the main exeption being
the funding of the mini-hydro component, where pressure from the World Bank on behalf of ovrall project
interests faied to encourage ODA to maintain its inolvment The remaining co-financiers copated fUlly
in the Mid-Term Review and responded posively to changing physical requirements of the project as wel as



- 11 -
the need for funding re-allocation between components and categories to minimize the financial difficulties of
JEDB and SISPC.
11. Consulting Semces
11.1   The institutional development conscy for JEDB was carrie out as schedul   SLSPC opposed a
consultancy on instiunal development (para 5.5). A consulta  on computerizaon of JEDB produced sound
recommendations which were initially conterted by a local firm and then dropped due to the corporaton's
financial crisis. The cotancy associated with the min hydro component was successuy completed but its
recommendations were not accepted by ODA (para 5.5).
12. Project Dmeaon and Dat
12.1   The SAR was widely ditribed among management personnel in JEDB/SLSPC. Interprtation of its
implementation requrements varied both wihi and between corpoat     Procedures were dearly stated in
the Development Credit Agreement whih allowed attention to be drawn to shortcomings during supervon
missions.
12.2   The recent compu i    of informatio at central level m JEDB and SLSPC simplified the colaton
of information for dte PCR. However, gaps in information remain dw partly to the dise    of corporation staff
fllowimg the transfer of managment responsit, and partly to in     in and incompleteness of data
as presented by the corporons and DMB.
12.3   The coninued presence of the Mlnistry of Plantaion Industzys Project Coordinator, and participation
in the mission of the local financial consultant who has had involvement in the project from the nitil design
ste, greatly faciitated data coltion and inpretato by the PCR mssn



-12-
PART IL PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Geneaml
1.    The project was implemented at a time when the thinkin of the Sri Lankan authorities in relation to
the plantation industry was subject to major changes. In 1983/84 when the project preparation was undertaken,
the government had not extended the fee market philosophy to the plantation industry. All large estates were
owned by the government and the industry as a whole was subject to a series of regulations and controls which
were inherited from the prevous regime of controlled economy and were applied without change. Dring this
period, the priorty was to run the estates without major disruptions particularly in relation to the employment
of labour. By the time the project was completed, arrangements had been made to hand over the management
of 90% of estates to private companies and serious discussions were taking place for appropriate deregulation
of the industry.
2.    Project appraisal and loan negotiations took place during a time when the industry was enjoying a boom,
and the project was completed at a time when the prices were very poor and the tea market in particular was
faced with uncertainty resulting from the politcal developments in Iraq and the former Soviet UnioL
3.     The performance of the project in relation to the appraisal estimates and targets should be analysed
keeping the above factors in mind.
2X Maor Cbang
4.     The project has been subject to significant changes over time in relation to the allocation of funds for
various aciviies. As a result the focus of the project has changed significantly.
S.    At appraisal of the project, field development, covering replanting, new planting and iofilliog accounted
for 35% of the project costs. Infilling accounted for 73% of the total extent of field development.
6.     However, at completion 65% of the total project costs had been incurred on field development and 64%
of the total extent under field development had been replanting, It is useful to find out whether these changes
were the result of conscious decisions foUowig careful analyses or whether they were short term remedies for
facing the hard realities of the management of the two corporations particularly in relation to labour. There is
evidence that field development was used by the two corporatios as a convenient means of absorbing excess
labour.
7.     Factory development, which was expected to account for 13.5% of the total project costs, received only
3% of the total investment at completion. With hindsight, this appears to be a lost opportuny for the two
crporatos  in relation to converting their factories into CrC tea for which the world demand is growin&
3. Rates of Rurn
&     Although the PCR estimates show positive rates of return for the major project components, they are
significantly below appraisal estimates. Due to policy induced distortions the financial rates of return are lower
than economic returns as expected.
9.    It is well known that the JEDB and the SISPC were faced with a severe financial crisis from about 1989.
The main problem was an ever increasing cash deficit caused to a great extent by the very ambitious investment



- 13 -
progammes they were committed to. The other reasons were sagnating prices, deciing production and
increasiog recurent costs.
10.    The project may have contributed to the finanial crisis in the followmg mannr:
(i)    Poor financial rates of return on investments as swe  by PCR estimates.
(i)    ligh rates of replaiun and the adverse impact on the cash flow due to uprootn of tea and
rubber.
(iii)   Unrealistically higb immature areas resuling in low cash inflow relative to outflow, parcularly
in the case of rubber. The optimum immature area for rubber is 18 - 20%. However, most
estates have immature areas extending to around 40%.
(iv)   The need to borrow funds required to fil JEDB / SLSPC commiment under the project
at commercial rates, usualy at the overdraft interest rate, which m effect increased the effecte
interest rate of proje^t investment
4. Project Montoring
IL     The project covenants required major investment desions on field development and factory
rehabiltat  to be justified by individual project appraisals. There is no evidence that this requirement was
actually complied with In the absence of such analses, it is difficult to ascertain whether the nvestments were
really justified
12.    Although reguar estate visits were conducted and investments were inspected, the implications of these
investm     on the cash flows and profits and losses of tie estates and the cor ra     were never anayed.
Tis is perhaps the most serious design flaw of the project The institution crtated for this purpose, the DMB,
does not appear to have had the necessay skills for such an undertaking
. Overallnpact
13.    There is geneal agreement that the project was insumental in maintaining the capital stoc of the two
corporatons in good order even if substantial impromemets in performance may not have maeased in the
relevant estates under the management of the two corporations. The consultants who visited the estates for
documentation related to re-suctuing of management commented very favourably on the agriculur condion
of the estates in generaL The credit for much of this should go to the project. It is expected that the private
management companies wi make the best out of these investments and improve on the returns from the project.
14.   in any event tree aops have a long gestation (immature) period and at completion of the project very
litde of the field development activities had begun to give returns.
15.   It is now clear that in the case of rubber, major field development hvestments may not be required for
at least two years. In the case of tea, the management compaies are again loong into the benefit costS of
replanting vs. infillingt At present the emphasis is on inilling and maintaining the immature areas.
16     Factry development and rehabilitation, a major actvity which was downsized eventually, could have
made an immediate impact on the performance of the estates by reducing unit cost of manufacture and
imprving the quality of output.
.



PARr DL 1rATSICAL DIFORM AI
L RIEATED BANK LOANS AND/OR CREDIS
te -Titke                   }nAn)ol     S Me
Tree Crop Rehab. (rea)   To imphove economic ffcnq of tea  du&stry & to   1978         Completd        Ethatseen as been a swaemawle prae
Prjec (Cr. 81E             Inmove tea qual                                                             tear    smallholdercomponents weafu
Treo Crop Dh _s    Divsion of unproofble m-con  tea et   into    197                   Caneled  in   Opposition of labor union to the brkdow  of
Crea) Project (Cr. 819-CE   sma  units to be planted to a diersiy of cops              1980            estates ptevented ful pjt ImplemntatI
induding spices, fruit trees & fudwood.
Tea  Rehabilitation  &    To reduce tea production costs whie imving   1982            Completed       Tea field progrms were generaly satifactor.
Diversification Project (Cr.   qualit through rehabiliaon & diversification of                         Dierdfxcation targets were scaled down due to
1240-CE)                   public estates & reha aon of tea factories,                                 lmitions of estate pesonnel  s  & la&k of
planting maials. Factoy rehabilitaton was also
scaled down, but the program consdered  ccessful 
with improvements in tea qualty & factory labor
eficen. Undisbursed blance of SDR 6.1 million
canceDed.
Agricultural  Research    To raise farmerse incomes by increasing agricultural   1987  Ongoing
Project (Cr. 1776-CE)      production through development of better varieties.
Project provides for steghening capty for
programming of research & infrastructural support at
research institutions.
Second Smalholder Rubber   To incease both smaholderse incomes &  Sr    1988           Ongoing
Project (Cr. 1909-CE)      La s foreig  czdiange earnings by sdmulatng
imon in the qualiy and value of smaliholder
rubber. Ine project would also assist the
Government to ratonalie and imprwe the effiiency
of its iniutonal upport - notably the aeMnion
sewice & adaptive reseah.



2. PROJECr TfiMrABLE
Dato                   Date                    Date
hm                      PRevd                                          A
-    deniiaion
(Eectve Project
PrPon                                                                  1983/841v
PreAppal               Jwnuary/Febauuy 1984                            March 1984
Appraisalissim         Iauay/Fehua  1964                               Mar'ch 1984 V
*   La/Crei
Negotiton              July 1964                                       Fdbuazy 1985
Board A oval            October 1984                                   03/21/85
LMa/Credit
OSIgnature05/09/85
Effecvess              June 195                October 1965            09/23/85
Loan/Cret Closing      06/30/90                 (i) 06/30/91
(i) 12/31/91           12/31/91
Lo/Credit Completion                                                   04/30/92
Pmed by JEDB/SLS'C.
Followig World Bank/GovenAent agreement on secaal les after the
mission, the proea was omidered as appraised in July 1984.



3.CREW        DSBI
MlA Credit
(Cumulmtve, i Nlon)
FYN6   Fs   FM   Fm   Fno   F1   F
- SDR                                      1S2       305       429       503       565        -         -
- US$                                      143       29.7      41.       49h       55.0
Actal
- SDR                                       8S       163       22.1      29.6      35.7      53.7      56.S
- USS                                       93       19.1      2C9       36.6      44.6      699       73.6
Actual as % ofApprais
- SDR                                      56        S3        52        59        63        9S       100
- USS                                      63        64        64        75        81       127       134
Date of Fmal Dbunezt May 27, 92



- 17 -
_    .   .               ._~~~~~~
X s       w f:   
i        o, -§xRU              -
_~ tES   Sa!'  s g
_     55  $ $ ^     E } §'4 '4
_ ~ej g   !          
;I 
q   ! iRnX    BE  §g!   §E  B85~~~~'
Bf _         .
'z  _}E§g                    S    §
i              dR  w  eBgS t 
!         w                  'A- 
2 }2 a1                               4 0030t      



* 18 *
4. MAJOR INDICATORS OF PROJECr IFLEMEWNATION
Appr isa Esim                            Actua
JEDI       SLSPC         Toa            JEDI    SLSPC        Total
Field Dentoomet (ha)
Now PnatiAg                            176         541          717            393        697     1,090
Repanting                            1,183        133         3,116          3,771      4,407     8,178
nfg                                  sl,0o9       5,241      10,330          1,539      2,756     4,295
Total                              6,448        7,71S      14,163          S,703      7,860    13,63
New Planting                           777        l91         2668             551      1,191     1,742
Replnting                             3263        6,381       9,644          5,3s5      9,574    14,927
Total                              4,040        872            12          S,904     10,76S    16,669
Coconuts
Replantlng                           1,469          -         1,469
. Undeplantng                          U.S.        .LL          n.a.           793        .        793
.New Plantng                           ILL         n.           ns.             1S        -         IS
Derdflcaion                         m1,800        5,700       7,500
. Fuelwood I/                          ns          n.s          na.          4,911      7,719    12,630
.M     Crops1/                                      .s          us             94       3,440     3,534
Tea                                    N134       138          mS72                     233       284
Rubber                                 IL&         n.s.         -             10/        35        65
Coconuts                                59          -            59             59       ns          59
CotWes                                 488         351         839           1,103      1,261     2,364
Junior staff Quat       - Now           38         18S          223           252         256       S08
- Upgadig                                                   -         248       248
SenoStaff Quarters      - New           17          S0          67             74         166      240
-Upgading           -            *           *              -         454       4S4
* atecut  Bu.4dows                      12          -            12        . 24           -         24
C:recha                 * Now          163         256         419             172        143      315
_ Up4g              375          -          375                        169       268
Mten Wards             - Now           10          32           42             26         29        SS
- Upgading           17          -            17            21         78        99
Dispensedaes/Halth Cets Now             70           2           72            68         38        106
-Upgrdn              61           9           70             66        112       178
Hospitals            Upgading          .            .                           13        16        29
Vhicles          *Ambula                23           1          24              10         5         iS
- Pick-ups          4           4            8              6         17        23
.Bldhs/Motor Cyles             94         113          207             77        132       209
Medeal Staff Housing    - Now           51          49          100            203        164       367
- Upgdng            .            .                          39         223       262
Water Supply Schemes                   .                                      534        394       938
Latre                   - NO W                      .                       17,109     14,813    31=
-Upgradg            .            .           .            1,150        353     1,5l3
Ru-roofig   - Wokers Housing I                                               4,962      6,S16    11,498
L/ Soure: 'ES mumtmaries. Data unelew, may inadhe prePTCP divesIfcation
/ADB rvie  ndt  100% rehbIto  cri  out by JEDB in only 6 ta actore   Rehabion susewhom
75-100% in 20 factodre S0-75% in 10 hatores; 2S-   In 10 factorfs; 0.25% in 8 factories.
/ JEDB has carred out 75% rehabitation in 10 rbber factore and S0.7S%      _      in a further 9 fatorie
A/    als include umbes bing omplted with misti  hndbig in 1992.
Notw   /na  * not spfied/not avaial



- 19 -
5. PROJECr COSIS AND FINANCING
A. Proiect Costs
Appraisal Estimate                   Acual Total
US$0OOO                           USS °°°
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign   % Fonri      Total
Field Development             66,700    15,000    81,700   74,211    85,878       54    160,089
Field and Nurse  Equipment     3,100     1,900     5,000    1,247     2,301       65       3,548
Vehicbles                      2,500     7,400     9,900   23,461    10,0S4       30      33,515
Factoy Rehailitation          13,300     8,500    21,800    1,047     7,039       87      80IM
MIlHydro Units                 4,200     4,100     8,300                ,         _
HOusIg                         9,200     2,900    12,100     453    14,674        97      LS,127
Socal Welfare                  7,800     2,900    10,700     859    16,315        95      17,174
stuonal Development            6,600     5,200    11,800      -        111       100        111
Base Coats                   113,400    47,900   161,300  101,278   L3372         S7    237,650
Physc Contigencies             6,300     2,100     8,400
Price C onigecs               32,500     9,600    42,100
TOTALCOSIS                   152,200    59,600   211,800  101,Z78   136,372       57    237,650
SowD: JEDBISLSPC mvconls.



-20-
B.    t   nc
Appraisal Esiate                   Actual
Amount USS '000      %      Amount US$ 00          %
IDA
Civil Works                                  1,071                          in
Equipment and Funiture                       7,009                         2,301
Plantation Developinent                     36,017                        70,027
Traing and Technical Asstance                4,96S                         1,181
Special Account                              3,018                           12
Unalocated                                   2920
ADB
Vehides                                      8,770                        10,055
Factory Development                         18,475                         7,039
Housing                                     16,630                        14,674
Instiutional Development                     1,125                          111
Fidd Development                                                          14,56
ODAI/_
Govt. of Neerlands/Norway 2/
Bank of Ceylon
JEDB and SLSPC
TOTAL
/ Futding withdrawnL
/ AU funds dibursed in SL Rs.
Savec: JEDB/SLSPC and IDA sweds.



-21 -
6. PROJECr RESULTS
(I) Inremental Production and Revenue
Appas  Estiate         Benefits at      PCR Estimate of
of Benefis at Full   PCR/Closing Date   Benis at Ful
Development 11 ______                  Devdelpmen 
Incremental Production (mt/year)
Tea                     JEDB            22801                (3,683)            18,584
SLSPC            25,142              (1,239)             21,124
Rubber                 JEDB              6,605                  59               7,5
SSPC             13,528                 83               16,567
Coconuts (in nuts)      JEDB                185                  n.a                n a
Incremienta Revenue21
(Rs milon)
Tea                     JEDB               8965                (78)                851
SLSPC             1,003.5                5.0              1,043.0
Rubber                  JEDB               177.5                 8.0              207.0
SLSPC               3582                 10.0              4080
coconuts                JEDB                383                  n.f.t              n.L
11 Full development was to be reahed in 2001 (SAR, page 52). Tables in the SAR allowop
asat 2014. FIgues quoted are from ERR projecdons for 2014.
V,' At economic price
(Ni) Health Beet
JEDB                SLSPC
1985      1990    1985       1990
Crude Birth Rate (per V0O)                31.8      19.8       30.6      17.6
Matel Mortaly Rate                         0.7       1.6        1.7       22
Infant Mortay Rate (per '000 live births)  54       44         45        31
Neo.Natal Moralt Rate(             )      40        30         33        19
Low Birth Weight(%)                        n.a       n.a       42        15
t onal Births (%)                          n.a       n.a       69        90
Crude Death Rate 2 (per V0)                n.e.      n.e        7.7       6,8
Lve Births (midwffe iatned)                n..       n.a  1,00/         233
Live Births (other)                        n.a       n.a.   1,S36       405
1/  Health lIdicators based on 1992  nreys by Tecnical Assitance Team, Sodal
Welfare Prqect, Gverents of Neterlands and Norway.
V/ Sri Lnka as a whole - 62
3/ 1986 as base year.
Data Imusate a continution of the smprovements sa    sce nationaladton and especay
from the 1980s.



- 22.
B. Ecnmic
-ps    PCR Bmah
Estmate  (at ffina deveopment) I
ERR(overall)           26               10-IS
Tea
JEDB                  31                9.
SLSPC                 28               10.9
Rubber
JEDB                  24               112
SLSPC                 28               1S.0
coconut
JEDB                  18               n.a
Fuelwooda/             50+               n.e
Total Project
JEDB                  27           not cculatod
SLSPC                 26           not calculaed
1/ Iheme Is now an expecton that estate produtivity wiM
ineaso and processg effiden IcoW  folowing the
prMlimdon of _anagentent. These bef  havenot been
C.
Fianal Rates of Reltun
-ppnW             PCR Estim
EsBmate
Tea
JEDB                     22                   6.6
SLSPC                    21                   69
Rubber
JEDB                     iS                   7.
SLSPC                    18                   9.4
Coconut
JEDB                     12                  Ua.
Total Project
JEDB                     18              not calued
SLSPC                    19              not calulated



D. 2hdb
e as at A - B Slatus                                    Imnac
1.  Renovatio of mini-hydro schemel         Completed 19816        l                ens f*om stud but fn     whdra   n
6y ODA foloig anals by Brish HiOh Commsio, Colombo.
2I   Establishment  of  Institutional       Complotd 197            Cotept of situtional doeeopmn rejectd by SISPC.
Deveopment Units in JEDB/S.SPC.                                IDU estahed in JEDB but gen inufficet attenion to
bave a maor lng-tm impact on cosporaoe apbily
for mangeia and financal controL Successl provion
of TA and taining to assit in coordination of Socal Welfire program
refted in socia Indktom
3.  Design of M1R for the smaholder         Completed 1990?        ADB curently finding a smamfer tea prject; IDA fungd
tee crop sector Incuding liison                                Second Sma nider Rubber Project (Credit 1909.CE).
btween est and smalodkm
4.  Study of  tion  and procedres           Complotd 991            Supported under funding raos  (1989) and assoced
available for estate pion   /.                                  ith ongoing rsuauring of trtee rops sbsor.
S.     b      n         of estae   unt      Plans pp red           Intend JEDB/SLSPC actions subsequt       take to compucriz
aid regional collatn  as part of                               information at central le, indep t of plamed sWy.
_       w Inforl m/IIation  seme i ,                                                             t isiteme
I/ Study added to poject at time of fis fung realocatk.



7. SrATUS OF COVENANS
A4_ae             Sw                                                          am                   C
DCA            202(b)      Boarow  to madntan In t35 a Specal Account in BOC.   Complied wlL
DCA            3.02(a)     Borer to rekad procees of Crodt to BOC under   Complbd wt.
finning     me  approved by Assodaon.
DCA            3.2(b)      Boroe to cae BOC to relend proceeds of Credit to   Compled wi
JEDB  and src  under sqoe   su"              loan
DCA            3.04        Boer to a%oint to Nationa  nstu  of Plantoe        Complied whL
Ml_gomtbte te cl ass_tmp          vidded undeir Cr.
DCA            3.05        Borrowr to cause Wodtng Group on Tee Crop Sector   Compliedth.
Produ  Incent_ s to monior faors affecting producer
mrgin  of/hwene  in the tree aop  deor and
recommend  furthe  a4ustmen   of ta  strctur
DCA Sched 4    Para 1      No tea replanting wM take place in any estate unl  UnknowA.           Previous mmaries show complance. Replnting
economk rtu  Is at least 10%.                                         coiszdeably n cess of tagets sgests ERR rle may
not have been rdl   4l
DCA Sched 4   Parm 2       Rubber wi not be uprooted and replanted until old  Parl               Weather cndti  not alvays appr ate for
rubber has been exploited both by chemical stimulation    complnc     successfu emia stimulation, epeialy in areas wth
and by upward tppng above the re      tUpping paneL                   double m     n Ey wi            appL       not
A signed sment to this effect dd accompany a                                     by  m         of 
DCA Sdhed 4    Pam 3       No hwestment wl be made in renovatng any tea       Pati               JEDE aried out sudis for  eall rehabittion.
fctoy unles the proposed inestment wi result in an    compliace       SLSPC did peceme  rnation to oerom
ERR of at least 10%.                                                  proessng bottnec. Unle  if thi was on basi of
ERR eakul_od



i~~I   I
~~~ I
~itii-l Ij  i,iliii,i
0 ~ ~ I  i     
|S~   I    I A   8 A



AUWA            sectio
DCA Sched 4    Paa 11       By September 1 of each yr, JEDB and SPC dsall   No longer              Delays eape    d in earlie year
fwrish Bow    and Asso a_ un prction of   oapUed wih
their rective crporte debt mvc   raios and draft
_vemt and   mue budges for the nod FY.
lbe    antsow ap_r in the separae Prjec Agreeme  for each corpot
PA              4.01(a)     Bad  h   maitain reoord and separ   aount an   Complidw
ap_diue for which Credit withdrawals are rested
-    Satemm    of apediu  (SODs).
PA              4.01(b)     Eac shl retai untl one year after the dodsig date all   Compied wit.
rocord  eAmb    pendire spa    SOB L
PA             4.Q2(a)      Boc shl have is asounts and fiacl saments for   Complied widLt
each FY aed by indepdent auditos
PA              4M2(b)      Badh    shall funi  A_di      not lter t   9 mons   Compwlied  L       Delays freenly occurred requring corptor     to be
after each FY cetified copie of finana staement and                     foed dat m             would not aoqet ihdal
audit repo% hIcuding sepamte opo  n expendires                         appcaions based on SOEs if SOE audit was wvedee
made agit SODL
PA             4.02(d)      D h        rnih Asodatio not lter than 6 months    CompSed with.       Delays frqueny ocaurred.
after each FY unaudited epa    accounts &  naudited
anua owpot finaal state t
;V



- 27 -
8. USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. Staff IIrpunt
(StaffWeeks)
Stage of
Pro& ect  CZcle                   Plnl         Reviseu       FIn
Through Appralsal                   n.a.         n.a.         99.0
Appralsal through Board
Approval                            n.a.         n.a.         12.5
Board Approval through
Effectlveness                       n.a.         n.a.         n.a.
Supervlsion                         n.a.         n.a.        175.9 1/
TOTAL                               n.a.         n.a.        287.4
... ... ..    1  .......9i
I/ Includlng 12.9 staffveeks for PCR preparation.



- 28
B.    igsglons
Stage of          outh/       Numer of        DA"         spiaiustion           Rating          Tps of
Proj et Cycle       Year         Persans       in Field       RereZntd A/         status           Problms k
Identification/
Preparation
Prepation
Pre-Apaisal           03/84           7             28          A,B,D,E.I,P
Appraisal, a/         03/84
Supervision 1         08/85           S             16            A,B,E                2                D,F
Supervisioan 2        06/86           3             22            A,B,C                2
Supervision 3         01/87           3             11            A,B,J                2                 D
Suprvision 4          0/87           2             6              B,C                 2                 C
Supervision 5         01/88           2             13             B,C                 2              B,E,D,F
Supervision 8         05/88           2             2              B,C                 2               D,E.F
Supvmision 7 ii'      09/88           7             12            A,B.C                3               D.Z,F
Superision 8          04/89           2             7              B,C                 3               D0,5F
Supervision 9         06/89           2             8              B,C                 3              B,D,E,F
supervision 10        12/89           4             10            B,C,I                4                B,D
Supervision 11        05/90           2             20              C                  3               B,D,F
Supervision 12        07/90           1             4               C                  -                 D
Supervision 13        10/90           4             19            B,C,E                3               D,E,F
Supervis. 14 S/       03/91           8             22        B,C,D,E,F,G,l,l          2               D,1,F
Supervision 15        11/91           1             22              C                  3               D,E,1
J/ A: A     _roamist or  Agrioultural ecoeist; 3: Financial dansit; C: Tree crop  seialst; D: Tea specialist; t:
Rubber specialist; F: Cocenub rsearch speialist; 0: TOs     research specialiut;  : Ta maketinS  specialist; I:
Institutional deelopmet specialist; J: Foret specialist; K: Rubber researcb  specialist; P: Power (mini-hydro)
oeneer.
2/ A: Field developmnt; B: Factory rehsbiitaticn/proourement; C: Institutional deelopmt; D: Financial.
performneo; Z: Enviromaental aspects; F: Management performane.
S/ No separate appaisal mission. Following /O_overent ag_eement on seotoral issue after the pre-appraisal
mission, the poject was onsiderd appraised in July 1984.
IV  W 1-tem review.
M/  Combined FTC? sparvision, ongog support to Troe Crp Subsector Restrueturing, and prliminuar design of Tree
Crops VI.



- 29 -                                        Annex I
PROJECT COMPlETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJECT
(Cr. 1562-CE)
Re-Estimation of Economic and Fiancial Rates of Return
Genen
1.     The economic analysis at appraisal was in border prices with international prices converted into Sri Lanka
rupees at an exchange rate of US$1 = Rs 25.17. All values were expressed in 1984 constant prices. The PCR
analysis has been done using 1985 constant prices for the major crops of tea and rubber for each of the corporations.
Lack of data prevented the re-analysis of investments in coconut and firewood production. Following what was done
at appraisal, the analysis excludes benefits and cost of ongoing projects.
Economic Beneftts
2.     The primary benefits of the project would be realized from the incremental production of tea and rubber,
but with some benefits also to be realized from incremental coconut and firewood production. The prices of tea and
rubber used for the 1985-1991 period are the actual prices received, adjusted for export taxes and converted to 1985
contant prices using a domestic deflator (see Table 1). Thereafter, econoc prices are assumed to move in parallel
to World Bank commodity price projections using the real Sri Lanka 1988-1990 prices as a base. The pnces used
are adjusted Net Sales Average (NSA) prices for the blend of grades and product types produced by the corporations'
estates. The NSA without the project would be lower as the necessary investment to maintain product quality would
not have been made. Accordingly, it is estimated to decline to 2% lower than the vith project' level by 1992.
Because of different financial NSA prices for the corporations, the economic prices for the two are also not the same.
EconomIc Costs
3.     Project costs include physical conugencies but exclude pnce contnencis, dutes, taxes and subsidies.
Costs of production (COP) were taken from corporation records for the years 1985-1991 and are excusive of taxes,
interest and depreciation. COP with the project is estimated to remain constant in real terms at 1991 levels.
Improved labor productivity as the estate labor force declines due to normal attrition, and as better management
practices are insthuted, is amumed to be offset by bigher real wage rates. In the without project situation, it is
estimated that unit COP would increase relative to COP with project and by 1994 would be 35% higher. At
appraisal a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.85 was applied to the local content of imported goods and local
inputs. The SCF for Sri Lanka has subsequently been adjusted to 0.90 (July 1991). At appraisal a shadow wage rate
of 75% of the market rate was used, but this was subsequently adjusted to 55% to take into account a major wage
increase shortly after appraisaL At present (from July l99) a shadow wage rate of 90% of the market rate is used.
In the re-analysis, the orginal SAR conversion factor of 0.60 applied to the COP was increased in regular ncrements
to the 1991 value of 0.90.
4.    Investment costs used in the economic analysis are estimated financial costs modified by a conversion factor
of 0.85. These include investments made during 1985-t991 plus additional expenditure required to finish off plant
started during the project period. In consistency with production estimates (see below) without project investment
in replanting was assumed to take place at 25% of the with project rate but at 50% of the with project cost per
hectar.
5.     Actual production figures are available for the 1985-1991 period. Incremental production for 1992 and
thereafter is estimated by applying the SAR yield schedule for rubber and tea to the reatized new planig
(replanting, new planting, inlling) achieved over 1985-1991. The area of trees/bushes uprooted during the project



Annex 1
- 30 -
period is assumed to be replanted under the project. An allowance is also made for producom losses due to III.
removal of productive trees/bushes for replanting. As the replanting program would have been smaller in the
without project situation, production without project would be somewhat greater than with project until sh time
as the replanted areas come into bearing/maturity. For rubber, the without project production takes accout of
OUtpUt from inemental planting, while for tea, because there are no without project plantings, production without
project is assumed to gradually decline at 05% p.a.
Economic Rate of Retmu
6. The recalculated rates of return are summarized in the table below, and the calcuiations are given in Tabls
2-5. For the project as a whole, the economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated to fail within the range of
10%-15%.
Revised Economic Rates of Return
Percentage
Tea
JEDB                  31.0                 9.6
SLSPC                 28.0                 10.9
Rubber
JEDB                  24.0                 112
SLSPC                 28.0                 15.0
7.     The re-calculated economic rates of return are substantially lower than the appraia estimates, for a number
of reasons whic coultd ot have been anticipated at appraisaL The main reasons for te lower ERRs are discussed
below. The primary factors which have adversely affected the financdal performance of the croratio   (and the
ERR) have been dealt with in detail in a separate paper, and this analyss wM not be ropeated here.
Factors Coutribudag to the Lowe ERRs
8.     Cmmodt  Pnces. The world market prices of tea and rubber began to decine at about the time of
apprial, have not yet recovered, and show no signs of recovery over the next several year  Table 10 prvides a
compaison of actual prices (1984-1991) and revised estimates with the appraisal eimates It woud not have been
possible to anticipate the price decline. A sensitivity test on commodity prices was not done at appraisal, although
switching values were calculated. Given the historical volatility of tea and rubber pries, a sensitivity teat
inorporating cost overruns and dedlines in prces and yields mght have been useful and revealin&  Alwugh a
revised ERR was not calculated on the coconut invesentm, the re-calcated ERR would prbably be wel below
the appraisal estimate, given that the realized and expected coconut prices are, on average, about 57% of the prics
used at appraisal.
I/    Impact of Govrmme  Policies on the Fnancal Performance of JBDB and SLSPC; Anabsis of Past and Pr%eed
Fi ial Performance; Aglur Operations Divson, Countly Depameit I, Asia Region, July 1991.



Annex 1
- 31 -
9.     SO  Yilds Available data do not permit an analysis of the yields obtained from the incremental areas
planted under the project. At any rate, rubber planted during PY 1 is only just coming into bearing, and new tea
has been producing for only several years. Total production of rubber and tea appeas to have declined since the
prcject started (1985-1991) whereas the SAR anticipated rubber and tea production increases of about 14% and 8%,
respectively, through 1991. The reasons for the production shortfall are not clear. Production data for rubber seem
to indicate that intensive 'slaughtee tapping with stimulation has not been practiced on the area to be replanted;
otherwise the drop in production need not have been so pronounced. Concerning rubber yields in general, few of
the estates appear to achieve yields significantly over 1,100 kg/ha for any age of planting. While there is no doubt
that the appraisal yields can be attained under efficient estate operations and with good clonal material, some doubt
could be expressed as to whether sufficient supplies of good planting material could have been available to satisfy
the proposed planting program
10.    Baswline Pouction Data, For SLSPC tea the baseline production figues used in the SAR appear to have
included 'bought-in' tea as well as own production, but for JEDB it appears that the production figures are for estate-
grown tea only. This would have some effect on revenues, and the ERR, as the processing of bought teas is generally
profitable. The revised ERR calculations include the production of 'made' tea from 'bought-in' tea as weB as estate-
grown tea. The NSA is the average of prices receive4 for all 'made' teas, and the COP covers the cost of production
of tea from 'bought-in' la as well as own leaf.
1L    Field    g     The field program consss of feling, uprooting clearing, sofl condtioning (tea) and
maintenance during imuaturity. A comparison of the SAR program and the realized progress, 1985-1991, is given
in Tables 11 and 12. There are disepancies between the field development figures of the plantations and the
Inestment Monitoring Board (AMB). The PCR mission was unable to either resolve these discrepancies or to obtain
a rationa explanation for them. Overall, the SAR field development program has been largely achieved, but the
program extended over seven years rather than five. The SAR tea infiHg target was not met (38%), but this may
be due to reporting discrepancies and lack of a clear definition of infilling. Spot infilling is not popular among the
esate managers.
12.    QMgjng Costs. Since appraisd there have been significant increases in the wage rate for estate labor, and
the effect was further exacerbated by the requirement that the estates must offer six workdays a week to the labor
force, whether or not their services are needed  The effect of the wage increases on corporate profitabiliq is
analyzed in detail in the paper referred to above (para 7). Estate labor costs constituted about 60%o of direct
operating costs in 1990 and perhaps 70% by 1992 (excluding interest, depreciation, corporate overheads, etc.).
Although the SAR does not give the wage rate used in calculating costs of production, the above paper has calated
the 1986 total wage cost at Rs 34.60/day (Table 14), and the PCR mission has calculated the 1992 total cost of the
labor compensation package at Rs 80.75/day. In constant 1985 prices these labor costs are, respecively, about Rs 32
and Rs 36. There has thus been an increase in both the economic and financial wage rate. The total wage bi has
probably inceased over the appraisal figure due to the requirement to offer work for six days a week The change
in the shadow wage rate for unsklmed labor from about 55% of the market rate at appraisa to 90% at present also
had a negative effect on the estimated ERR, given that labor costs represent a high proportion of total cost of
productio
13.      ersip Factors. Changes (numerical increases) in the conversion factors used have meant that the gap
between financial and economic pices and costs has narrowed Higher economic prices, especially for the labor
element in the cost of production, have led to signficantly higher economic costs than were estimated at appraisal.
The present World Bank shadow wage for unkied labor in Sr L anka is 0.9 of the going financial wage. The PCR
missio feels that this shadow rate maybe too high for estate abor, given the extreme lack of alternative employment
opporn   for the resident workers who consttute about 67% of the total labor force.



Annex 1
- 32 -
inaudal Rat of Return
14.    Assumptions on phycal phasng of mvestent, productuo  and costs as well as world price levels are
naturally the same for the financial rate of return (FRR) callations as for the ERR calculaions outlnd above.
PRR calculations ame made comparing %Wth projects and *without project situatios, as was done at appraisd, in 198S
constant prices. Actua taxes are alowed for i the years 1985-1991, while for 1992 onwards export taxes of 1O%
of NSA for tea and 20% for rubber are assumed. The recalculated rates of return are summaied in the table
below, and the caluao  are given in Tables 6-9.
Revised Fmancial Rates of Retum
Tea
JEDB                  22.0                 6.6
SLSPC                 210                  6.9
Rubber
JEDB                  15.0                 7.8
SLSPC                 18.0                 9.4
iS.    Give that both orporation are technicaly io t and, at the time of estate trnsfr to the prvate
mnagement companies, were being susained by goverment subvenions of some RS 400 mIllion (US$9.S million)
per month to pay wages and cover ova    interest, the projected FRRs would be too low for the project to be
fianialDy susainable without major cnges in orgnization.



- 33 -                            Ann 1
Table 1. Deflators for Sri Lanka (1985-100)
Year     CPI  Domestic     MUV  US$ MUV  Exchange        MUV   Rs MUV
Deflator    In US$  Deflator   Rate      In Rs  Deflator
(Rs based)
1985    246.4    1.000      100.0    1.000     27.16     2,718    1.000
1986    266.0    0.926     117.9    0.848      28.02     3,304    0.822
1987    286.6    0.860      129.5    0.772     29.44     3,813    0.712
1988    326.6    0.754      138.9    0.720     31.81     4,420    0.615
1989    364.4    0.676     137.9    0.725      36.05     4,970    0.548
1990    442.8    0.556     145.8    0.686      40.06     5,840    0.465
1991    503.0    0.490     148.7    0.673      41.37     6,151    0.442
1992    550.3    0.448     152.9    0.654      44.40     6,787    0.400
Note: The main deflator used In this PCR Is the Domestic Deflator.



t at   i3  N N
iit
it   I                                                                         I
I X  i               -                    -              - - - - - - - - - - - -
I'8                                                    orK*
-------------88-Sb          t    8
| i X it      {X XI . i .. }   -            MMMOkO  O18 MMMM  __4  |i|   -  4i
I    a                                                         ,~~
It
1----



Table 2. (cont Calcubion of Econombi & Fiacl Poee of Tea for JEDS
-With Proe-           -W     Whout Project
Year     WB fid       NSA       Av Tax       Eoon    Domesc         Econ      Financial Reducton          Soon  Financial
Price             % of NSA        Priem    Dewtor        Prie         Price In Eoonnic         Prce     Prie
(19665)     (PA"               (Curront Re)  1965.10    Constant     Constant Prdt9o donstn  Constant
'85 Re       'U Re to lower           '8S R    '85 R
quaR
A          B    CwA^(+)           0       E=C*D       F=E-Tax wtou proj
a      H.((1-G)) I-H-Tax
1986       1.98       32.27      26.4S6      40.79       1.000      40.79        32.27     0.0%           40.79    32.27
1986       1.64       30.26      16.6%       36.28      0.926       32.68        28.03     0.0%           32.68    28.03
1987       1.32       35.99      18.0%       41.75      0.s80       35.89        30.94     0.0%           35.89    30.94
1988       1.29       41.20      10.5        45.53      0.754       34.35        31.08     0.0%           34.35    31.08
1989       1.46       55.54       8.1%A      60.04      o.676       40.60        37.56     0.6%           40.39    37.37
1990       1.39       53.29      1 1.5%      59.42      0.556       33.08        29.65     1.0%           32.73    29.36
1991       1.24       56.09       7.0%A      60.02      0.490       29.40        27.48     1.5%           28.96    27.08
1992       1.34                    10%                             34.96        31.78     2.0%           34.28    31.15
1993       1.32                    10%                              34.44        31.31     2.0%           33.75    30.68
1994       1.33                    10%                             34.70        31.54     2.0%           34.00    30.91
1995       1.34                    100%                             34.98        31.78     2.0%           34.26    31.15
1996                               1O%                              35.08        31.88     2.0%           34.38    31.24
1907                              10%                              35.17        31.97     2.0%           34.46    31.33
1998                               10%6                             35.27        32.07     2.0%           34.57    31.42
1999                               10%                              35.38        32.16     2.0%           34.67    31.52
2000        1.36                   10%                              35.48        32.26     2.0%           34.77    31.61
2001                               10%6                             36.94        33.68     2.0%           36.20    32.91
2002                               106                             38.40        34.91     2.0%           37.63    34.21
2003                               10%                              39.86        36.24     2.0%           39.07    35.61
2004                               10%                              41.32        37.67     2.0%           40.50    36.82
2005        1.64                   10o                              42.79        38.60     2.0%           41.93    36.12
2006                               1O%A                             42.79        38.90     2.0%           41.93    38.12
2007                               10%6                             42.79        38.90     2.0%           41.03    38.12
2008                               1046                             42.79        38.90     2.0%           41.93    38.12
2009                               10%                              42.79        38.90     2.0%           41.93    38.12
2010                               10o                              42.79        38.60     2.0%           41.93    38.12
2011                               10%4                             42.79        38BO      2.0%           41.93    38.12
2012                               10%                              42.79        38.90     2.0%           41.93    38.12
2013                               10%                              42.79        38.90     2.0%           41.93    38.12
2014                               10%                              42.79        38.90     2.0%          41.93    38.12
Note: From  91. the economi pc 'wih prjet moe In p uaa  wIh Bank pre ost in real t
maitanng the ow  peceta  discotM as on avrp In 1988-I  (21.4%).



- 36                                Annex-
g  s !                   I - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
------------------_---------------Itt tt
Ii   ~   i      i      e f' 
4U§;gK K gl2 KK|K22l|                                a3 st
be~~~~~~~~J ja'8lEdN885g!B!!l               Ii*|
' S   la X§iWnffafX2it                                        VIIiX 
S             _  _______________ i           I!!  ljjJ
I  tf8a2g'st>|0                                      .j'j44   EXgti
!~~~~~~~~~~~i iiii   l ,8  > .tt -      <8!!l|      
3;~~ |                          f  t8ot   o8°!N0*2oitflhIJY 



Table 3. (conA) Calculation of Econofmi & Finaneil Prices of Tea for SPC
-With Proct-    -           W     PrWject
Year   WB tnd     NSA      Av Tax       Econ      Deflator     Econ    Finani  Reducton             Eon   Financial
Price    Rekg      % Of        Price   1985=100       Price       Pdce in Economnic        Price     Prie
(196 $)              NSA        Curr Re               Constan    Caostant Price due       Constant  Constant
'85Re     '8SRe tolower            '8Rs       '6SRe
quaflty
Withot
A        8    CwA*(B)            I       E=C*D    F=E-Tax          G     H-(E^(1-)   I-H-Tax
1085      1.0     22.61     26.4%       41.22       OA26       38.16       3021       0.0%         38.18      30.21
19se      1.64    32.13     18Mb%       87.4s      o0s         32.21       27.92      0.0%         32.21      27.02
1987      1.32    38.77     10.0%       44.97       0.754      33.93       29.25      0.0%         33.93      29.26
1988      1.20    41.39     10.5       45.74      o0.76       30.92       27.98      0.0%         30.93      27.90
1980      1.46    58.34      8.1%       ea.07      O0.59       35.09       82.4e      0.5*         84.92      32.30
180       1.39    O6.52     n1l.s       73.0o       0.4S0      35.79       32.09      t.0o         3S.43      31.77
1991      1.24    66.09      7.0%       90.02       0.448      30.49       28.50      1.5%         30.03      28.07
1992      1.34                10%                              32.95       29.96      2.0%         32.29      29.36
1993      1.32                10%                              32.48       29.51      2.0%         31.81      28.92
1994      1.33                10%                              32.71       29.73      2.0%         32.06      29.14
1995      1.34                10%                              32.96       29.96      2.0%         32.29      29.38
1990                         10%                               33.05       30.0S      2.0%         32.39      29.44
1997                          10%                              33.15       30.13      2.0%         32.48      29.53
1008                          10%                              33.25       30.22      2.0%         32.58      29.62
1999                         10%                               33.34       30.31      2.0%         32.8       290.71
2000      1.36                10%                              33.44       30.40      2.0%          32.77     20.79
2001                          10%                              34.62       31.65      2.0%          34.12     81.02
2002                          10%b                             36.20       32.91      2.0%          35.47     32.25
2002                          10%                              37.57       34.16      2.0%          36.82     33.48
2004                          10A                               36.95      36.41      2O0%          38.17     34.70
2006      1.64                10%                               40.33      36.6o      2.0%          39.2      35.93
2006                          10%                               40.33      36.6e      2.0%          39.52     35.03
2007                          10%                              40.33       36.66      2.0%          39.52     a5.J3
2008                          10%                              40.33       36.66      2.0%          39.52     36.93
2009                          10%                               40.33      36.6e      2.0%          39.52     35.93
2010                          10%                              40.33       3a.e6      2.0%          39.52     35as.
2011                          10%                               40.33      36.66      2.0%          36.52     35.93
2012                          10%                              40.33       36.68      2.0%          39.52     35.s9
2013                          10%                              40.33       36.66      2.0%          39.52     35A.9
2014                          10%                              40.3a       36.66      2.0%          39A52     35.62
NHto: Fromi1091. economnd price rkbth   jermovieen parlllwpdth Sankpicebweamsinresatm
mantIn te _amse pewenta  discotut as on averaoe In 198-190 (14.3t).



tee.t$                         3w9°8aR8"°8X8828g                                        t
IFIt[X} 6l"BBw;;"oe@*"    ' -,                                                           l
{iti§if}t-          -fS&;4tS,§g|gg                          wii _a    
Sj! i .i                                 0  0                                           F   
Ej ¢        I                                                                -     6fJ         {wgeiifiie|c 
5g8tt!  II           I5lS"A"@*|o!%Sg$ 00* 
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ j-tS g§*IqgXC        t8sa g  ea ta ; ea;R   ;ues  
ItX     1               egooSooo                  }                 hR                          Pe<"   
§!  W8t   XI                                                          E
I                                               -                          I:;e|o2222        fS   }t3ool         45   go1  
_ _     _  _  _   _  _ _  _   _  _  _   _ _  _  _   _  _  _
| ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ 40 I-_e"""Xo>X*6^   ii-
;  {                     "^ , "s !!?l0 I;o .s0 50 t  I I 
zsuuv~~~  hw1   



Tabb 4. (conr) Calculadon of Economi & Financial Prices of Rbbw pw kg fr JEDB In Conrsn 1986 PrIces
-Wlth Pro}ot-       -Withot PWoW ct
Year   WB nd    NtSA        AV Tu      Econ    Deltor       Eoon     Fnancial Reduction     Econ  Finansal
Price    R1kg      % of      Pdie  1965100        Prie        Price In Economic    Prce    Prie
(1965$)              NSA      Curr Re            Constant    Constant Prce due   Constn  Constt
I8 Re       '85 Rs to bw       '85 Re    '6 Re
A        B  C-A-(B)          0      EC*D       F-E-Tax quality
wcutprt
a       HuE (1 I=H-Tax
19e6      0.92      17.56    19.0%     20.0      1.000      20.0       17.68   0.0%        20.90    17.56
1096      0.81     21.81     28.2%     27.96     0.06       26.90       20.20   0.0%        25.90    20.20
Is7      0.86     20.36     29.9%     26.47    O08         22.76       17.52    O.O%       22.76    17.52
1988      0.93     27.8      35.1%     37.64     0.754      28.40       21.02   0.0%        28.40    21.02
19o      0.81     26.11     42.9%     37.31     0.676      25.23       17.66  o05          25.10    17.57
1990      0.70     27.60     38.9%     38.34     0.560      21.33       18.36    1.0%       21.12    16.20
1091      0.68     23.s        na         na     0.400      20.89       11.68    1.5%       20.58    11.50
1992      0.68                20%                          20.28        10.00    2.0%       10.87    16.56
1993      0.60                 20%                          2120        17.e6   2.0%        20.77    17.3
1994      0.73                 20%                          22.43       18.6s    2.0%       21s.    18.31
1106      0.85                20%                          28.11        21.76    2.0%       25.9     21.33
1966                           20%                          26.3e       21.97   2.0%        25.83    21.53
197                            20%                         26.60        22.17    2.0%       26.07    21.73
im                            20%                          26.8         22.37   2.0%        26.31    21.93
im                            20%                          27.10        22.66    2.0%       2e6.5    22.13
2000      0.89                 20%                          27.34       22.78   2.0%        26.76    22.33
2001                           204*   27.10                             22.56    2.0%       2165    22.13
200g                           20%                          26.65       22.37    2.0%       2.3      21.03
2003                           20%                          26.60       22.17    2.0%       2607    21.73
2004                           20%                          26.3        21.97    2.0%       25.83    21.53
2006      0.85                 20%                          26.11       21.76    2.0%       25.5     21.33
2006                           20%                          26.11       21.76    2.0%       2560    21.33
2007                           20%                          20.11       21.76   2.0%        25.69    21.3
2006                           20%                          26.11       21.76   2.%         25.60    21.33
2009                           20%                          26.11       21.76    2.0%       26.56    21.3
2010                           20%                          26.11       21.76    2.0%       26.6     21.33
2011                           20%                          26.11       21.76    2.0%       25.56    21.33
2012                           20%                          20.11       21.78   2.0%        265.0    21.33
2013                           20%                          26.11       21.76   2.0%        25.5s    21.3
2014                           20%                          26.11       21.76    2.0%       25.69    21.33
Note: Frm 1s9s1 economI proe WlMh peo8t moves In pal  wih Bank ptbce fora  In real tms,
malnalning the ar  pwntage dIcount as on avagi 1066- 190(7.3%).



§l ttgSU.           t3|ew8"2;sa@ 8***"2g
&glVV tI tI M            I M
~~~~~h                                    i~~~~~~~~~~i
H i       1                   00            0 E                        N  I     g{g)'gt>      
lip -!iii  ii        °°°;blSS3;wES3$} 
" t  $ii  |3}        |§3!t  I",,99o 0  3  23    e    i||et
13X[t~~                            00 3gsgeZtwt6gtflWw8  t 
iI Xt      ;g;g          aa;p    i>    fi           e
I ~        I XWUVOoN<<f



} ~     ~     I                                               I   ;|Wli;8W;*f 
ii                                                                 I
I                                                                  I
iiiloW        
Pb -lo                                                     I oloullffoffs-sN   s 
*1ttW   kW  "uII§1bukols  4a  5i
*1 
* s X  ¢ h Xs k 3sa =0 t k    I    
TZUV



1l  B                                                 -.X;;^l;8;olfliSJf4}i§XDG  1  
IffliF§       Et8 8gt8Zggt88g""g   !l
- 11§Xlggg§oiigg>882ii!i
351[             BifEiWi§XEls;8¢sX1 
eig. ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I  X
fIPP         l fIu !uEIEat;utss5        aswE t4 §  g
I~~~~~ _                   - - -- -   -                 
'It~~~~~~~~ It



Tabb 7.
GPC TEA
Rl#DFRROCULAT1O
VfTH PRWSOT                                                   WWOURECT
albI   a!               ae          Totl  Net    I         el                  di      TOW   Not   Ibo.   biwt- I bo.
-Yow-    Prod. Fin PFb Renue  OOP             Cost VaUe   IPod  Pi Pr                  COP        Cost Vau   I sbn.   mont I Senedf
On-)  Reg        (PeA  ) oleSko)     Mo")        ItOn) Pt"          (b RI (Pq90)  (-ft MWon-)       1(-R MOBan--)   I (Re M)
I                                                 I                I
86  1   70.100    30.21    2.20    34.70   267        (30 I 73.204   30.21    2211   34.70    2.640    (     I      0    177 I   (177)
60  2   70,so0    27.62    1068   31.64  2,243        M1 71.t        27.62    1,968   31.04    2.256    (28      1     101 I   (100)
67  3   67,700    2.S      1,860  S814    t129        (140)1 8.94    29.2    1.s0  0S14    2.148    (180 I          1    23  I   (2D2)
86   4   60.M     27.99    1,6   12.    2,26          0"  1 7,t"    27s90   t13   3z28         2.263       0 I      t4    243 1
S6   6   66.40    6z46      .068   a$t    2,0e6       (2a)    430   32.0    2,081   3:M        2,140     (69 l    32    235        (
90  8   86.820    32.8     2,138   13S0   2.239       (too) I 7,092   *1.77    2,157   $4.11    2318    (188) I     so    212 1   (184)
91  7   87.300    26.60    1.916   20.68   2,0t1      () I 6,73s   2e.07    1,328   30.46    2,006    (18) 1    72          8 I    (a)
V8    67,186    29*8    2,012   29.68   2,007           6 1I6396   29.3       2,006   30.63    2,006     (7) 1       2     90 1      2
S0   S  em28      29.51    2.015   29.e8   2,040      20)  68s.os    26.02    1,968   30.78    2,094    (126) 1    101    Be0       21
04 10   s.0os6    29.73    2.06S   29.88   2,063       (10) I 67,712   29.14    1,973   30.06    ,094    (121) 1    II    6o  I    81
90 11   70.208    2906    2.106   29.66   2,06          6    67,s74   2s.3    1,973   30.0     2,0e4    (106) I    111     40 1    71
0B 12   71,689    3a06    2.161   29.s    2,119         t2    67.0S7   29a4    1,074   3003    2.073    (41S I    Ill   2a  1    91
07 13   73.800    30.13    2.218   29e.8    2.199      19  ee702   2as3    1,970   30.93    7,083    (93) I    112            1    112
90  14   7416    30.22    2.201   29.88   2,238        2S 106,36    29.62    1,s08   30.93    ,083       (7)1  l1t2           I    112
0016   76s693    30.31    2,32S   29.S   2,32          S3 1tW,N3   29.71    1,s62   30.93    2,042       ( 1)1    114         I    114
2001 a   7s.1ts     so34     2,317   29.8    28W         41 1 t706   29.79    1,068   30.08    2,032       (74)   11l8s         I    116
Ot 17   79.732    31s    2.6        298   2,382        141  I437s   31.02    2,028   30.93    2,022        0       135              136                   Ii)
0218   6           3o3  02.91    2,647   29.8s   2,403  243 1e6,0s    3.26    2,09830s30   2,012          86       167         I    1t7
03 to * 0,813    34.18    2.74   29.6   2,400         38468 ,726   3346    2,167   30.63    2,002        161       16t0 I           1I0
0420  s8,8t6       3641    2,000   29.68   2,447       46 1 64,402   3470    2,236   30.93    1,s02      243 1    2o           I   2to
08 21   82.683    3t86      3,03.1   296    2,470      881 I  oso   36         2,302   30.08    1,082    021       240         1   240
08 22   82,487    36.6      3.024   29.8    2,466     G66  1 63.780   39       2,29    30.93    1,72    319 1    240          1   240
07 23   81,46    36.6       2,s02   29.88   2.431      862 I 63,441   0.93    2279   30.0       1,982    317 1   234           1   284
05 24   8M2        38.s    3.020   29.8S   2,461      6S9   60.123 S 05.93    2,28   30.93    1,062      316       248         1   243
09 26  8MM77    3o6         3.0             2          Se,461   8 I 62,608   3.s0S    2,267   30.93    1,042  314 1   24       I   244
10 29   82,m      36.6      3.020   29.88   2.46       SO I 62,40   SL30      2.246   30.08    I,033     3   1   246           1   246
11 27   62,377   3SO6    3.020   29.8    2,461        569 I 8t181   3L*8    2,234   30.03    1,023       31 1   248            1   248
12 28   82377    3.08    3,02    29.S   2,6          S69 1 61870  s3893    28    30.93    1.918          310 1    249          1   249
1329   62,877    366        3,020   29.6    2,S4      669 I1 61.61   s36s    212   30.S3    1.004        308 i    261          1   261
14 30   s2,37      3t8    S.020   29.    2,461        869 I61.263   3608    2,201   30.93    1.604       308 1    282          1   262
FFRR                         &s0
NPV @ 10%:                   (316)
af Fot 1966 lOuh 1091 producon, N  Sde AVae       ad & ast of pdWuGin (CP)   0aft a olp ene.
FPrm 1002 fmaksoUX ad to b a.ulaesNlttO toI0 of NS
bE Prductn wh ptOst  wtr    t" aooeunt of vaplaud  ad new planrtnaIed over 1908-101.
di Mue fc taNl to W%of 'WMit proeor -  by 1992 due to drp bI qu*f armuItof ad of reweatMet bI tatle
t  Muned tohi -o    46       v wht      'vableet by 1   b_ oo          r a       _     t    ut po'. a
W AOtuSIMWIIIIW  ootb b_an aogr   Igwe to It   IM06to10. Pso wd h     tdt992  to 1007 inlde on the mo_ut
ntutobg ntoprodutIn  .  _pWth tat dudetho protpeud.



Anex I
- 44 -
jA      O           It N2  *R 3~ * 
| X 4 t 8 8 g t E 8 u a s oa -
------ -----     ---j  
3|3s  llEElERsaisEt}|||hla3tw3BRtRkiRslk~~~~~s1 f
j Is
-       -         --3-g
________________. l
I ltt-stst8k8Rtgt«6§t
g ~~~~~~44 -s rllgEElglit3i|Z|tltW 4-3 4.4 .---
s.q E  s                                                                 *a l1 W8|E8|S;lo8Boo:       7}m



45                                                             AnnexlI
,t --------                   --------             -------
a                  I



Table 10: Complson of Rubbr. Tea and COoONIt World Prices
SAR and RPteed EsUmte
at                               bi                               el
I   ~~~    )  (              Tca              J  (~~~~~-Coconut Oi.- )
MRAPrCoWd  -- -                   OM Projected _-Acuud-              SAM _cb   dR --
1"    1986    1Ow        S%oS   1984    1986    1985    as   o8f  08         1085     atof
SAR                               mR                         SAR
Year                        dilo
-               USV*Ikg---        eb   -USS          t- tg   %
1684          1.28   1.20    1.11       80.0      36    SA38    3.40      1033   110.8S    t1O4.3    106.0
1086          12    1.300    0.92       70.8    2.77    2.79    1.08      71.0    848.8    690.0      69.6
1066          1.3    t.371    0.81      59.1    2m      2.40    1.64      68.3    720.8    251.9     34.9
1987          1.36   1.371    0.88      62.7    2.38    2.40    1.32      56.0   720.8    341.3      47.4
1988          1.38   1.371    0.93      67.8    2.38    2.40    1.29      53.8    720.8    407.0    56.6
1069          1.36   1.371    0.81      59.1    2.3     2.40    1.40      00e.    720.8    376.0     52.0
1990          1.43   1.442    0.70      46.6    23    2.25    1.39        61.8    669.3    231.0     36.0
1901          1.43   1.442    0.68      47.2    2.23    226    1.24       56.1   660.3    291.0    44.1
19s2          1.43   1.442    0.66      45.8    223    2.26    1.34       59.6   669.3    432.0      66.6
1093          1.43   1.442    0.69      47.9    2.23    226    1.32       58.7   M66.3    378.0      57.8
1994          1.43   1.442    0.73      60.6    223    2.25    1.33       60.1   609.3    349.0      52.
1996          1.48   1.492    0.86      67.0    2.41    2.43    1.34      56.1    m.1    367.0        57a.4
1e99          1.48   1.492    0.86      67.6    2.41    2.43    1.34      66.1   639.1    37t.0      68.1
1097          1.48   1.492    0.80      58.3   2.41    2.43    1.36       56.0   639.1    376.0      58.7
19a8          1.48   1.492    0.87      68.3    241    2.43    1.36       56.0 6  63.1    379.0    50.3
1099          1.46   1.492    0.88      59.0    2.41    2.43     .36      656.0   63.1    383.0      69.0
2000          1.48   1.492    0.69       69.7    2.41    243    1.30      60.0   639.1    387.0       60.6
2001          1.48   1.402    0.98      69.0    2.41    2.43    1.41      56.0   639.1    372.4       66.3
2002          1.46   1.482    0.67       688      41    2.43    1.40      00.1    639.1    257.0    66.O
2003          1.48   1.492    0.87       69.3    2.41    243    1.*2      92.     6.        343.2     63.7
2004          1.46   1.492    0.86       57.6   2.41    2.43    1A8       86.2    m.1       328.6     SiA
2006          1.48   1.492    0.86       67.0    2.41    2.43    1.4      57A      m1.1    314.0      49.1
Unwel ns *AM                          SA.4                             01s                        6
oi FMSNo. 1. spotNowYetL
It Lodon iodon Waverae pc roevd for sM te
di bA     rer to ode wld pdoe or6Ot4-181 dhe mo    reeont
SanpkWprc p4eonei -e 1181912 danord-.
ef CeniluIcntn 86 onduitpries
s       dur  OUR and  Bd Pi    tCmmodtyPisorecadmdautu iew
*Oommeit MOWst. WorMd Bank. AprU 18O2



47                                        ~~~~~~~~~Annexl
- 47 -
Tab!l. TZA: FW.dDanudp  t- Comule _dAclAlbIvan
and Appsl. lanalsa
1915    1916    1987    191I    1919    1990    1991    TOW
.ha
A. Aetn  PNstance V
New Pluetg         JWB          42       77       51     104       62       24      33      J39
RqIAgu             J10B        468      360     423      471      627     602      120   3,771
1nflhg             JEDB        665      118      178     212      156      178      32    1,539
Sdb-Totl:        JEDI        1.175     555     652      767      s45     10       1S    5,703
Nowl ai            SPC          189      70       84      94      128      56       76      697
Rcp$ui             SPC         431      515     545      795      709     629      763   4.407
8PC         892      694     461      218    11       127      13   2,756
Sdb-ToaI         SFC         1,512    1.279   1.      1,107    1,018     812    1,042   7,60
Now Plantig        TOTAL       231      147      135     198      190       10     109    1'm
P_&Ofn             TOTAL       199      875     968   1,266   1,336    1.231    1,603   8,178
haDing             TOTAL    1.5S7       812      639     430      337     305      215   4,295
TStLb            TOTAL    2.687   1.134    1,742    1,894   1,163    1.616    1,9Z7   13,563
Il. Apaa Eaia
Newntng            JEDW         39       34       34      34       35       -        -      176
Rql8nt             IEDB        233      24S     241      234      230       -        -    1,183
hmlig               WEDI       712      992   1,142    1,162   1,061        -        -   5,069
S-TetL:          JEDW         914   1,271    1,417   1,430    1.346        -        -     ,448
Now    ing         SFC          99      116      108     105      113       -        -      541
laPlat             SIC         424      426      3S3     37       329       -        -    1.9M3
Infhling          SPC        1,248    1,247   1,060     939      747       -        -   5,241
&bTdsk           SPC         1,771   1,789   1,5S1    1,415    1.189       -        -   7,715
New PhIntIg        TOTAL        138     150      142     139      148       -        -      717
i _aut             TOTAL       657      67      624      605      559       -        -   3,116
ldmag              TOTAL    1,960    2,259   2.202   2.101    1.126         -        -   10,S30
TdetL            TOTAL    2.75S    3,060   2,968   2,845   2535           -       -   14,163
C. JAcI Pedamm. as % ofApp.a Egle
NOW P'Antn         JWID        108%    226%    149X    306%    178%        an       ea    223%
RIalalg             WIm       201%    147%    176%    201%    273%         at       a      319%
Jaing             IJDB         93%      12%      16%     11%      14%      na       a       30%
Sb-Tak           JEDW        119%      44%     46%      55%      63%      a        n       1s6
New Plant          SIC         191%     60%      78%     90%    113%       a        la    129%
R     et           SPC         102M    121%    142%    214%    216%        as       a      226%
hmaiing            SIC         71%      56%      43%     23%      24%   Xn          a       53
S-TdaL:          SIC          85%      71%     70%      7%       116%     an              102%
New Pln8i          TOTAL       167%     9SX      9%    142%    129%        an              152%
RIatbng            TOTAL       137%    130X    155%    209%    239%        au       a      262%
luingE             TOTAL       79%      36%      29%     20%      18%      an       a       42%
TotaL            TOTAL        98%     60%      59      67%      74%       u        n      96%
tl Tak       fl r _a cptd by IMI fom  WID  ad SPC lpato. Howove, tdeae am_bua l
d _s  (up to 30%) btwsn d o fli_ s4ppUW byed       o te prtiom and _the   DAL



Anmex 1
- 48 -
Table 12. RUBBER. Field Dvdopeqntw  - ConVazlswi of Atuad Acd&vemosnt
and Appraisld Esmat
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    Tota
ha
A. Actua Performance It
NowPlanting        JEDI         S1       47      41      112     ISe      116      26      551
Rplntniqg          JEDB        664      695     682      923     942      743     705   5,354
Sub-Totd:        JEDB         71S     742      723    1,034    1,100    859      731   5,904
Now Plating        SPC         151      189     199     250       4s      170     164   1,191
Ropaning           SPC         833   1,430   2,918    1,403   1.139       876     976   9,574
Sub-Total:       SPC          984   1,619   3,116   1,653    1,207   1,046   1,140  10,765
Now Planting       TOTAL       202      236     240      362     226      286     190   1,742
Relanting         TOTAL    1,497   2,125   3,600   2,326   2,081    1,619   1,681   14,927
Tota:            TOTAL    1,699   2,361   3,839   2,687   2,307    1,905    1,871   16,669
D. Appraia Est
Now Platindg      JEDE         237      195     163      114      68        -       -      777
Replaning         JEDB         657      745     693      595     573        -       -   3,263
Sub-Total:       JEDE         894     940      856     709      641       -        -   4,040
Now Plantg         SPC         558     402      400      310     221        -       -    1,891
Roplanng           SPC        1,519    1,360   1,317   1,181    1,004       -       -   6,381
Sub-Tod:         SPC        2,077    1,762   1,717   1,491    1,225       -        -   8,272
Now Plantng        TOTAL       237      19S     163      114      68        -       -   2,668
Replautg           TOTAL       6S7     745      693     S95      S73        -       -   9,644
Totd:            TOTAL       894      940     856      709     641        -       -   12,312
C. Actua Pedormnco as % of Apptsa Estim
Now Planting      JEDS         22%      24%     25%      98%    232%       na      na      71%
R_paing           JEDB        101%      93%     98%S    SS%    164%        a       na    164%
Sub-Toad:        JUDB         80%      79%     84%    146%    172%S       na      na    146%
Now Planng         SPC         27%      47%     50%      81%     31%       an      an      63%
Rqeantlg           SPC         55%    10S%    222%    119%    113%         na      na    150%
Sub-Totld:       SPC          47%      92%    181%    111%      99%       na      na    130%
Now Plnting        TOTAL       8S%    121%    147%    317%    333%         na      na      65%
RePating           TOTAL      228%    285%    S19%    391%    363%         na      Oa    155%
Totd:            TOTAL       190%    251%    449%    379%    360%         an      na    135%
11 Coq flg e.



- 49 -
Annex 1
Table 13: Planton Dm Labor Wage Rates 1/
Rupa per day
-Toe-   -Rubber-                           Coconut
Year         Adult 2/     Child      Adult      Child      Adult      Chbld
1985            24.50      20.21      24.65      20.86      19.90      16.90
1986            26.21      21.85      26.36      22.00      19.90      16.90
19U7            27.83      22.93      27.98      23.08      19.90      16.90
1988 3/         36.52      30.64      36.S2      30,64      36.52      30.64
1989            40.60      33.70      40.60      33.70      40.60      33.70
1990            48.32      39.49      48.32      39.49      48.32      39.49
1991            52.24      42.43      S2.24      42.43      52.24      42.43
1992            59.12      48.59      59.12      48.59      59.12      48.59 (though June)
1/ Icluding Coat of Living Adjustment (COLA).
2/ FroA 19S4 equal wages for male & female.
31 From 1988 equal pay for al crops.
Source.: JED.
Table 14: Value of Total Compensation Pakge
Adult Tea Worker 1/
R?pse per Day
1992       1990       1989       1988       1987       1986
Ban Raft 2V                59.12      46.40      40.60      36.52      27.83       26.43
EPF                         7.09       S.57       4.87       4.38       3.34        3.17
Tru"tFund(ETF)              1.77       0.14       1.22        1.10      0.83        0.79
Holiday Pay                 4.22       1.72       1.50        1.35       1.03       0.97
Rat. Grat                   4.22       1.02       0.89       0.80       0.61        0.58
AtadattceBonus              1.66       1.30       1.14       1.02       0.78        0.73
Sub-Tota:                  18.97       9.75       9.62       8.6S       6.59        6.24
Other 3/                    2.66       2.66       2.46       2.28       2.01        1.93
TOW Non-Wag                21.63      12.41      12.08       10.93      8.60        8.17
Total Cost                 80.75      S8.81      52.68      47.45       36.43      34.60
CurratUS$4/                 1.84       1.46       1.46        1.49       1.24       1.24
I/ Mission cdcuain f  1992 frm JEDI data; for other yeas t    fm  Treecrps
Resucturin pae, Ane 12. with corrctm  for apparent asitmctic emos.
1990 gures we estimat.
2V iludes cost of living adjustm  (COLA).
3/ Housing, mdical, oather welfre, line upkeep, etc.
4/ Calculated at averge exhae raft for the year.



- 50 -
Anam 1
Tablo 1S: Labor Cost in COP
JEDE
JIsD
19B3    1984   1985    1966    1967    1968    1989    1990
Total COP (Rs/kg)   2421   30.47   38.90   36.86   41.02   47.04   51.i7   57.26
Laboras% of            53       54      54      61      60       56      60      61
COP
Labor Rs/kg            83   16AS   2101   19.90   2520   26.34   30.          34.93
Rubbot
l983    1984   196S    1986    1987    1988    1989    990
Ttal COP (Rs/kg)    9.6    12.7   18.79   19.71   17.99   22.45   27.66   2285
Lbor as % of           38       50      61      S0      51       47      59      61
COP
Labor Rs/kg           3.68    6.44   1146    9.85    9.17   16.55   16.30   13.94
SiSPC
1983    1984    1985    1966    1987    1988      989    1990
Total COP (Rs/kg)   2801   34.67   3S.12   3S.32   3822   45.21   527   55.18
Labor as % of          59       62      63      63      59       60      S8      60
COP
Labor Rs/kg          16.S3   2L46   213   2225   2255   27.13   30.72   33.11
1983    1984    1985    1966    1987    1968    1969    1990
Total COP (Rs/kg)    12.94   1439   1S.S    185    1933   23.89   2619   27A64
Labor a % of           62       59      62      61      64       60      61      62
COP
Labor Rs/kg           8.02    8.49    9.82   11.32    1237   14.33    1536   17.14
Sauw: JEDB/SLSPC - A Papr for the Taeap Ramtudng 1mjecL Wodd Bank Juy 1991.



- 51 -
Anne1
Table 16: Tam  and Dutims on Tea and Rubber
A. Tea Taaion
Tea Export Duty                  Ad Valorem
Yew                                                                    Total Tea Taxation
Bulk  Padccet   Green  Bags       Rate Threshold   Can            as % of NSA
(Rs/kg)                 (%) -(R)    (Rs)
1960     10S0      850   10.50   1.00         *              0.90                   S48
m61       8.00     6.50    8.00   1.00         -         -   o09                    493
92        8.00     6.50    8.00   1.00         -         -   090                    365
1963      9.00     7.50    9.00   2.00                   -   125                    4L0
1984      7.00     5.50    5.00   1.50        50        32   150                    567
18        S.00     3.50    5.00   OS.0        50        40   2.0                    264
1986      3.50     2.00    3.50   0.50        50        40   2.00                   h6
97        3.50     200    3.50   0.00         50        40   2.00                   16.0
1988      15D      1.00    150   0.50         50        44   2.00                   10.5
1989      LSO      1.00    1.50   0.50        50        60   2.0                    8.1
1990      1.50     1.00    lS.   0.50         S0        65   3.50                   lLS
1991      100       naL    VaL   nA.          40        65   2.00
B. Dutis and Ceses on Rubber Exports
(Rs/kg)
Year      GSA        Aveage   Ca   Duty & Can   Duty & Ca
(Av. Value)  Expor Duty        % of GSA      %of NSA
1961     21.80        9.40      0.86      46           89
1982      17.7C       6.55      0.86      42           72
1963      22.80       9.10      1.36      46           8S
1964      26.16       8.02      1.36      36           56
V85       2134        2.12      1.36      16            19
1986      23.84       3.79      1.36      22           28
W         27.6S       4.95      1.46      23           30
198      3733         833       1.46      26           3S
1989     3617         9.00      1.71      30           42
M990     36.50        8.50      1.70      28           39
Screw  WorW Grop on Tme Crp Taxadn (raw 1992).



- 52 -
1maI
Table 17: Estate Labor Fore
SLSPC                            JEDB                           TOTAL
Year            Total           Regular          Ca"l             Total
198S            220,296         193,436          3x440          225,76           446,172
1986            210,750         19S,098          28?5A6         223,694          434,444
1987            201888          189,143          25,593         214,736          416614
1988            201,871         186,718          24,44S         211,163          413,034
1989            200,S37         181,5S7          25,163         206,720          407,2S7
1990            192,744         174,002          27,482         201,484          394,228
1991            185,572         168,170          24,716         192,886          378,458
Note Tihe total etate labor force decblned by about 15% ovea the period 1985-1991 at an average
rate of about 11,300 workers per year.
Source SPC and JEDE, July 1992.



- 53 -
Anne I
Table 18: Comparative Tea Statisdcs
A. Major Exporters of Tea
(% of world exports)
1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
Sri  anka    21.5  21.5  22.1  18.1  21.7  20.7  213   20.6  20.8  18.0  24.0
India       26.0  28.3  23.2  23.9  23.0  22.4  20.9  20.9  21.0  195   213
KeMya        8.7   8.8   9.7  11.5   9.7  132   1.0  13.9  13.1  14.4  10.6
China       12.6  10.8  12.9  143   15.4  14.4  17.7  17.9  18.8  18.1  10.8
B. Tea Yield
(kg/ha)
1985     1986     1987     1988      1989     1990
Sri Lanka       92S      954      968     1,029     1,025    1,110
India         1,92S    1,868     1,964    2,297    2,009    2,313
Kenya         1,754    1,698     1,824    1,889    2,135    2,318
C. Costs of Production
(Rs/kg)
1984     1985      1986      1987      1988     1989      1990
State Sector      35.58     36.37     37.95     39.01     45.83    51.19     59.50
Private Sector    30.00     33.26     33S2      36.71    41.       47.80     55.30
D. Tea Plucking - Productivt of Labor
Sri Lanka State Sector    Private    South    North        Kaya
High  Medium       LOW    Sector       India    India
Yield (kg/ha)             1.416     1,064    1,325      2,442     2,127    2,300       2137
Intake per pludcer        14.22     10.54    15.81      2454      26.22     4&00        25.24
Laborperha                 3.57     2.98      3.08       2.70      2.67     250          2.20
Laborcost as % of COP       49        49        49        n.a       39        S0         n.a
Sowcxs: A, B & D - Sn Lanka. Tmrecps Resau ing Projeat The Fnancial Peifomnan  of JEDB
and SLSPC. Worid Bank 1991.
C - Sn Lanka Tea Boawd (1992).



- 54 -
Annex 2
PROJECT COMPLEIION REPORT
SRI LANKA
FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJECT (Cr. 1562-CE)
Summary of Financal Performance
(Rs Million)
A. Janatha Estates Development Board (JEDB)
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1990'
Net Fixed Assets         1,714   2,179   2,610   3,119   3,615   3,968   4,472   4,472
Bank O/D & S.T. Loans        9     25    229    223    791   1,155    843    843
Term Liabilities           818   1,117   1,459   1,853   2,224   2,522   2,513   2,044
Govt. Direct Contribution   1,051   1,104   1,147   1,161   1,161   1,161   1,162   2,631
Capital Expenditure        509    628    622    690    722    598    690    690
Revenue                  3,937   2,924   2,710   3,058   3,663   4,359   4,995   4,995
Profit Before Tax          958   -233   -486   -336   -586   -119   -414   -414
Cotp. Income Tax paid      600      0       0       0      0       0       0       0
Net Profit Margin (%e)     9.1     -8   -17.9    -11    -16    -2.7   -5.1   -5.1
Interest Cover (times)       0      0    -02      12      5.1    0.5     15      1.5
Profit after Tax           358   (233)  (486)  (336)  (586)  (119)  (414)  (414)
Current Ratio              1.7    1.8    12       0.9    0.7    0.7    0.8       08
Debt-Equity Ratio          12      1.1    1.8    2.4    62        83    16.8    2.5
Retur on Equity           19.6  -133   -33.9  -26.7  -779.8  -18.1  -73          -14
B. Sri Lanka State Plantations Corporation (SLSPC)
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1990*
Net Fixed Assets         1,433   1,665   2,086   2,7    3,280   3,623   3,991   2,991
Bank O/D &S.T. Loans         5    237    358    381    579    810    249    249
Term Liabilities           811   1,105   1,296   1,689   2,085   2,272   3,316   1,335
Govt. Direct Contrbution   836    808    808    806    806    806    806   2,787
Capital Expenditure      434.0  317.0  534.0  773.0  737.0  551.0  633.0  633.0
Revenue                  3,640   2,772   2,768   3,062   3,433   4,178   4,931   4,931
Profit Before Tax          727   (101)  (199)      12  (234)    180  (247)  (247)
Corp. IncomeTaxpaid        151      0       0       0      0       0       0      0
Net Profit Margin (%)     15.8  (3.6)   (72)    0.4  (6.8)        4.3  (2.9)   (2.9)
Interest Cover (tines)     0.0  (0.9)      2.1    0.4    12       0.4    0.7    0.7
Profit after Tax           576   (101)  (199)      12  (234)    180   (247)  (247)
Current Ratio              1.3    1.4    1.2    1.1    0.8    0.9    1.2    1.2
Debt-Equity Ratio          1.0    1.5    2.0    2.2    3.6        32     3.5    0.8
Return on Equity (%)      35.5  (7.7)  (17.1)    1.0  (22.9)    13.8  (10.8)   (4.3)
* This column has the projected 1990 figures after GOSL's conversion of debt into equity.
Soure: Company Financial Reports.



- 55 -
Annex 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJECT (Cr. 1562-CE)
Area-/ of Old Seedling Tea (OST) and Vegetatively Propagated (VP) Tea
(Hectares)
1985       1986       1987       1988       1989       1990       1991
JEDB
OST          41,849     42,812      41,122     37,608     35,640     34,989     34,896
VP           14,306      14,680     15,267     15,387     16,199     15,787     16,706
Total        56,155      57,492     56,389     52,995     51,839     50,776     51,602
% VP           25.5       25.5       27.1       29.0        31.2       31.1       32.4
SLSPC
OST          38,425     33,946     32,557      29,984     28,417     27,717     26,799
VP           15,692     16,009      16,412     18,094     18,208     18,311     18,980
Total        54,117     49,955      48,969     48,078     46,625     46,028     45,779
% VP           29.0       32.0       33.5       37.6        39.1       39.8       41.5
E/ Extent in beadng.



- 56 -
Annex 4
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJECT (Cr. 1562-)
Procurement of Vehicles and Factory Equipment
Table 1: Vehicles
Appraisal Estimate               Actual
JEDB  SLSPC  Total         JEDB  SLSPC   Total
Cars & Pidkups    118    154      272         166    247      413
Trucks            1SS    146    301           110    111      221
Tractors          230    198      428         218    209      4Z7
Trailers          344    252    596            -      73       73
Tanker Trailers    113     73     186                 49       49
Motor Cycles      163    147    310           141     28      169
Total            1,123    970   2,093         635    717   1,352



- 57 -
AnnM 4
Table 2. Factory Equipment
A. Janatha Estates Development Board
Apraisa F'stimate              Actual
Ouatt   Value Rs '000    Quntt    Value-Rs 0
ivsment Costs
Elevators                          25           176,104        6          1,986,141
Troughs and Fans                  183           867,189      112         23,167,672
Rolers                             57           767,996        7         2,840,050
Breakers and Conveyors            110           504,309       70          7,727,96
ECP Driers                         28          1,665502        3         5,408,480
FDB Modules                         7           286,230
Humidifiers                        68           101,025       60         4,849,602
Fumaces and Conwvyors              17           614,547        4         3,964,470
Scles                              58           180,052
Silten and Conveyors              141           598440         S           233,019
Etractors and Winnowers           124           615,110       29          7,476,728
Power and  lectrial Works          10          1,033,870       1           312,978
Crc Macines 
Rotorvanes                         56           480,860       29         6,551,9
Other Equipment                   214          1,722,719      33         21022,883
Sub-total Tea                                  94613.95                  85S41.954
B. 
Not specified                                  3,068,632
C. Coconuts
Renovation of Fils                 10             8,763
Constucion of New Kilns            14            53,373
Construction of Barbecue           18            22987
Constuction of Stores/Kitchens     17            826
Renovation of Barbecus            n.s.            8,483
Sub-total Coconuts                              16;276
GRAND TOTAL                                      _



- 58 -
Amiex 4
B. Sri Tanka State Plantadons Corporadon
rama  il stima                  Actial
Quitian       Value Rs '000    Quantity   Value Rs00
ameant Const
A. Tea
mlemat                               21         151,290        .        
Tm&s and Fans                       199        1,324,S92      279             6,72S
Rolles                              131        1,84S,28        54            1S,384
Breakm and Conveyors                1?3         700,068        82             1,87
EDCP Driers                          40        2,44                          14,815
FDB Modules                          16         680,243.              
Humidifiess                         129         191,38        193             2,43
Fumnaces and Conveors                 7         22C,?C8-
Scales                               91         3S2,S32
Siftes and Convmeyt                 151         6S3,729        60             3,811
xtrots and Winnows                   91         655,912        S2            10,719
P-ower sand Erlecicl Wor          1,366         334,32         47             I'mS
CCMaddnes                           I          38,63
Rotorvanes                           85         S5,88?         73             7,59
Oth:r Equipmw                       359         749,713        59             2,0S8
Sub-total Tea                                 IL2.4                         665C
G'"l  Region                        Ds736,05
:'ormna Region                      1M ,441,844
BWangoda Raegon                                 84. 5,397
Sub-total Rubber                               3.023,291
GRAND TOTAL                                   1402=                          a



N   _ /             61'  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8'IBRD 18232
SRI LANKAMA19
K  A--                                                                ~~~~~~~BATTICALOA                             FOURTH   TREE  CROPS  PROJECT
C8;lqw ~~~~~ZiZ  KURU   TEGAtA  ~~~~~~~~                                                                                  PLANTATION    DISTRICTS   AND   LAND    USE
_____                                      / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                       K.4N~~~~~~~~~~~'IDY Pla.tat.on District Arec,3
____                                                                                -                                         ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Selected Toens
*     National Copitol
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Land Uso.
_________                                                                                                                                l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ubber
0 ~~~~~(AMPARAI                                                                             Relief~
High Co.ntry (obo~e 1200 meters)
L  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ '                          M,d Country (600-1200 meters)
)                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------ Rivers
famba                                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~District go.ndories
~   ONE RAGA LA /
83'
ECOLOGICAL        'k, ~                                L
HAMHAM ANTCOTA                                                                             I                     ZONES
Zoe      ef9a             reufMp               _
0 20  30   40    so    60    70                               r netden,np            '\5Y
KILOMir ..tww    ErTnERSew                           Ntn,au  ri,1
n  d      /                                                    C                                                                   w(
~~~~~2- ~~~~~~~~~Gall
L ~      ~       ~        i'         6



