Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C A          /,5z;- Ct
Report No. 5265-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJECT
February 15, 1985
South Asia Projects Department
General Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties- Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1           =        Rupees (Rs) 25.17
Re 1                   US$0.04
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cubic meter        =        1.308 cubic yards
1 kilometer          =        0.62 miles
1 meter (a)          =        1.09 yards
1 kilogram (kg)      =        2.2 pounds
1 hectare (ha)       =        2.47 acres
1 square meter (m2)  =       10.76 square feet
1 ton (metric)       =       2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB      -    Asian Development Bank
BHP      -    Brake Horse Power
BOC      -    Bank of Ceylon
CRI      -    Coconut Research Institute
CTC      -    Cut Tear and Curl
IDU      -    Institution Development Unit
38DB     -    Janatba Estates Development Board
LCB      -    Local Competitive Bidding
LRC      -    Land Reform Commission
MOFP     -    Ministry of Finance and Planning
MPI      -    Ministry of Plantation Industries
MTIP     -    Medium-Term Investment Program
NIPM     -    National Institute of Plantation Management
NPV      -    Net Present Value
,ODA     -    Overseas Development Administration (UK)
OST      -    Old Seedling Tea
RRI      -    Rubber Research Institute
RSS      -    Ribbed Smoked Sheet
SCF      -    Standard Conversion Factor
SPC      -    Sri Lanka State Plantations Corporation
TRAD     -    Tea Rehabilitation and Diversification Project
(IDA Credit 1240-CE)
TRI      -    Tea Research Institute
TSHDA    -    Tea Smallholders Development Authority
TSR      -    Technically Specified Rubber
VA       -    Visiting Agent
VP       -    Vegetatively Propagated
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Beneficiaries:     Janatha Estates Development Board
Sri Lanka State Plantations Corporation
Amount:            SDR 56.5 million (US$55.0 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Relending Terms:  The Government would relend the credit at an interest
rate of 11 percent to the Bank of Ceylon (BOC), which
would onlend to the corporations at an interest rate
of 13 percent per annium. Repayment of subloans by
both BOC and the corporations would be over ten years,
including a one-year grace period. The Government would
bear the fcreign exchange risk, while BOC would assume
full risk for funds on-lent to the corporations.
Project
Description:     The project aims at increasing the production of
tea, rubber, and coconuts by improving the productivity
of all publicly-held estates, rehabilitating
tactories, providing field and nursery equipment, and
improving transportation. The project would strengthen
management and financial control of the corporations,
stabilize lands through soil conservation, and improve
the health and social welfare of estate workers and
their families. The project would also improve
institutional capacity by providing training, technical
assistance, and facilities for planning and monitoring
operations. The project contains no unusual risk.
This document hs a rnestricted distiibuion and may be used byr rpients only in the perfomnce of
txir off-icil dutieL its ontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatin.



Estimated Cosc: a/                                   Local       Foreign      Total
--    --US$ million-        --
Field Works                                         66.7       15.0         81.7
Field and Nursery Equipment                          3.1         1.9         5.0
Vehicles                                             2.5         7.4         9.9
Factory Rehabilitation                              13.3         8.5        21.8
Mini-Hydro Units                                     4.2         4.1         8.3
Housing                                              9.2         2.9        12.1
Social Welfare                                       7.8        2.9         10.7
Institution Building                                 6.6        5.2         11.8
Base Cost                                        113.4       47.9        161.3
Physical Contingencies                               6.3         2.1         8.4
Price Contingencies                                 32.5         9.6        42.1
Total Cost                                       152.2       59.6        211.8
Financing Plan:
IDA                                                 28.1       26.9         55.0
ADB                                                 21.2        23.8        45.0
ODA                                                  0.0         5.5         5.5
Netherlands Government                               6.0         2.0         8.0
Norwegian Government                                 4.1         1.4         5.5
Bank of Ceylon                                      10.0        0.0         10.0
Corporations                                        82.8        0.0         82.8
Total                                            152.2       59.6        211.8
Estimated Disbursement:
FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90
IDA FY                                   ---US$ million-            …
Annual                              14.8    14.9    12.1      7.2      6.0
Cumulative                          14.8    29.7    41.8    49.0    55.0
Economic Rate of Return: 26%
Man:           No. IBRD 18232
a/ Includes taxes and duties of US$11.1 M.



-iii-
SRI LANKA
FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Paste No.
I.   IYIODUCTION   .................................                1
II.  THE TMR  CROP SECTOR  .....................    1
A. General ..........        ......... ........................    1
B. Land Reform ..........2..............................    2
C. Sector Issues  ...........        3.........................  3
D.  Public Sector Corporations  ..*.......*.............    4
E.  Relations betveeu Estates and Suallholders ..*......    9
F. The Medium-Term Investmeut Program (MTIP) and
Project Genesis        .......*.*... ...........   10
G.  IDA Involvement in the Tree Crops Sector ............     11
E.  Lessons Learned from Previous Projects  .............  12
III.  THE PROJECT AREA   ..................................... .    13
A. Physical Characteristics  ...........................   13
B. Plantation Crops  ..............**.......  *.....  .       15
Tea ...............................................   15
Rubber ............................ ..*00.6...   18
Coconuts ........... s ............ 1.......     .*   19
Produce Marketing ........................* .........   19
C.  Social Welfare on Estates       ..........................   20
D.  Infrastructure  .................................-.*.  21
IV. THE PROJECT  ........................       ......................*   23
A.  Objectives     ...............................  23
B. Main Features  ...............    23
C. Detailed Features   ........       ........  24
Field Program ......  .... ........*.. .   24
Tea Planting ....... ................                 24
Tea Replanting ...........................* **0  24
Tea Infilling  ..................................   24
Diversification ................                      24
Soil Conservation .............. ..                   24
Rubber Replanting .......................... ...   25
Coconut Replanting ............ *....... *.......*....   25
JEDB  and SPC Field Program Summary     ..............  25
Field and Nursery Equipment ...0....................,  26
Estate Vehicles ...................... ..........   26
Crop Processing .....................o.s...... ..   27



-iv-
Page No.
Tea Factory Rehabilitation .......................   27
Rubber Factory Rehabilitation ....................  27
Coconut Processing .....                 ........  28
Mini-Hydro Renovation ............g...............  28
Housing             .......................         28
Social Welfare .......eeee...                          29
Creches .................                            29
Medical ..................                           29
Institutional Development .........................   29
General   .........        ...... .      ......   29
Training      ................. ......   30
Technical Assistance  .......................   30
Regional Support     .......................   30
Central Office Support  .......................   31
Planning Units . ..      ....................   31
Monitoring ...............................   31
Smallholder Studies .......................    31
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING             . .............           32
A.  Cost Estimates  ....................0................   32
B.  Financing  .e..*e          ...........m ..               33
C.  Procurement and Disbursement  ............eeee m..m.me   35
VI* PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ............    ....................   38
A.  Organization and Nanagement  ....gg.eceeemcge..          38
BH  Cost Control  ....e... ccc...mge.  memeeceemme e.e.c..    39
C.  Financial Management and Control          ...................   39
D. Accounting and Audit  .c......e.c       ....     .  *.e   40
e. Planning  ..........m.ececee..cmeceecccgcecmeec..ce   41
F.  Institutional Development   ..e.ecmeeee.cegeee.eecc   41
G. Monitoring  ..........            ...g........m...ee   41
VII. ZRODUCTION.-MARKETS. AD PRICES  .............                    42
A.  Yields and Production  ...eec mc......e.......... e cc  42
B.  Markets and Prices  .........0....0....................   43
VIII.  FIRANCTAL PROJECTIONS AND ARALYSIS ...emmec.mem.ccc.........     45
A.  Producer Margins  ......                  ...c...m;m 45
B.  Income Projections  ..m..ecmecc.m. ..................    45
C.  Yiuancial and Fiscal Rates of Return  ...............    50
D.  Government Revenue  .ccmm.cmec.e.ce.ec.eceecmeceee...   51
IH. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  *geemecceeec...............     52
A.  Benefits  ..cmm......                                    52
B.  Economic Analysis  ..c.........e........... ---4-e e.--eec  53
C. Project Risks  ......... cece.ccccemceeeccemcemcccc   56
X.  RECONMENDATIONS AND ASSURANCES ................. ccc....c..cc..........   57



Paf e no.
LIST OF TABLES IN MAIN TEXT
2.1 - Performance Indicators of the Tree Crops Sector......     2
3.1 - Regional Boards, Plantation Districts and Estates....   14
3.2 - Public Estate Tea Areas..............................   17
4.1 - Field Progra ........................................     26
4.2 - Total Estate Vehicles .... ........... . . . . . . . ...  27
5.1 - Project Cost Summary. ..      ....... ....................... 32
5.2 - Inflation Rate.......................................   33
5.3 - Financing Plan .................................. 34
5.4 - Procurement Arrangements ............................ .  36
8.1 - Working Ratio .........                                   46
8.2 - Impact of Proposed Tax Adjustments on
Corporation Revenuee..................... .............   48
8.3 - Summary Sources and Application of PFuds
from 1985 through 1990 ......................... ......   49
8.4 - Financial and Fiscal Rates of Return .............. ..   51
9.1 - Economic Rates of Return .............................    54
9.2 - Sensiti-vity                       Tss..................... 55
9.3 - Switching Values.....................................   55
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Glossary of Terms
Annex 2 - Project Costs sad Disbursements
Annex 3 - Financial Statements and Projections
Annex 4 - Areas, Production and Economic Analyses
Annex 5 - Organization and Implementatiou Charts
Annex 6 - Documents in Project File
LIST OF MAPS
IBRD 18232



SRI LANKA
FWRTH TREE CROPS PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    This report appraises a plantation rehabilitation project in Sri
Lanka's tree crops subsector. The project forms part of the Government's
development strategy which emphasizes restoring the productivity of the
export-oriented tree crops. IDA accords the tree crops subsector high
priority and for several years has supported a series of projects involving
both plantations and smallholders. These projects have in themselves been
successful, but underlying deficiencies within the sector have reduced their
potential impact. IDA's involvement in the proposed project would ensure
continued institutional improvement in the sector. Government has initiated
a number of significant steps to improve sector performance. Foremost among
them vas the preparation in 1983 of a Medium-Term Investment Program (MTIP)
for the state-owned plantations. MTIP was submitted to IDA in December 1983
as the preparation document for the proposed project.
1.02    During 1983 the Bank conducted a review of Sri Lanka's tree crops
subsector (Report 4890-CE). The review highlighted several sectoral issues
requiring remedial action. While discussion on these issues was continuing,
a Bank preappraisal mission visited Sri Lanka in March 1984. jj The mission
found that technical aspects of the proposed project were satisfactory and
recommended that once satisfactory steps had been taken to resolve sectoral
issues the project should be deemed to have been appraised. This position
was reached in July 1984. This report therefore presents the findings and
recommendations of the March 1984 mission and should be read in conjunction
with the subsector review.  Iegotiations for the proposed project were held
in Washington in February 1985.
II. THE TREE CROP SECTOR
A. General
2.01    Economic growth in Sri Lanka depends largely upon agricultural per-
formance in which tree crops play a major role. About 75Z of the population
lives in rural areas and agriculture accounts directly for 20-25% of GDP, 50%
of employment, 40Z of government revenues and 55-60% of export earnings.
Tree crops, mostly tea, rubber and coconuts, occupy almost 900,000 ha or 41%
of cropped land. Tree crops continue to be the main source of foreign
exchange earnings and employ about one-sixth of the total labor force. The
sector's dominant role in Sri Lanka's economy is therefore unquestioned. In
spite of their importance, however, tree crops have suffered from chronic
A/ The mission consisted of Messrs. J. A. Hayward, M. Brown, K. Loganathan,
A. Tobelem (Bank), M. Balls, J. W. Blencowe and A. Wilson (Consultants).
Ms. Y. 0. Bong was responsible for the typing and layout of the report.



-2-
neglect, manifested in steadily deteriorating performance, as illustrated in
Table 2.1.
Table 2.1: PERFORMhNCE INDICATORS OF THE TREE CROPS SUBSECTOR'
1973       1978         1982
Value added as I of GDP                           15          18          11
Share of Export Earnings                          87          73          47
Share of Government Revenues                       9          41          15
Share of Total Employment                         27         22           15
Production
Tea M kg                                      213         199         188
Rubber M kg                                   140         156         125
Coconuts M nuts                             2,963      2,207        2,258 aI
a/ Figures presented are for 1981, 1982 figures not available.
2.02    The poor performance of the sector has been due to a combination of
factors: severe dislocation caused by land reform, declining profitability
due to low prices and high export taxes, Government's lack of planning and
unfavorable policies, and inadequate foreign exchange allocation for inputs.
These constraints have had a detrimental effect on the whole sector but
particularly on the plantation corporations with statutory overheads and
little flexibility of action.
B. Land Reform
2.03    Decline in tree crops began with the threat of land nationalization
in the late 1960s and the consequent decapitalization of plantations by
private owners. Since 1972, private land holdings have been limited to no
more than 20 ha which released 225,000 ha of land and associated infrastruc-
ture to the Land Reform Commission (LRC) of which 135,000 ha were under tree
crops. Attempts at cooperative management of these lands produced disastrous
results and were abandoned. Subsequently 40 of the largest estates were
given over to management by the State Plantations Corporation (SPC), then
under the Ministry of Plantation ldustries (MPI). In a second stage of land
reform, in 1975, all land owned by Sri Lankan and foreign companies, which
included the country's major tea and rubber estates, was also vested in LRC.
The Government then assigned management of about 65,000 ha of these estates
to SPC and nearly 95,000 ha to the Janatha Estates Development Board (JEDB)
which was established for the purpose under the Ministry of Agriculture but
later transferred to MPI. This makes JEDB and SPC the two largest plantation
corporations in the world.



-3-
2.04    Since 1978, the land tenure structure has been relatively stable and
a rationalization of estates to produce a more efficient geographical dis-
tribution of properties between JEDB and SPC has occurred. The corporations
now manage 530 estates with a total of about 230,000 ha, 25% of the country's
tree crop area.
2.05    Though most of the tree crop plantations were nationalized around
1975, the threat of land reform had existed for several years and investments
were kept to a minimum. The net result of nationalization vas that for
almost a decade the plantations were neglected; this situation was disastrous
for tree crops because neglect has long-term deleterious effects on crop
production. The stabilization of estates has overcome many of the uncertain-
ties which beset the sector and their upkeep has begun to improve. However,
improvement has been much slower than anticipated due to unfavorable govern-
ment policies which have discouraged investment, and to organizational
problems in the corporations.
2.06    Since nationalization, JEDB and SPC have been staffed almost
exclusively by former private planters who, although experts in technical
production and estate management, bad little experience in corporation
management. Thus neither corporation was equipped to cope with complex
commercial undertakings. This led to organizational and attitudinal problems
which are taking time to resolve.
C. Sector Issues
Policy and Planning
2.07    The principal problems which have constrained sectoral performance
since land reform stem from government neglect of sectoral planning and
policy formulation, and excessive taxation, particularly of tea. As a result
neither the private nor public sectors have been able to perform well.
Government responsibility for the sector is dispersed amougst ministries
which have no functional liaison. Thus decision making has been ad hoc and
at times contradictory. Planning on a sector level has been poor, coherent
policy has not been established and scarce resources have not been allocated
to priority programs. The preparation of MTIP has gone a long way towards
establishing priorities and forging good vorking relationships within the
public sector. Planning according to economLic criteria is now recognized as
a sectoral necessity and liaison between JEDB, SPC and the Ministry of
Finance and Planning (MOFP) has greatly improved. The preparation of NTIP
has been a significant move forward in institution building. A similar
exercise would be promoted for the private sector under the proposed project.
Producer Marsins
2.08    Sri Lanka has levied far higher export taxes on its producers than
have its competitors. This excessive taxation contributed significantly to



-4-
the deterioration of the sector which in turn has resulted in an actual
decline in tax revenues from tree crops. Tax structures and rates vary
between crops causing distortions and variability in reactions to world price
changes. In 1984, the Government established a Working Group to monitor tax
levels in relation to export prices and to recommend tax adjustments to
ensure that non-distortionary signals are sent to producers. Following
recommendations from the Working Group, reductions in taxation vere made in
the November 1984 budget. To offset, in part, the loss of government
revenue, all subsidies paid to JEDB and SPC have been removed but continue to
be available to private producers. The outcome of these recent moves is that
producer margins are satisfactory and investment in the sector has been
stimulated.
D. Public Sector Corporations
2.09    JEDB and SPC are Government-owned corporations.  Together they own
and manage 571 of Sri Lanka's tea area, producing 672 of green leaf and
manufacturing 78Z of made tea. They also own and manage 352 of the country's
rubber area and process about 35Z of the output. JEDB now produces about 40
million coconuts per year and both corporations, througb diversification of
old tea areas, produce small quantities of minor export crops, principally
coffee and spices. The estates are formally vested in the corporations but
their capital structures remain to be decided pending parliamentary approval
for an increase in capital following valuation of assets vested (para 2.19).
If the estates are valued at the price paid as compensation to previous
owners then their equity values would each be about Rs 1,000 M (US$40 M).
2.10    Both corporations, each with annual net sales well over one billion
rupees, have been given the status of separate ministries with the President
as Minister-in-Charge. The chairman of each corporation occupies the posi-
tion of Ministry Secretary. In 1980, management of the plantations, which
bad previously been highly centralized, was regionalized. Each corporation
is serviced by Regional Boards (Organization Charts, Annex 5), which are
Government-ovned plantation management companies. The Regional Boards
operate groups of estates within plantation districts but financial control,
marketing and personnel administration remain the responsibility of the
corporations (JEDB and SPC)-now called the Central Boards. Each Regional
Board witb three to four directors is headed by a chairman. The chairmen and
directors are senior planters drawn from the corporations' estates. Regional
Board chairmen serving under the Central Board chairmen make up the majority
of the Central Boards of JEDB and SPC and are therefore responsible for
policy formulation as well as execution. The other members of the Central
Boards are a nominee each from the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MOFP), a
representative from the labor unions and in JEDB, a practicing accountant.
2.11    Relations with Government.  So far as large-scale operations are
concerned, both JEDB and SPC are young organizations. A significant early
problem faced by the corporations was the time Government took to establish



permanent terms of service for staff taken under land reform; when terms were
established they lacked the strong incentive which had characterized the
private industry. Another unsettling factor was the considerable svitching
around of estates and allocation of superintendents, used to the highest
standards of plantation management, to estates which had been badly mis-
managed after land reform. This was extremely demoralizing particularly to a
group of planters noted for its elitism and esprit de corps; many good staff
were lost during the period. Those planters remaining have gradually come to
terms with their new roles, procedures and responsibilities, and have
accepted the cballenge of getting the plantations back into order as quickly
as possible. The evidence for this has clearly been provided in the
IDA-supported projects (para 2.33). To achieve this objective, however, the
corporations must be provided with an adequate and consistent flow of funds,
a situation lacking under recent govlnment strategy.
2.12    Since 1978 the decline in crop prices and inadequate adjustments to
tazes, coupled with over-recruitment of staff and labor, have resulted in
both corporations operating at deficits. These deficits were financed by
budgetary aid, usually too little and too late, and by borrowing from commer-
cial banks which vas limited by Government. Following nationalization part
of the working capital of previous owners was transferred to the corpora-
tions. These funds were fully used to cover losses and the corporations
suffered a severe working capital crisis until mid-1983 when tea prices
increased.
2.13    An issue of overriding importance in corporation efficiency has been
a poor operating environment, largely created by Govermnent. The key problem
has been lack of trust; the corporations have never been allowed the freedom
of action and resources to carry out their mandate. Criticism of corporate
performance by senior government officials, many of whom operated private
plantations, led to the corporations being deliberately starved of funds.
Government vas remiss, hovever, in never holding the corporations to account
for technical and financial reporting and did not establish criteria to
measure performance. Since early 1983 there have been considerable changes
for the better. Under the ongoing Tea Rehabilitation and Diversification
(TRAD) Project (Cr. 1240-CE) international and local management consultants,
highly experienced in plantation affairs, were appointed to recommend and
implement ways to improve corporate performauce. The consultants conducted
an exhaustive review of the financial and management procedures of JEDB and
SPC and emphasized that the prime need for change was in relations between
the Government and corporations. Key findings of the consultants were that:
(a) there should be an increase in clearly defined delegation of
authority at all levels: Government to Central Boards; Central
Boards to Regional Boards; and Regional Boards to estate
superintendents;



-6-
(b) board structure and composition should be modified to ensure a
clear distinction between policy formulation and execution;
(c)  inereased delegation of authority and responsibility must be
accompanied by increased accountability;
(d) increased accountability will require establisbment of clearly
defined targets for physical and financial performance Which in
turn vill require development of corporate planning capability;
(e) the corporations' finances need restructuring to provide a basis
for the establishment of financial targets and measurements of
performance;
(f) to carry out agreed plans the corporatious must bave access to
a reliable supply of fimnacial resources, they cannot operate
efficiently with the present "hand-to-mouth" approach to funding;
(g)  a anagesment information system must be introduced to improve
efficiency and facilitate accountability; and
(h) personnel at all levels must be pxovided with a pay system which
rewards good performance.
These findings have been fully endorsed by Government and IDA and a timetable
for implementation has been agreed with Gover nent and the corporations;
details are in the Project File, Item 1O.'
2.14    Government's attitude toward the corporations has recently improved,
influenced partly by demonstrated improvements in estates covered by Bank
projects, and partly by a change in attitude ou the part of senior corpora-
tion staff who have welcomed and readily accommodated the consultants' recom-
mendations. Government has also been made aware of the great value of its
plantations by a sharp turnaround in corporate profitability brought about by
a combination of high tea prices and good growing couditions. The production
of the MMIP in 1983, itself important evidence of JEDB and SPC's commitment
to ratioual planning, was a collaborative effort between Government and the
corporations which has generated a better relationship at the working levels.
2.15    Financial ManaRement.  The Finance Act (No. 38 of 1971) controls the
corporations' financial operations which are highly centralized. All financ-
ing is arranged by the Central Boards which control the release of funds to
Regional Boards and the estates. Major suppliers' invoices are also settled
by the central offices. The corporations are expected to operate within
finaucing limits imposed by the Treasury and are dependent on Treasury sanc-
tion for long-term finsncing. The Finance Act also requires prior approval
of the Treasury for commitment of capital expenditure in excess pf Rs 0.5 M
(US$20,000) irrespective of whether such expenditure was included in the



-7-
corporations' approved annual budgets. Authority to commit the corporations
on revenue expenditure within approved budgets has been delegated to the
Regional Boards and superintendents.
2.16    Long-range financial planning as a function is non-existent.  Budget-
ing is restricted to an annual basis, apart from projects funded by donor
agencies covering a limited number of estates. Day-to-day financial control
is adequate, but procedures are cumbersome and frequently excessive.
Regional offices participate in the preparation of annual budget estimates
for each estate and forward regionally-approved versions to headquarters in
Colombo. Estates submit monthly progress reports both in physical and finan-
cial terms to headquarters through the regional offices. Hovever, a standard
and more concise reporting format should replace the form inherited from
pre-nationalization management.
2.17    The Regional Boards, although autonomous public-sector corporations,
rely on the Central Boards for all investment and recurrent funds. Funds are
allocated by the Central Boards for the Regional Boards' operating expenses,
based on a nominal management fee. Any surplus or deficit arising from the
operations of the Regional Boards is absorbed by the Central Boards.
2.18    Financial performance of the two corporations from 1977 to 1984 is
shown in Annex 3, Tables 1 and 2. In 1977, with high tea prices, the cor-
porations made good profits and had a 68% working ratio. 1/ However, from
1978 through 1981, the working ratios had deteriorated to almost lOOZ. The
key factors which affected the corporations' profitability were poor tea
prices in 1978 and 1979, a statutory increase in labor wages of almost 100%
in 1979, an absorption of excess staff and labor taken over on unproductive
estates, increases in costs of fertilizer and electricity by over 300X in
1980, and crop shortfall in 1980 due to severe drought. Goverenmt increased
the export duty and taxes in 1977 to match the high tea prices and devalua-
tion of the currency. Subsequent reductions in taxes were, however, inade-
quate and untimely and could not buffer the corporations from losses.  In
1982 due to the improvement in tea prices and satisfactory crop, the vorking
ratios improved. This trend continued during 1983 and 1984. From these
surpluses the corporations have paid off their short-term borrovings from
commercial banks and have financed their limited capital expenditure for 1984
from their own resources.
2.19    A proper appraisal of the financial structure of the two corporations
is not yet possible as their capital restructuring has not been completed.
As a first step towards addressing this problem, the valuation of assets has
AJ  Ratio of total working expenses (excluding depreciation, interest,
selling expenses, and Regional and Central Boards' establishment and
administrative expenses) to total operating revenue.



-8-
been completed according to valuations set out in the Land Reform Lav. Work
is now in progress to rationalize current assets and liabilities taken over
at nationalization by vriting off unsaleable and obsolete stocks, uncollec-
table debts and fictitious assets and liabilities.
2.20    Accounting. Corporate accounting is centralized.  Accounts at the
estate level are up to date and submission of monthly estate accounts through
regional offices to central headquarters is strictly enforced. Consolidation
of accounts at the central offices, which was in arrears, has now been
brought up-to-date.
2.21    Auditinz.  The Auditor General, as statutory corporate auditor, is
responsible for auditing accounts of the Central and Regional Boards and
their estates. Owing to the size of the corporations, private chartered
accountant firms are appointed by the Auditor General for the audits of the
Central and Regional Boards. The corporations are given the discretion to
appoint private auditors for the estates. This has resulted in about 45
firms handling the audits of one corporation and inadequate coordination
among auditors. Moreover, the audits at different levels vary in thorough-
ness and degrees of completeness.
2.22    Internal Audit. Internal audit is centralized with the Chief Inter-
nal Auditor reporting to the chairmen of the Central Boards. Internal audit
officers at each Regional Board, report to the regional chaiz-men. The inter-
nal audit units in both corporations are inadequately staffed. These units
are at present involved in surprise audit checks of estates, and in inves-
tigations which are mostly uadertaken on receipt of petitions. The auditors
do not review the functioning of systems and controls.
2.23    Monitoring.  In order to monitor performance on individual estates
a Visiting Agent (VA) system is operated by both JEDB and SPC. This system
arose in the days of private estate ownership when owners and agency houses
appointed senior expezienced planters to visit estates tvice yearly on a paid
basis to monitor all aspects of estate performance. Development plans for an
estate were prepared by the Estate Superintendent in consultation with the
VA; both the VA and the superintendent were held accountable for efficient
estate progress. The VA system worked well but depended upon the experience
and vigilarce of the senior planters. Since nationelization most superinten-
dents have been given VA responsibilities in order to augment their income.
This has resulted in a fall in overall monitoring standards. Monitoring of
stock, both inputs and produce, in store and in transit, is weak. This
problem is being addressed by the management consultants. Inadequate
monitoring of physical performance has been a major cause of the Government's
criticism of corporation operations.
2.24    Interinstitutional Liaison. Although the corporations operate as
semiautonomous agencies their performance is greatly influenced by other
institutions and ministries within Government. The Ministry of Finance and



Planning (MOFP) controls their profit margins by adjusting export taxes,
approves their investment programs and coordinates project preparation.
Overall responsibility for tea and rubber services to the industry is
provided by the Ministry of Plantation Industries (MPI) which is made up of
the Tea Board, the Tea Research Institute (TRI), Tea Smallholders Development
Anthority (TSEDA), Department of Rubber Control, the Rubber Research
Institute (RRI), Rubber Advisory Services Department and the National
Institute of Plantation Management (NIPM). MPI is therefore central to the
development of the industry, being responsible for policy formulation, market
promotion, subsidy levels and administration, extension, research and manage-
ment training. All aspects of national coconut production are governed by
the Ministry of Coconuts which also operates the Coconut Research Institute
(CRI). The Department of Minor Export Crops within the Ministry of Agricul-
tural Development and Research has prime responsibility for the promotion of
coffee, cocoa and spices.
2.25    Government recognizes that poor coordination within the sector has
had an adverse effect on JEDB and SPC performance. Before 1984 neither
corporation vas represented on the Tea Board and were therefore excluded from
policy making including market promotion; both corporate chairmen have
recently been appointed to the Board. As a further move to streamline
institutional liaison, Government is establishing a National Tree Crop Policy
Committee to be responsible for policy making, plAnning and coordination.
It will take time for all the anomalies in the sector to be removed but
significant improvements are being made.
2.26    Training throughout the sector is the responsibility of NIPM which
works closely with the advisory and extension services of the research
institutes and organizes seminars, courses and field days for all levels of
staff. However, training courses tend to be ad hoc and purely technical and
are not geared to bridging skill gaps within institutions. No attention has
been given to the need for systematic staff development.
E. Relations between Estates and Smallholders
2.27    The majority of JEDB and SPC tea estates buy green leaf from
smallholders and 25 estates rely on private leaf for more than half of their
raw material. Most smallholders are unable to supply direct to factories
because of the small quantities of leaf involved and lack of transport.
Conversely factory operators do not want to engage in hundreds of tiny trans-
actions. The bulk of smallholder green leaf is therefore marketed through
intermediaries who exploit the weak position of smallholders and pay prices
which may be 30Z below market values. In response, smallholders pluck coar-
sely and adulterate their leaf to increase weight; this has a detrimental
effect on quality and prices and the entire output of an estate may suffer.
2.28    Smalliholders rely on TSHDA for inputs, credit and technical advice
and the estates have no involvement in any smallholder activity other than



-10-
manufacturing. TSHDA is weak and understaffed and its responsibilities
require clear definition. A study for this purpose would be undertaken under
the project. Estate superintendents complain about leaf quality from
smallholders yet have no direct means of improving the situation. JEDB and
SPC are aware of the problem but have to date committed their limited resour-
ces to rehabilitation of their own estates. Superintendents would be
prepared to service their smallholder suppliers if a feasible operational
arrangement could be developed and tested.
2.29    The rubber smallholder is much better served than the private tea
grover. Processing is carried out in many thousands of small sheeting
facilities and smokehouses in the private sector. About 100 group-processing
centers were established by the RRI in more remote areas. Nevertheless,
considerable additional value might at times be added to latex by processing
this into crepe at larger factories. At present only about 8% of smallholder
lates is processed in this way. Many JEDB and SPC rubber factories process
too little latex to be viable and a system of latex collection and processing
at larger factors would be investigated.
F.  The Medium-Term Investment Prozram (MTIP) and Proiect Genesis
2.30    Development of MTIP.  Prior to 1983, the corporations had no invest-
ment strategy extending beyond their annual budgets. At the instigation of
the Government and the Bank, MTIP was formulated during 1983 by bringing
together individual five-year investment proposals of all estates (248 JEDB,
and 282 SPC) into regional plans, amalgamating these into corporate plans and
combining these into a single investment program for the plantation sector.
Investment proposals included all activities on estates: field development,
factory rehabilitation, transport, social welfare (i.e. housing, sanitation,
water supplies and medical) plus anticipated investments at regional and
corporate levels. Anticipated crop yields, investment costs and proposed
implementation plans were prepared for each estate, based on estate records,
and vere checked by visiting agents, regional advisers and technical consult-
ants. A team of staff and consultants representing both corporations calcu-
lated preliminary financial and economic rates of return for each estate.
The analyses revealed which estate proposals required revision. This itera-
tive procedure continued until a technically and economically viable NTIP was
produced for each corporation.
2.31    IDA appraisal of MTIP.  MTIP was based on the requirements of
individual estates. However, overestimation of implementation capacity,
particularly in civil works and factory rehabilitation, necessitated
modification to implementation schedules. In addition some estates are too
small to be viable units and rationalization will be required particularly in
regard to rubber processing; this will reduce the requirements for factory
rehabilitation. Vehicle requirements were based on real needs and con-
stituted mainly functional vehicles for estate usage. Investment in social



-ll-
welfare had been underemnphasized and additional provision for welfare serv-
ices was therefore included in MTIP. Institutional development needs had not
been fully addressed and training and technical needs, based on a systematic
identification of skill gaps, were incorporated into HTIP. Finally HTIP for
each corporation was reviewed by IDA and revised according to the financial
capacity of the corporations to undertake a five-year development program.
2.32    MTIP and the Proiect.  It is intended that MTIP should be a rolling
corporate program, revised annually according to changing circumstances:
investment costs, commodity prices, market deasnds and experience gained by
the corporations. The MTIP will be the total investment program of JEDB and
SPC irrespective of sources of finance. Investment decisions and budget
approval will be based on criteria and norms maintained by the corporations,
in particular relating to economic viability and corporate performance (para
6.05). The proposed project would finance all investments of MTIP excluding
those funded from ongoing projects, for the five-year period January 1985
through December 1989.
G. IDA Involvement in the Tree Crops Sector
2.33   Since 1978, IDA credits have supported a series of projects related to
the tree crops sector. Two projects, Kurunegala Rural Development Project
(Cr. 891-CE) and the Second Rural Development Project (Cr. 1079-CE) in the
Natale and Puttalam areas involve extension to smallbolders for crop produc-
tion as part of rural infrastructure development. Three ongoing projects
deal principally with the development of tree crops. The first project,
Smallbolder Rubber Rehabilitation (Cr. 1017-CE), supports a rubber replanting
program in the low country. The second, the Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea)
Project (Cr. 818-CE) is promoting rehabilitation of JEDB and SPC estates of
high country tea areas. Building on this project and extending rehabilita-
tion to mid-country and low-country estates, the Tea Rehabilitation and
Diversification Project (Cr. 1240-CE) also includes replacement of uneconomic
tea with minor export crop-: Bank policy regarding financing of tea is based
on the premise that world su;l,.y will grow in excess of demand and restricts
financing to countries with no 1L7estMent alternatives yieJiing an acceptable
rate of return. On the tea growing e'^ntations of Sri T.nka, on which almost
half a million workers depend for their lii'   .…, there is no alternative
to tea except in small areas where diversification is feasible. The project
would diversify as much as possible, about double the area of new planting
and replanting, and vould increase tea production by infilling old tea.
Economic analysis at marginal tea prices would be undertaken before approval
of field activities.
2.34    Management of these projects is mostly good and impressive progress
has been made in field and factory development on estates. Physical achieve-
ments, other than civil works, are close to targets and technical standards
are high. Budgetary restrictions have constrained the flow of funds to the
rural development projects, but in contrast, the estate-based projects funded



-12-
directly by JEDB, SPC and the Bank of Ceylon (BOC) have had few such
problems. All projects have suffered from high local cost inflation, and
limited construction industry capacity has necessitated modification of the
civil works programs. Compliance with loan conditions is generally good
although project accounts production and auditing were initially delayed
because of cumbersome procedures, the need to treat project and estate
accounts separately, and the lack of coordination between auditors. After a
learning period under Credit 818-CE, JEDB and SPC staff have become familiar
with Bank procedure and under the TRAD project procurement and disbursement
are on schedule; accounts and audits for both projects are also now
up-to-date.
H. Lessons Learned from Previous Proiects
2.35    The following relevant lessons learned from previous projects have
been taken into consideration in designing the proposed project.
(a) Field Works: Standards of technical operations are high, in some
cases excessively so. Estate success is measured more by appearance
than by profit and superintendents make decisions, for example, on
replanting, without reference to cost-benefit analysis. Liaison with
research institutes over technical problems on estates is unsatisfac-
tory.
Cb) Housing and Social Welfare: Civil works designs are simple, estates
dispersed and frequently isolated. Thus procurement by local con-
tractor or estate force account is mucb more efficient than national
or regional contract awards. Housing programs for estate workers
should concentrate on renovation of existing facilities. Health and
social welfare programs depend greatly on provision of water supplies
and latrines. Upgrading of houses and social welfare programs must
be integrated to achieve maximum benefits for estate work forces.
Cc) Factory Renovation: Attempts to keep factories operating while
installing new machinery item-by-item has led to prolonged disrup-
tion, bunching of suppliers' orders and strain on local machinery
manufacturing capacity. Factories should be renovated on a turnkey
basis and the logistics of annual programs should be coordinated at
Regional Boards. Greater efforts should be made to encourage inter-
national manufacturers to establish spares and service facilities in
Sri Lanka to widen supplier competition.
(d) Power Supplies: High oil prices and disruption in power supplies
to the estates are making JEDB and SPC place greater emphasis on
fuelwood production, wood-fired furnaces and renovation of mini-
hydro units.



-13-
(e) Coumunications: Managers and estate supervisors necessarily spend
great amounts of time traveling and out of touch vith headquarters
and estate offices. Telephone linkages are uncertain and road travel
is wearing, slow and expensive. Simple radio communication on
estates and throughout the corporation network would greatly improve
operational efficiency.
(f) Computerization: Accounts and audit processing mechanisms at all
levels (estates, regions and headquarters) are archaic. Estate data
lend themselves to computerization which would speed processing and
provide the basis for an efficient management information system.
(g) Institutional Development: JEDB and SPC are still at a formative
stage and rely heavily on individual staff competence rather than
tested institutional procedures to operate efficiently. Defining
objectives and identifying institution capacity gaps at all levels
is essential. Training programs and technical assistance must be
geared to bridging institution capacity gaps, from estate workers
to board levels.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Physical Characteristics
3.01    General.  The project area is the 530 estates of JEDB and SPC which
are spread throughout the southwest quarter of the country. The estates are
grouped into Regional Boards according to plantation districts. Details of
the boards are given in Table 3.1; the plantation districts are shown on Map
18232.



-14-
Table 3.1: REGIONAL BOARDS, PLANTATION DISTRICTS AND ESTATES a/
Estates Growing
Boards          Plantation Districts          Tea     Rubber     Coconuts
JEDB
I           Hatton and Avisawella           43        29          -
II           Nuvara Eliya and Kandy           70       -
III           Badulla                          27       -           -
IV           Kegalla and Nawalapitiya        36        28           10
V           Chilaw and Kurunegala           -         -           22
Sub total                                  176        57          32
SPC
I           Hatton and Matale               73        -           -
II           Nuvara Eliya and Haputale        58       -           -
III           Horana and Kalutara              34       58          -
IV           Galle and Matara                39        36          -
v           Ratnapura and Balangoda         24         7          -
Sub total                                  228       101          -
Total                                      404       158           32
a; There are 530 estates; 50 grow both tea and rubber, while 14 grow
coconuts and rubber.
3.02    Throughout the project area there is great variation in climate,
elevation, topography, pest and disease incidence and social factors. These
characteristics influence the crops grown and their yields, agricultural
practices on estates, manufacturing processes, labor characteristics and
social benefit programs. Most importantly they affect estate profitability.
3.03    Climate.  Mean annual temperatures throughout the project area depend
upon altitude, and range from 17 0C in the high country to 27°C in the low
country. Daily temperature variation is about 4-8°C. Low temperatures are
not limiting and frost, where it occurs on high land, is not severe enough to
damage crops. The most significant influence on crops is the interaction of
monsoons and elevation. Much of the area is served by both the southwest
monsoon rains from May to August (yala season) and the northeast monsoon
rains from September to December (mnaha season). Total rainfall and its
seasonal distribution vary considerably over short distances depending upon
altitude and aspect. In the wet zone annual rainfall ranges from about
1,500 mm at sea level to over 5,000 mm on high land. To the north and east
rainfall diminishes rapidly as the influence of the southwest monsoon
veakens. In the intermediate zone vhere coconuts predominate annual rainfall



-15-
varies between 900 vl and 1,500 mm while in the dry zone, normally untouched
by the southwest monsoon, and outside the plantation area, total rainfall
averages around 700 mm per year. Local storms, driven by high winds, can be
severe and cause erosion and damage to exposed crops.
3.04    Elevation. Topographv and Soils.  The high-country tea estates are
located at elevations above 1,200 m in undulating to deeply dissected terrain
where many slopes exceed 70X. Soil erosion on the upper slopes has exposed
bare rock which is widely scattered throughout the area. Soils are mostly
uniform red-yellow podsols and wet mountain regosols which vary greatly in
depth depending upon their position in the catena. They are all acid to very
acid with pH around 5. Neither soils nor topography are well suited to land
uses other than tea, forest or pasture.
3.05    The mid-country estates are located at elevations ranging between
600 m and 1,200 m on terrain similar to that of the high country. Soil depth
varies greatly depending on the degree of erosion, and rocky outcrops occur
in many areas. The soils are mostly red-yellow podsols and reddish brown
latosols which are free draining, highly leached, of low base exchange
capacity and with pH between 5 and 6. Topsoils are sandy loams while the
subsoils contain a higher clay content. The soils are inherently stable,
nevertheless exposure to wind and rain has gradually caused serious erosion
in many areas. In sheltered areas a wide range of crops can be grown
provided erosion control measures are taken and fertilizer and organic matter
applied to ensure good early crop growth.  In most areas slopes are too steep
for the cultivation of annual crops but many indigenous perennial crops
thrive in the humid conditions, moderate temperatures and elevations of the
mid country.
3.06    Low-country estates are situated below about 600 m with most between
60 m and 150 m. The land is mostly gently undulating with rolling hills,
slowly moving streams and paddy fields in valley bottoms. Soils are
generally deep and free draining but exposed rock is abundant on hill crests.
The soils are mostly red-yellow podsols of pH about 5.
B. Plantation Crops
3.07    General. The principal crops grown on the estates are tea, rubber
and coconuts. Poor areas of land are planted to fuelwood and grassland at
high elevations, and some estates in the mid-country are diversifying small
areas into pepper, cloves, cardamom, and coffee.
Tea
3.08    Tea Production.  JEDB and SPC together grow about 108,000 ha of tea
on 404 estates. High-country estates produce the renowned flavor teas which
established Sri Lanka's international tea reputation. Low-country estates
produce the heaviest yields of strong black teas demanded by Middle Eastern



-16-
countries. The mid-country produces neither high quality nor high yields and
poorer mid-country tea prices are not compensated by greater production.
Government strategy, supported by IDA, has been to invest in high- and
lov-grown tea while diversifying out of tea in unprofitable mid-country
areas. However, the current high prices have made mid-country estates more
profitable--at least temporarily-and this has lessened Government's resolve
to diversify those areas.
3.09    At least half the tea is more than 70 years old, vell beyond its
optimal productive period. Most is seedling varieties of uncertain yield and
poor "jat" (leaf type) and most fields have high vacancy rates. It has been
estimated that up to 70X of old seedling tea (OST) bushes contribu-e little
or nothing to total field production. Old seedling tea was traditionally
planted at wide spacing in lines running up and down slopes, in a misguided
attempt to get rid of excess water. As a result erosion in old tea fields
has been severe, especially where bush deaths have left bare patches. Ero-
sion has exposed the tea bush's surface feeding roots to sun and wind which
has accelerated the degradation process. The problem is exacerbated by
weeding with scrapers and by estate workers removing all plant debris for
fuel. The absence of mulch/surface litter is a notable feature of Sri Lankan
tea. This problem was aggravated by the extensive removal of shade trees in
the 1960s on the instigation of the TRI. Shade removal stimulated yield for
a short period but had long-term deleterious effects-increasing pest and
disease incidence, decreasing soil litter and exposing the tea to drying
winds. Shade trees are now being reestablished as rapidly as possible and
superintendents are fully aware of the need for soil conservation. The
judicious use of herbicides is becoming more common and scrapers have been
banned from many estates. Contour draining has reduced erosion but much of
the old seedling tea remains in a poor state and yields are very low, averag-
ing less than 800 kg per hectare.
3.10    The replacement of OST is done in two ways:  by replanting or by
infilling. Replanting is a major operation involving the replacement of old
tea by high yielding vegetatively propagated (VP) tea and usually involves an
entire field. It requires the total removal of all old bushes, construction
or realignment of soil conservation structures, soil rehabilitation using
deep-rooted grass for at least two years, and careful tending of the newly
planted VP tea for at least two years--up to four years in the cooler high
country-before tea production resumes. Replanted VP fields can match in
quality and yield, standards attained anywhere in the world. However, costs
of replanting are high and, because of the yield of old tea foregone and the
long period before full production is resumed, the economic value of replant-
ing is marginal. Routine economic analysis of replanting proposals is not
done before expenditure is committed.
3.11    Infilling involves filling gaps caused by the death of old tea bushes
with VP tea chosen for competitive ability rather than yield. To aid sub-
sequent management and plucking, infill areas are squared off by removing old



-17-
busbes from the edges of the gaps but yield loss is usually negligible.
Sometimes deaths are caused by root disease (e.g., Poria) in which case the
soil is fumigated. Grass rehabilitation is normally not required. When
infilling, there is little or no yield foregone; economically, tberefore,
infilling is a more viable proposition than replanting and should be given
the highest priority where technically feasible.
3.12    Tea grow. vigorously in the low country but bush life is short-
about 30 years compared with over 60 years in the high country. As a result
of more rapid replacement about 43% of low country tea is VP while less than
20X of high country tea is VP. Areas of tea on the estates are shown in
Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: PUBLIC ESTATE TEA AREAS (ha)
Immature
OST               VP          -VP        Total
Rirh Country
JEDB                   18,681            4,712         1,817     25,210
SPC                    19,862            5,332         1,700     26,894
Total                  38,543           10,044         3,517     52,104
Percent Total             (74)              (19)          (7)
Mid-Country
JEDB                   15,048            4,048         1,158     20,254
SPC                     8,840            1,154           380     10,374
Total                 23,888             5,202         1,538     30,628
Percent Total             (78)              (17)          (5)
Low Country
JEDB                      889            1,983           216      3,088
SPC                    10,809            8,807         2,286     21,902
Total                  11,698           10,790         2,502     24,990
Percent Total             (47)              (43)         (10)
Total Corporations    74,129            26,036         7,557    107,722
Percent Total             (69)              (24)          (7)
3.13    Tea Processint. Manufacture is almost exclusively by the orthodox
process, despite the increasing world demand for small leaf grades for the
tea bag trade. Sri Lanka has been reluctant to change to modern cut, tear
and curl (CTC) processes for fear of losing traditional markets. Ezperiments
are underway to exmine the merits of this non-orthodox manufacture. Most



-18-
tea factories are old; machinery is well over 20 years old and has become
inefficient. As a result tea quality has declined while operating costs have
increased. A major nanufacturing cost is fuel oil for driers. Firevood is
in short supply and expensive to transport and estates are planting fuelwood
in ravines, poor tea areas and waste land in anticipation of changing to
solid fuel driers. Green leaf is withered on small perforated trays, or
"tats", instead of in large troughs with forced air; this is more labor
intensive and makes withering control difficult. Fermentation facilities are
mostly poor vhich lovers top tea grades. Working conditions for factory
staff are extremely poor. All of these factors reduce tea quality and
prices.
Rubber
3.14    Rubber Production.  SPC is responsible for 34,287 ha of rubber
planted on 101 estates; 29 of these eatates also grow lowland tea. JEDB has
20,327 ha of rubber on 57 estates; 21 also grov tea and 14 grow coconuts and
rubber. Rubber is grown up to an elevation of about 600 m, frequently on
extremely steep terrain with many rocky outcrops, making soil conservation
imperative. Where terracing is impractical, trees are planted on individual
platforms arranged in contour lines. Good standards of busbandry are main-
tained. Virtually all pre-var rubber vas replanted by the late 1950s, lead-
ing to another cycle of replanting which is still going on. About 32 pcrcent
of the rubber is either imature or is being uprooted for replanting.  Over
80 percent of the rubber area is planted vith PB 86 (a primary selection made
from seedling populations in Malaysia more than 60 years ago). By modern
standards this is only a moderate yielder. Tapping standards are generally
high and bark consumption compares favorably with other countries; panels are
generally free from wounding and disease is not serious. Although upward
tapping skills are satisfactory, exploitation of the higher bark is rare.
Almost no yield stimulation is used. The use of PB 86, underutilization of
bark, and lack of stimulation results in lower production than might be
expected from rubber under good growing conditions.
3.15    Rubber Processiua.  Sri Lankan rubbers are grade-for-grade probably
the beet in the vorld and the premium grades, sole and pale crepes, find a
ready market. Processing is carried out in a large number of s-All factories
in some cases more than one per estate--a legacy of private ownership. Some
factories have specialized in producing speciality rubbers and accept latex
from other estates and smallholders but even with this degree of rationaliza-
tion the scale of operations of each factory is very small--around 2 t/day;
this makes them inefficient. Factory equipment, although carefully main-
tained, is mostly at least 25 years old, of out-dated design and inefficient.
Effluent from estate rubber factories is customarily discharged into streams
vithout prior treatment, to the detriment of aquatic life. Effluent treat-
ment techniques are known but capital has not been made available for this
purpose.



-19-
Coconuts
3.16    Coconut Production.  Grovn along the coastal fringes and expanding
into the "coconut triangle" to the north of Colombo (Map 18232) coconuts are
produced mainly by suallholders. After Land Reform, JEDB took aver 32
coconut estates, 9 in Chilaw, 13 in Kurunegala, and 10 in Kegalla. The total
estate area in bearing is 8,524 ha and another 2,321 ha is in the process of
rehabilitation by underplanting. Few estates have substantial contiguous
areas; typically an estate of 200-500 ha is divided into 6-12 units which may
be spread over 20 km or more. This adds greatly to supervision problems.
Most of the estates are planted with overaged palms which yield poorly-about
2,500 nuts per hectare. The fields are mostly vell maintained and under-
planted young palms are carefully tended. There is a low incidence of pests
and diseases on both young and mature palms. Contour drains are included in
conservation practices and husk pits are dug between palms to improve mois-
ture-bolding capacity of fields. Old palms contribute little to yield and
are over 15 a tall whicb makes harvesting difficult, tedious and expensive.
Hybrid varieties which are precocious high yielders are available but seed is
in short supply. Hybrids are shade-sensitive and perform below their poten-
tial in traditional under planted conditions. Growers are, however, reluc-
tant to cut down any palms which still bear nuts, however few they may be.
Rehabilitation of old lands is mostly by underplanting with selected
varieties; clear felling is rarely practiced.
3.17    Coconut Processin2.  After harvesting, nuts are stacked in the fields
and allowed to wither for 3-5 weeks before husking, a procedure essential for
best copra production but which necessitates the use of watchmen to prevent
theft. Some estates have small copra-making units and produce copra of
excellent quality when market conditions are favorable. Most estate produce
is, however, sold directly from estates as fresh nuts.
Produce Marketing
3.18    Tea marketing follows mainly traditional lines, the sale of bulk teas
through the auction system. Colombo is the predominant outlet; sales at the
London auctions have declined end only about 2% of bulk tea was sold there in
1982. There is a conscious effort to increase value added and sale of pack-
eted tea comprised 18% of exports in 1982; tea bags comprised a further 0.6X.
The main weakness of present marketing efforts is the absence of an overall
marketing policy and a tendency to spread marketing effort too thinly over
too wide an area. A problem at estate level stems from the small factory
size. It takes considerable time to accumulate sufficient tea of the off
grades to form a "break" (the auction system requires a minimum of 20 chests)
which locks up working capital and risks quality losses. This adds weight to
the need for factory rationalization in the pursuit of economies of scale.



-20-
3.19    Crepe rubber is sold through brokers at public auctions in Colombo.
A small amount of sheet also passes through the auctions but the bulk is sold
tbrough a chain of dealers to shippers. Dealers' margins are not excessive
and there is ample competition.
3.20    Marketing of coconuts presents no major problem; the bulk of produc-
tion is disposed of as fresh nuts to a large network of local dealers among
vhom there is good competition.
C. Social Welfare on Estates
3.21    There is a marked and important difference between the social condi-
tions on the high-country estates (predominantly tea) and the low-country
estates. In the high country there are few villages, and laborers, mostly
Tamils of Indian origin, rely on the estates for their livelihood, housing
and social welfare. In the low country there are many more villages which
provide most of the estate workforce. Villagers in the low country are
predominantly Sinhalese who tend to work more with rubber and coconuts; low-
country tea estates retain a high proportion of resident Tamil labor. The
mid-country presents a transition zone in which remote estates-mostly
tea--rely on resident Tamils. The remoteness of the estates has resulted in
past ethnic disturbances having little or no detrimental effect on JEDB and
SPC estate affairs.
3.22    JEDB and SPC together employ more than half a million workers, over
90 percent of whom are estate laborers. The estates traditionally provide
the basic needs of their labor forces, including barrack style housing for
residents, cI1ild minding units (creches) and simple medical care for all
labor. These facilities traditionally form an important part of the benefit
package. Housing areas are congested and most houses are old and in poor
repair. Water and sanitation facilities are rudimentary and are a major
cause of labor unrest and work stoppages. Strong labor union pressure has
resulted in government housing schemes but rapid cost escalation, limited
capacity in the construction industry and lack of logistic planning have
constrained the programs. Early schemes involved construction of new twin
cottages, a progr2m whiPh contnnues slowly. Attempts to convert existing
barracks into cottages ran into difficulties because too many residents were
displaced. Experience has shown that older residents are reluctant to leave
their barracks. The greatest short-term benefit to residents comes from
renovating existing barracks, providing kitchens, bathing and latrine
facilities but leaving families in their existing communities. In the long
term, as cottages are constructed, younger families will move to these and
develop their own community units.
3.23    Medical facilities on most estates are below national standards and
infant mortality is above the national average. Basic curative medicines
have always been provided for labor and the coverage of simple dispensaries
is therefore good. In recent years Government, donor agencies-especially



-21-
UNICEF aud SIDA-and the corporations have promoted better medical facilities
and several field hospitals and a large number of medical units have been
constructed on estates. Health education, family planning program- and
infant food-supplement programs are also in operation. Both JEDB and SPC
employ doctors, estate medical practitioners, pharmacists and midwives to
afford health care and provide family planning services but there is a need
for considerable infrastructural upgrading before a satisfactory service can
be provided.
3.24    Surveys show that over 4%' percent of estate children suffer from some
degree of malnutrition. An important part of the social welfare program is
the provision of creches where mothers may leave children while continuing to
pluck tea. At the creches children receive food supplements, checks are made
on their weight and health, and they take their first-steps in educa,ion in
reasonably sanitary conditions. However, creches are dilapidated and require
renovation.
3.25    The significant benefits in terms of productivity which derive from
improvements in estate social welfare are recognized by the estates and
corporations. It is realized, however, that upgrading the estates to satis-
factory standards is a huge task which will take many years. Nevertheless,
with the assistance of IDA and donor agencies a good start has been made.
D. Infrastructure
Comumanications
3.26    A good network of public all-weather roads serves the estates.  This
is supplemented by an extensive network of graveled roads on every estate.
Villages are well supplied with ptublic transport and major towns are served
by rail. Telephones linking many estates to regional offices are reasonably
reliable but more remote estates are not served. Of concern is the complete
lack of communication between parts of estates, many of which extend for
several miles. The estate superintendent and his assistants are out of touch
for long periods and spend much time and fuel traveling between offices,
factory and fields. Simple radio communication facilities would greatly
benefit the work program.
Power Supplies on Estates
3.27    Most estates are on the government grid system, which is unreliable,
especially on remote estates where transmission failures are comon during
storms. Diesel generators have been provided at many estates but are expen-
sive to operate. Since the beginning of the century small water turbines
(mini-hydros) have been installed on high-country tea estates to provide
pover for tea manufacture. Indeed, a large proportion of the tea factories
were located to exploit the hydropower available. Virtually all such instal-
lations were abandoned with the introduction of mains electricity and diesel



-22-
generators. Recent evaluations under the Tree Crops Rehabiiitation Project
(Cr. 818-CE) have shown, however, that supplementing factory pover from
renovated mini-hydro schemes can be economically attractive.
Vehicles
3.28   The transport fleet of most estates is over 15 years old and expensive
to maintain and operate. Motor cycles are urgently needed for supervisory
use of assistant superintendents and for health care attendants.  Green leaf
is hauled to factories in small lorries or by tractor and trailer, depending
upon the terrain; these vehicles also transport farm inputs and labor. Most
of these vehicles are extremely old, in need of expensive repairs, and costly
to operate.
Technical Support for Estates
3.29    Before nationalization, relations between the research institutes and
planters were excellent. Research scientists were held in high regard for
their technical expertise, and the institutes valued the judgment of
planters. The majority of members of the institutes' governing boards were
from the plantation sector. Since reorganization of ministerial structures
JEDB and SPC have not been represented on the boards of the research
institutes and relationships have deteriorated. These problems are being
reviewed as part of a separate study of the research system by the Government
and IDA.
3.30    Technical service from the institutes is now unsatisfactory and the
estates rely principally on the experience of the estate superintendents to
overcome problems. Previous high-quality research has provided an excellent
base for tree crop production, particularly in tea and rubber, but new
problems demand a new wave of effective research. There is an urgent need
for an economic evaluation of accepted agronomic practices to find ways of
reducing costs without reducing benefits. A weakness at the research
institutes is their lack of cost-benefit analyses. In tea, more effort is
needed on clonal development and testing under plantation conditions, on
methods to reduce replanting costs, on the long-term impact of shade trees in
the plantations, on more efficient solid-fuel driers and on CTC manufacture
and costs. In rubber, more work is required on clonal adaptation to estate
conditions, on fertilizer recommendations and on stand density. Of par-
ticular importance would be a study of the economics of yield stimulation.
Research on coconuts has been disappointing and the techniques available to
the estates are less certain than those for tea and rubber. Urgent work is
required to develop higher yielding varieties, on fertilizer recommendations
and on the economics of crop prot,uctior. For all three major crops,
on-estate studies are essential and liaison between estate staff and
researchers must be improved.



-23-
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives
4.01    The main objective of the proposed project is to reverse the decline
in Sri Lanka's production of tea, rubber and coconuts, by improving the
performance of the plantation corporations, JEDB and SPC. This would be
achieved by improving producer incentives, by improving productivity of all
corporation estates, rehabilitating factories and improving estate transpor-
tation.  In addition the project ains at strengthening management and finan-
cial control of the corporations, at stabilizing lands through soil conserva-
tion and at improving the health and welfare of estate workers.
B. Main Features
4.02    The main components of the project are:
(a) field program: continuing tea, rubber and coconut planting and
replanting programs, expanding tea infilling, diversifying unproduc-
tive tea areas into fuelvood and minor export crops and renovating
soil conservation structures;
(b) providing field and nursery equipment;
(c) providing additional vehicles for transport of farm inputs and
produce, and for estate supervision;
ad) factory rehabilitation: rehabilitating processing facilities on tea,
rubber and coconut estates;
Ce) renovating mini-hydra units ou tea estates;
(f) housing: renovating estate vorkers' line rooms, constructing labor
cottages and staff quarters, providing latrines and improving vater
supplies;
(g) improving estate child care and medical facilities;
(h) developing institution capability by providing (i) training,
(ii) technical assistance, (iii) support for Regional and Central
Boards, Civ) a planning unit, and Cv) a monitoring facility; and
(i) providing funds for MPI to prepare a medinm-term investment program
f or smallholders.



-24-
C.  Detailed Features
Field Program
4.03    Tea Planting.  The project would plant about 717 ha of tea in land
previously under rubber or rehabilitation grass, mainly in the low country.
Technical procedures and clones for planting in different climlatic zones are
well established and documented (Project File, Item 2).
4.04    Tea Replanting.  OST would be replaced with VP tea in about 3116 ha,
principally in high- and low-country estates. Replanting would be restricted
to those areas where infilling was not technically feasible. At present
replanting is undertaken on the basis of technical criteria; economic
analysis is not included in decision making. Government gave an assurance
that only those fields would be replanted with tea for which the economic
rate of return was at least 10%.
4.05    Tea Infillinz.  The vacancies in OST areas, which reduce yields,
encourage weed growth, increase erosion and increase field management costs,
would be infilled. Infilling techniques are well proven and documented
(Working File, Item 2). The infilling program would have the highest
priority and would involve about 125 million tea bushes, the equivalent of
planting about 10,000 ha. Nursery practices on estates are good and adequate
VP planting material would be available for the replanting and infilling
programs.
4.06    Diversification.  Areas of OST which yield poorly and are not
suitable for tea replanting would be diversified. Satisfactory technical
criteria for diversification have been established. Experience under the
TRAD project has refined establishment techniques.  Diversification
crops-pepper, cardamom, cloves, coffee and fuelwood (Eucalyptus irandis and
Leucaena leucocephala)--would be planted in existing OST which would continue
to be plucked until the new crop vas established. About 7,500 ha of OST
would be diversified under the project, over 60Z of which would be into
fuelwood.
4.07    Soil Conservation.  The project would promote the renovation of
terraces, the realignment and clearing of drains, planting of wind breaks in
exposed areas and the planting of shade trees. Where possible, all tea bush
prunings and loppings from shade trees would be left in the fields to rebuild
1/ An essential feature of the proposed project would be its flexibility;
the work program would be established annually as part of the budget
procedure according to agreed financial and physical criteria. The
numbers presented are therefore indicative.



-25-
soil organic content and estate labor would be provided with fuelvood from
uprooted OST and the smaller branches from the fuelvood plantations as these
were harvested.
4.08    Rubber Replanting.  JEDB would replant 3,263 ha of old rubber on 57
estates in Avisawella and Kegalla; SPC would replant 6,381 ha on 101 estates
in Horana, Galle and Balangoda. In addition 2,668 of OST in the low country
would be replaced with rubber. The total new rubber planting of 12,312 ha,
averaging about 15 hectares per estate per year, is well within the
capability of estate staff. Planting density would be targeted to achieve
395 trees per hectare at time of opening for tapping. All bud-grafted rubber
would be grown-on in polybag nurseries before being transplanted; this
improves establishment and reduces the immaturity period. Higher dosages of
fertilizer are given to rubber in Sri Lanka than in other rubber-growing
countries. Pending results from ongoing fertilizer trials, applications
would continue to be made at recommended rates but RRI would use soil and
foliar analyses in replanted rubber to advise modifications as appropriate.
Project replanting would be carried out using high yielding clones RRIC 100
and RRIC 103 which have been bred as substitutes for PB 86. Tapping stand-
ards are conservative and the trees are underexploited. The project would
introduce yield stimulation on mature rubber and would provide for purchase
of ethephon yield stimulant. Stimulation would increase total yield by about
25%. Technical assistance would be employed to demonstrate rubber stimula-
tion techniques. An assurance was obtained that rubber would not be uprooted
and replanted until the old rubber had been exploited both by chemical
stimulation and by upward tapping above the regular tapping panel. A signed
statement to this effect would accompany all replanting applications.
4.09    Coconut Replantina.  JEDB would replant 1,469 ha of overaged
coconuts. Before replanting an analysis would be made of the profitability
of the existing palms. Where the old palms had become unprofitalle they
would be clear felled before new planting was approved. New planting would
be at spacing recommended by CRI-200 palms per hectare in triangular spac-
ing-rather than 150 palms per hectare in square spacing of old palms. Where
old palms were still bearing profitably they would be underplanted at square
spacing. After underplanting, old palms would be progressively removed until
the new palms remained in sole stand by the time of bearing (about 9 years
from planting). Whenever hybrid palms from CRI were planted, at least 502 of
old palms would be removed in Year 1, 25% in year 2 and the remainder in
year 3.
4.10    JEDB and SPC Field Program Summary.  The total field program on the
530 estates over the five-year project period is shown in Table 4.1.



-26-
Table 4.1: FIELD PROGRAM (Ha)
SPC        JEDB       Total
Tea
Replanting                       1,933      1,183       3,116
New Planting                       541         176        717
Infilling                        5,241      5,089      10,330
Rubber
Replanting                       6,381      3,263       9,644
New Planting                     1,891         777      2,668
Coconuts
Replanting                          -        1,469      1,469
Diversification                    5,700       1,800      7,500
The total base cost of the field programs of both JEDB and SPC vould amount
to about Rs 2,057 x (US$81.7 M). Full details are given in Annex 2.
4.11    Field and Nursery Equipment.  Agricultural implements, including hand
cultivation tools, herbicide sprayers, crop protection equipment and weighing
scales would be provided for JEDB and SPC. For coconut estates, vhere water-
ing of young palms is important, 29 tube wells and drip irrigation facilities
vould be provided on a pilot basis on 3 estates. Specialized power saving
equipment for saving palm trunks into timber would also be provided. The
cost of field and nursery equipment would be about Rs 126 M (US$5 M).
4.12    Estate Vehicles.  Tne rationalization of rubber estates (para 4.14)
would necessitate purchase of tanker trailers for latex transport. Motor
cycles and estate cars and pickups would be provided for supervision. JEDB
coconut estates have virtually no vehicles and the project would provide the
full requirement for haulage of inputs, cultivation operations, and supervi-
sion. Tractors and trailers, modified to carry green leaf without damage,
would be provided. The number of estate vehicles to be provided is shown in
Table 4.2 and details are given in Annex 2. The cost of vehicles for use on
the 530 project estates would be about Rs 249 M (US$10 M).



-27-
Table 4.2: TOTAL ESTATE VEHICLES
SPC     JEDB      Total
Estate Cars and Pickups       154      118        272
Trucks                        146      155        301
Tractors                      198      230        428
Trailers                      252      344        596
Tanker trailers                73      113        186
Motor cycles                  147       163       310
Crow ProcessinR
4.13    Tea Factorv Rehabilitation.  The project would improve the quality
of tea manufacture by rehabilitating 134 JEDB factories and 138 SPC fac-
tories. Orthodox manufacture would continue but provision is made for
experimentation with CTC manufacture. Proposals for installation of new
equipment and rearranging factory throughput are based on studies of each
factory undertaken by manufacturing consultants from TRI and by the corpora-
tions' manufacturing advisors. However, plans vould be refined after further
rationalization of leaf supplies. Some factories still process less than
350,000 kg of made tea per annum, which is about the minimum economic
throughput. An assurance was obtained that no investment would be made in
renovating any tea factory unless the NPV at 1OZ in economic terms was posi-
tive. Bank guidelines on procedures and practices for safety in factories
have been provided to the corporations and will be taken into account in
factory rehabilitation programs. Summarized details of tea factory require-
ments and costs are presented in Annex 2. The cost of rehabilitating 272 tea
factories would be about Rs 427 M (US$17 M).
4.14    Rubber Factory Rehabilitation.  During the project period there would
be a major reduction in the number of rubber processing units and production
would be concentrated on enlarged factories. Technical assistance would be
provided for the rationalization exercise. Latex concentrate facilities
would be constructed at centrally-located estates and raw latex would be
transported from a 40 km radius. Simple preservation methods are available
which permit latex to be held on producing estates for a week or longer until
sufficient quantities had been assembled for collection. An assurance was
obtained that no factory would be rehabilitated unless its annual production
would be more than 300 m tons of sole crepe or more than 450 m tons of pale
crepe or more than 600 m tons of latex concentrate. Effluent disposal would
be carefully controlled at each factory either by construction of effluent
treatment tanks or by pumping effluent to high ground and allowing it to seep
through the soil returning nutrients to the land. An assurance was obtained
that no untreated effluent from a rubber factory would be permitted to flow
beyond the boundaries of the factory estate. The rationalization procedure



-28-
would determine details of rubber factory reuabilitation; estimated costs are
shown in Annex 2. The total cost of the rubber factory program would be
about Rs 118 M (US$4.7 H).
4.15    Coconut Processing.  The project would renovate existing facilities
and construct new kilns, barbecues and stores on those estates without
facilities. Copra production techniques are well known and copra kilns and
barbecues (drying floors) inexpensive. The cost of the program would be
about Rs 3.8 H (US$0.2 M).
4.16    Mini-Hydro Renovation.  As part of the rehabilitation of tea estates
about 70 mini-hydro schemes on JEDB estates and 70 on SPC estates would be
made operational. Each installation is site specific but rehabilitation
would mostly require repairs to diversion weirs, penstocks and screens,
renovation or replacement of turbines, generators and governors, and the
provision of switchgear. A typical mini-hydro scheme would produce about
100 BHP (75 kW) from a head of water in the range 20-150 meters. Most
schemes are run-of-river type with no significant volume of water storage.
Thus the hydroenergy available varies with the season. Further, factory
power demand varies by day and by season and experience has shown that annual
energy utilization is likely to be no more than 60% of energy available.
These factors would be taken into account in evaluating hydroschemes for
rehabilitation. Technical assistance would be essential for identifying
schemes with high potential, for evaluating engineering proposals both tech-
nically and in economic terms, and for supervising renovation works. An
assurance was obtained that no mini-hydro scheme would be rehabilitated for
which the economic rate of return was less than 10%. The base cost of
rehabilitating the 140 sites would be about Rs 210 H (US$8 M).
4.17    Housing.  One of the most pressing prnblems on estates is the provi-
sion of adequate housing for estate staff, laborers and their dependents.
The project would provide for renovation of existing line rooms by replacing
roofs, adding kitchens to single line units, providing chianeys, providing
piped water, bathing units and latrines, and would double the house unit size
by simple modification where logistically feasible. Satisfactory standard
designs for new houses and conversions are available (Project File, Item 2).
About 840 twin cottage units would be constructed to house 1,680 families,
thus relieving some pressure on line rooms. About 220 junior staff quarters
and 70 senior staff quarters would be built. Accommodation would be provided
for superintendents on 20 rubber and coconut estates. Watchman quarters and
huts would be constructed on coconut estates. Designs of all civil works are
simple and construction can be undertaken by local contractors. Full details
of the housing program proposed for each of the 530 estates formed part of
the preparation documents; a summary of the achievable program with cost
estimates is given in Annex 2. The base cost of the five-year program would
be about Rs 300 H (US$12 M).



-29-
Social Welfare
4.18    Creches.  About 420 new creches (day nurseries) would be built and
about 375 existi'g creches would be renovated, particularly by providing
piped water and latrine facilities. Locally-employed creche attendants would
be trained under the project (para 4.21).
4.19    Medical.  The health care program provided on estates is simple in
concept-providing materuity units and staffed dispensaries on each estate
and providing health centers with qualified staff in attendance at central
locations within a group of estates. Ambulances transport patients to the
hospital, and transportation is provided for health staff to visit estate
workers. The project would construct and upgrade about 60 maternity units,
renovate or construct about 160 dispensaries, upgrade about 175 health cen-
ters and construct a further 21, provide 24 ambulances, 8 pickups, 190 motor-
cycles, 16 bicycles, equipment, drugs and supplies. The project would con-
struct one regional vaccine unit for the regional storage of vaccines and
vaccination equipment prior to usage on estates, and about 100 houses for
medical staff. An important part of the program would be provision of 40
sludge pumps for latrine clearance. A summary of the program is given in
Annex 2 and details are in Project File, Item 3. To ensure that the social
welfare program received due prominence in the proposed project the Planning
Unit (para 4.25) together with JEDB and SPC medical staff would establish
benefit norms, acceptable to IDA. An assurance was obtained that these norms
would be included in estate analyses of annual investment proposals from 1986
through 1989. The base cost of the social welfare program, including
creches, water supplies, sanitation and health care, would be about Rs 271 M
(US$10.7 M).
Institutional Developmeut
4.20    General.  Despite the significant improvements which have recently
been made in corporate development, particularly with the introduction of
the consultants' recommendations produced under Credit 1240-CE, the full
achievement of project objectives would necessitate the further upgrading of
institutional capacity in JEDB and SPC. This need is appreciated by cor-
porate staff and by Gover nent. Under the project an Institution Development
Unit (ID) would be established in JEDB and in SPC reporting directly to the
managing directors (Annex 5). The location of the IDU would give it the
authority to deal with organization matters and skill gap analyses at all
levels thus making it a valuable management tool. The IDU would be control-
led by a manager appointed from within the corporation assisted by an inter-
national specialist in management and organization development and a local
institution specialist. An important function of the IDU would be assisting
the managing director to interpret and carry out the management consultant
recommendations. The continued implementation of the consultants' proposals,
modified as necessary in the light of experience, will be essential for
improved institution performance; an assurance was obtained that management



-30-
consultants' proposals satisfactory to IDA would continue to be implemented
in accordance with a schedule also satisfactory to IDA. Institutional
development would involve training, techuical assistance, strengthening
regional and central offices, establishment of planning and monitoring
facilities and conducting studies.
4.21  Training.  A skill gap Analysis within JEDB and SPC revealed many
institutional gaps which could readily be closed by structured short-term
training, largely conducted by skilled individuals drawn from JEDB and SPC
staff. The project would prowide funds for courses, workshops and seminars
to train staff at all levels from senior management to workers' families.
N1PM has been supported under Credit 1240-CE with provision for employing
technical assistance. lowever, NIPM has not made the appointments and its
operations are unsatisfactory. It would be a condition of disbursement
against all training costs under the project that NIPM had appointed the
three technical assistants provided under Credit 1240-CE. N1PM has recently
moved to a new site outside Colombo. The project would add a 30-bed dor-
mitory on the new site and would provide for additional documentation
facilities. Overseas study tours would continue under the project but would
be geared to specific training needs. Four pickups, two audio-visual vans
and two minibuses would be provided to assist the IDU to organize on-site
training at estates. On-estate training programs to upgrade health education
workers would be organized. Investment in training would amount to about Rs
48 M (US$1.9 N). Details of the institutional development and training
programs are in the Project File, Item 8a.
4.22    Technical Assistance.  The project would provide 44 staff months of
local expertise and 26 staff months of international consultancy to support
J3DB and SPC in institution development, computerization, liaison with
research organizations, rubber factory rationalization studies, techniques
for stimulating rubber yields and for a specialist on nini-hydro units to
develop tender specifications and evaluate bids. Consultants would be
appointed by the corporations in collaboration and consultants' time would be
shared equally between JEDB and SPC. Details are in Annex 2 and terms of
reference are in the Project File, Item 8. The cost of technical assistance
would be about Rs 17.4 N (US$0.7 M). In addition technical assistance vould
be required to staff the planning units (para 4.25). The Netherlands Govern-
ment has agreed to provide technical assistance to the planning units to
assist the corporations in planning and implementing the social welfare and
housing programs.
4.23    Regional Support.  Implementation efficiency would be improved by
providing radio communication on estates, and between estate offices and
regional offices where telephone communication was inadequate.  Computeriza-
tion of estate accounts and regional collating as part of a management infor-
mation system has been proposed by the managemeut consultants. The project
would provide funds for establishing the system. In addition to the estate
vehicles to be provided (para 4.12) vehicles (29 cars, 10 minibuses and 23



-31-
pickups) would be provided to the 10 JEDB and SPC regional offices for super-
vision and staff transport. Two regional office buildings would be con-
structed by JEDB and equipment and furniture would be provided. Regional
board costs for JIVB and SPC would be about Rs 113 M (US$4.5 H).
4.24    Central Office Supiort.  As part of improvements in the corporation's
comnunication network, radio comunication links would be established between
the Colombo offices of JEDB and SPC and more remote regional offices. The
project would also provide produce stores for SPC in Colombo. Four
micro-computers would be provided as part of the management information
system and nine cars and four pickups would be provided for management
travel.
4.25    Planning Units.  The production of NTIP was the first planning ezer-
cise undertaken by the corporations and necessitated bringing staff and
consultants together in an ad hoc arrangement. The project vould establish
planning units in JEDB and SPC to collate and analyze estate, regional and
corporate programs, and to prepare plan proposals for corporate review. The
units would add essential expertise in economic and financial analysis to
corporations. An internationally-recruited economist would coordinate opera-
tions of the planning units but most expertise could be recruited locally
(Annex 2). Additional technical assistance to assist in implementing the
social welfare programs would be attached to the planning units (para 4.22).
4.26    Monitoring.  Corporation operations are diverse, complex and scat-
tered over wide areas. Until a management information system proposed by the
uanagement consultants has been tested and fully adopted by all estates,
independent monitoring of corporation affairs vould be in the best interest
of Government and corporations in fostering trust between all agencies.
Independent financial monitoring is provided by external auditors. Govern-
ment and the corporations have agreed to establish an independent Monitoring
Board under the State Agricultural Corporations Act. The Board would consist
of one representative each from JEDB and SPC. one representative from the
Ministry of Finance and Planning and one representative from the )PI. The
Board would employ local experienced consultants to monitor physical perfor-
mance of all corporation estates on a continuous basis during the project
period. The consultants would develop and test physical monitoring and
reporting procedures and would train corporation staff to take over regular
monitoring after the project period. Funds vould also be provided to estab-
lish internal monitoring units in JEDB and SPC; these would liaise closely
with the independent Monitoring Board.  The cost of monitoring would be about
Rs 44 H (US$1.7 M).
4.27    Smallholder Studies.  The project would provide funds for a study
of liaison between estates and smallholders (Rs 2.3 M). The project would
also provide Rs 4.8 X (US$0.21 N) to MPI for the production of a Medium-Term
Investment Program for the smallholder tree crop sector. This exercise would



-32-
involve a field survey, computer analysis of proposals and report preparation
by international and local consultants (Annex 2).
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
5.01    The estimated total cost of the five-year (1985-1989) project,
including contingencies, is Rs 5,332 M (US$211.8 M equivalent), of vhich
about US$60 N (28S) would be foreign exchange. Taxes and duties vould amount
to approximately Rs 280 M (5.3S). Details of project costs, summarized in
Table 5.1, are in Annex 2.
Table 5.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Local   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total  F.E.  Z of Ba
----R MN---- --US$M_--                                     Costs
Field Works               1679.6    377.1   2056.7    66.7   15.0    81.7   18       50.7
Field & Nursery Equip.      77.7     48.7    126.4      3.1    1.9      5.0   38      3.1
Vehicles                    62.3    186.8    249.1      2.5    7.4     9.9   75       6.1
Factory Rehabilitation    333.8    214.8    548.6    13.3    8.5    21.8   39        13.5
Mini-Hydro Units           107.2    102.2    209.4      4.2    4.1      8.3   49      5.2
Housing                    230.8     72.9    303.7      9.2    2.9    12.1   24       7.5
Social Welfare             198.1     72.8    270.9      7.8    2.9    10.7  35        6.6
lnstitution Development   165.8    129.9    295.7       6.6    5.2    11.8   44       7.3
Base Costs                2855.3   1205.2   4060.5   113.4   47.9   161.3   30    100.0
Physical Contingencies    157.7      54.5    212.2      6.3    2.1      8.4   26      5.2
Price Contingencies        817.7    241.5   1059.2    32.5    9.f    42.1  23        26.1
Total Costs               3830.7   1501.2   5331.9   152.2   59.6   211.8   28    131.3
Taxes and Duties           .80.4        -    280.4    11.1       -    11.1    -       6.9
Net Project Costs         3550.3   1501.2   5051.5   141.1   59.6   200.7   30    124.4
5.02    Cost estimates are based on December 1984 prices.  Physical contin-
gencies are 5% for field development, field and nursery equipment and factory
rehabilitation, and 1OZ for social welfare and housing. Price contingencies,
accounting for 25S of base costs plus physical contingencies, have been
compounded at the following levels:



-33-
Table 5.2   INFLrTION RATE
(Percent)
Year          Local        Foreign
1985           12.0          8.0
1986           11.0          9.0
1987           10.0          9.0
1988            9.0          9.0
1989            7.5          7.5
1990            6.0          6.0
Thus, there is no appreciable difference between estimated foreign and local
inflation rates from 1986 onwards.
B. Financiox
5.03    The project would be financed by several foreign and local sources,
as summarized in Table 5.3. Foreign financing of US$119 H has been arranged.
This represents 59Z of total project cost, net of tazes and duties, including
1002 of foreign ezchange cost and 392 of net local cost. It would be a
condition of credit effectiveness that arrangements for cofinancing had been
completed. IDn would finance the field program, field and nursery equipment,
and institution building (excluding vehicles and housing). ADB vould paral-
lel finance vehicles (including those under institution building), factory
rehabilitation, and housing (including those under institution building).
ODA would parallel finance mini-bydzo units. The Netherlands and Norwegian
Goverments would jointly finance the social velfare program.
5.04    Local financing would be from the Bank of Ceylon (SOC), a national-
ized coonercial bank, and JEDB and SPC. BOC would lend Rs 252 K (US$10 M);
3RDB and SPC would finance the balance of local costs including taxes and
duties.



-34-
Table 5.3: FINANCING PLAN
-  Sources of Funds  (US$ X)
Project                                        JEDB   Netherlands Norvegian
Components           IDA   ADB   ODA   BOC  and SPC  Government Government  Total
Field Yorks         40.9      -     -  10.0    59.3          -          -      110.2
Field and Nursery
Equipment          4.5      -     -     -     1.9          -          -        6.4
Vehicles               -   8.6      -     -     2.9          -          -        11.5
Factory Rehabi-
litation             -  19.1      -     -     7.9          -          -       27.0
Mini-Hydro Units        -    -    5.5     -     5.8          -          -        11.3
Housing                 -  16.1     -     -     0.5          -          -        16.6
Social Welfare            -     -         -     0.8        8.0        5.5       14.3
Institution
Building          9.j6 _2   -           -     3.7-                            14.5
Total               55.0  45.0   5.5  10.0    82.8         8.0        5.5      211.8
--  inmmm _.m .Mw   .i                m _
Percentage          26.0  21.2   2.6   4.7    39.0         3.9        2.6         100
5.05    The Government vould relend proceeds of the IDA credit to BOC for ten
years including one year's grace at an interest rate of 11 percent per annum.
The BOC then would onlend to the corporations at an interest rate of 13
percent per annum for a period of ten years including one year's grace.  The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk. Contributions of ADB and
ODA9 totaling about US$50.5 N equivalent, would be relent by the Government
under similar terms and conditions. The two percent mark-up vould cover the
BOC's administrative cost, profit, and risk. With the financial restructur-
ing and management reorganization proposed by the consultants and now being
implemented, JEDB and SPC vould be financially sound and BOC's financial risk
of relending would be lov. The 1982 financial statement of BOC, which is
satisfactory, is in Annex 3, Table 3. Commercial bank lending rates in Sri
Lanka for zedium- and long-term agricultural credit for tree crops
*allholders range from 11 to 12 percent. Also, 13 percent interest rate is
above the inflation rate projected for Sri Lanka over the project period.
The execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between Government and BOC, and
DOC and the corporations would be a condition of credit effectiveness. The
grant funds totaling US$13.5 N provided for social welfare by the Netherlands
and Norwegian Governments would be onlent by Government to JEDB and SPC at 4%
interest for a period of 20 years including a one-year grace period. The
concessionary terms would allow the corporations to make up the massive
backlog of social welfare works required on the estates without adversely
affecting their cash flows.



-35-
5.06    Bank of Ceylon would lend its own contribution to the corporations
on terms applicable to external financiers' contributions onlent by Govern-
ment.  Central Bank of Ceylon would refinance 50Z of BOC's contribution at
11% per annum.
C. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement.
5.07    Procurement for the corporations would be directed by the corpora-
tions' central procurement divisions with authority delegated to the Regional
Boards for local procurement. Procurement using IDA funds would be as set
out in paragraphs 5.08 thru 5.12. Remaining procurement would be in accord-
ance with the procedures of other cofinanciers.
5.08    Field works (US$110.2 M) consisting mostly of uprooting, planting,
weeding and other labor-intensive operations on estates would be undertaken
by the estates' labor forces.  Field and nursery equipment (US$6.4 M) con-
sists of many, mostly locally made, small items, which would not be suitable
for ICB; it would, therefore, be procured by prudent shopping, following
corporations' procurement procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. Suffi-
cient local manufacturers and agents are available to ensure competitive
prices.
5.09    Office equipment, computers and software and radio communication
equipment, totalling about US$3.6 M, would be procured on the basis of pru-
dent shopping to ensure equipment matched specific needs of the corporations.
5.10    Civil works for the produce store and the NIPM dormitory (combined
cost US$1.6 M) would be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding
following procedures acceptable to IDA.
5.11    For procurement of civil works, specifications and draft tender
documents would be submitted to IDA before bidding documents were issued, and
bid evaluations would be submitted to IDA for approval before awards were
made. After IDA approval of these initial documents, further IDA clearance
would only be required if significant changes were to be made in them. For
individual contracts in excess of US$50,000 bid evaluation would be submitted
to IDA for approval before awards were made.
5.12    Consulting services, including expatriate and local technical assis-
tance, costing about US$4.5 M, would be procured in accordance with IDA
guidelines.
5.13    Contract Review.  There would be two contracts for civil works to be
procured from the credit; produce stores would cost about US$1.4 M and the
NIPX dormitory would cost about US$0.2 M. The contracts would be fully



-36-
reviewed by IDA. About 15 contracts for goods costing more than US$50,000
per contract would be subject to IDA prior review. The balance of contracts
would be subject to random checking during the course of IDA supervision.
5.14    Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 5.4.
Table 5.4:  PROCUREKUT ARRAiGDEENTS
(us$ n)
---        -    Procurement Method
Project                                       Prudent     Force                       Total
Element                                 LCB   ShoppinR   Account         Others       Cost
(Figures in parentheses are IDA financing)
Field Development                  -            -            110.2           -       110.2
(40.9)          -       (40.9)
Civil Works                      1.6            -                -        29.5        31.1
(1.1)          -                _           _        (1.1)
Vehicles                           -                             -        13.3        13.3
Factory Equipment                  -            -                -        27.0        27.0
Field and Nursery Equipment        -          6.4                -           -         6.4
-        (4.5)               -           -        (4.5)
Mini Kydro                         -            -                -        11.3        11.3
Other Equipment                    -          3.6                -         2.6         6.2
-        (2.8)               -           -        (2.8)
Training                           -            -                -         1.8         1.8
=   -  -  (1.6)      (1.6)
Technical Assistance               -            -                -         4.5         4.5
_               _          4.1)       (4.1)
Total                            1.6         10.0           110.2         90.C       211.8
(1.1)       (7.3)           (40.9)       (5.7)      (55.0)
5.15    Disbursements.  Disbursements from the IDA credit would be made for:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditure for directly imported equipment, or 100X
of local expenditure (ex-factory) if locally manufactured , or 65% of
expenditure for equipment procured locally (US$7.3 M);
(b)  70% of the total cost of civil works done by contract (US$1.l X);
(c)  35Z of total cost of field development expenditure including new
planting, replanting and infilling, and of field works including
diversification (US$40.9 H); and
(d)  10OZ of expenditure on training and technical assistance (US$5.7 M).



-37-
To ensure implementation control, disbursement would be made against project
expenditure and not against subloans to the corporations under the project.
The corporations would each be responsible for project disbursement claims.
Disbursement for JEDB and SPC field development (item (c) above) would be
made against statements of expenditure, prepared from individual estates-
monthly accounts (para 2.20); consolidated disbursement claims would be
submitted to IDA on a monthly basis. These monthly accounts are a consistent
feature of corporation affairs. The estates' monthly accounts would be
audited by the corporations' internal auditors and the external auditors of
the estates and retained at corporation headquarters for examination by IDA.
All other disbursements would be made against full documentation. For the
purpose of disbursements against statements of expenditure, the corporations'
institutional and staffing capabilities are satisfactory. Disbursement would
be completed by July 1990, about 6 months after project completion (Annex 2,
Table 24). The 5-1/2 year disbursement period compares with about eight
years for a typical IDA agriculture project in South Asia. The faster dis-
bursement is expected because 75% of the credit is against field works to be
undertaken on a regular basis on estates. Field works on the first two IDA
projects (Cr. 818-CE and Cr. 1240-CE) are proceeding vell, field techniques
are understood and no gearing-up is required. The Special Account mechanism
(para 5.16) would ensure speedy disbursenent against sta; ments of expendi-
ture. The remaining disbursement, mostly against technical assistance,
training and two civil works contracts, would take place ear*.y in project
implementation.
5.16    Special Account.  About 70% of the project cost net of duties and
taxes would be local. Of this, 55% would be financed by the corporations
from their own resources, the balance 45% would be met by donors and BOC.
Reimbursement by IDA would be against expenditure actually incurred. The
corporations would have to raise bridging finance to meet local expenditures
pending reimbursement by IDA. Cost of short-term credit in Sri Lanka ranges
from 21% to 22X per annum, which the corporations cannot afford. To overcome
this problem and also to facilitate direct payuents not exceeding US$20,000
at a time to overseas suppliers, a Special Account would be established for
IDA contributions to the project in an initial amount of US$3.0 M. IDA's
advance to the Special Account would be equivalent to its share of expendi-
ture for three months, the expected timelag between corporations' incurring
expenditure and reimbursement by IDA.
5.17    The Special Account would be maintained in US dollars in BOC and
operated by the corporations. The Special Account would be used to finance
the following expenditure incurred by the Corporations: (a) field develop-
ment expenditure, (b) purchase of office, nursery and field equipment,
(c) civil works, (d) training, and (e) technical assistance. Advances from
the account would be made on request of the corporations.
5.18    Payment by IDA against reimbursement claims for local expenditure
would be without any deduction for the initial deposit to the Special



-38-
Account. Recovery of the initial deposit by IDA vould commence when the
unvithdrawn amounts in the Credit had been reduced to double the initial
deposit to the Account or during the last six months of the Credit whichever
in earlier. Recovery would be by reimbursing only 50% of the amounts claimed
during the recovery period, until the advance had been fully recovered.
5.19    IDA contributions to the Special Account would be deemed to have been
onlent to BOC and interest at 11% payable by BOC would accrue to Government
on the amounts deposited. Withdrawals from the Special Account by the cor-
porations would be treated as having been onlent by BOC and would attract
interest at 13%. Should any disbursements made from the Special Account be
unacceptable to IDA, the corporations would deposit the corresponding amount
to the Special Accounts; BOC would assume this risk on this account.
VI.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Orranization and Manazement
Responsibilities
6.01    The project would be implemented almost exclusively by JEDB and SPC,
and would constitute the Medium-Term Investment Program of all estates,
Regional Boards and Central Boards for the five years, 1985 through 1989. As
such the project would be an integral part of corporate affairs and would not
require separate project coordination units or procedures. The JEDB Central
Board chairman and the SPC Central Board chairman would be ultimately respon-
sible for implementation of the JEDB and SPC portions of the project. The
Regional Board chairmen would each be responsible for implementation of
investment programs in their respective regions, and 530 estate cuperinten-
dents would be held responsible for the investment programs of individual
estates.
6.02    Board Responsibilities and Structure.  The Central Boards would be
responsible for interpreting the requirements of Government, for establishing
policy and advisiug the chief executive, for setting targets and for reward-
ing performance. Policy formulation and performance review would be
separated from executive functions by reconstituting the Central Boards.
Satisfactory proposals for reconstituting the SPC Board with nine members
(four regional chairmen plus five outsiders including the chairman) have been
approved by the Cabinet. The JEDB BoaTd vill remnain at seven members but it
was agreed that one regional chairman will be replaced by an outsider in
February 1986 when his term expires. Thus both corporate boards will have a
majority of members drawn from cmtside the corporatiors.  Central Boards
would meet at least six times per year and directors would receive
appropriate fees.  Executive committees would be made up of the managing
directors, all regional chairmen, and the heads of key functional divisions
of the central office.



-39-
6.03    EstgblishMent of Work Prof rams.  Annual investment programs would be
established ea part of the budget procedure. Superintendents would submit
estate investment proposals through their Regional Boards to the planning
units established at the central offices. All proposals, particularly field
and factory development programs, would be analyzed by the planning units for
economic viability. A corporate annual investment program would be prepared
by consolidating estate investment proposals, but with revision if necessary
to relate the total program to corporate fiuancial capacity. The corporate
program, when approved by the Central Board, would form a delegated authority
to corporation executives for the physical program to be undertaken through
the regional boards and the funds to be made available. Copies of tVe
approved corporate annual work program and budget would be made available to
IDA, before commencement of the annual program.
B. Cost Control
6.04    Cost control at estate level would be through the budgetary
mechanism. Annual operational budgets would be prepared on the basis of
coefficients satisfactory to IDA. These would include: (a) labor norms for
plucking, tapping and harvesting at levels within agreed ranges; (b) number
of laborers employed per hectare under crop; (c) number of labor days util-
ized per unit of production; (d) outturn percentages (percentage made tea to
green leaf), percentage crepe to latex collected, percentage copra to
coconuts harvested; and (e) output per unit of total power consumed.
6.05    Cost control over Regional and Central Boards' marketing and manage-
ment expenses would also be through the budgetary echanism. The traditional
norm for these expenses is a percentage of the corporations' turnover plus a
handling charge expressed in cents per kilogram of anticipated crop.
Separate budgets for Regional and Central Boards using norms satisfactory to
IDA vould be prepared. An assurance was obtained that annual revenue budgets
for years after 1985, based on budget norms satisfactory to TDA, plus annual
investment programs and financial forecasts, would be made available to IDA
in September and finalized by November 30 of the preceding year.
C. Financial Xanagement and Control
6.06    A timetable for the implementation of consultants' recomendations
has been agreed with the Government and the corporations (para 2.13). Criti-
al areas for project implementation would be:
(a) concise reporting formats for estate monthly accounts and other
management information system reports;
(b) concise formats for preparation of annual budgets;



-40-
(c) capital restructuring folloving valuation of vested assets, with
satisfactory debt/equity ratios;
(d)  rationalization of current assets and liabilities and projection of
working capital requirements, with satisfactory current ratios;
(e) establishing limits for finaucial authority for various levels of
management;
(f) reorganization and staffiug of the internal audit departmeutB;
(g) computerization of accounting and management information system; and
(h) in SPC, stock control procedures.
6.07    Revised formats for monthly accounts and management information
system reports are expected to be finalized and put to use before project
commencement. Improved formats for annual budgets would be completed for
use in 1986. Reorganization and staffing of internal audit departments would
be completed before project commencement. Provision of computers under the
project would be based on a study now in progress by the consultants.
D. Accounting and Audit
6.08    JEDB, SPC, and BOC would prepare separate project accounts, which
would be audited annually, together with disbursement documents and the
annual accounts of the corporations, by the Auditor General. An assurance
was obtained that draft project accounts together with draft final accounts
of the corporations, including profit and loss accounts and balance sheets
would be sent to IDA within six months of the close of the corporations'
financial year followed by audited accounts and reports within nine months
after the end of the financial year. The project accounts for the corpora-
tions would be a summarized statement of sources and application of funds
relating to the project. BOC would submit a summarized statement of the
Special Account (para 5.16).
6.09    To overcome the difficulty in coordinating the audits by numerous
auditors (para 2.21) an assurance was obtained that one firm of private
auditors would be appointed as the agent of the Auditor General for each
Regional Board including the regional offices and associated estates. One of
the regional auditors would be the lead firm coordinating all regional audits
together with the Central Board audit. This lead auditor would report to the
Auditor General. Audit reports are available up to 1982 and draft accounts
for 1983 have been completed. Auditing of the 1983 accounts is in progress.



-41-
E. Planning
6.10    Central boards would plan corporate strategy to be implemented under
the Managing Directors who would be assisted by the planning units. The
planniug units vould prepare details of annual, medium- and long-term plans
based on national tree crop objectives and on the economic analyses of
estate, regional and corporate proposals, modifications of MTIP would there-
fore be a prime responsibility of the planning units. The modified MTIP
requirements would form the basis for discussions on financing between the
corporations and the Ministry of Finance and Planning. In addition to
preparing corporate plans the planning units would advise the corporations on
the implications of policies such as the impact of increased crop production
and diversification on prices, the financial advantages of factory
rationalization and the likely effects of programs on social welfare.
F. Institutional Develoiment
6.11    Development of institution capability would be the responsibility of
the executive committees. The IDU (para 4.20) would report directly to the
Managing Director to ensure its authority to deal with organization matters
and skill gap analysis from the highest level down to estate workers. The
IDU would be a service unit to the Executive Committee, analyzing institution
development implications and drafting recommendations for committee discus-
sion. The IDU would formulate and coordinate all training and liaise with
NIPM to provide specialist training expertise as required.
C. Mouitorina
6.12    The basic corporate documents for monitoring operations are the
annual approved work programs and budgets of each corporation.  These are
broken down into estates' operating budgets and separate management budgets
for the Regional and Central Boards. Performance at estate level against
budget estimates are monitored by Regional and Central Boards by means of
monthly progress reports and accounts which are produced for ee;' estate.
These reports are submitted in an orderly and regular manner. A consolidated
report is prepared by each Regional Board covering all estates under its
management, for further consolidation on a corporate basis. Management costs
are also monitored against budgets by quarterly accounts of the Regional and
Central Boards.  Independent monitoring of financial performance would be
accomplished through the normal external auditors system.
6.13    Monitoring of physical performance at all levels should be a normal
part of corporate business. The VA system (para 2.22) should monitor estate
activities but the system requires rebuilding. Similarly, stock control
procedures require streamlining and tightening. The Government wants to be
assured that physical performance is efficient and until internal monitoring
capability is developed and tested would require independent physical
monitoring. Thus verification of physical performance on estates against the



-42-
norms agreed at budget preparation and monitoring of stock control would be
undertaken by a monitoring board to be incorporated under the project (para
4.26). The board would employ consultants to reviev the internal monitoring
procedures and develop test and implement an improved system. They would
establish and test a key indicator report format on the physical program
which vould be submitted to Central Boards, Government and IDA quarterly.
The report would include, inter alia, statements on field program progress,
on c.vil works accomplisbments, on health and welfare indicators to be agreed
with the medical staff, on stock control, factory rehabilitation, and
procurement. The monitoring board would identify constraints in the execu-
tion of the investment program and recomend appropriate remedies as part of
the quarterly report. The board would be responsible for preparing evalua-
tion reports on NTIP on the basis of assessments every tvo years of the
impact of the program. Key indicators, constraints and remedies recommended
and employed would form the basis of the evaluation. The reports would also
focus on the impact of MTIP on the social welfare program of the corpora-
tions. An important function of the board would be liaison with the IDUs
to develop training programs for internal monitoring units and would hand
over all monitoring to the corporations by the end of the project.
VII. PRODUCTION. MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Yields and Production
Tea
7.01      Average yield of tea on estates is about 970 kg/ha, varying from
less than 500 kg/ha on poor OST areas to over 5,000 kg/ha on low country VP
tea. Without the project tea production would decline due to soil erosion,
and the compounding of problems associated with unreplaced bush deaths, by
about 1Z per annum after 10 years and 2% per annum after 20 years. Project
investment in soil conservation measures and infilling would arrest the
decline.
7.02      The average mature yield of VP tea planted with the project would
be about 2,125 kg/ha. Infilled areas would yield about 80% of new plantings.
Production with the project would increase from 142 M kg per annum to about
169 N kg per annum, a 192 increase over 30 years. The yield prof-le used in
the analysis is shown in Annex 4, Table 2. Yield profiles for individual
high-, mid- and low-country estates are given in JEDB and SPC corporate
plans. Production streams are shown in Annex 4, Tables 9 and 10.
Rubber
7.03      Average yield from mature PB 86 is about 1,100 kg/ha.  PB 86 would
be replaced by IRIC 100 and PRIC 103, which have both yielded over 2,000
kg/ha after 4 years of tapping in rommercial trials. Yield stimulants would



-43-
be applied to new plantings which would yield an estimated 1,450 kg/ha at
maturity.
7.04      The area to be rehabilitated under the project is shown in Annex 4,
Table 1. Yield assumptions are shown in Annex 4, Table 2. Production
streams are shown in Annex 4, Tables 11 and 12. The project would produce
about an additionai 18 M kg of rubber annually at maturity in 2003.
Coconut
7.05      No difference is assumed in the yield potential of coconuts estab-
lished with and without the project. Wherever high yielding hybrids are
available they would be used in clear-felled replanting programs. However,
the bulk of the replantiug program would involve underplanting.
7.06      Yield at full maturity would be about 12,000 nuts/ha.  The area to
be underplanted is shown in Annex 4, Table 1. The yield profile is shown in
Annex 4, Table 2. Incremental production at full maturity, about 18 years
after project inception, would be about 18 M nuts/ha, equivalent to about
3,600 tons cf copra or 2,250 tons of coconut oil.
Diversification Crops
7.07    For the purpose of analysis, fuelvood, which makes up 60% of diver-
sification, has been used as a proxy for diversification crops (para 4.06).
Yield would be about 0.27 cubic meters per tree after 8 years which
experience has shown is realistic under Sri Lanka conditions. Total diver-
sification production over the life of the project would amount to 8 M cubic
uetera of fuelwood equivalent or roughly 400,000 cubic meters per annum.
B. Markets and Prices
Tea
7.08    Between 1955 and 1982 the price of tea in constant dollar terms
declined at the rate of about 2.5% per annum, disturbed only by the price
boom of 1977, caused mainly by increased coffee prices in 1976 and 1977. Tea
prices experienced another boom during 1983 and 1984 because of increased
demand, the drought in Chbna and Sri Lanka and export restrictions in India.
This trend is not expected to continue beyond 1984. Between 1984 and 1995,
the price of tea is projected to decline by about 28Z in 1984 constant dollar
terms, but the price would still exceed the cost of production. Annex 4,
Tables 3 and 4, show the price projections for tea used in financial and
economic analyses.
7.09    In view of the low vorld price elasticity of demand for tea and Sri
Lanka's share of the market (14.6% by 1995), increasing exports would reduce
price, other things being equal. While the prices used in the analysis are



-44-
based on IBRD projections, which take anticipated production increases into
account, without the project the prices received for Sri Lanka's tea exports
would have been greater. Adjustment has therefore been made for the lose in
revenue by calculating the marginal export revenue at 89% of the projected
price.
7.10    Factory rehabilitation under the project would maintain the high
quality and Sri Lanka should continue to find a ready market for its tea.
Rubber
7.11     Over 90% of world rubber is exported.  Consumption of natural rubber
is determined to a large extent by international industrial growth which
increased at about 6% per annum in recent years. Global production potential
of natural rubber for the next few years is considered adequate to meet the
expected growth in demand. However, available data on existing rubber areas,
on available technology, and on new planting and replanting programs point to
the possibility of a decline in the rate of natural rubber output during the
1985-95 period. This mainly reflects the expected slowdown in rubber produc-
tiou in Malaysia, the biggest natural rubber producing and exporting country,
where labor shortages have increasingly become a problem and where competi-
tion from other tree crops, particularly oil palm, remains strong.
7.12     Sri Lanka's rubber production peaked at 159 M kg in 1970 a.d
declined to 125 M kg in 1982. Its share of the world market fell from 5.6Z
to 4.2% between 1961 and 1982, and is projected at 2% in 1995. About 50% of
total production is ribbed smoked sheet (RSS), 40% premium-priced crepes and
the balance goes into Technically Specified Rubber (TSR) or block rubber and
latex concentrate. Factory rehabilitation under the project would maintain
the high quality of Sri Lanka crepes which would continue to find a ready
market at a good price. Rubber prices are projected to increase steadily by
about 15% between 1985 and 1995. The price projections used for the analysis
of the project are shown in Annex 4, Table 5.
Coconut
7.13    Sri Lankan production of coconut is small, falliu& from 8% of world
production in 1961 to 2.5% in 1982. About 59% of production is consumed
locally as fresh nuts, 29% is processed into coconut oil, 132 goes into
dessicated coconuts. Sri Lanka is the second largest producer of dessicated
coconut, accounting for about 32% of world production. Export of copra is
prohibited, but a limited quantity of edible copra has been exported since
1973. Sri Lanka's coconut oil earns a premium price on the world market but
its market share fell from about 2.7% in 1961, to 2.4% in 1982 because of
declining production.
7.14     The bulk of project planting vould be sold as fresh nuts for which
there would continue to be a ready local market. The local price for fresh



-45-
nuts exhibited only modest increases up to 1982. During 1983 and early 1984,
however, the local price of fresh nuts has almost doubled because of local
shortages caused by the delayed effect of drought, typhoon damage and aging
palms. Similar price increases for coconut products have been experienced on
the world market but this trend is not projected to continue beyond 1984.
The price of coconut oil which forms the basis for the economic analysis is
projected to fall 'y 42% between 1984 and 1995. The price projections for
coconut are shown in Annex 4, Table 6. 1
VIII. FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS AND ANALYSIS
A. Producer Marsins
8.01    In the past there have been protracted periods when tree crop
producers' margins have been too low to stimulate investment in the sector.
The Tree Crop Sector Review identified this as a major cause of the sector's
poor performance over the past two decades (paras 2.03 and 2.09). During
discussion of the sector review with Government, agreement was reached that
tree crop margins should be continously maintained at levels which would
provide incentives to stimulate investment and to ensure good crop main-
tenance. This implies that in weighing trade-offs between raising Government
revenues and maintaining adequate incentives, the latter must have priority.
It was further agreed that the appropriate means of ensuring satisfactory
margins and minimizing the distortion of price signals to producers was
through adjustment of the tax structure. Broad principles of tax adjustment
were outlined in the sector review and agreed with Government.
8.02    As a result of these discussions Government has established a Working
Group to review and monitor factors affecting margins, including taxes,
cesses, subsidies, cost of production and commodity prices. The Working
Group's recommendations, which were satisfactory to IDA, were adopted in the
1984 budget. An assurance was obtained that Government would maintain the
Working Group to monitor and reco end adjustments to the factors affecting
producer margins to maintain producer margins at adequate levels. Adequacy
of margins would be agreed with IDA during regular reviews of the monitoring
operation. Eowever, financial projections suggest that margins would need to
be maintained at levels sufficient to enable the corporations to maintain
vorking ratios at about 85% or better (para 8.04).
B. Income Proiections
8.03    The main project beneficiaries would be the corporations--JEDB and
SPC-and their sole owner, the Government.  The project would be financially
attractive to Government but, at present taxation levels, would be less
attractive to the corporations. Bovever, the project would improve the
efficiency of the corporations and tax adjustments would stimulate
performance of the corporations and the private sector thus helping to main-
tain Government revenues.



-46-
8.04    Corporate Incomes and Taxation.  Over 80% of JEDB and SPC revenue
derives from tea. The effect of high export tax on tea is to increase the
working ratio of the corporations. The impact of taxation on working ratio
projections on operations from tea throughout project life is shown in Table
8.1. Exceptionally high tea prices iu 1983 and 1984 resulted in higher
margins, with working ratios below 67%. However, these prices are not
expected to continue beyond early 1985. Compared with the projected reduc-
tion in prices and escalation of costs, the margin at present tax levels
would gradually decline during the project period; working ratios would
increase to 93Z. Working ratios on rubber at the present tax structure, and
on coconut are satisfactory. These, however, have little impact on corporate
working ratio, as contribution from these crops towards total revenue is
minimal. Table 8.1 also shows the working ratio projections on tea, rubber
and coconut and the corporate ratios. Projections are based on 1982 estate
costs updated to 1984, including the mid-1984 wage increases, assuming judi-
cious deployment of labor or revenue operations and capital works.
Table 8.1: WORKING RATIO
(% in Current Terms)
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
JEDB
Tea
Assuming no taxes             43       50      51        51      54       54
At 1984 level of taxes        67       77      80        82      87       87
Rubber
At 1984 level of taxes        65       63      63        63      61       67
Coconut a/                    33       39      39        38      38       41
Coriporation
At 1984 level of taxes        67       75      78        80      83       85
SPC
Tea
Assuming no taxes             43       49      50        51      54       53
At 1984 level of taxes        67       77      79        82      86       87
Rubber
At 1984 level of taxes        66       64      64        64      62       68
Corporation
At 1984 level of taxes        67       74      77        79      82       84
a/  Sold as fresh nuts on which there is no tax.



-47-
8.05    Projected income statements at the 1984 unadjusted levels of taxes
for the corporations are given in Annex 3, Tables 4 and 5. The financial
projections read in conjunction with the sources and application of funds
(Annex 3, Tables 6 and 7) indicate that from 1988 onvards capital formation
would be insufficient to support the proposed development program unless
taxes on tea were reduced to sustain a satisfactory corporate working ratio
of 85Z or better.
8.06    At 1985 tax levels, taxes recovered by Government on tea would
average 32% of the projected sale prices from 1985 through 1990. With a
marginal reduction in taxes to achieve a working ratio of 851 j/, average tax
recovered by Government would be about 31% of the projected sale prices.
This would leave a margin with the corporations of about 101 of the projected
sale prices to meet their overhead expenditure, their share of financing the
project cost, to service debts, and for incremental working capital. ;J The
impact of the proposed tax adjustment on projected corporation revenue is
shown in Table 8.2.
j/ On tea, private sector costs are less than those of the public corpora-
tions, because of the latter's overheads. However, costs at estate level
are similar to those of the private estate sector. Therefore, with a
view to arriving at a working ratio applicable both to the private sector
and the corporations, the numerator used for the calculation of vorking
ratio is the estate cost of production excluding corporations' management
and marketing costs and interest on working capital.
;J This margin would be equally attractive to the smallholders. Management
cost and interest on working capital to the imallholders are estimated
at 2% of the gross sale proceeds. Most smallholders do not have their
own factories for processing and therefore sell their green leaf to
private factories or to corporations' factories. A major capital cost
to smallholders is replanting and infilling cost, which, net of sub-
sidies, is estimated at 41 of the gross sale proceeds. This would leave
about 4Z of the gross proceeds for other capital costs such as housing
and the balance as return on smallholders' equity.



-48-
Table 8.2: IMPACT OF PROPOSED TAX ADJUSTME0TS ON CORPORATION REVENUE
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
JEDB
Percentage gross tea sale proceeds
(1) Recovered by Government:
(a) at present tax structure           30.6   29.6   31.1   32.4   32.9   34.0
(b) after adjustment of taxes          30.6   29.6   31.1   32.4   31.5   32.3
(2) Left vith Corporation
(net sale proceeds), after
adjustment of taxes                    64.1   64.8   63.7   62.8   63.8   63.3
(3) Cost of Production                     43.1   49.8   50.6   51.5   54.0   53.6
(4) Margin to Corporation, after
adjustment of taxes                    21.0   15.0   13.1   11.3    9.8    9.7
s:C
Percentage Gross Tea Sale Proceeds
(1) Recovered by Government:
(a) at present tax structure           30.7   29.7   31.2  32.5  33.0   34.0
(b) after adjustment of taxes          30.7   29.7   31.2  32.5  32.0  32.7
(2) Left with Corporation
(net sale proceeds), after
adjustment of taxes)                    64.0  64.7  63.6  62.7   63.4  62.9
(3) Cost of Production                     42.8   49.5  50.2  51.1  53.6   53.2
(4) Margin to Corporation, after
adjustment of taxes                    21.3   15.3   13.4  11.6    9.7    9.7
8.07    Sources and Ap'plication of Funds. A summary of sources and applica-
tion of funds, assuming tax adjustments, is in Table 8.3. Details are in
Annex 3, Tables 6 and 7.



-49-
Table 8.3:  SUMMARY SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
flON 1985 EROUGH 1990
(Killions of Current Rupees)
35DB                  SPC
Amount       X       Amount       X
Sources
Operstions                            14,717       89      18,547       91
External Financing on
Proposed Project                     1,519        9       1,732        8
External Financing on
Ongoing Projects                       386        2         1'6       1
Total                          16,622       100     20,395       100
Ap 1ication
Working Capital/Surplus                  685        4       2,325       11
Fixed Assets - Proposed Project        2,492       15       2,840       14
Fixed Assets - Ongoing Projects          774        5         585        3
Debt Service                             762        5         869        4
6overnment (Taxes)                    11,909       71      13.776       68
Total                          16,622       100     20,395       100
Debt Service Ratio
Before Tax                             19.3                 21.4
After Tax                               3.7                  5.4
8.08    The corporations would finance about 17X of project investments,
including duties and taxes, from internally generated funds. The satisfac-
tory debt service ratios, before and after taxes, and high cash flow from
operations would ensure that the corporations vould have the financial
capacity to limit commercial bank borrowing for a part of working capital and
for financing a aecond phase of MIP oan completion of the fixst in
December 1989.
8.09    An assurance was obtained that neither JEDB nor SPC would incur any
debt unless a forecast of total revenue and expenditure showed a debtservice



-50-
ratio after taxes, for each fiscal year, of at least 1.5 for all debt includ-
ing dividends to Government and the debt to be incurred. Corporation
forecasts of debt service ratios for 1985 are well above the optimum.
8.10    The Ministry of Finance and Planning requires that public sector
corporations should pay 50X of their profits after income tax to the Govern-
ment as dividend. An assurance was obtained from Government that dividends
paid by JEDB and SPC vould not reduce their debtservice ratio below 1.5 to
ensure that internally generated funds included as part of the financing plan
would be available to the project.
8.11    Workinu  Capital. High tea prices in 1983 have produced fund
surpluses which enabled the corporations to pay off their short-term borrow-
ings. Further surpluses are anticipated in 1984 which would allow the cor-
porations to finance their working capital requirements for 1984 from their
own resources. At appraisal, the Government and the corporations agreed that
no dividends would be declared from profits for 1983 and 1984 pending the
proposed capital restructuring (para 2.19). The cash flow projections from
1985 through 1990 indicate that the corporations would on average be able to
finance their incremental working capital. Any seasonal shortfall would be
raised from BOC. Incremental working capital requirements of the corpora-
tions are detailed in Annex 3, Tables 8 and 9.
C. Financial and Fiscal Rates of Return
8.12      Table 8.4 shows the corporations' financial and fiscal 11 rates of
return for tea, rubber and coconut. The rates of return for tea and rubber
are satisfactory but coconut appears to be marginal. The rates of return on
coconut are low primarily because investment costs for vehicles, housing,
social welfare and field and nursery equipment included in tbhe analysis would
serve the total area of estate coconut production and not merely the area to
be underplanted. The financial rates of return on the total project invest-
ment would be 18% for JEDB and 19% for SPC. These are above both the average
rate of inflation (10Z) over the project period and the cost of borrowing
(13%) to the corporations. Part of the surpluses anticipated during the
first three years of the project would be paid to Government as dividends
(para 8.10). After 1988 it is projected that tax reductions will become
necessary to sustain working ratios at satisfactory levels and to provide
funds to the corporations to service debts and for working capital require-
ments.
jj The fiscal rate of Teturn shows what the financial rate of return would
be if no export dut, or ad valorem taxes were levied.



-51-
Table 8.4:   FINANCIAL AND FISCAL RATES OF RETURN
Components             Financial          Fiscal
Tea
JEDB                    22                27
SPC                     21                26
Rubber
JEDB                    15                21
SPC                     18                25
Coconut
JEDB                    12                12
AR£re2ate a/
JEDB                    18                23
SPC                     19                24
Total Project             18                23
a/ The aggregate analysis includes costs of institutional
development.
8.13    The overall fiscal rate of return, at 23%, shows that the project
vould be attractive to Government.
D.  Government Revenue
8.14    Government revenue from the project is detailed in Annex 3, Table 10.
In 1984 Goverment revenue from the corporations,, including export duty and
taxes and corporate tax less subsidies, is estimated at Rs 4,634 M. With the
anticipated fall in tea prices and the proposed reduction in taxes, Govern-
ment"s total revenue, including duties and taxes on project investment is
estimated to decline in current terms to Rs 3,712 M in 1985 and thereafter
increase to Rs 6,275 M by 1990. In real terms, this represents a marginal
increase of Rs 90 M above 1984 revenue.
$



-52-
EX. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits
General
9.01    The project vould constitute the main thrust of Government's develop-
ment strategy to arrest the decline in export earnings and budgetary revenues
from tea, rubber, and coconut, and to further diversify uneconomic
tea-producing areas. At full development in 2001 net foreign exchange earn-
ings from incremental tea and rubber would amount to about US$65 M annually
and export duties and taxes would add a further Rs 768 N (US$30 M) Annually
to government revenues. Rehabilitation of factories would improve tea
quality and avoid any decline in rubber quality. Sri Lanka's international
reputation for premium teas and rubber would be maintained and the country's
marketing position would be strengthened. Rationalization of factories,
improvements in field programs and institution development would result in
reduced costs of production which would further strengthen Sri Lanka's com-
petitive position on world markets.
Social Benefits
9.02    The gradual deterioration of the plantations has strained labor
relations at estate and national levels. Rehabilitation of the estates would
increase employment opportunities and production bonuses for estate for
workers who rely almost entirely on the estates for their livelihood. The
project would greatly enhance the health and welfare of estate workers and
their families by improving housing, water supplies, sanitation and medical
facilities. Training at all levels would encourage teamwork and vould
improve working relations. This combination of more employment, better
performance incentives, improved conditions on estates and increased vitality
in the industry would generate corporate vitality and boost flagging morale.
The improved performance of the industry would spill over into areas outside
the sector.
Environmental ImDact
9.03    An important benefit of the project would be the stabilizatiou of
estate lands by extensive soil conservation, by infilling gaps in tea, and by
planting tree cover. One of Sri Lanka's major resources, the soil of the
high rainfall areas, is being eroded at an ever increasing rate, and some
once-fertile high lands will no longer support crops. An added complication
of erosion is the gradual silting up of streams, rivers and reservoirs. The
project would have a significant beneficial impact on this problem. The
project would reduce environmental pollution by controlling effluent disposal
from rubber factories. The provision of latrines, drains, water supplies and



-53-
the rehabilitation of workers housing would improve the environmental condi-
tions in the estate communities. Corporation awareness of safety features
detailed in the Bank guidelines on factory safety (para 4.13) would be
expected to bring about an environmental improvement for factory workers.
B. Economic Analysis
General
9.04    The economic analysis has been made in border Sri Lanka Rupee prices
with international prices converted into Sri Lanka Rupees at an exchange rate
of US$1 - Re 25.17. All values are expressed in 1984 constant prices.
Separate analyses are made for each crop, for each corporation and for the
project as a whole. The analysis excludes benefits and costs of ongoing
projects. Analysis of individual crops does not include investment costs for
institutional development as this would benefit the total corporation aud not
just the areas to be rehabilitated. These costs are included in the analysis
for each corporation and for the total project.
Economic Benefits
9.05    The primary benefits of the project would be the incremental produc-
tion of tea, rubber, coconut, and fuelvood. The prices of tea, rubber and
coconut are based on 1982 average Colombo FOB prices, projected according to
IBRD price trends in 1984 constant prices. Tea price projections are based
on the London Auction, rubber on RSS #1 spot New York, and coconut on coconut
oil exported from the Philippines/Indonesia. Tea prices reflect the effect
of factory improvement and marginal revenue adjustment (para 7.09). Rubber
prices reflect the effect of factory rehabilitation. Savings from installa-
tion of mini-hydros are based on the marginal cost estimates of the Colombo
Electric Corporation. Fuelvood is valued at the savings in the cost of
imported fuel. Details of the price projections for tea, rubber and coconut
are sbown in Annex 4, Tables 3 to 6.
Economic Costs
9.06    Project costs include physical contingencies and exclude price con-
tingencies, duties, taxes and subsidies. They are based on estate data
updated to end 1984. Project inputs consist mostly of tradeables and labor.
The local content of imported goods and local inputs are shadow priced
through the application of a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.85. At
appraisal the shadow wage rate vas estimated at 75X of the market wage rate.
Subsequently, there was a wage increase of about 34Z and project costs were
increased accordingly. In order to maintain the real cost of labor at its
appraisal value, the shadow wage rate was adjusted to 55Z. Appropriate
conversion factors have been calculated for cost items to reflect the per-
centages of labor, local costs and foreign exchange (Annex 4, Table 7).
Improved management of the corporations would be expected to reduce costs of



-54-
production-about 2% in estate overheads and 51 in variable costs. Rousing
and medical costs have been omitted; their benefits, though not easily
measurable, would be at least equal to their costs.
Economic Rate of Return
9.07    The economic rates of return for the three principal crops, fuelvood
and for the aggregate project are summArized in Table 9.01. Calculations of
the rates of return are shown in Annex 4, Tables 9 to 13.
Table 9.1: ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
Crops                               Percentage
Tea
JEDB                                 31
SPC                                  28
Rubber
JEDB                                 24
SPC                                  28
Coconut
JEDB                                 18
Fuelvood a/                            50 +
Aggregate Project
JEDB                                 27
SPC                                  26
Total Project                          26
a/ Fuelvood was excluded from the aggregate
analysis of both corporations and the
total project to avoid distortion of the
analysis of the three principal crops.
9.08    The economic rates of return for tea and rubber are high, as would be
expected from a rehabilitation project. The differences between the finan-
cial rates of return (para 8.12) and the economic rates of return for tea and
rubber are largely due to export duties and advalorem taxes. The rate of
return for coconut is lover than expected because investment costs would
serve the total area under production and not only the area to be under-
planted.
Sensitivity Analysis
9.09    Sensitivity tests for the total project assuming lags in benefits and
assuming cost overruns are shown in Table 9.2.



-55-
Table 9.2: SENSITIVITY TESTS
Test                                         ERR (X)
Base case                                     26
Benefits lagged by 1 year                     23
Benefits lagged by 2 years                    21
Cost overruns IOZ                             25
Cost overruns 20Z                             24
Benefits lagged 1 year, cost overruns 10    22
Benefits lagged 2 years, cost overruns 20%   19
9.10    The sensitivity analyses show that even in the unlikely event of a
2-year lag in benefits and a 20X cost overrun the project would yield an
acceptable economic rate of return.
9.11    Switching values L/ at an opportunity cost of capital of 10 percent
have been estimated for incremental net benefits and investment costs
(Table 9.3).
Table 9.3: SWITCHING VALUES
(Opportunity Cost of Capital 10%)
Crops               Incremental              Investment
Net Benefits               Costs
Tea
JEDB                   -82                    + 468
SPC                    -71                    + 246
Rubber
JEDB                   -74                    x 285
SPC                    -79                    + 378
Coconut
JEDB                   -54                    4 116
Total Project            -86                    + 613
Ij Svitching value is the percentage change in the specified stream (cost or
benefit) that reduces the Net Present Value (NPV) of the project to zero
at a specified discount rate (10X for Sri Lanka).



-56-
9.12    The results indicate that the project would be economically sound.
Taking the crops individually, the results show that incremental net benefits
for tea and rubber would have to fall over 70% and coconut by about 50Z for
any of these crops to be economically non-viable. Conversely, investment
costs for tea and rubber would have to increase by over 200% and coconut by
about 1001 for such an event to occur.
9.13    Taking the project as a whole, incremental net benefits would have to
fall by 86% or total investment costs would have to increase by over 613Z for
the overall project to be not viable. There is only a low probability of
incremental -jet benefits falling so greatly because of low prices, poor
yields, or bxigh production costs. The probability of investment costs rising
to the levAls indicated is negligible.
C. Proiect Risks
9.14    The technical risks of the project are low because of the corpora-
tions' great experience in the cultivation and processing of tree crops. The
Tree Crops Sector Review expressed concern about the profitability of
replanting tea. Based on an analysis of average costs and benefits, replant-
iug returns are marg .nal. However, in specific instances high-yield poten-
tial and low estate costs can make tea replanting profitable. A limited
replanting program has therefore been included in the project but risk of
unprofitable replanting would be reduced by an assurance that only those
fields would be replanted with tea for which the net present value (NPV) at
101 in economic teams was positive and higher than for feasible alternatives
(para 4.04).
9.15    Institutional risks should not pose a major problem because project
staff have gained considerable experience implementing similar projects
during the past 6 years. Recent procedures introduced and tested by manage-
ment consultants have greatly improved corporation efficiency. Regular
monitoring of performance at all levels would be improved. The management
consultants would continue to work with the corporations during 1985 under an
arrangement in the TRAD Project. The risk of slow implementation would be
reduced by project activities being divided among 530 estates, all competing
ror performance rewards. Possible delays in factory rehabilitation would be
reduced by procurement on a turnkey basis, by proper phasing and by interna-
tional procurement. Civil works and social programs have been reduced to
manageable levels in the light of project experience and procedures have been
modified accordingly. Project risks are therefore acceptable.



-57-
X. RECOMMENDATIONS AND ASSURANCES J
10.01   At negotiations Government gave assurances that:
(a) only those fields would be replanted with tea for whicb the economic
rate of return would be at least 10%;
(b) rubber would not be uprooted and replanted until the old rubber had
been exploited both by chemical stimulation and by upward tapping
above the regular tapping panel (para 4.08);
(c) no investment would be made in renovating any tea factory unless the
proposed investment would result in an economic rate of return of at
least 10% (para 4.13);
(d) no factory would be rehabilitated unless its annual production would
be more than 300 m ton of sole crepe or more than 450 m ton of pale
crepe or more than 600 m ton of latex concentrate (para 4.14);
Ce) no untreated effluent would be permitted to flow beyond the bound-
aries of a rubber factory estate (para 4.14);
Cf) no mini-hydro scheme would be rehabilitated unless the proposed
investment would result in an economic rate of return of at least
10% (para 4.16);
(g) social welfare benefit norms, acceptable to IDA, would be included
in estate analyses of investment proposals from 1986 through 1989
(para 4.19);
Cb) management consultants' proposals satisfactory to IDA. would be imple-
mented in accordance witb a schedule satisfactory to IDA (para 4.20);
Ci) corporate annual revenue budgets for years after 1985, based on
budget norms satisfactory to IDA, plus annual investment programs and
forecasts of debt service ratio, would be made available to IDA in
September and finalized by November 30 of the preceding year (para
6.05);
.J In framing the legal agreements it is intended that assurances dealing
with tecbnical issues would be incorporated into a schedule of technical
standards to be followed by the corporations.



-58-
(j) draft project accounts together with draft final accounts of the
corporations, including profit and loss accounts and balance sheets,
would be Bent to IDA within 6 months of the close of the corpora-
tions' financial year folloved by audited accounts and reports within
9 months after the end of the financial year (para 6.08);
(k) oue firm of auditors would be appointed as the agent of the Auditor
General for each Regional Board and that one of the regional auditors
would be the lead firm coordinating all regional audits together with
Central Board audit (para 6.09);
(1) Government would maintain an institutional capacity, satisfactory to
IDA, to monitor producer margins and adjust factors affecting
producer margins to maintain such margins at adequate levels (para
8.02);
(m) neither JEDB nor SPC would incur any debt unless a forecast of total
revenue and expenditures showed a debt service ratio of at least 1.5
(para 8.09); and
(n) dividends paid by JEDB and SPC would not reduce their debt service
ratio below 1.5 (para 8.10).
10.02    Conditions of credit effectiveness would be that:
(a)  All cofinancing arrangements had been completed (para 5.03); and
(b) Subsidiary Loan Agreements, satisfactory to IDA, between Government
and BOC, and BOC and the corporations had been executed (para 5.05).
lt.03   Conditions of disbursement:
(a)  against all training cost, that NIPM had appointed the three techni-
cal assistants provided under Credit 1240-CE (para 4.21).
10.04   With the above assurances and covenants, the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 56.5 M (US$55.0 M) to the Government of
Sri Lanka.



-59-                                  Annex 1
Page 1
SRI LANKA
FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJECT
Glossary
A.  All Crops
Replanting. Involves the complete removal of the old stand, whether
yielding or not, and replacement with a new stand.
B.  Tea
Clonal or Vegetatively Propagated (VP) Tea. Genetically identical tea
bushes produced by taking cuttings from selected superior mother bushes.
Old Seedling Tea (OST). Genetically diverse tea bushes produced from
tea seed; highly variable in all characters including growth characteris-
tics, leaf size (jat) and yield.
Infillin2. The procedure of filling gaps left by dead tea bushes with
new plants; always coincides with field pruning to reduce competition
between the infilled plants and mature bushes.
Withering.  Ambient or hot air is blown through green leaf by a fan to
reduce moisture. Traditionally, this process is carried on hessian or
nylon racks (tats). Tats are being replaced by troughe to introduce
control over the withering process.
Rolling. Process of twisting withered leaf by means of rotating plates
(rollers) to rupture leaf tissues and induce oxidization.
Fermentation. Enzyme oxidation of polyphenols in tea leaf.
Fixding. A tea drying process which stops fermentation and reduces mois-
ture content of the leaf to about 3%. After fixing, tea becomes stable
to handle.
Grading (Sorting). Dried tea (made tea) is sifted over wire mesh to
separate different sizes of tea particles. Sorted tea is classified into
the following main grades Broken Orange Pekoe (BOP), BOP FaDnings (BOPF)
and Dust I. These grades are in descending order of particle size.
C. Rubber
Buddina. The operation of grafting a bud onto a stock. Brown and green
buds can be grafted onto brown stocks of up to fourteen (14) months; only
green buds can be grafted onto green stocks.
Crepe. Processed rubber prepared by a number of passes, with washing,
through patterned rollers revolving at unequal speeds, which macerate the
rubber into laces. Latex crepe is prepared frmn freshly coagulated latex



Annex 1
Page 2
-60-
and is a premium product. It can be laminated into sole crepe. Scrap
rubber, off-grades, and clippings can be cleaned in the above manner and
made into brown crepe. All crepes are air-dried, either at ambient
temperature or artificially. Crepes are visually graded.
Crumb Rubber. A processed rubber prepared by hamer-milling or by
extruding and chopping, drying, and pressing into 32 kg r'ocks. The
highest grades are prepared from fresh latex, but auto-cuagulated rubber,
scrap, off-grades, and earth scrap can be cleaned and improved by this
process. Prepared from latex, certain of the physical characteristics
(such as viscosity) can be altered. Crumb rubber is graded on the basis
of its technical characteristics rather than its visual appearance.
Ribbed Smoked Sheet (RSS). A processed rubber prepared from latex by
dilution, coagulation with formic acid, milling with smooth and marking
rollers, washing, and drying in a smokehouse. The rollers revolve at the
same speed; the marking roller impresses ribs to increase the surface
area to aid drying. The sheets are dried in a smokehouse. RSS is
visually graded.
Stimulant. An ethylene-releasing substance which increases yield when
applied to the tapping panel.
Technically Specified Rubbers. Rubbers, mainly crumb, from which ade-
quate samples are taken by a competent authority for testing and quality
control for specification before shipping. The main parameter is dirt
content which, in parts per million identifies the rubber (5, 10, 30,
50). Other parameters are the plasticity retention index (a measure of
possible oxidation), viscosity, nitrogen content, volatile matter, ash
aud magnesium content. Other rubbers (crepe, RSS), if properly prepared
gad blocked, can be submitted for testing and qualify as a TSR.
D. Coconuts
Undernlantina. Planting new seedlings beneath old palms followed by the
progressive removal of old palms to leave a pure new stand.
Copra  The dried 'meat' (endocarp) of the coconut.
Poonac: The residue remaining after coconut oil has been expressed from
copra.



Annex 2
-61-                                           Table 1
SRI LAC
FEtl  TRE  lIS PEECT
COST MIARY
IRS. '00)                        (U." '000)                      t Total
Z Forteiin   DAsi'
Locel     Foreign    Total          Local  Forei4n   Tnt.l    Efrhanie   Cost$
arz=aaa   uuuuu   uaauu   inMmWua laauu u;arsuaa   rfV                      r-m
"N'SIET COSTS
A. FIELD IEV    NW                   1,679,631.7   377p059.0 2,05h690.7   669731.5 14,990,5  P1,12.0          I1       51
B. CIVIL mmKS                         436,9599   131096.7    WMd46.7   17v3%.4  59743.9P ??600.2              23        14
C. mWaEs                                ?1.797.0  215,361.0  297,149,0    NM.1  8,556.3  1J,400.3            75        ?
1. FACTORY EGUIPNFNT               333,935.9   214#756.1   5408591.9  134263.2 8,537.2 2!.795.5            39       14
2. FIELD AND  NESERY fOUIPfENT       77,677.6    49,699.2  126,376.1    3.0861 1,934.9  5,020.Q            39        3
3. NINI HYDRO                       107,206.7   107,203.4  209.410.1    4,259.3  4.060,5  9,319.8           49        5
4. COMPUTERS                         19.319,9   34v775.0   54.163,9        770,3  1,301.6  9,151.9          64        1
5. GE  EUIPHENT                      38,648.)    35,03M .    73,694.2    1,535.5  1,397.0  7,977.5         48         2
Sub-To1l EGUIPHENT                    5769757.0  435,469.8 190172226.8  72,914.5 17,301,1  40!-15.6           41       2S
E. TRAINIDI                            23.629.1    13t5M0.0   37,179.1       93988    W36.4  1,475.1          36         1
F. TOSICAL ASSISTANCE                  66t626.7   31,970.5   99409.2  7PM7.1  19262,7   3,909.8               32        2
DIELINIE COSTS                    2,955,2 MM.4 1205t159.1 4.0,450,5  113,440.3 47,9m0.  161,321.0            30     1to
Phyical Comtirimffih                   157.686.9    54.00.1  212,107.0   69764.9  2,165.3   8430.2             26        5
PriQe COntinuiwcif                     817,689.    241,S78.7 1,O59.267.7  32,496.7  95Y979  4720P4.5           23       26
PRO.ECT  COSTS                    3,830,667.3 1,50137.9 S,31,90.7  152,191.8 59t643.9 211,835.7             29      131
_ _,,nnuuZ ,.,i,u                    --=a.=u,a                   .=r         -zz
irv 7 1995 15:16



SRI MAa
FOURTH TRFERIn cm   lMWlCT
Project CommOnents  bv  Eljvenditure  Categories
TEA   RUDER MID CocoI JT
RflM3               FVATORY RFHAIL.ITATION            WIVUJSTHG               N.DIrAL           INSTITIITTIIIW  BW.LOOPNIYT
_ ,@ @ ..........................    ................ ... ... _._.__.........._._....___. _. ............ _... - ... --------------------------
Se            JErD           5PC            En1        sPr           PR        lw         JnE           W.        JFf         WPI       Total
z:~::ssa::a   ::::--r:::r     z_:r_::::    ::::::::  ::-:-    -:m:----9zA   5::::-zz  :_:::m=a             a :rsz2.  walaz 5S :::S  S     11 ,-
CATEGORIES
It IzKSTrmEr cOSrs
...... ........ ....
A. FIELD  EVELOWNT                       101091807.0      946,993.7              -             -           -           -           -           -           -           -        -  ?05,W.7
3. CIVIL UC-                                                       - -           --  2,0f,9  120P779,4  120,736,0  102f35;1.7   37f,57,9    9,522,9                             -    5,46,7
C, YEHICLES                                1229375,0       126,755,0                    -            -           -           4,028,0    *r600.0   17?075,0   17,3r5,0                 2974080
D. EGIIPIENT
1. FACTORY ENIPIT                               -               -    76,107.2    260,4R4,7              -           -          -           -           -           -         -    548,391,
2. FIELD AMD  MRY EQUIPMENT              56,456.2       69,920.5              -             -                                                          -           -         -    12376.8
3  MINtI 111O                                   - -                  104,705.I    204)701.1             -           -           -          -           -           -         -    209,410.1
4. CMTERS                                       -               -             -             -           -           -           -          -   27.fl1,9   77,011,9           -      54,163.9
5. OTIER EJIPIENT                               -               -             -             _-                      -   1,68,8   11J76,.l  23,R72,4   7,0370,7                      73,/04.7
Sub-Total EQUIPIENT                         56.456,7       69792045    390,81223    367,189.7              -           -   15460i.   11176123   50,953.3   49,452.6             -  1,01207?6.9
E. TRAINING                                         -              -             -             -           -           -           -           -   IR, .SM-5   19 .645          -      37.J29,1
F. IECHNICAL ASSISINICE                             -              -             -             -           -           -           -           -   4A,R14.t   44,924,9  4.770,4    99,409.2
----------.  -----------  .. ...... ... ....    -------  .......   ....    ------  -----  -----              -  . --------- .. ----     ----- -
Total IWESTIENT COSTS                       1.28936382   19143.559,3    3901.M?,3    U7,189,7  !P?,P88,9  J10,779,4  140,454.9  173,713.0  160,96N! 1 1$669-9  4W779,4  4*W.06450o5
Total MSELINE COSTS                          1,288,638.2   1W1430559.3    390182.3    367,189,7  187,88P.9 120,779,4  140454.9  123,713,0  10,965,5  1364669.9  4,779,4  44600450.5
Phnslcal Contindmncies                       58,313.2       50*840.2       19,540.6      18,3159.5 IR.?P09   127077,9   17,85Q.A   2O.R73.2   64731,7    4,351,1                 -    21?.1P7,0
Price Continfencies                         356,363.4       325,699.7      85,134.2      794900,9   046934   34,1550    37.688   34,577,6   29,2M,7   76,776.4    428,7  1,059,267.7
.. ............ .......  -------   ------   ..... .... ...  -----  ------   -----   -----  ....... ..  -----  -- -- ---
Total PROJECT COSTS                          107030314.7   1!5270098.2    495,497.1    465.450,0  750,971,7  267,212.5  19100e3.3  169,13    296,57.9  167029,4  529914  5,331,905,72
:    :: :                               a        :        :. :         :    -       :::             -:-…--::            .--- - .: "--=  :==::e_-ar
Taxes                                        43.202i4       45P,098.4      63,722,      60,107,8    7p576,1    5,016.4    8#512,5    8P0772   19,6112.5   29492,0               -    290,354.5
Foreign Exchange                            403,044.       360,57I.0    203:094.1    190,584,7   5A,219,9   38P763.7   46,P3P81   449064,6   790395,9   71il6  3,550.5  2.5017237.9
....................................... _...... .........___._...._. ...... ..... ....... __._........_. _......___ ._._________.................... ....................................... -X -----        -------
Februar'g 7,1985  15114



-63-                                           Annex 2
Table 3
SRI LANKA
FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJECT
Projrt Components by Year
(RS. 'I 00)
Base Costs                              Tnl ;l
1985       i986       1987       198      19           p,    (UI  '0001
A, TEA  RUD    AND COCONUT REHAD
1. SPC                                     303,371.4   78507306 .b M,875T   277,273,6 05,437.5  1,P7063H.2  51.197.4
2. JE0                                     267,050.2  733v97.,4  26,t471.5 215,197,1 200?9t4t0  1,143?55!3  45433,4
Sub-Total TEA , RUDER AND COCONUT REHAB       5709371.7  519P656.9  4 93 46?7 44?.470,7 406?'.1K5 2,437,197.5  9Ar630.8
B. FACTORY REHABILITATION
1. SPC                                      986.81.3  122,403.3   94,2??.0 V23no,4  73.196.3   3.-817,3  1523.Q
2. JEDB                                     911r302.7  123v609t0   78,210.2 50.156,7  23.9111 . 1  7rJ'97   14-598,4
Sub-Total FACTORY REHABILITATIDN              189994.0  746,011.4   1?7,437. 2 10?7466,1 47.10?,3    5R,*-2,0  -153
C. HOUSING
1. SPC                                      50Y?60.8   4??520.8   35r090.? 79rJ1O4  26.215.7   1824889.9   7.?64.
2. JEDB                                     28-91.6.3   29.19°.0   23,844,7 24,636.5 1P  32.9   120f70,4   4.7".,5
Sub-Total HOUSIN6                              70,99?.?   71?719i8   58,935.6  4,737.1  44.48.6   303,661,3   71104.7
D. MEDICAL
1, SPC                                      36!.85.7   29.85.6   35074,5 23680.7  14,868.4   140,454.    5?58".)
2. JEDD                                     27!638.2   25,335.2   3.573?.5 r2.?44,7  1??062.5   1?.713.0   4!?154t
S-Total NEDICAL                                649673.8   55,180.8   70tW,9 4A,625.4  26t930.9   264167.9   1,495%3
E. INSTITUTIXONAI DEVELOPIIENT
1. SPC                                      51?14?.l   A,37.5.3    1 8?'.93  13,5w0,3  9- 37.4   160i,65,5   6-35-.1
2. JEDB                                     424R5.8   49,709.6   2np101,3 14r10?.6  10.765.6   1vA,°.9    5.42q9s
3, NPI                                       20736.0    2043.4            -        _         -     4.779e4      189,9
Sub-Total INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPHENT            96&363.9  120,07R.3   384694.6 27,6&7.9  19,638.1   302414-8  J).414,9
Total AI INE COSTS                            1,0012V70,5 1,017.,4R.2  834,21P,0 667,937,? 5443764 4,v0.450,5  161 t21.0
Physical Cantinsencies                        47-892.1   53,905.9   4.,4917,3 '6.,.4  78 q83   ?1?,187,0   0.430.?
Price Contirdecies                            54,UP 7  173834.5  248,345,3 284,653.9 797,7iK.4 1, 50767.7  4?,084.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                           1J103811.3 1,7I40,88,6 -i7?7980.6 9R0!974,5 870,y70d  5,31.9 , S,2  27i.A35,7
Taxes                                         82,539.9   78796.1   51?138.0  74!7P,5  ?.902.rO 28454.   11413R-4
Foreidn Exchande                             370i906,0   A9,99M.1  301,360.6 245,717,6 213,207,5 1-501,737,9  5F-643.?
Fbruary 7, 1985 15:13



SRT LANKA
FOURTH TRfrl CROPS PROJEC~T
Expendituras Catexory Coaits by Yaar
(ii. '000)
Totals IncludinU Contin4encles
post Costs                                                              IRS  'OM0)                                 FoaitpJn Fxchonsit
1985        19116        I"?7       1908       1989      Tr.t.i1        1995        1986         198         191       1999      Total        I     Ae.mt
It INYJE9TENT COSTS
Ai FIELD DYEtEOPMENT                     409,694.1   443,165'9  440,962,5 401t7`P,6 357,10 727 056,690.'   454,364.8   545,374.4   599,034.9 604,07.41 573,33s92.0771,173tf4  I28,3   3~7,059,
Bo CIVIL OK$          ~                  129,993,7   149,6:4.5   176,939.3  93,783,5  69.596.)   56 p0,46.7   I49p617,9   192,432.3   179,783'9 245,256.6 226.611,5   7931718-2  '3.2   13I.9"6.7
C. VEHICLES                              147,558.0    59.730,0    33,765.0  1907750  31,320.0   787,140,0   149,260,3    67,411,3    41,536J9  765At i  45,447.8   3~99477`3  7q.0   215,361.0
Do EQUIPMENT
lo FACTORY EQUIPMENT                  l89,984.0   114,112.3   110,537.7  40566,1  23,397t3  54O,591.9    209,658.9   713,997.5   147,65,9  59i,207,0  36,961,4   677,357,6  39.1   714.756#1
2. FIELD AND KOURSY EQUIPMENT          46p587,5    24,761.1    20,7)0.   17,098.1  11,209.9   176,376.8        51,433.0    79,577.7    27,030.9? 74t970,2  711,78.4   161,757.6  38.5    41,699,?
3. MINI HYDRO                                 -    61,990,0    61,900.   61,900.   23710,0   709,410o1                -    74,920,2    02,036.M   89,591,3  37.136'9  781,58445  49.8   107'703,4
4,i CUMTERS                             3,031.6    '33,158.1 I   7,659,1   5,158.1   5,158.1    'i4,63.9        3,315.1    39,354.3      9,979.3   79363,6   7,960.9    A7,9M10   64,7    34,775.0
5. OTHER EOUIPMENT                     40,696,9    15,375,0      8,131,9   6,887.0O  2.326,5    73,694.?       45,004,7    10.494,0    10,930i7  109019,8   1,4417    90,004  47.5    35.036,1
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT                      290.571.?   318,906,5   9"0042.4 21,6fl4o1  77,901.7 1,01)9926,0   309#411.6   3816,080.    777.049.3 191,160,0 114501,1 1,?770,70,? 430   41'5,469.U
E. TRAINING                                9,788.7    26,877.5      5,062,9   2,700.0   2.70010    170"79,        10,938.2    20,789.       6,26.2   3,802.4   4,113.9    460,7.9' 36.4    13,500.0
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   29,7644    74,433.9    19,046,9  14,776.9  10,06,9    "98409.2          31,323.7    78,344.2    24,399.4  70P139,   t60721w`1  17O,917.2  32.3    31.78',5
Total INVDESTMENT COSTS                   1#001,270,5 1,0122648,7   014#729.0 667,937,2 544376,  4,060,450.5  1,103,911.3 2,240,388.6 lt127980.6  988974,5 870,750,2 5,31J,905,2  29.7 2,705,159,1
Total BASELINE COSTS                       1,001,270,5 1,012P648,2   834,28,  667.937,2 544,376o4 4,060.450.5                                                                               29.7 1,705,59*1
Physical Conting  cits                     47,892.2    53,905.9    45t417o3  36,303,4  208,58,3   212,297,0                                                                              95.7   5.40500,1
Price Contingeocies                        54.648,7   173,834,5   74B,345.3 204#6'.3,9 797,7054 I .059.o767. 7                                                                          27.9   741,79.7
Total PROECT COSTS                         1.03.811.3 1,740388,6 1P127#980.6 988974,5 1170.7i0.1 5.32.95.7  1,103,9111,3 1.740.389.6 J0277,90.  999.974,5  70.70oll2o 50332995.7  99.2 2,1013799
Taxes                                      82599    79,996.1    57,138.0  36,778,5  29,907.0   780,345                                                                                   0.0          0,0o
For.i1fn Exchange                         370,906.0   369p966s1   301 #W 0,6 745,717.6 213.127,5 1501,237.9                                                                           ., 0.0          0.0
Februarw 7,19I5  15111
I~ m



-65-                                                Annex 2
Table 5
SRI LANKA
FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJECT
SPC Project Costs by Year
(Rs. t000)
Base Costs                            Foreign Fxchans
1985     1?86       1987      1988      1989      Total        %     Amount
I. INVESTETff COSTS
A. riELD DEVELOPFENT                2-37234.3 248,9..2 .29V608.7 2075v37.0 176t466.8 1,10807.    18.   209115.5
B. CIEVIL VORKS                       ES,270.0  92,696.4  68P,20.7  49,961.5  39.454.0  336,202.7  23.2  7R8070,6
C. VEHICLES                           65823.0 Q 9,6370.0  101500.0   8990.0  17,975.0  138,468.0   75.0  103,851.0
D. EQUIPMENT
1. FACT0RY EQUIPMENT               8E21. 3  91,453.3  53,272.0  21,359.3  11j341.2  286,107.2  39.3  1127472.0
2. FELD AND NURSERY EQUIHPENT      12432.2  10,865.4  11y216.4  109746.6  10,995.7   56,456.2  38.5  21E755.4
3. MINI HYDRO                             -  30,950.0  30,950.0  30,950.0  11,855.0  104t705.1  48.8  51,101.7
4. COMPUTERS                        1P515.8  16,579.0   34829#0  2,57?.0  2,579.0    27,081.9  64.2  17,387.5
5. OTHER EQUIPMENT                 21A526.2  8,057.3  4,056.0   4,282.6  1,a0.1    395512.2   47.2  18,663.1
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT                  134y355.4 157,905.1 113Y323.4  690917.6  38,401.0  513,902.6   43.1  221,379.6
E. TRAINING                            4,S94.4  89438.7   2-531.5  1,350.0  1W350.0   18P564 .5  36.4   6,750.0
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE               13i514.3  11,195.3  9,523.5  7,138.4   5443.4   46,814.9   30.4   14,20.
Total INVFESTMENT COSTS                 541,091.4 548,825.7 449,857.8 344,B94.6 27,090.37 2'I63,759.7   29.3  633,416.7
Total PASELINE COSTS                     541s091.4 548325.7 4498QY57.8 344,894.6 279,o0o.3 2 1637y59.7  293 e_    , 416.7
Phfsical Continrencies                 27Y351.2  30,04.8  2446o.31 18093@.4  14I756.3   25:-74,0   2,6  29y669.3
Price rcntinrfmenries                 O29Y851.8  94w6973.2 134024.? 1499-09.I :52,470.9  558040.5  272.8  127,506.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                      59.,294.4 673,55v.7 -0??57 .  510,830.6 446,317.5 2,8375;34.1   27,9  790,592.3
Taxes                                   77 3.1  3,t619.3  27626.3  19,106.9  16A442.3   1425673.7    0.0          0.0
Fore,In E:A'hs'e 3S2 31.2 195,679.4 162,364.0 12,3862.7 112,354.7  790,592.3    0.0                               0.0
Februarv Is 1985 16:14



-66-                                                    Annex 2
Table 6
SRI LANKA
FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJECT
JEDB ProJect Costs by Year
(Rs. '000)
°.a,e Casts                             Foreig;. Excharne
1-986     197,       I7S        9 In      Tatal         z     Amount
L. IIJESIMN  CCTZwi
snrTc-,  rn"rT,r,                                            1
A. fl.L  nflrhl¶.WxER                  IThISM*rt.x 4'4.   . 2ZSZ.7=!   18;?$0.5 1S 043   945483.7..       J17.7  157 17943.5
B. rIVIL UUORS                           3-.S2.   :,-93r9.1   8;11.5  2..P822.0  30O 142.2   23r  644.'0   23.?   59lbF6.l
C. VEHICLES                             -,-r75.   ZC.,:$.2  !       . 7s7,0  IN795.0  13,3-45.    148i680.0   75.0  111i 510.0
D. SW1JIPMEUT
. FCAtTORY EQUIPMEN\IaT            ?:t7'  2.7  92,9.0  4'r-,260,-   9?! C.7  12,056.1   262B484.7   39.0  1  2.294.1
2. FrIL  AND NUR"TSERY E-SU'I?NE!T    33,955.4  13.3 3E7c. 9, 003.8   5,° 3511.5   7)214.  £9,920.5  3.8.5 F26,943.8
3. MIN- :Y*   -n                                , 30,9'J. 5  30,r.90.0  3 0.50.O    -2.55 .C 15,, 4,7054.  4?.8   51 ,101.7
£HrUTEPS                            1,515.u8  ILY79.4        l...   2,i7.O   2M;°.0    . -081.9   64.2   17.387,5
5. OTH,hER EQUWIPMENT                IT?A42.1  .317.,   4,076.0 .         Of°.3    M56.4    34,132+0   48.0   16,3t73.
Sub-To;tal EQUIPMErNT                  l4      1  L' 5 1  t0 1. '3  9C 149  V 51,306.6  34,400.7   4983?4.2-  43.0  214,090.2
rrV  M I I.n.                        4,p.94,4   P4:1300,7   25 93 .    1t7350.3   1  *35 v  0    184564,5   36.4    6?,750.0
'. TECiZALn  ASISTAN.E                  13514.3  1119S.3  9.523.5   7713 * 1,.4   5,443.4    44814.9   30.4   14o250.0
,, ~ ~~         -- - -    -- - - -   -- - - -- ......-------  -- -   -     -----~ ~~  ~ ~~~~~~~~  ~~~  ~~~ 
Tota  IESTMENT 359T9                      457,443.2J _fu4 7. ?,1  384,36    3.23042.7 '   P2M6..2 1.891,911.3   30.0  568,459.9
o.tal DA3 LINE COSTS r3s'.4143,2 46A1t779.1                            84360.2  2, 04.  7'25,6285.2 1489I1.3   M.0  568,459.9
Phis.c.;l                        2.-.r 5409   ' 1.,1  M7ru'i2.0  VA40, '. 1  1    .       .96.45..0  25.J7. 24,830.8
Price CantirAer,ci2                            "4J7.t  7MM851   4 3 2. 2154,3   17379654.2 145,314.5   500,808.6   22.7  113P804.4
'-tal PROJECT Cu'T"                        502M.51.6 5u64502.1 519Y442.7 4 78t, 143.9 4," 4326 4 2 499.2R 72.9   2. 4  707095.1
Taxes                                    `2',.u' 39937. '    24,511.7  I7,671.6  13,459.7   1  7,790,7    0.0           0.0
Forei-* Excharne            . l17t,5.  172,545.6 137993.& 117,35I4.  1 043.8   7 07,9 5.1    0.0                        0.0
rebruarB 12, 17S5  16:07



59'? IAWA ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ otl IrsdiAIrtn4wo
19's. 'flMi~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~(Uf
wnit  199   j99'   I"?  1999  295  Total  rnct   I95            194                i198       1        TO-)            SI   199       6 "L     1917         19K          199        Tate?
........... ...  unsm..   ...   ..a  n.  ,..aall  :nr                                               ~    .                                                        n                ni
A. TEA
2910011M                     "A     424   41~6     4 M 'VI7  3"  It93172,           .M9       .99 9V.9 PVA4                6''       IAS         417,247,5   4WOW6.    479,40.5   50.757,2   436,17.  2.335.7673
6RASS                        "A     676   474   476   333   37i 7,900   7.9   5.,17',  I.W4.1  1'p704    1.M'.A  1%947?    1'.                   236,821.i1  1I4,89.4   1232759.9   279.776.0   11U,S4t.    957,770.3
PLANTINGB                    NA   1.0210   676   414   176   391 1729  31.9  13.7W4  71?241.3  MM,  14'0IA-.i                       OA 1'13'1   t465MM7.  1.069P264.0   7M,34.4    MM926.7   P5.59.1  4.942.013.4
IST TMUIAAWIC               "A6    76P  I0I0   616   424   426 3.304  17.9  )I3."'.2  J1945.77    *(0'-   7.11M.A   7.A14-j   i.955,7            605,365. 2   $64,128.1   652 MI29,6   447t797.2   436.39k? t7   0767081.0
295 '11(0 WIlE?  HA  619   799  2.010   d~~~~~6   474  1.497  J7.9  22.064,0~~   1777.2  19,05!.7  1I..0A,   7-5.619 4 .P.!.4  437,918.0   6n72.27,5   97.933#3   72300408   484,3195.9  M39,33367.5
Sub-Total KPMATINMMO 73134 ,.737.4  56.313,7  45.29A,4  79.3M',    M00.'-    3,277.799,1  3.297,935.2  3.041.4796  7.676.437,9  7,457408,5 14.601.23,
2. WV PtiMITIKO
CLEAR AND PUNT               HA      9         16   0    I0   ~        4    57     131.       *6.    .6. (A    II         903.5    j.t97         126070,7   203,066,9   20.500.6   721.71664   256P.79.  1.047.743.7
111 wim  NIlE?              "A        -    "      Il    10    193l  479  14.3             1- 415,9  1.659,   I!Ml,~J1 131            a. I m.             -    69,329.6    39,73.0    91,249.2    96,04.11   W4:61.8
M2 YEAR FLEP?               HA        -      -     9    116   If*   171  141             -           1SO1M.    W.6597   I.344.1    klhip.6               -                 76,430.2    9I0100.4    93,747.3   )737ft,7.
Sub-Total ElV PiMITIK                                                                  .3G       5A1.4   A.915.1  A.9sA.9  7~i*.W1    'A.07*4       256,70.    2n2.41,5   374,323.    4311444.0   432,31,4  1.467.111.3
3. IWIU IK
(11(0126 No   WI.NEII       NA    1.240  t.247  19040   939   747 5.241           514A49t2 1.~51,  41.3177.4  $.794 ,~P ?A.99'.3   7)6.868.4   2.277.709.7 2526,794,2  2.36995114.9  7.2959703.9  1#97M.49,3 11,4  I33,
131 YEAR 112hEP             NA        -  2246  1,247  2.060    919 4,494                    70.659,7  70,37.2  17.550,9  jjfq,54,    74.1999 9              1.011.3030  I,l1I505.7  1,037,017,0    93,743,17  4l70.099.0
2KTYEAR  CUP                 HA       -      -  2.249  2.747  1.04   3,532                         - 70.659.?  79.6917,7  1?.RrA.9    W0.47.8                           Iv-1.15.321.3  2,29,94,)  191279M3.6  I*4573743.h 
SubTotal IIWILLIKG                                                                   516977,5,                   P7.4,   197.   XWMSt05l   2,277,709.7  3.33P1.57,13  44595,11.8  JIM537.5.6  4.092,550. 19459,794,7
4, TIIUIffELOO                           -      -      -      -     -      -          4.937,9  9.717.1   M34549   I-A6,9  1.351,3   20,01136        223,349.2   476,231,8   212,492.7    93491.3    86,4M.7  I,005.f1.3
S. DIlW31FlCATION                        -                    -A- 71,2  4f7J.5    4.632.9  '.079.6   5-7'6.3    17.41,511    tt3,3392   213,73.9   751.P330,4   297,23.3   370.41,0  I r946,271,9



6. FIELD WWAKS
THATCINGII                                       _      _                                 3.- .-l   7.94.3   7.40,9  7.711.?   l.9404    l.9(1,.O             136,744.     151,050,7    141,538.7    136709.6    11746779    6631,7MO,2
mMRnIIuI                                  -      -      --             -       -    ~    5,W0 . 5-A?3  t1.7               1.791.7   1.4731    72.4147         24US,13,5    272,435.9    21,6350.0    724,133.3    22tJ2,34 4,l9^0047,0
TIKUCIA-                                                 -      -                         5 -7 F     571,4 4-0.61    4-Mc-.  1.14040             1-491-5      247,0093    272.857.4    71363301    2233072,1    2M3A4137  1.P164603
S9AE P1IIII1                              -      -       -      -      -       -           .767,9  2?9!l        7d79*7   ItPA7,?   IlV.0    111t01.7          121f7t7.0    131i062.2    126,273.0    110032.6        94404.4    590591.2
WITCH CUI                                 -      -       -      -      -       -          20193.3   0-0,7   ?-0'  -           l917,.4   1,174   10.49,4        964281,6     "9014,6    113o3668    1l4.176.9    117,169,9   540.0
Pul  CUtIPm                                      .p- 1,924,4   14A8.1   f.917                                             1-9AA,l   I.WP.1        .713.5       64,6.7       96381.4    1060W.4    116,291.2    120,217,7   5i24.1O.,4
tIIIITE rlMITRn                           -      -      -       -      *       -             t4.1       ".I       191.       11.7      45.7       $13.7         IM2.4        1,476.5       2W,103       2,112.3       2t,92P       l0v291.)
IU!N  WIITATION                           -      -       -      -      -       -          2-0M1t9    .99'7,9   1.474.3  13,10.7   1,-7,P         1.1'5.?       *192.4       97632.9       79A17.3       82P143.1      3.051,9    417074,0
SHOTIOLE MmR   COlTL                      -      -       -      -      -       -             100.0     101.9      JAI.9      "1         '00        49,'        4W4O.3        49m.9         5035.7        5632.7       3756.9       26t296.4
.......... .. ...... . ....... _..._. _.__.... _.. _.__...._. ............. ___ . . .
9,h-Totol FIELD MlOllS                                                                      23,707,4  71.3l7.P  16,641.2  17.2001  I5,"7.0    97,577,25   11027p626,o   ,il3J3,9.4  IO,4.930,6  I01l6305.7    976,833.5  511,617.3
. ....... ......__.._ ........-. .. -.-___ ._..  .__. __......
Sub-Tot.1 TEA                                                                                  153,(91.7 IR7491.11 1744i7.O  lil¶tIP94 131.P410    W,0137.9   74015.943.9  .977.745.2  9,405441.9  9.031,540,0  9,430P544.I 4),I3135.9 3
RMAtIINU                          HA    19519  3.36J 1,317  IIPI  19(114  4,703    s         5,204,7  49.51904  47,n71.A  47,946.1  36,571,7   717.,25,0   21431,033.9  240835191.1  7.566.512.4  2512.109.3  7.313.030.7 12.2313.04.3
Kw PLMTIN                         HA      356    402   4U0    116    771  .99l              20.3?,1  14,641,1  14-570,4  I1.4L.?   W.W0I    6Q27.l               99M,26    7MO,M.           779,502.6    64912.6        P9,513,5  3,30.151.1
DIWIIFICATINI                               -      -       -              -                 2A49.3   7.494,11  7.R"1              .          .     7.44.R       109,220.4    120,790,1    155305i61                           -    305,05
S    Ob-Tol R                                                                                   70.141,1  U466.9 40441.7  '14.1174  44.A711.9   W019    1  3,433,476.7  34241,227.8  3,301,071,1  3.17,0722.?  7024.614.2 16919l,411.9
Total I9IFSTINT MUSTS                                                                             2317'14.1 7t9,9A,77 20.W.0   707.537,0 17A.IAA,P  .,407.A  30,01,470,6 12P161."3,0 12,90613,0 17,23056207 11.25153t90 59901310476
Total                                                                                              23]7o'4.3 700494  7119,W,7 717.517.0 17MM4.11 I.169.907,0  10,541420.6 12,166399.0 12.96913.0 12.2305462,7 119,M 159.0 50119047.8
gattsfl. .. l .s cuie ts.w.u,,  aul         s.8  -.tr.t.3    nssss==gn2=n2    nsns                     sn~s            ~      .
. . . . . . . ... . . . .......... . . . . . . ... . .... . .....................' 17w1 ................................... . ...........   .......... . ..... . . .......... . ..........  . . . .*
.ebtu        79 IMf  14151                                                                                                                                                                                                                                " r  i



3  LAWA
FrAPTH rT   CRW   ,ontt
.W^1i ISIATES WW      INI W
FtFI  I  l P W$11WT
f!iltd ('100 T.I
In, 'WI
Tati2h Trrn jlrd F.nt1im.'0es
(kwntitv                                                 (. etU1W)
----    -----lki~ t                -         …------- - .------- --.-----.-           ----…----
unit IYR5 299  1YR7 I" 9O        2999  TWtel  Coot   I9YP      196       I"R7      199I       19      Tt-.SI        1995       IYU           t7           26           1199       Total
32*3   2*33 *3*2=  *32* 33233 II==  232 2-    338    2*3M=   212*32*3  33j2323 21.3282=~ 318* 1.1M33213 asg1*    .301111111,8 2mm.322
It IMJEStNI COSTS
A. WA
1. IEPLITIIIA
..... .... .
UPIOOTIN                         M     7133  745   241    714    739  II.3   35e.2   80IW5.   P,679,5   P-447,6   P-741.1   P-000?  41-661,4    361976.2  422,5769    4586372.4   486.944,3    517,910  P9247,793,7
WmSS                             MA    479  233   745    241    234  1432   .9    140W0   I.51.0   I P946A.   1P914,5  I,0539  10.976,6    150.7903    906,49.9    1 10516,3   113,122te   1111tB631    578.034,4
P1I.Nn                           HA    so  4)9   233    245    241  1,976  3P,8   26,37,4  126.4.3  9.OVpP   -504.3  9-3447  70.V9140  1,163,319.4   815,051.3    416,136,6    561.565.0   59,l2.1  jv625,0%6
IST YEAR LNR MA    544  680    479   2733    245  7P2321   ?1   11.511,5  jf^6   9.3. I                            q.  U 7r& '    5-.4'.)  49-043,1    532,676.0  767427.0   S3373M,    31.716-2    3609"7?.  7.93,l70?,0
2929 TEAR 13E?r                  NA    584  u44    M6    479    713 1.47A    ?3   11,44,) 1,517,5  I5vMs,6   *Prn*i   5,U7,0  6p"902.9    593313.9  613773.    646,014.7    6396?7,0    3430730.0  2.9P299.7
sub-Total RIPLET2II                                                                    43,979;, ',.319,113  4tS07.4  14,910,9  3037".3 7"955t-9  2,821,475.7 2,709,270.6  2,431,370,0  7,062,7.27       1,93764.4 119636S.9
2. EV PLMTINI
tFAR AN  KANT                    HA     39   34    34      34     33    171  IR.P    1,517X9   1,319.0   1.310,0   1.319.A  Is317.0   A.77.6        66729,3    14,56         72.7.06      77.934.?    S66S89,    347,799.
ItT YEAR MMCE                    HA      -  3       34    34    34    14   16.7            -     65?,7    569,0    169l    569,  7.        9,7            -    31,964,6    30,7.8    339.70.          364,336    137v69,0
2  TEAR WE                       N       -    -    39    34       34    207  t117                          U,- 657'  569,1     5,1  12.79A7                           -     350747-8    33.620,8    36,383.6   io,252,2
bh-Tootel REV PLANTING                                                                  195179   1,71,4   7-.40,7  794r.7.o   7-.49,11 10.978,0       66.19,8    96.0          237,207.1    141,75.3   159,56.1   6s5,750.1
3, IwIlulII
CLtEtARI  AND PLTA16             W     712  997  1.147  1,167  10061  5,099         294414  42,017,4  47,77 ,1  43079,7  44-730,0 ?10.5716  196M62.4 2,v09794,6  2.553.131.2  7.34,39.4  2%0.6d&5.4 119567.57,9
1IT YTAR 1tW                     "A      - 717    mJ1 1247  9,1?  4.0NO                305.1  10899s   25 4    1.7146              2 4,456.9           9        33.7       537h291M5 2253.506 I3o604730.5 3, 7051         7
2M  YEAR UBRIE?                  "A      -    -   71?    97  1,147 7.94A                         315.1   7-74,7  10.6,1  21f9W90  7906.5                   -    I 5432,5   391760.9    629794t3    741,032.  17oM75s19.8
Suh-ToIl IWILLIII                                                                      29,76A.A5  5;-751,7  70.034,3  79,94h.4  72M45.7 I^4.R0'.1  123122556,7 2#539,01110  3.71e21395  4,723.697.3  4.657,127.9 17.035,378.5
4, TIRERJIML1OO- -                                      - -           -      -          3.9.0  4-9A0,4   331190  -1.-?   7.1R5,9  17-546,3    156,231d1  243,029.9   205M9SS.0   17.272n6    13907747    t4-1.671
5 FIELD VUl S/0IY*STFICATIOI
THWICTIIN                                -    -             .      _ -    -72$6-.  7.7".5   l77 -.T.  I-I,P   1.311,4   P-97S.0                    860622.7  2129113,1      93.074.4     99647.0    83.983,1    4754,0,31
06III2G                                    -                       _- -              2.4R7,0   7.-.6   ). 7dIh.1  7.315.7   1-.4% 7  11.02.9    1097210.3   109,194.1    1269214.5    136,826.9  I2S.232.8    57,9111,9
TERIACING                                -           -      -      .      .         1901.9.l 10.79q.3  169419.0  196,19.0 P   .9A9,9  49.664.A    456.826,5  528.4019    563P50,11   5912,06.5   516.00449  2,65,43725
SIIE PLANTING                              -         -      -             -          I lIkD. A   l.U4,9   I.4AI,7   1,441.7  t.7t.9  6W,47,7       59.03021   67,25.3       7M.965       86,367.6    76786.9    W.9490.4
COATO! cairON                            - 7         -      --            -          1.114.?  1,47.A   IA-70,    2,11.9  ISW.9  6,671.4            49,691      70.159,6    85.302.2    79,700.9    7676,9   360637.7
PORI COITRL                             -    -      --   -               -             11i1    201,7    201t.       219.A     14,9    926-1        59790.4    9,356.1      10tM9.3    14,159.9        9,3 9,3     50.5709
TERNiTE COATRI                           -   -       -      -                              -         -         -         -         -         -----.-
OIIMIITATION                             -    -      -      -      -9.4    499,6    909,A    9Q.6  1.(41,3  SW412,                                 44.062.9   48.956,       53t934,2    59.0648    66.727.4    77,M90.3
SNIHXIIE  IORER 2419R1                   -    .      -      -      -      - 91p.7    62'.?    597.7    554-7    SU.21  3,157.4                     36.03.7    402t67,       32.47.5    33.013.7    35%.S7,3    277M19.MS
LDIIII ROAS                              -    -      -   _       1-7           4 4   2.'94.4   1,970.9   1.947A4  I.9A9.9P  1.9A,6   9.424-2       76.488,1    92,011.6   105pt79.8    125860,9   171,656,9    511297. o  
Sub-Total FIELD V2S/D1TERSIFICATION                                                   20.964,)177r,74.7  *.M.7 7R0,I.,7  17-0;7.5 10 .937.4    974,53.1 2,078.6557  2.250,047.3  1.715,170.7 1S0I26..  5.46I0 07.8 
Sub-Total TEA                                                                            119.IPP,4 134,53A.? 147.7MJ.4 14A.P701 174.QIJ,7 A4.954A.7  542839499.4 6666529.1  77006,57.9  8,324.10121  793,679,6 35,9394,45,1



EpIAITIE                          MA   657 74t5   191   59    57t 3.?11             290,983,7  17,R]9.39  tt,1',7  1I79.   11277'.I 159.52,9  2.3149,06.1 t.596.57.R  17MiO.62  12S93S27,4 7901179,0  8Bi!e         l,4
Ug P TIEI                         IU   237  195   I1.    114    68   777             2.?67.5  1,410,0   4015.4  7.847.9  1-071.1 17-316.9   130v466.5   66.27.9   7142417,3    224.70,    1294,5J33.3    30.713,
SOIL ClON   T20N                          -                               *          I-S47.0  1..47,0  1.37.0   1 .47,6  12.47,0  7M7If.7    670795.6   74,971.0    32,497,4    90M.700,1    M7AIM4    413,07A.7
fub-Ttail RUIIRR                                                                       14.41¶.1  17.795  M1771.A  17370.0  14.1- 4 104.94,.0  1.3134070.3 1437.734.7  29074,321.4 72174YPl?,A  24.03.474,3  9,9t0,"6,9
C. COCOUT
NEVIrER PLANTING                  NA   249 146  310    303  7?1  1.469               I,443.4   7,i0t4  I,713P.5   I."I0   1l411.7  9.3619    63.24,5   97.12.2          9375,9   101.459,4    91.0S    440.037,6
IST YEAR IE?                      NA      - 749   36    310   303  12,7              1931).6  7.097,4  ?,'47.R   7  .0  7-1?  I-71.99           60.019,4  102.316    13,589.3   142,296.3   250,50.    %931M4
20  TEAR ItI                      NA      -   -   249   356   310   925                494, A ,37A,7  1.141,7   %-.S7.0  2.16.9  P.176.5    20,09.9   67,037.9    9.tM9            133,474.0   13,9091.S   4047.97.9
3RO Y!AR UEP                      "A      -   -       -   249   35    609            1,744.6    446.0   1017.7  7,83.   7.3A.7  7"676.4    76.92,9   22.797,5    55,9629    221l441,4   151,304.7   47409.4
*TN YEA 1R 9!)                    H       - HA        -           474    749         1.11.3   1.917.9    313,7      1AU, I 2,77M,7  4.72?.0'    50.7509   53713.0    16,917,6    499,34.4    84.374,3   7M500.7O
STH EPA U3EP                              -   -       -      -                         341.1    947,3      W9. a    77A,7    358.1  3.Y17.7    377073.7   449150.9    41,414.8    1m.0    54,79.0   70.793,5
H0Mi1iW                                   -           *      *                       t-,A7.3  1,241.1   1.11134   1.09. 1 2.9177    .4213,5    52,542.3   55.8260       60,314.3    6444,7    69,447.3   50IP35.6
S%PlYTIIU                                 -   _              _     _                 1 .619         7 .949.7  I.717.1  7,077". IAI7.,7   0.5334    72,492.2   953360.1    96,121.5   I19.795,    75,035,5   457.294,
CUTTINS HlS5 Pmg 5                           -    -      -      -      -               379. '    5174    7P'-7      0-.      U1O  I  t158.4    33P576.7   41,753.3    3945t.8        3,406.4    33.3160    193,409,7
TERRCING                                  -   -       -      -     -      -             17,0     17.0      17,0      17.0     17.0    3S9.         751,5       834.1       919,4    12005.9       1,063.5      4.599,4
RtiIO 10M  UF WATFR TANS                  -   -       -      -     -      -            644.9    914' 9    5.41,     291.8  1.77-,0  1P46.1    29301.3   44.0.9    29.2993            I7.14e    72.64.0   1sI99.1
PJILDII NEV WATtR TAWS                    -   -       -      -     -      _            355.7    14'R9     227.3        -  1.771,P  7-053t8      23181.2    9.7306    122.259,2              _    82203,    111;074.
64TH YEAR 13tE1                           -           -      -                            - -  513.t    417.9    6'.6    613,8    71%,9  '..7    22845,4   30.192,7    36h4164.4    37 .        23.711.0   140476.9
711l MT!  133FFP                          _-  4_ AR.3    574.0    04.7    71.5                                               7 79.   1.-110.2    20..41.1   701079.0    36A.8f9      43,972.7    4571M.1.   174.8126.1
RTI E   Lp- -    -                                                      - -                               614       7M,1    79w.0   7111.6             -           *    33406.2    41.307,5    52.02%5  175.729,
DRAtINING-                                            - -                            1_9*9.6  1,017.7    342,9    58e0           -  7.961.?    d69"3.2   5007660    I33217,7          3.419.9           -    19,9"A,9
PNIP I3IA1611O6                           -   -       -      *     _      -            537,1    537,      58l.2    264,U    ?64.P  7'.1079    23.197.1   26.300.5    31444.6    15.174,4    26.98.4   113.975.1
TUE    S                                  -   -EI.                                     MlS4.0  t-1R.2   1,794,3  1.1150   1,179.3  5076%*8    29975%.2   579.313        699M18,2    77hS5,7    14P9044P   318P568.7
FEICKII                                   -   _              _     *                 2o74.0  I,3P9,3  ?-79771  7-799.4        77.3  11t 22 5   123,241a1  139.564.    1504846   1265162.9         493M4      5.1.754,0
LINK R/W5                                 -           *      *A 5p                               2.4       20.4             -   -    111.7    2M505.0        1390.1      2.53274            -                       51427,5
- - - -- -- .-  . - - - - -..   .- -- .- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- - -- -- ------ -
.h-Totil WMCOUT                                                                        18,e77.7  29.376.3  19,971.3  70.787,5  29.231.9  97.471.0   G03.948.   972,394.3  2,071,937.0  1.1.949.3  1223119M.9 5.7712.49,8
total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                  27459.3 194.7,7 M0f.M7d7 198-740.A1. 304-U9 944-P3,7 7,6417.4 96.657.6 103t52#916.4 411.90.PI.1 11 5212774.3 5121.M063.
Tolal                                                                                     I77.459,3 294,7(,t7 MIMI,37 19370,6 1M,.9 94A 4,83-1  760041M7.4  .4657.6 10.352.916.4 11.60,361 1 4523,fl4.3 510649306.
t:_::.-.55: --.-_:-- --5---:-:5--     :::… *--5'.: 5:         S  =       3-        ~       51  35:_  55t:3 *2Z.- ---- -----
F*mls  7.- ------------, --              ------ ----     -     ------                                                 ---------                                                                              W
Feni   M       . 12.   4152                                                                                                                                                                                               .



CP1 LAWA
FrOWIT  TP1F P5  PRO WIl
q1Al  IA"TATlNM r^fiATInN
FIFnD N11) MK9RY FCAJYTI1T
8Pf-ieIed Cm61 TphXP
1p9, 't&s
Totalz InlrlwlinJ  nir|!nl
Oiantliv                                             Ote CocfI                                                     tUS!
Unit  1J9    1N6   1987   19SP    1     Total  rt!t    j1*f      1996     1907     ¶99      199    Tntlpl      j9        199       1"7       19t       1999      Tot.l
1. IINRSTHENT COlTS
A. TEA
AGRICILERAL IfLEIIENtS                -      -      -      -      -      -         2?3774  40IW6  3,A g2.8  4W44I.1  3e41W.9 $.975,0  1,7()i .A 760,497., 1971Wh.9 75771,.1 714,14,9  941P396.9
ASACK SPMAYERS              NO    1.115    90  1.07    97   1.05   5,125   7.7  3,03.7  2415.9  7,771,1  7..75,8 2P3,1 1394A   11 v 259,7 11062.7 147.179,5 155,301,4 179,P"71,   74.0.7503
MIST OLURS                  No      217    124   191   2J8    176   84.    6   W,300.         7413 1,145,0    17f,7  IfA!5,O  507?1.4   57090.4 35479.3  604J110  481,01.7  6,2?1,0  27064,8
LEAF EINIIN SCALES          NO      570    441   489    385    493  7,378   l,3  12863.0  1,447.0  1.t98,9  IM,9  2o,W17    7,779s    219740.5 69712,3  P41971,3  73,0M,4 1019748.9  4t0A1*.4
MATER     S                 No       59     26     19     12    19    135  10.9    64',t   283,4    707,1    210,8P   W7,2  1-471,4   7.05.6  11,700,2  111.997   7.5921  11.007.0   71.502,4
SPIIUIER SYSTENS            NO       27     16    12    11    19    95 27,7    7Vi.7    46.0   3'7.0    790 7    517.7  7116,3  3POP,'). 21,077.0  17v3M,3  17.396.3 ?3',517,4  170 624,2
Sub-Total TEA                                                                         9,PPP.P  970910  9.?7, 9 9.617,7  9.A77M5 4p,S71.9  4t3,745.1 4A69,35,4 513,617.7 W59v o.0   607,527.7 72513,31.0
I. RUIKR
NAIUOTIES                   NO    2,032  19166  1,341  1b14)  1319  79000            184.2   111.2    1?3.9   1I2,    178.6    M7.27    P,079.7  5.374,6  6,541.3  6,700,5   P,071.0    34.770,7
D1686 FCRI(S                M0ND    783    345      4    151   310  1,951            277,9    1?9,7    129.7    59,9   117.7   715.0  l'1190*6   6?770,4   6,P,.   3,479,3  7,393,4    36fM.3
1    671111KRS              No       11      2      2      4      1    20            1"984      8.7      8.7    67.6       4.4      97, 7    p8700,7    471,5    463.1    ,tM7l       273.5    13,7913
ANAWS                       NO    1OOO    561   6A7    5. 4   636  3,149            127.6    7119    86.1       68,7    93,9   439.7   5,1.41,1   3477.7  4.573,1 3I I.9 3   59271.2    Vo948.
NETEIILACS                  ND       of     16    IS      16    12    140             41.4     12,0      9.8      17-0      8.7    93.9    IP1.921.    579-6    521.0    695.9    547.7         4,160.9
tN HIN  KNIOES              NO    1,4,50     -  WV47       -  10447  4,344            3116        -     31.6        -     31.6     94,p    1,W.,4          -   1.679,7          -   1,999,3    5.050,4
SLP113 1191ERS              NO       21     14    20       5      a     69           153.7    94,9   147,1       44,7    67.6   907.9   6,740-7   4 4,31  I1.14-   72691,6  40?44.4    20977.8
TOOLS AND OTHERS                      -      -      -      -             -         1,717.5   729.1  1.009,3    7465    9,7  59091.0  75,772.8  35,190,6  53.604,0  43t269,3                  763158.5
u-Totsl II                                                                            274343  1,156,4  1 5P45,5  213.19  2373.2  7,F?8,  1270,379,J  55M,90P ,     11 104,91 M650,9  13p,O7,   406.07e,2
---1--    ------- ----- ----- --- ---- -------                                   -
lrol IIIVESTIENT COSTS                                                                  129637. 20,9165.4 - 1e_.,4 1046,6 10999.7 564456) 554m,07.4 5 M,? 59507",5 673,7rU,9  .0,35.3 7,919459,2
Total                                                                                    12072.7 10,465,4 11716,4 10,74,d 16,999,7  t45,2  54,073.4 52M5.7,7 595,77.75 62735M,9 W.90,3 7.989r459.2
- - - -                                                                                                                                                                                                       H-------------------- ------------
Ftb?w,?4 7, 1995 14154



FIIMI1I MOE rt(s PPOJET
F   I A    pm. 'AMI
13.it   im1  2906  I"?7  198   2999  11.962   2W2i It   2999    290    19197   I99    2999   71.2PI            1999       296       147       190      Iso"      Tot.)
1. TNM18lNT cots
A. TEA
hill ROM                     m       370  774    194   178   165  1.123            6  7.213,0  I.S47,91 2.147.9 2.029,2   909.2  AP7,04     97.M9,% 64.917,7 A516.70.  599p47,4  17,275,3  349,741.?
fAPAC  8091S                 No   2,301  M9  2.026  WU03   1.0   6.34AI          2.7   A,769,11 MOM3,  7,604 10.317-4 2,777,5 17,0961    MiM94.9 2300,F67,  147,04,147.1       51271,225.43   3S7,7.
WillIE KU$l                  NO      479  347    350   267    I80  1,A19         3.3  1.564,7  1134,4 I I144.4  359.   V#,J -.292.7    40,A7,4  54olM.0 40,79.2  49,911.5  36,967.2   "I72.212
WER M"S                      NO       9 ?16 la     3    IA       6    247       10.9  2tO,l.  274.4  141,7  174.4   4%,4  1.697.,    45,99.9  0.420,0  7.975,4  10.171,5  4,107.5   76.079.1
owIE ,                       la       45  I6    If        2    la    A0 4,95,   1.79,? IM,29,   219.0 2.742,9  9.900,    '1701,521, 06,09.7  A2.7,5  27,452.0 299,37.3   40?#471.3
CILilTIN IIE 381                                                                         269.1   344,A  39,3       .     276,0  1,031,1    11.00.6  19.074.?  70.792.?  Vv0?,07.  73,7.    0,220.4
AWEIS                                                                                   490,5   177.0   I100                 -    924.     71452,11 15.407,   ip,700.                          43.299,3
RN  twE3S                                                                                 76.3    14,2    4.4        -     7.6   207.5       3.3W,       615.0    232.6 ,             479.2    4.74.27
V61E5 urWn  TNSS             No      173  244    127    94    74   597           6.5   2,239.3   941,   737.4  614,7   43.9  1.904.1    49472.01 4.526H4  No0.905  V190,71.2  ?49,3992   700?,12
WA mum19                     No       12   2       -             -    14        76.3    915,5   257,6        -       -       -  1.00.2    40,157,2  7.177,0           -                        47.934,1
SOIL luCIUS                                                                              169.7     13.2    ?,A    2.2    2.?   I",.?         79166.5    437.3    405.        I265     236.9     10.163
Sult-1tl1 TEA                                                                            19.1776  9,978.1 7,662.0 Ai.061 6,94.7 48,337.7    KAMA 4.43,.08124 446.09.J 3M,73Y.5 420.67,91171471,014.5
M=UI fAI                    No       31    I      I      I      I    35        4.4    139.7       4.4    4.4    4.4    4.4    257.          1I.911,   220.0    211.6    251,0    27.3    6,997,2
AWSAM 199121                 No       45  45       -             -    90         2.7    InSA    2'7,1        -               -    14%,7     51,310.  5.92.9            -        -         -    III.304,
"  I 89315                   No        2    4      7      1      -     14        1.2      2.7      4.4     7.4    1.2        -    25,3         49.6    210.1    405.2        43.3         -       774.9
VIM15  MIES                  No        9    U                    -     17        7.6      611.7    62.0      -       -       -    979.7      1.0211.0   29,950,                                 5pw194.6 
FiIEDWIENI   IMES          MD      IN8  is      20    28    2?   39            3,3    SIM4,    326,      2, 0 9.6PI'    811,3  F.1046     22#00.J2 4,970    4.96,A  5,311.    p.545,2   63.97,
CUIIVATI1001 TOLS57,-I"7    154.9  147.1  267,1  117.3   79,J                                                                               4,740.7  7.467,3  7.124,0  9.475.6  84.677    OsWd,
925T1.5                      No        2   7       2      I      -      7          6      1220     22.0   '7.0     6,0       -     47.0        293.9    579.       636,     347.9               2.990,2
5*b1oeI1.8 0 a                                                                            1.010.?   079,P   7P.7   763.4  T70,O  7444,7        44.34,7? 47,319.5  23,99.9  25,40IA 624444.6 20,4MIMI$
C. (SCIIUT
59923     PP                                                                             W.I :I025,  236.9    n-,                ? 8.0      35,299.3  7.50.7?          -        -               3,77.
TN KU. TESTUS     N        41  23    29               -   ~~3         3,   9,54.    459        740        -       - ,9.?    0.187,7.93.9,                                           31,62.1
8A1E3 FMN                    No       20    9               -          28       10.9    729.0    17,Z        -               - 10.7          9.342.2  4.725.4          -         --            2,7,
tHER 21610                  NO        2    -      -      -      -      2      9"6.4  2.99.9         -       -                   .M9.9    82.7111,5                    -        -- 9.779,5
OtK .AUS                     No       49           --                  49      40.3  2.97A.0         -       -                  2.976,0     04,6776          -                            -   36,72.6
pan3 8019)1                  Ne        7   -       -      -      -      2        4.1      21.1       -                              1.2        571.7         -         -         -        -          73
NIP9 IEIOATION               N         3    I                           4    2,367,4  4,097.7  2197.4        -       -       -5,449.6   279,773,   65,900.7            -         --              431.N.
211 HELLS                    NO       17  22                           29        104   2,997.9  2,207.9      -       -         - 3.0.10   811,70.5  6031.711                                  1    44,502.5
no13 03IT23                  ND        I           -                    2       45.4     194,7       -       -                    1406,      8o.60.f                   -                  -    0,0.6
MT 1! sftem833               No        4           -             -      4       43.6 A   274.4       -       -                     74.4      7,649.0 8                                          7,64900
Il9K PLUM8                   NO       to                         -    28       38.2    68,6          -       -                    AN.&6,    3A.117,9         -        -         -              30.117,9
TOOLS                                                                                    7,4.5       -   272.5       -       -    409.0      9.444.l         -  1 2".949        --             22,77.9
IN2  M MISC 0TERS            No        8   -                                     7.7      21.3       -       -       -       -     218 1       q.1           -         -                           WA 96.
NATO3 1A5 V211N VMS          No        5   A       I                   22       IAl3    82,7   230.0  110,p          -       -    141,3      3,5165.   6.3r3,2   #.946.5                       2,.
PIKE  tIST3lEhTlU 5752       No        I   -       -      -                      4.4      34.9       -                              4.9      lq.57.          -         -        -                 .5,
Plies                 *~~~~~~~N  I   -      -      -                     7.6       7.6        -                       -      7.6       234.6         -         -                   -       34.
Sub-Tot'lI CoCIOJ                                                                 .       1,424.9  1. -714.2,490.2 1              214.433.?   64#0403.6 172194".7  97,34,          --   167
Total 1PKST11EIT COSTS                                                                      NOMA9,21,99.9.03.0.1 927.7214.75A9,97M.5  2,4PO.f, 1647.51M, 4 -1.724A 360,643.2 4593,221.4 3.46.1949,9
status  - --- -.. M                                  - Ltttut    inSa    -It111                       S
Total                                                                                        33,9M,4 21,957  .91, 6.352, 7",72 4.769".9 5  2.499.35.0,647,610,0 41.710,4 360.64321 491,222.4  .436.941.
rFipuaw 7. IMU  1415                                                                                                                                                                                             C



WI1 LWA
FrmINO TREE CPM  PROJECT
STATE FP AITA1IVilql "W ATI11
FATr.VV rPll1tT
PImIil,e r,-I Tible
Fpq. 't
ouiltitv                                         I's. Costs
Unit   1915  196 1"7 199 I9 tltl]  Cost   1995    196            1917    1900    19*    TnPl          199A        196         1Q127      19M        199        tottl
Y :*M - *---                                  #*-* '' ' - 4               t*r   1::  - =: --------=  =:-  _                                             s     _      i
1. II3ISTIIFIT COSTSi
A. TEA
ELEVATOES                                 *    3   s    I           21         19796,0   417.0   7M,       144.40   4170i  1.4074.0    54.01A,7  M7A,A   114.181,0          8143.0 27p096,5   1511790,0
TJINS ND FANS                            82  41  45  19  10   29"            20.7#73 7MN.    5p4'1 0  '-3A4 0  1,0779.0t  271054    476i0l, I    M67447-1  2?17471,0  131,39,3  AN595f,  1,374059,6
ROLLES                                   45  40  ?P   15    2 it13            122946.1-11p49,I  8011,0  4.1P6.0   P4970  17.525.?   5h0713,5   ",709.1  474.026,5  242,55.3  54"49,5  1145.232.0
vmIS An CVwiof                            0  60  75   5   3    273            6.7  5t2m6  2t 91.1   5990    771,0 124.66244    1Ai4f*.'  'N4563.9   111 977.7   340704,0  1701IP,4  7e o007
ECP PIERS                                17  11  II    -   I    40            22.S1600 24,359,0 14-341.0       -  Io.VeO  57. ?-60    9q7.979n,n   t93,451   760,491,1            - 3A6U46.7 29.86t72".?
no mUEs                                   5    4   4    2   t    16           414R3.0  3?347,0  3414,0 J1644.0   79%,O 1.-M-0    6A,535,4   1 61 37% 1   17.,7,41          95 517V,  4%Mfl3    W0742,7
UIl01I1FIERS                             60  40  1S    7   4    129            1,960.0  I,?40.0    51.40  727,0    17*0   3.99.0        1,54  .!5   59.P75.9   '95,%94.3   )7*571,7   7775.4   191,357.1
FlUCES W    TIN 309119 OdMOS              3   7   I   -   -          7        2.019,0  1.318,0  1,346.0            -        4,764.0     U.S13.6 1    hl.77,5   71,377,- -                        226767,9
SULES                                    59  76   4         ? t      1        49i;S.9  2441.1   102.0   181.10              t  I                     11,9  tli ,    1 4  15,91.e 9    1603.  -   37 ,531
SIFTINR  MID COW/EVORS                   45  1A  31  32  10   151             3,57220  3.2.9.0  3t407.1  1,762.1 9I7, 2  1279&17   1794,40.7  1S7,W50,3  IP0.4.75.6  107,043.9  %9754#4   6531729.9
EITCTOS M  HIIIK S                       28  77  79    A    1    91           4011970 370W    4.71%,0  1,I133,0   19,.0  215771    13,Sn.7    90,t104I  . 3,17,!   59.95.3  111510  *S ,9912M3  _
MDI AM   ECTAICALM      S             1116   51  35  17   -  I pw             5,407, 7  I2,41.5    351?      I,7        -  7.4?)f1  737.4297,7   91,749. 3      1,941.6    1,77,4           -   33497211  *9 
CtC  OINE3 S                                   - I       --                              PA                                   V4I0-    34?,796                        --                    -    396,29.6
ROItS                                    47  31    6   A   -    A5            A,M57,9  4,76100   745,0   194.0             17M4, 9    ?74 .146A9    10p? 32,6   39?t426,7   512I.POI        - 7  59517.3
Oa       EIPWMIT                        154  76  67  46  IA   359             7441,11 4.197,0  N.0676  2,296.0   571,0  1,57.4   376,3..?7  202,66.7  149,77.9   7%094.4  3.743,4   749173.1
Sub-Ttel1 TEA                                                                   93,304, Sl101  ,2 4,tA69,4 144.113. 1    60,o0 777.60 I9 4I7.400.7 W?3 191 iW30, 2,47A,749,3X  930,5M3. 417,614, 119079.47.3
t. MIKR
SALLE E-GION                                                         -         1I170,6  5.459.8 3,52,7 7?3402 151U0.4  14.04, 6    51.3f9 .           * 1I4, 100 ,S  1,9.0-.O   193 .1.1 911013.4   736,044.9
NM"    M I-N                                                     -            2,3412 127147,2 Po9, .I7  1.1J9,7  1,30, *      79214.7   l01 ,71|.A  603,796,6  4UM04.?  181*207.0 "93.3A4  1,442,343.7
tSMAU       IOW                                                                 11u1.4-.  7.O410,1  4.414 7  1,30. 4  I.5A, 4  1,W-    5 9-.1101.3   MM417?7 73NM.0O   "0619.2  9114034    845,17.1
S.h-Total EDEN 4MO7O,7 MU                                                                  ,3.? ,1  l576,0  7.4  ?  4,6J2.7 5P950U,3    2.13951,0 1776,174,3  PAI0.401.9  4074761A4 294,750.1    3p023.1
lotal IWSIMiI £15 MI$31,3 91,4!   63,777.0    .3 11,,7 W96,107   4032r.351. 4.419P.15.P 3.357.MI.? I?37A17.Q 711964.?7 14,057.730.6
total                                                                               99.681.3 91,431,3 61,p777, 7     ,3 12,341,7 7107,2  *.!6,131,7 4.41p.i35,- 3.3M7pr';12 12?38,617,0 711,64,7 14,05 7738.6
--_   _   - - - - Y = - -_------    .                  -------- -- :--:--l -
Feheww 7, IM   14156



FflTII@1 Iii! (3IYc P9OZJCT
VrlT [LAMA -
.WTlM EqTATFQ WWLOWI' PDA"
FArltlf3 rgI,Pyg
IhtijIeA Cial Tatb]
ItS. 'WI
Teulr tvil'pird Cttigts.vr
P3s.ptY  1X  rfll                                             f(US9)
unilt t15 I'U  1"? I    M9 T1 tInl Unit Cotl   19        19       1917    1ON       IMT   Toel         195        1986        1917       19         1919      Total
I. i'Sw t  rn
Al TEA
KEWTORs                          P       4  17   7   I   I   7                    576,0  1-440,0   2M9.0   144.0   144C   3-60.0    25,751.9  113,206.6   154".4    8.343.8  9.29.5   176104,2
TNI  AO FOIS                     N      80  47  42  IN   4  193                  1.915,0 1A991.9  1-.97,0  I.U44.79   XA4.  17.p97,1   352.2550   1929757.0  209v9364    9P.516.5  7'uP24.6   W7elf.]
GLE1S                            NO    29  73   4   I   -   57                  9.410.1  Ai7.I  1.141.0   10.0          - 16,w.4      361,94   3219134.5   60559.3   1AIP03.5             .   767,996.7
IMAS N  COMOTS                   NO    41  39  73   6    I  110                  4P070,0  3i641,1  1,917.0   A$.0   161,0  10.450.1   1709429,1  1759117.9  101,656.9   3a1514.6  10,270,9   504W309
tCC plus                         P      10   A   7   3   -   29                 13172.0  9360.0  0.7710  1444U0          - 14.1 ".    575,269.4  4SI9U.6  438,710.?  199.556,4            -  1456502.
"I  DIUE5                         00     4    I   7   -   -    7                 3M3U,0   M9.0  1-17,0          -        _  6.4i,t    148K00.9   40hS95J7    6314A0              -         -       17,70,5
HIMIIIFIES                       NO    16  4t   1    1   -   68                    49%,9  1-117.6   747.9    11.0        -  7rO7.3    21,735.    643447.3   131145.9    19796.2                 101,25,4
RSACES                           No      3   3   4   3   4   17                  24019.0  1-019.0 1,691.0  1.119A. '.691,0  11,441.0   f18.13.1   97,491.5  142,754.5  116Y9q7.4 161,01.4   £14,547.1
SCALES                           No    30  7       , 3   -   -   5S              2.161,0  1.5,0o   161.0        -        -  1.917.n    94.738.4   769776,4    89,37.7             -        -   110,057.5
SIFTERS A0 CCIUTOIS              No    35  4U  70  13  IN  141                  2. A0n 0 4.)21.0  7.197.9   971.0  l.?l6.0  11.710,9   114.203,4  203.819.6  116,552,1   56.262,9 107t601.    59t.40,0
ERllUTDRS A    IImS              00    33  77  13   4   2  124                  3,970,0 fs"l1   1,741.I   114,0  15 9\ 17.113.0   1694661.1  324S3,1   979695,0   11310#1  9t907,4   6153.106
FOU  AN ELECTRICAL MS            NO      9    I -                10             13.61?,0 5S3750    679,' 1. 0           .A ?7.J7.2   596,970.2  259 542,3        ,312.9   97,610,1  6,4M34.3  1.033.170,4
7TORYAIS                         NO    26  15  1    I 3         56             5-4140  7.5430  1.7990   447.0           - IVl"O    237,350.1  122,73.9   9418,11&,    25.900.6            -   480,30t.1
OGM  EUIPIIN                     NO 1   74  16  74   -   -  214                 14?Y1'i.] hI.1 597?  7!?7. MO '.A                  I7'    655.509,9  535,450,0  316M,77    137407.5 77754,0  1,772,719.7
Sub-Total tEA                                                                     92.743.2 6,R47,6 3',429,9 13,744.9 7,177.0 1"544.6 3627467.6 2,91436,9 17400941.1  79,539.6 4A7.573,5  9.13,959.4
YISAWULLA -ESIGN                                                                 3190410,5 19.W,3 10,140,0 3t,9- 4  1,990,4  41-M.,6   171i122.5  943,261.4  539,931.7  226492.9 24,1105.5   124914.1
KSWLE RESION                                                                     1.907 10.140I 4A790.3  1,540.4   779.7  19.7".A    85,561.3  490.U75   22.027.4   90,635.2 49.007,4   943,71P1.
Sth-ToteRl  5MO                                                                       WA. 7,7W.1 14.411.3 !5.4V9.0 4.679,1 6A.060.2   25613.1 1,433,748.9  764459.2  317.212,21 29411210 3,068,32.13
C. COCNrT
IM1 ION OF SILlS                 NO      I   2   -        - - 10                   1681     2910        -       -        -    19A.1      7397.9      IU3531           -          -                5,70.3
C15Tr11UlICI F 1WE glum          No    to    4   -   -   -                14Ul    940.5   336.2         -       -           -117,a7    3,9.    114.1                  -          -               53,173,9
COITRIJClIIGN OF   KOCUES        NO    12   A        -       - -1           21    33612   161.1 I           -        -         504.1    14,795.9    812.0             -          -               22-97.9
CGNSTRIITION OF SITES/KITOEK    M       I I   A   -          - 17   106.5         1.171,1   An's        -       -        -  1           51.539.0   31,129.7                                -     2.661,1
RENVATI   F    EIEON  -…1923                                                                   - . M-           -        -    I"         83483.0                                           -.4p3,0
Sub-Total COIm                                                                      2,700,7  1,171,1       -       -        -  l.979.    119.2056   57,071.2             -          -         -   176,726.3
Total IMISTIUII tOSTi                                                                91302.7 97,659,0 47.7A1AP 19.7.?27          767494.7 4.00P,357.0 4t4772?57,0 2.5079901.0 19113tW67, 756,61,3  2,t969.0 0
gussag~~~ gga4ena a.-... .a gnnf -nn   mm  -s=   -                                  ==   sz=r s==                        r *
Total                                                                                 @1.307.7 97,Mo.0A 47.7A.7 19.70,7 1?705.1 767,484.7 4.003.357.0 4.4770257.0 2.507,901.0 1t113tW66.1 756,686.3 I7,39o$69,0        N
----ni7. 1915  1492 =r  2 I
fdbNlD t0  M    141t5



W91 LMWA
FIUIN TREE Ci PPOICT
STATE fPltATI1S COPPEAJIWI
'41I?r1 ES
DhlilZ Cott 1*b1.
'PS. 'WI
OuntitlI                                     23~ut Cast,                                                 tdJ      t      i
--------- -         ---------- --------- Ii---------- __                                         _             _ _              - _-
Unit 1M5 16 17 19   9 I    Tota1  rpet   19         1956    1917   190       1"?   T'tlel        195        195        17       1999       1099      Iotal
SL2 822    TZ :281 El X =ZE VIZl*  EElS            5185   2El5                        rrT.Z
J. j1yb~  c;
A.TCA
ESTATE CMS         N1    76  16   7   4  2P  120  7   19,000,0  4.000,0  p75.60 19M.   q7.0  37.MoO    79i,0.6  17V.W,4 d  r.54)  51,?27,3    AO.119,6   I94630417
LORRIES           10    51  31  21  13  14  140  IPO  9.1PNO  5.!W.0  3,750N. 9714A.0  44370,0 25700.0   TM93.5, 7             0.7t0P, I  4.746,0 IM4.A5,    249t031 1107,969.5
TRACTORS           NO    43  44  32  11  19  149   00   0.600,0  PNl0O.0 4,400,0 7.20(1.0  1,900,0 29,800.0   1W%W4L7  1915*A,4.  3I?.797-S 117.701,1  219.074,o 1,199,001,0
TRAILERS          NO    75  64  51  20  19   79   10  2.2500  5.9200  1,50.0  M00,0   570,0  AjP711.0               V.9A7.5 P   ,0 91.1 74.77M.?  31 .940   32.961,2  1l1UU2,2
IOTOR CYCLES       NO    49  19  17  15  15  115   30  19470.0   570.0   516.0  4'0,(   4W,0  1.450,0    4(1g719.O    '                 74,974.5  2.tTM.A   25,943,0  164,139,1
Sub Total TEA                                                  40o50.0 70.P70.0 13,970.0 1       5"5,3 90.7.0  97.170.0  1.473470.7  V991,5,9 M7,775.3 351,071,7  507.751, 4,6510313.7
D. 1e
ESTATE CMS         NO    23   -   -   I   7   76  750  5,7%0,0             -        -  w,0  !.00.0  A.W5,0   ?17-.4,4                -            11.319,11  249 2,6  797,7?P,3
LORRIES            No     2   2   -   I   I    6  IPO    160.0    0.,0              -  1p^.0   1?.O  1.060.0    14174.9   16,141,1             -                        N.OO, 10777,7   5.93.3
TRACTORS           No    17  14   5   7   A   49   0   1,400.0 ,!0 0.0  1,000.0 194M.0  loW1  9400W.0  1j4044.7                  44I   4-.SP74,4 74,.5 ?,7   A9,1014  455,77,5
TRAILER            NO     I   9   3   1   2   23   'A    240.0   ?70.0    '0.0   30.0    60,0    i9.O    0*.A',6   11910.64   4.395,7   5W,  ?                39454#1   31,4n,l
TMSEU TRAILERS    NO    29  19  12   A   5   71   75  t.17, 0  10425.0    00.0  450.0   TM,50  5.372.0              9,0W .9   '3.1,7  43,997,7 71.971,0   71.19,7  714,343,9
TAMhS              NO     2   -   -   -   -    2  30    700,0              -       -       -        -    700.0    29,9m1.            -        -         -          -       M93.3
NOTOR CYCLES       NO    It   6   3   3   9   37   70    330.0   190.0             .0   00.0   770.0    960,0    13,615,3    8.071,0  4,39A.?   4794.6   IS.V.,9   46,4A5.,.4
Su>Tottl 1M1                                                   12?955.0  5,0350  7.00 2.400.0 2.UO-0  75.055.0   W35,o25.0 O!76J 7M         14W.7 127t,   14947102J3 I,3".59663
Total IHSTlIIT COSTS                                             53945,0  5,9010 16,050.0 1P.991.0 17,917,0 172,7,.0  '.705,70e-6  1,1615..7 7544437, 475.97,17  1,0Ar7Mt, 5,669,910,1
Total                                                             51.4,55,0 25,905,0 1.6.050,0 590(1.0 17.97',0 127.7.75.0  ?P7200M. 5,161 j.357 711,437,5 47.9m7.7  903,7711P 5,M99,1Yi0
F*buari 7. 2965 14:56



FRiTH WE CES MIOJCT
JANATNA ISTATFS MMl (fT r   OOM1
WFI!:tES
Votslred r'tt Table
(M, 'Wl
-- umnt--- - -------- - -                             Co--- -                                                                nSit
(hit  951  1997 2966 2999 Total Cori    1995           19P6    jW7       1990     190l1    Tnl(l        196         194        197       19        1M        Tolal
Bonn  auto 5333 3W33x -g33 a55  fir33  IRAF 3a335311  21a3s3s3 112*233-212121     Lr *  11      3       33rasr 3 3   32twr1  a823333 33#135M3a   3SSramrwin
I. IIPEST1ENT nfSTS
A. TEA
ESTATE CAR                                              'A -    -    -    -   7 ' A5  250                               A -  -  - 6.700   1.'0.0  -    -          -           J60r3194   W0319.6
PASSENGER YAM                NO      1   -    -    -   -        I  30       300,0        -        -woo                              2399                                              -    17.o95,7
FOUR MUEEl MIR    PICKUPS    NO     50    7   10    4    3    74   200  10?,000  Ir400,0  7*00000       WO, 0   1.,  24W,000    413,190,3   607774,7  97,749,2  42,1.2,7  34,590.7   650,973.6
JEEPS                        NO      2    -    -    -    -      2   375     650,0            -             -        -     650.0    24607.4             -         -         -          -    26t997"4
LORRIES                      NO     51   14   13    9   IP  105  120   9,2P0.0  .970,0  7,140,0  1,67000  I,740.0  1P,900.0   37,30,7   217W9945 114P,6646 F36M.iP 116607M P                W Sf767,4
TWMERS                       No      6   le   -    -    -    74    90    30,00    90.            -        -        -               1,700,0  12,0IM0    46or.?,- -                    -    521790.t
1OTOR CYCLES                 NO     47   17  23    6    7   h 0    30   W,410.0    510.0    670,0   130.0    7o10,0  3,000.0    51,2P    22.367,9  32,773,5   9, 9             12,10647   136.547,2
TRACTORS                     NO     70   27   16   14   3   J;5.  700        54,000,0  9,400.0  ,2000  7,300M 0  IYAWO   774000,0   57P466,4   7479131.1 i56W3993 149,165.3  9,741.9 1,711,443,5
TRAILERS                     NO     90  84   34   14  13  235    30   M700,0 72570,0  1,070.0    420,0   190.0  7r0!U.0    111,1.1,4  222,994,%  49.397,1  27.374.P  27434.0   319,71l6,1
Sub-Total TEA                                                               38,540.0 t3oM   9tr250.0  5.W0 12M,90  79,20.0  1.M924135.4  594,218.0 452,090,2 310.050sP 706,932,9 5,657,727.3
O, RUIP£R
ESTATE CARS                  NO      I   -    -    -    -       I   250     250.0        -        -        -        -    250,0      10.3798 8                     -         -         -    10,129,8
TRUrlS                       NO      7    7    9    1    1   25   735 1i 1 45.0  1,1.45,0  2.115.0   215,0    11%,0   597r,0        67,9469,9    '3711 0,J 20334698  1$19.)7  1,549.0   271,167,2
LORRIES                      110   4I    6    9   16    1   46   10   2,570,0  2,060.0  21M.0M0  7P900   230,0   3,7500    104,174.0   464.)  799176,9 153,4'7.2  10,377.)   3955,11.4 
TSERS                        1O     23   30    7    4    -    64    50   2,150,0  J00,0    350.0    200,0              312700,0    47,516.9   67ri5M,6  17,20M,1  10,694W7           -   247,936,3
TRACTORS                     NO     23   30    7   4    -   64   200   4,600.0  W,000,0   140.         800.0           17P2,800S0    290,01.7#5  2619,34,16  4R424.5  47,1.1.7       -   570,145.7
TRAILERS                     NO     23   29    P    4    -   64    40       920,0  12,60,0    320,0    1.0,0        -   72560i0    38,013.5  5!,0133.  25,139,9  0.523.?              -   114t190,5
IOTOR CYCLES                 NO      9   13  17    2    1   37    30        270,0  3P0M0    1.0,0    60.0        30,0   1110,0    11,JM,2    179497,) 127594,9   3,296,4   J,M.5   SIMIU
Sub-Totil MOO30                                                             11013530 110775,0  6,2165,0  4,335,0   445,0  4,01S,0    469.177,.   517,W0, 3?0,312,0 230,919.9  75,694.9 19fW0Us64,6
Cs COCONUT
FOR *HEL  RIYF PICKUS        NO    1     2          I   -    16  200   71POOO    M00.0           -    ?111,0       -   3,200,0    11.193        89,67,P             20547            -   IV 139,155,
LORRIES/TRUCIMS              NO      4    -    -    -    -      4   160     720|0        -        -        -              720,0    29,749,7            -                    -         -   79t749,7
TCTORS                       NO     24    4    2    1   -   31   200   4oP00.0   600.0    400,0         000         -      Wo2000    J9P,331,1   359071,3  29,549t,  201.7            -  7M4407,2
ROTOR CYrLES                 NO     12    6    7    -    I    1    3        3160,0    2.O    210.0               30,0    780.0l    14,74,9       9,07120 71, 0.2,7         -   2,79,       M4*939.1
TRILERS                      NO     26    4    3    I   11   45    30       760.0    170.0     90.0    W30    ,30.0  12350,0    32,279,          5.3.W7   49396,7   1,5, .?  199094.9   620143
WATER TIlEs                  NO     25    -    -    -    -    25      0   12,50.0                                   * It 2,,0       511P49.P                -         -               -    51,P
ILOC12 CARTS                 NO      5    -    -    -    -    5       6      30,0                                          30 0      2          6                                     -     1,239,16
Sub-Total COCIIIJT                                                          10,740.0  2,300,0    700-0   430,0         10.0  23,930.0   441,716.4   5V?9,9R  3,7,2  2,9074,  Oe774,4   5794931,4
Total I6ESTIENT COSTS                                                          60,1.5, 26321,0 26201g095058.   3,095.0 176.75!;,0  ,05,379,t4 11039.7 797J614,4 53W39.) 74942,1 SM79223.2
total                                                                          609635.0 M6.325.0 16,25,0 20,585.0  213095,0 176?,55.0  2,0,379.4 I2i2339W.2 7267114.4 53,39"  7?4,947,I 5tM2723,2
5333338  3r38835w133  5333S 3*A3Er3SS 3LE1113E 1r3m381  x;           13          t8     3 a t t t *3  3    *  31 3 3w3
F-4-                                               -.i.. P. ''ii  p                                                                ..



SpY LAWA
FMIRTH TREE CPIS PROACT
TAT!r PI WTATJIWS CRPOATON
HINT HYDYO
Walitled Cost Table
fpc. lomi
T0tp)u Ijf.J14Jnrq ronlin#pncif
Uantitt                                               Ppre tCo,-                                                     (U5.W
unit  1985 1986  97  9988 1999 Total  unit rodl  1991 19            197      39919     3999    Total     1qM      M 1996      387          1999       1999       Toti
_ _       _      _           -…_                    --  -...    …     x…- ::_:   =:=:-::::… -c-::=_=tc    ;                   c--:r  sgsrsruta-          5-._
It IIAESTKIHT COSTS
A. TEA
HYD WNIT TYPE A  /a         NO      -    5    5    ,    -    is        2!340     - 11,700,0 11.740,0 11,70(1s0         -  r.,ion        -   'SAJ,96300 616.0903   &7t756.- 1R5700.2
HINDUNIT TYPE B             NiO     - 1    10 to         5    59       1.479     - 14,79l,O 14,790.0 14,790,Q  7195,0  51076541         -   710,794,4   779,792,9   850,4737 460f191.6 2,799v6462.
HWDM  WIT TYPE C            NO      -    5    5    S    5    N            99     -  4I4-460,0   64.0  4460.6  4e460.0  179P4A,O         -   914,t9O.- 7   14 ,9M6,  964M43 977159.'7   93I021,0
Bob-Total TEA                                                                       - 30,910,0 70u950,0 30,91.0 11,955.0 104.709,j         - lu4R6t797.9 1,79639,81 3,79474,91 737,779l3 5,334383.8
Total INESTIIET COSTS                                                                   - 309M  0 10.910,0 30,910,0  1,      0 104710591      -W I,4RSA,     I,679h3969  u7n79r724iB 737,71,3 5i,633,391.9
Total                                                                                    - 3.q90,00 3090.0 31099.0 IIr 1150 104,70A,3          - 9496997,9 I,PA9,09,11 1079774,8 737,771,3 5r633i383.U
morn smsmsa  mo *gaga   n"rss: sfhr  003   awzru=wrw  saw: =rsrrhssr 32t2t1121 ss ::sa:rgsa 22231W  u2232in22.sa
. ____._._._._._._..... ____.. ... _._.. ..... ......._. _........ _. -------------------------- I......_. __.___..........._. _.___..................... __...____.._.............
/a  TYPE DEPENDS ON DEGREE LW REHABILITATION REWIRDit AzEW IWANICAL AND FLFrTRT!AI ERIIIPHFNT P IIS CIVIL I0lSI R'WII FOIITPNFNT (NI Yi rNPFWW4AT1I OF FYISTINO rFIupJio
Fetwuarv 7, 19M   15!
I-N



9!l LAKA
Fl TIIH IAFF CIOS POFFRI
JAMATIA ESTATF  IFWL(PHFNT MARD
Hlo! HPPpO
Deta11ed Co0 T41r
T..tFI.: Tnf *l.gdnd Prrninnni.i
Quantity                                             PIe CoatA                                                    (US$)
Unit  1995 I1    1967 19 IM 9   Total flilt rest  IM      1986     1987     19       199    Tnale    1905        96         187          198        99        TntMu
asas  Wan  3a2  at.. Erma sass         *2=:.      ::       -                                 -2- :: :  t35    Ce2:s5 2:32U:Z
to INESTIEfNT COSTS
A, TEA
HYISO UNIT TYPE A  Is      No       -    5    5    5    -    15       20340     - lIf7O0f0  11,70.0o 11,700.0        -  3590l0A0      -   10r,33.0   M1AdM0,3   672.786,8            - 19M5,700.2
HYRO UNIT TYPE 8           HO       -   10   10   10    5    3i       1'479     - 140.0 14a7960 14,790,0  7,31,O0  'f745 .1           -   710.7!4,4   77R.759.9  r.0.473.7 460191.6 20799.667
HYDRO UNIT TYE C           HO       -    5    5    5    5    70         89V     -  4,460.0  4.460.0  4946A0   4.460,0  17'944.0       -   714.IA4!9   74MoRU,5   75,4A4,3 977,39,7   9390?1,0
,,- ..................  - .                                ---.  - 
Sb-Total TEA                                                                       - 309950.0 30,95M,0 30950,00 11,,  104,705.l          -  ,4N,?977,9 179439,P 1,7790774, 737,721,3 5,6334383,9
TOtil IIPJESTIENT COSTS                                                               - 30,95i,0 30,950.0 30P950,0 11.P55,0 1040705)l       - 1f49?97.9 1  tA"439tft 197707?40 717721.3 5.633.363.8
2::z ::-z2=:8-    -::   ,Zz==::Z :: Z     :C:_    2:   ::- 2=:2 -:TMZ=W2          2.2::2::        2Ss=222: 22222.
Total                                                                                   - 30h95.f0   ,9W5 0,0 3 ,950.0 11.r55,0 104u7I       -  r,4Rh"7,9 l,479,39,P 1,779,724   737072143 5,N63,33.9
ZSCA R"fcr"rl WWWWWRO  A.MRBw "aBaedg   fwJ-gerar  r-X rfanwrrrss*tsrSe  Ar-ersZ.-Tar f_=vZ  same
/a  TYPE DEIENDS ON DEGREE OF REMILITATION REGUIREDI RmHES HrIMNICAL AED FIEFTRJ¢M  FG!IPRFNT Pi IUS (lull VMSI  RsEV FAIIPPENT 1*1Y1 rwRFNAATI0N rf FXIRTIWs  F(IMPHENT
F*ruary 7. 1985  15100
0%
m 



91! LAWA
FOrIN TH EE lF   C   "PACT
ITATE PIARTATIMIIW  r"ATICY
wNlIISW
htaJIM  rr,rf  T *^Ip
'PS, '0001
Tolal, Ircludirn C'ntinW4rnies
unt itv                                                  lop ret                                                               (US)
......... .............  ._......................... . ........---__-..---__----.--_____----------------__-_______------------------------.... __ __ ..................-__
Unit  I9M5 I         19R7 I7 I    ISR  TotI l lhit Coast  9M   191     197       15RP     191W    Total         I185        1996         IP7          ISS8        19          Total
S :2: :=:= g3:= =:_ =C   t:22 S:S5:=:r:=z   --::::== =:=:s - .:s-:   .s;2 … -- :=:=c:= __==    _=                   _     r-r=    =s:3       .   z      ~*~
To IMlESTENT COSTS
_. -._,, _..
A. TEA
TWIN COTTAGES                           NO     76   Ai   AA   46   46   7`          67,    5,124M.   4?174,5  4.441*R  5.095,8  10,"A  M0'22.28   2354834.4   223t38247  249774.3   190M365.1   206,030.4 1105406.3
mlJiR STAFF QUMTERS                     NO     55   57   79   13   10   159         9R,7   5,470,9  5,17M,   7 ,8,7i 1,283,2   097,21  I`.A944    250,315.4   262101,7   160496507    78M9M3.2?   M5.90,8    27,984',9
SENIOR STAFF OUTERS                     NO     24   It    4    7    7    43         MII.S   37715.0  1,707.7 A19,2    309.6    309.6   A,6J,O   171,210,2    B6,47.7    34917M0   I1103.85    20403..0   332M616.0
RENJV, TO STAFF   WAMS                  Ho- -    -    -    -    -                          77AJ1  4i9M.7  3 9.   3.079.0  7.799,7  77.05.72    340P090,0   254,770.2   214,200.4  199,130.4   1P6,323.1 1rIMP742.1
REI)VW. OF LINE ROOKS                    O      -       -    -    -    -                  21715.5 19.17.1 17t,iA M075MS 14             ,4  S.026.4  1,0014.26.7   M6.6)831   9214.3   9968627.9   96037.4 4.10764.4
......,- ;       . ... -----. ----.      ........ ........ ..... . ......... ......... ...........  .          .
Sub-Tota1 TEA                                                                                 43 ,3'f3 35,734,7 79,484.? 230P41-3 77,199  ,4 114,55?77 1709,8,71.7 1.23829.4 1.657.17107 1.466310.1 10474.09.4.9 8B421#59590
B. RmT£R
SENIOR STNFF QUARTERS                  N50      3    7    J    1    -       7       154,8     464.4    10976    154.8   I54,R           -   I,6.5       210411.3    15,808.6      9.704,3      9,919.1            -    553443,4
JlIOR STAFF OUARTERS                   NO      8    8    5    7    3    76   - 9,7           789.7    7P9.7    473.5    1974    296.? !   7.U.6,4      369409.5   409323.3    27,752.7    17,140.5    19,707.3   136,3313.
IEV COTTABES                            NO     11   1?   It    9    9    57         67,.1    740.3    807,6    740,3    605.7    600,7   I,499,6        34.333S    41,239.9    42621tl   372493    40,310.3   114,567,3
RTOTION O  LINE MM                      IIO     -   -     -     -    -    -       -    -    .306.7  7.R11.1  7.'14,4  7.4M,0  7.171.A  13.743.7    152464.9   144,561.4   143304.9   147,967.3   1449519.9   732,2.3
LATRINE UIits                           No     26   73   71   13   IA    97          3.9      10.1      8 2.4     V7A4     51.0      62?.     3ROP       4.706W 3     4,209,9      476 .60     3,138.6      4.9A0M3    20o97tl3
PIKE LINES                              NO      -    -    -    -    -  -20.6    126.7                             38.0     00.8    107,1    6N4,         9,619.6      6,472.4      77m5.1    4M966.6        6p793,0    TS,449.7
WATEN An  ELECTRICITY SPLY              NO1     -                 …   -    -  -               5871    738.?    115,7       M3,1      7R.5      !1.78I4  26,841.7    12,200.1       7,632.0     5,7.3        5,2.4    57,624.5
RENOVTION OF STAFF  MIARTERS            No1     -    -    -    -    -       -                    ,163    A16,9   7R60         -         -   1,071,2       7757.7    31,502,6    16,064.0             -            -    515344.3
CM1MIhIS OF SIM11  UItII LINES          NO      8    6    4    -    -    28           28     224.3    16A.3    11?7,          -         -     504.8     10P343.6      8,59136      6,307,4            *           -    75M242.7
C011R91N  OF PMC  TO MlA  LIES          NO      8    3    1    3    3    3P           28      27413     84.3      28 0     64.2     94.1       WI4       10.343.6     4.795.8      3,576,9     5.173.5      5.59R.7    26,9M.4
INUXE  Wm   IWOWT                       NO     28   20   37 15   74   120           11.2      314.1    7?4,13   41l0    1*8.3    774 3   '.34.0         14.461,      311. 55.5    23,337,5    20P347.0    24.9 7    74,550.8
CMMITI BATHING PLAfES                   NO     24   14   15   17   17    07          4.5      107.7     62.8      67.3     51.8      76.J     367,       464.9        3207.        374.5       3,311.0      5076.1    70,344.
VATIR  TNAI                             NO     13    8   1     '    P    45         5,6       72.9     44.S      61,7     28.0      4.9    2t57,4       343617       2.293.1      3,469d      17241.5      21s5.9    139832,3
WATEII FKMS                             No      8    7    4    4    7    30         11.7       89.7     78.5      44.9     44.9      79.5     336.5      4.237A4    4.001,4        2,573,0     2,759.2      5,oM.4    19M.5
IOO  RENIOATIONS                        NO      -         -     -     -   -                   11469    723 1      69.4    151.4    11..8 P     76.7       6,775.3    10.82.7    1S524.7    9,317.3          9,704.3    46,119.7
RWS AN  WIIS RE ATIONS                  No- -    -                                                     '   -  6P-  175.  179.0    238.0  86.4  547,4      3,154.9    6U415.1       7,7535      M,464,6      5,747.9    321055.9
._ . .. .._ ...... .  ......   . ....__ .... ...  ..._....
StbTetal MKI                                                                                   79616,5  WM104.   390.7  4,7%7oX  4@05.  7P9336.?    350.S07.    347.43.   315P27M                MAIM4.   7709004*3 1e4.5#47692
T..uETu. A A70.8 *Ubf9J." 280....6 in.1, .1..mn.. 4. hl *--. 3 St    *534n  --b                              -
T.t.l                                                                                             50.960,8 4?.'70 R 35,090,  71,100.6 76.725,7 26288.9. 2.349,706.7 2,171.303.2 1,973,246.7 3,726,124.1 1,744.689.1 1,767,071.1
ThS s snse.1 8=21.1  .:Ww-sw C14:11XINxi am418m              sms    _     _       _ mir  ziesii a" :w memo..|
_______.____.__ . .  ...................... ..............__.__._............... ___......_. ___. __. _......._____............_____......_.___.__.__............... ................. ..... ............. . |    ..... .  . ...........  
F4ttrwr   7 1    3510 IM    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t0



.RI LAWA
rrlhiPTH TEWE C9frP PROQ?Fft
IAffTHA E5TATFS PEW9OPIIFIT QWORC
D*Ir.iled Cost T'blp
*j~~~~nh9tv                   i,~~~~~~~~~. ca,g~~~~~~~~                                 Tn1phl  Tncludind  ri,ntindMeNjes
unit  1995 1986 190? 190   1909  Tntal  lUnif Co'S    5905          590.    1907       1900      19A19    Tr.$f        19I*5        i"    1996    97          1960         1999       Tot,5
It JNVEST9ENT COIST
At TEA
EXECUTIE W DIgAOSS           NO            4    1    -       -       5      336,5            J- 1.1,0    315            -              .0'5-                        1.       !P,922,3            --                0.5
SENSOR STAF QUATERS          NO       4    2    1    -       -       7      121.4      493,5[   746oP    123.4          -         -     86307      27".9         701to        6 939.10 0                           47,9m. 7
.113100 STAFF QUATERS        NO      5    4    -    I        I      It       72,9      3645    791.4           -     "h9       77.9     Q07.A      16,00,4    14,9971               -      4,421.7     4,952,7    41.036,4
9EV COTTAKS                  NO     60   71   AO   69       59    321        67,3   4,0.0,0  4P957,9  40&19,f   4.643,7  3,970,?  71.603.4    186 5.150   ?r.0.075,3  2777, 06, A    05,77,    764.7564 1,713,961,9
HODIFICATION/LINE PUS9   NO    652  601  602  612    538 ,9 167               8.4   5P495.0  ro?745,0  S. 7.7,31  'I4P,5  4.'175,9  1A6442.5    25?P9*9,3   793?403,    329.!67S i7   3160659.7    01.207.5 IP4U,7%54
ROOF 0E9WMTIWIS              NO    78   997  807  P75    760  4,157             4   1.507,0  196)7t .1 3.5I9, 7  3033J.4  1,0689  I56.7,0    14 6,7 13,1       5 84-960,4   ?A9,409,9   204.97h,9   704.730.9   947,592,9          c1.
RNMP RENOATIONS              NO    844  953  958  P79  15.15  4,757           0.1.     473,3    534.5    517.3    491,6    646.6   7,684.7         21,97Pr, 0    77.197,7    M11174 6    30,156,       43,0O,0 55,67,
DRAIN RENOVTIONS             NO    845  961  959  897    844  4,93            0.6      423i?    V19.Q    1117cP    494,7    473.1 3   7.51PI?    ?5,P5fl,    ')7!523,9    10,44.1    30.4O0,          31,505.7   141 PM,,9
MTHIII SITES                 No     a1   54   55   26        9    205         4.5      273.7    747,3    246.0    11A,7       40.4      919,8      12!619,2    12071I,9    13.876,4        7.5739?    2,197,4    48t,72B
HATERt TANKS                 NO     99   77  .58   49       24    297         6,7      599.0    519.2    390.3    179,8    565,Ie5  5.915,         27.617.4    76,6?,        219949,9    704?802    100749,4   107,059.1
HATER PU"                    NO     21   12    9    9        7     57         9,4      176.7    101,0      75.7      67,1    50.9       479,f5      8.145.6      5. 155.0     4.-757 .q    4,531,       3.919,)    75,655,9
VATER 5519.                  NO      -    -    -    -        -       -               Whi76,1 5967,4  5,979.7  5,047,4  1,779,0  51#1 ,497    1)11,07.7   500,4A4.7   515,376,    IfItAI0,7   110,392.0   571,796.1
ELECTRICITY                  No-                - -  -    -                            8)0,4    113.3          -        -         -     903,7      40153:4,)     5,785.0                   -           -           45,958.2
LATRJINES                    No    729  775  134   71       69    723         2.9      642,7    630.9    175. 0    5995  1  93,5   2.041,4         29.608.6    V.70.10.    71,179,9    12.244.0    M7876#9   108.077t9
Sub-Total TEA                                                                          19,948.3 70.9115,7 17.960,4 16,744.3 14,995.   90!356.        95,6,   .06?,717,P J.M0,5,  5,079.735,0   997,7.70 5,055,315,2
EXECUIiw I4JrAM.rU           NO      -    2    4    -        -       6      336,5          -    671,0  1t460                          7.059.0             -    34-.31. .5    75.609,7            --   110,055.7
SENIOR STAFF WAUINS          No      2    1    5    -        -       4      123.4      246,0    J?3.4    171.4          -         -     491.5      11.370,0      6.300,5      6,990.7                         -    24.616,7
.11N100 STNFF HOUSINGi       No      6    5    ?    7        2      97       72.9      4371,'    "m 364.  345,s    545,0    541,0   1.739,4        20.1711.0    59,615.2      899,"7       8196'.4     9,704i3    0t,656,
9EV COTTAGES                 NO     33   28   76   73       17    177        47.3   7,270,9  J,584.4  1,749,0  5,547.9  I1,44,1   0.547,1    107,405,8    96,776d            99",9.9    9%Pt97.,5    76545.7   468,359,5
ROOW  RENOVATIONS            PO     71   71   75   71       71    355         3,9    277.7    7711,?    778.7    278,7    77A1.7   1,191,7         12,851.9    14,731.5    04,74,0    17,4141,         10,50.2    70,4551d
RENOVATION FMRV              No    lit  111  l51  503    II5    547           0.6       62,3      62.3     62.3      57,9      67.)1    306.0       2.070,4      3.171.9      I .'.0fl,A1    3,552.1    4,543.0    17,245.4
MTNINO SITES                 NO     25   71   71   25       25    105          3.9      82,4      87,4     82,4      82,4      67.4     417,7       3.90010      4.709,9      4,636.0      5,070.0      3f4P6.7    73209 
HATER TAlES          NO~~~0  19   29   70   20       20    500         6.I57.             55.      54.       134,6    514.6      673.0       5059         7770         7589        8776         9979        3,5, 
VATER MMIP                   NO     21   21   25   71       25    505         8.4      176.      176t7    576,7    576.7    l?A.7       8pi.l       89145,6      9d121,?      9MM14,      50.064,      H1.57.')   4997775 
MRAIN RENOVT IONS            NO     71   71   71   71       71    355         0.6       39,0      39.5     39,9      39.9      39.0      199,1      1.03A,0      2.01334      2*7319,1     2.440,9      2,450I0    15,207,3    ,-. N
Sub-Total RUKNI                                                                         3.677,9  3.176,6  4.139,5  7.463,7  7.044,4  16.167.7    169alm.150 11  95460 2, 7327,77.    1I9,514,9   13,30,    06434.4



C. cCUWW
EXECUTIVE P116M             No1     -    4    2    7       2      9      336,5          -  21346,0    &71.0   67310    IV.        .0t                     !9-.73.0    17.44,6    41,388,1    22,39"4.    170,36.2
GENlED STAFF  MflERS        NO      2    2    1    1       I      6      123.4      123 4    246.9    173.4   173.4    123.4       740.3      5*689.0    2242.0        6s93R.2     7#.57,9      9012.P4   41,027.4
J.MOR  TAF G M!UATERS       No      2    2    2    7       2     20       '2I9      149,9    145,0    145,0    145.9    145.3      729.l      6'7.3 T     744A, 1      3.299,7     8,967,4      9,704,3    421040.9
EM COTTAGES                 NO     22    7    7    7       7     40       67.3      807.6    471,1    47111   47jJ,    471,1   2r697,0       37,237,0      4.A,        $9,702997I,6    3,5,                4,O.
STWF hIINUMS                No     25   21    2    -       -     76               2.4567?  1,715.0    276,5         -        -   4.430. A    114,459,9    P7p577,3    17,667,2            -           -    15110314
VATOIIII  MATER             N0     29   13    I    -       -     42       39,3   1.099,2    510.4      39.3         -        -   I,644.  0. $A60117   7A.0AA1,1    2.707,6               --                78,952,6
MATWIAN   US 15             NO     14    -    -    -       -     24       14,9      206.3             -             -        -     20A,31     9.r.93,7-- -                                                  96593.7
LINE HOSIFICATIONS          No      2    7    1        -          5        7,9       25.7     15.7      7,9         -        -      39,1        774.1        SOI,9       441,5--                            1996795
OFFICE DUILDINK             No      2    -    -    -       -              56,1       56.1        -        -        -         -      56.1      2'WP9,                         ---                            21565,9
MIN UTOM                   NO       I    -    -    -              I      161.3      261.3        -        - -                -     168.1      7,79.7             -                       --                 7,757,7
ELECTRICITY PF9U           No       -                      -34.0    79.6                               40.4        -         -     424,0     14.015,       4d1M,7      2.770.7                             20,353.0 
MATER TNIS                  NO      2    2    1    1       -      6        6.'       23.54    13,5      6,7      6.7         -      ^4          620,6        667.3       370,4       413.9            -     2,100,3
MAtER KMJU'                 NO      2    2    2    1       -      6        8.4       26.9     V.PR      8.4      3:-4        -      50,         "9,9P        8t7o        473.2       527,4            -     2,675.3
Sub-Total COCONUJT                                                                  5,449,1  4?560.7  1,744.9  11478,4  1,076,9  14.7AN9    71653   2310, 97    98,17.1    87,9467    72,662,7   741.576,6
Total INFRSTENT COSTS                                                                27.99M.3 79.199.0 21.A44,7 7.636,5 19,337.9 170;779,4  1.3!49 1,49l430.1  1.340446.  1.75096,0 3t206,70,7 6.M3.326.2
Total                                                                                   79,9A6,  79.190 73,44,7 70,636   19.137,9 170077',4           335     1u PI491.030.i 1.740'462.9060  ,6777663i62
3tessflC  &5*8m   S =5t  asa.flsu ssasnf    rsa.m   lrrat                   - ttEflf  SL552"fl.8*  XZZ*t535  85*S-5S8  *52
February 7,29M. 25103
CD



"I! LMAW
FOTItTH TifE rM: P,IICT
5TAft Pi ATAIIi !IfW ATIOM
SCIAL VWAE PFLrI PHPTfAl C*T1
11t411*1 r-t Vi,"
IPS, 'MAI1
.e%41i ludink Contirictn
GuaMit..                               9~~~~~~~',. ~~CostsPll
Unit 1959 296 1997  I9  1919 Total Lnit Cort        IN       1916     I"?      391      1919    Tota1       195         1916        19"7        19"1        193"     Total
3a3        35 &Aa   M   l 33  ax-       S                           0 m -m arU   - a     s eee==:               l -  =e       = -                    Z Z=
1, IWESTlfNT Cn7ST
CRECIES                                              151   S0o  7o   r    10  7S               11074545  3.944,6  2,047,5  1,173,3   7"99   19,9Is.6   541,831,5  19A65546   137,209.3   72,5s,7  53.39J.S   96411.9
MATRNITY  41ITS                                       25    5    s    -    -    47              2,04,0    s33,9   211.5    16.9    20.2  3.701.5   137.653.4   27,797.6    12,307.4             1104.8   1,177.7  1909176.5
UPGRADING 1 ILTH  WNERS                                                                         31 -    -    -    - -  3.6.   Lt77-5  1177.1   131.1  3l.p   6.739.    166.96142   90877.0    66.295,0    5.119R4   7,527   334.5042
KW 1ISPIESNRlS                                         2    -    -    -    -     2                135.2         -        -        -        -     115,7     6.235.7                        -                     -     6t235.7
Mi*NAfIIN  DISPNSARIES                                 9    .   -    -    -    9         33.9    3n4,1          -        -        -        -     304.1    14.030,4           -                                  -    14.030.4
EOUIPENT AI F"MITWRE                                     -    -    -    -    -                  3017271  l3-7.k7     473.4   416.4    77,A   AFNI.7   141.021.0   73749,7    35t693,3   24,115.8  1t,204.1    WpM,V73.9           ¢
SWUGEW  P16                   -                             -       - -         16      147,4   ?,40'.3         -        -        -        -   2.602.3   114,071,6           -            -           -         -   114.0714
NStAICS                                                I         .-    -         I        264     20.0          -        -        -        -     260,      101742,9          -            -           -         -    10742.
MOTORCYCLES                                           97    -                   97         30   190,0           -   -        -             -   7,910.0   10,238,4             -           -           -         -   120,239.4
lIcTCIES                                              16        -     -    -    JA          .      49.0         _        _        _        _      41.0      1993.3            -           -           -         -     1,1,3
WM  #ASPDFIES                                          *,-    -    -1 -u403.5  1.40,   1403.T  ,401.5 I                                     ,OI7.3    61,371.6    67p353,2    73,3J7,4    80,632.3  117,258.9   70.45. 9
MEDICAL SIAF WUSING                                  32          3   -   -    49                2849e9  4,33J.7    63.9           -        -   7!744.3   131469.    221,433.5   317p0.1               -         -   34,423.2
FLI VS PICKIPS                                         4    -    -               4         7no     9000         -        -                       PA- 00,0    33.053,2         -           -           -         -    33.es7
WTIER SWfY AND SNiTATION ON ESTATES TNES               -    -    -     -     -   -              t106. 167.1 76s7 0. 53119 1'.3766  8r7.I357   189,424,5  839.569,3 1615,179.9 12649299   f24,65.7 4733P13116
Total IKSTSEWT COSTS                                                                               30K9R,7 79.945,A 35.(74.5 71,9AK,7 14.964 240.454,9 1670,00,2 1526,83698 1,967.2424 1450474,6                      bl.5.7 7,is,5287
~~~~~~~~t- = -                   a-       " 1-              umws        X, ,azet _  o. 
Total                                                                                               3649.7 79,941.6 ' ,074t5 73.9?,7 J4.1,4 140-A54.9 1,670.090.2 1.516,836.9 1967,247,4 1404716.6 9M3p.7 7.5w1529.7
3S UalSI 53=3xm 3¶-.3 S;%           -e 5r    335   -----=_-  -S :1                -zs:::      3:: :::-Yt22  2:r3
- - _- -  - - -- -------- -- - .--- --_-----_---e--*---_- - ---- *- - --_ - - - - - -- i------- - --  .__     ..........      ..           -   --_-__ __--- 
Fbnswry 7, IS5  15104
-'D hi



9R1 LMZA
FIFTH 29.! tPfA wF
JATMIIA  ESTATE! IClOPTfN1 WOOR
OIAl. WIFAPt PP-IwayroN  COSTS
n9taillad r.OSt r3a11r
109, '0100
totals Injlin ParManti..r0   s
..--     -  -------_  . .............      -- - - -- - - - - -- - -- - -- - - -   I-- - - - -         .        ........_,,,,,_____ __ 
Unit  1M5 16  "1? 1ffl 199 Tpt;1 1tII Cost    19'51          1 6      1"?7   I98        19q     Told        1985        1986        1987        1968      19f        Total
1 IIPEINENT C,OSTS
*)t CREQES                                            30  40   50   41    '   1A3        77.7   7,331,P  3.109.0  3.63  31342.?            -  17.469.7  107566.0  I56s948.3   21968.O.6   M. 7P7.5             -  6957,6.7
to'AADING CiCED                                       75  79   7S  7F   75   375           1I   1.l3i.7  1,151,7  1,351.7  1,331,7  5.191,7   6 .7%,7   62,37.1    69,10t,0    76,42.07    833i69,4  900104.0  .30 I?667
g N4MrIRFY I    ttY                                   -          5    -S    S   10      120.-    6097    607.7                    -        -   1 .i              -    30.110.6   33,940.5            -         -   64.751.1
U6AU1IN6 ANTERHITY UIIITS                              5   12    -    -        -    17   26)      14,0    337,9 V            -             -     476.7     6495.5   17.277.0             -           -          -   73,72.
NEW DIl'EMSAIES                                        5   70   20   7°   5    70        90,l     45010 1      ,90 7    .71 0 0   11MI7,l    4,n6   6b.V.1   2067M5.7   92I1440   1014504.3  1114020.6  30.036,0   7S349.  S
WUUD1IND DISPEWN IES                                  11  20  i1      -    -    AJ       39,4    431.7   7P9,5  .P197,8           -        -   7MS0,Q    20.0062    40,323.0   ,616.                 -          -   26179331i.4
W6RDIND I(TH f                                         -        -     -     -     -               404.1      4,5    ?4.j                         9 -  12-4    14,030.4   15,549.3    17,1289         -    -          4A,709,9
MDIJlt!                                               ?1    -    -    -    -    73        760   5,94,0          -        -                 -  9-.98,0   247067.9             --                                 -   247087,P
HIOTOICYCLES                                          94    -    -    -    -    94         30    970,0                   -                        2-i),O   116651?.7         -           -            -         -   t16,519.7
EWIPINT N  FUNITIURE                                   -        -     -     -     -    -        1,7.   124,9     78.9             _        -    .r4,7      6,322.    62U025.1   68110-4               -         -   1864,3
11RUGS AND  fti.ES                                                         -                      696.4    464    6,4          6.4 6   4 6,4   M04#.7.    30,453.3   33,422.5   36,639,0    40,011,0  43,296.    1M83,74,7
RE3I9       WIXINE UN11                               I   -    -    -    -      1         , 5     639 5U.                                 -     561,?    25.m.1                                                     7599.1
SIUWE nws                                             24    -    -    -    -    74      162,6   1.9t 3,5        -        -        -        -   1         171.107,4           -           -                      -   171,107.4
MEDICAL STWF  OU8S2N                                  I ?   17   17    -    -    Si             2,695,0  7.15,0O  7PAR1,          -        -   p.042,9   123,475.0  1374064.1   150.97,6              -         -   411,777.7
EIPAT(S                                                7    -    -    -    -     2      960.5    5711          -         -        -        -     521.1    22,7287            -            -                           2,723.7
rF   VD PICs                                           4    -    -         -     4        200     900.0                  -        -        -      100.0    331055.2          -            -           -         -    33105.2
IIATER 91192 IID SANilYTATION      ESTATES             -    -    -    -    -    -               1.375,4 1.176.6  194n04 g        ,O  9.  ,3.7  A ,l      155369114   632.552.)1.235 137.6   969,673.3 67,241.7 3630.496.2
_    .  ...     ., .. ..     ... ...   .. .. .   .. .. .     ......... _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _   __       _  ___
total  WIP MsT    COSTS                                                                           77,4AU7 75,119, 15ts17,s 272944,7 17061,5 171,711,0 1,213,964.4 1,269214.1 2,005,057.1 1,410,0444.1 8.684,6 6,718964.'
Tote!    Wr:s:--- ~t~Z*:*--: *ar~*** t:::::::   r*_=                r=r22tat22 3: S252: 2  2rTr  ta                    =
Toll                                                                                               !7t 2 )5.331.7 15,711,5 ?2.944.7 I2,?A.S 123.711.0 1,213964.4 Iv29214.1 240053037.1 1410044.1 R00,6U4.6 l,7291 64.3
sxwY: ::r~ss: ~t-zn: 2;TU53:tr5X ~.:             ~      :n tz a  tzZ 7t re55 =    Sr=rs  sase1,1eJ5n  rtrsrnwn  s r-nr:: t S
___ jan      . ....7 .   _ . _._5_....                ........... .. . ....................... .I.................. . . . ........ . - ___   - _ - - - - ------------ -
Fob      71 297 5 IM S1105                                                                                                                                       



SRJ LMUA
FrOWTN TiFF C"PS PPOFC
'TATE PI.SATOtM  (WPMATINN
TNTIMTTIJTtWW vWI.APMM rflmT
D0tlied CMst Tblo
'IS. '0ow)
TWta1s m!nluinir ContJMrLn,CiS
Ountitv                                         to" CoFIF                                                       IUSS)
------------------------ -----  lIn;{  --------------- ------------- -------                 ------- --------- 
Unit  115  M    16R7 9M  1q9 Total rost    I95 1M*6             10?      199    I9    T'41t           I15         j0         197        1BI       191       Total
tan  arts sass sas:s nsa tat: stlatt  nsa  s;;t ratnn-= r::__:: tar arts :nr:    a-:      . =   =a      aaa  a*ars            ni ara              m
1. INYESNT COSTS
..... ............... 
A. TRAINING
NIPI TRAINEE ACCOIMTATION                          -     -2.41A -                        -      -      -                                                                                              f-  -   114477,3
NIPE DOCUENTATION                                                                                                        -4.15.7
COlIsESnlENI4ARsMRKU4oPs…344,4  7AfS .7  1.1p1,9                                                                         -       -   1.014A    l.077.1  3.177   4.25,0                  -         - 574!4".
MICRO COIUTERS                             PO      I   -    -    -    -    I   75        25W0          -        -        -       -     2!.A      1044.2             -         -         -         -    10,546,?
COlfUTER 0 AND                                                                           112- - - - --   I",ftS P7e    ll 1 7.0    P9,0  n~O  4q4,3 51 691:7. .0    7   6.747 1,91  7,1M3,?  714,9    33968J.5
OURlSAS STUDY TMRS                         PO     15  15  I29  1i   I'   7s   9         0  1,3911. 0       J51n    .10-0 1,1'1.0  6.7,.O          '9.69'.7    A31599,4  4907J,3  754514,9  81,77 s     4 944.4
FMI VD PICIUPS                             No      2    -         -    -    -    2   7.0  400.0        -        -        -       -         n1.A    16-5177-6        -                             -    1IA527.6
AUDIOVISUALVN                              NO      -              -          I   37No         _    171                   -       -     375,0            -      -M4,7          -         -         -    16,314,7
MINIM                                      110          1         -           I  150          -        o00      -        -       -    rAQ               -    15.11-71,7       -         -;36937,7
OTHER EQUIPMENT                                    -        -     -                                3 - - .2.0 1_9 3_977    ¶7,48.7                                            -         -         -     375S6.4
Sub-Total TRAININIG                                                                       I513.2  9tAt.4  2.4A0.4  l.47M.0 1,479.0  71.7-RMs       17Q.57,1.   449!1[5.A A140319.7 3P,R23.0 3 X5.5 1,1I0,540,4
13 TF.CIHICAI ASSISITACE
_  _.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
INSTITUTION KV. SPECIALIST                 MI      3    1  I.'    -    -  7.5  30           0, A0 @0,0    C,A,0                 _-   I     , A,0  3.137.1    40.IM5.) 22903,            -         -   9953',9
INSTITUTION SPECIALIST                     N1      3    3  1.5    -    -  7.5   75        75,0    75,0       37,5        -       -     167.5      .1;.R7      3. 5'1,a  1J,44.0         _         -      -624,6
CtWUTER TRAININS SPFCIALIST               1M1           t 3    3  il5  1'    7?   'A       75,0     7s,n    79,Q      37.    37.5     300         1.l'R.7     3.5?1.0   1-49,I   ?7.-79,7  2,104?7   15007'.
COWUTER SYSTEM SPECIALIST                 M1       2    -    -    -    -    2   3/10    600.0          -        -        -       -    60.1 .          -77l.49            -              -         -   24091.4
RESEARCH LIAISON SPECILIST         1               6    A    A    1   3    4    35        210.0   210.0   '10.0    19,0   14n.A                   94.413      Q.P,   10i,30P.  59Al,4  6,451.3    4?,005.6
RIU!ER fACTORY SPECIALIST                  111     2  05.  0,5    -    -    3   300      W,n    15A.n   150.0           -       -    90,A    244914          6*7;9,9   7,331.?         -         -   38,648.5
RUMER STIMLAIT SPECIALIST                 NMl      I O.5  0.5    -    -    2   300        300.0    250.0    250,0        -       -    600.0      12,33'?      6,4715,    7,331j.        -         -   26,452,P
MINI IYITO SPECIALIST                      MM      2    2    7    7    7    IO  300       600.0    6000     M00.0   AN0.o0   4,A  3.00,0    24-791,4   7A6,03,5  79324.32   31.964,0  34,5907   247,574.3
Su-Total TECHNICl ASSISTANCE                                                               3,4fW.9  'p.20.0  1-.77,5   747,5  747,s  P-677,5    139!1I3.1    97,4hl0,7  37.70,?  40.054.6  43pW44,?  407.68359
C. REGIONL ARODS
RADIO CUIICATION EQUIPMENT                                                              7'51,0  ?W0,0                   -          I- l0 W. O    325936,4   117.7A7.4        -         -         -   443,09".
MOTORC04CH;S                               NO      8         -          -    8   lO   3.7M0 0          -        -        -       -   31700,     137.71.9            .                             -   137,?102.
SALOON CARS                                No      5    5    -    -   -           M0   10,7M,0  1.,75.0        -        -       -    .M.0       5l.M46B    56,048.6          -         -              107,697.7
FouR MD PICIOPS                            NO      5    5       -       -    th  2110  !.OO.o0  1.00,0          -        -       -   7,om,       41,10,0    44.33@,1                                   14.150,1
STAFF HOUSIII                                      -                                      450,6   73?,7   732,2          -       -   2I2.0    20,765,7   17433,5  41.23$,!              -         -    99.455,3
CWUTERS                                                                                       -14.0M!00 I11,0M,          -       -  1517m.0             -   699.fl¶.7 6 44|47,9 *                     7231W.2.6
COIUTER 0 AD N           1                                                                    - 7.063,?  7Q30,7  'p06,? 7.043.7   3,252.9               -   90,107.7 107r9P,3 1l'0'7.4 1*64639.    44940'4o9
REGION/ESTATE OFFICE  QUIPMENT-                                                         5.340.4  I.97O  It.'9'0  7.435.6         -  11r.,       73.616,4    94.379,  101,643,? 141!327.2          -  53.943,0
S-Total REGIONAL 34DS10                                                                   1I-749,9 73,497.4  9,947,4  4.4;,  7,41.3   54 .914,7    VMP,07 1-710761?7.6 316,79.0 258.349,7 ¶269,.0 2414.C72,4 jI'  '
D. CIVIL MOS SVPERVISION
_ ...................
FOUR  VD FICKUS                            No      5    -    -    -   -      5   200   I,OOP,0         -        -        -       -   1900,0      41.3',90           -         -         -         -    41.329,0       hi
Sub-Total CIVIL MORES SUPRUISION                                                          1,000.0                          1-           2.          41,310 041319.0



-2-
E. CENTRAL POLICY "DM
1. MONITORIK  BAD-- 4WAD,4  7?17?7,2  7?,7?  2 33?.? P?337,7  140'II3.                                                                            19A.,   9   109.719,13 1721.11A 139,697,5 141,602.2   704,W,?
7. 1T .na  MONITORING UWIT                                                     -         7,2031.5  71Il. 5  2101,5  ?'103.5 ?1,01.5  10,517.A    ElA - .r 7   9747,4 109094,1 1139477,7 129,4h9  540,4
3. S1A.LNOLDER/PlIZATIOM LIAISON STtDY              -                                      ?01.2   964.3          -        -       -   1!wf5,5    29,59.P,4   W7.4714,           -         -              r,99.
4-. TAXAT  Ui0tN6 MU0W EXPENSES                                               1- 140.               140.7    14" ?    140,?   1440,      72,7       s.@0',7      A.SR1.7   7.777,    7,941.9  110616-    M3,39.5
5,LAN NiwI Ti
COO*DINMTOR/FCONOHIST                    MM      3    A    A    3          1-    30     9.0  1-pm100  1Q00.0    90-.0           -     A. n.0    37.1R7.1   PA.710,4  A7.974,3  47.9460            -   f3,917,9
flICILTifAL ADWISMS2)                    I       a   12  27    6           14   25      1500    300.0    W,Q        I,o         -     97  0      615?73    14-.04,6  15759,7?  Pt16.!              -    44!477.3
IWAFACTURIII ADYISORS(23                 MM      6   12   1?    6          36   25      15010    10. 0    1,.    150,0          -     00.0       617.3   14*0140    ,9.7   1,516,9                _    44,477,3
mIW ilINS ADVISOR                                3    2    -     -     -    5    0      W  .0    A o,          -        -       -   l.rOA       37,107,1    7A90.S                       -              64P090.6
MICETING PLAER                           MM      3    A   A    A           91   7r5      75.0    150.0    190.0    150          -    57%"         3*l5-7      7*047,0  7,779,4   ,p5IAs,           -    25,497.0
ACR:ftUTURAL ECMISJSI.2)                 mM      9   17  '*7    s    -           25     150.0    300.0   3M .       ISA,P       -     9'0 0      E.117 3    14.004.0  !5t,s,s?   I'516.,           -    t 44,7(3
FIMCIAL ANLYST                           NI      3    A    A    3    -    IB   35       10510    210.0  790    lO'.0            -     630.4      4.471,9    9. 8P,1  1 P090. F   56961.4               310132,4
tCUITViRPM                               mM      3    &    A    6    -    21    15       45,0     90.0      ?A. A    9,°        -     315.0       1,I",I    4V-'S,I   4.57.6   5209s,9             -    15.897,7
SWVORT STAF                                                                              60.0    220.0    170,0       0, 0   IWO.0    540,0      2-526-6     5,631.5   A073,A   ,833.4   7373.3   28,570.4
OFFICE EQUIPIET AN  FUITURE                                                             190.6     54.5      27.2     2?-2       -     29.5       8!i0'j    2461'6   1,446.0   1,580.1             -    14,019.1
MICRO COUTER                             NO      I            -             I  250      2S0,0         -        -        -       -     250 0     I000,842            -         -         -          -    2r0,46.2
£111 0 AND n                                                                            129. n    127.0    12'0    17,0   199,0       644.R      5.A17 4      6.131.7   4,703.5  7.13,9   7914.9   33,61.5
5WO0N CmS                                NO      3    -    -    -    -      3   750     750.0        -         -        -       -     70.0      30.91               -                                   3,99,3
S-Total PWIMG WNIT                                                                       3,95496  4.053S  1.4)A,i  1.971,7   24',0  13.554.4    161.241,1   315,,fJ 177.35%9 18tr791,9  1S,72   M74973.P
… - - - - - - - -   - - - -- - --- - - - - - - - - -    - - - ---      ---   -  -…--                                 -   -
Sub-Ittel CENTRAL POLICY BOMP                                                              11  9379 °.'I 9,7  R.007.1  6,"57, I4.879,9  4A,R00,7    4R,07.0   4'7!PAM,8 409!5.9 W68,79.' 794749,4 1i?450.0M
F. CENTRAL OFFICE
PRODIE 3tO111                                                                            5.A323 27,579,0          -   -                 9.153,3    ?S9,71.4 1,151,799.5          -         -          - 1411P620,11
MICRO CCW'UERS                              NO      2                          2   'A0     50.O         -         -        -       -     ,0n       2tw60'.S                      _ -                       99,5
COtWIIER 0 ND P                                               -                -            57.!   7Si.9 q     ,7,9    7 97,9  757.9   .7RA9,5      11.714,P 11           n3 i,o  14?A?7?  15sPV.Q          77,9
RADIO COINICAIION EOUIPMENT                                   -                -           7500        .0         -        -       -   2i O,0    32!50, 7    13,nO773            --    449309.0
SALOON CM9                                  NO      3    3    -6   '50                      M50,    750,0         -        -           W     O- 2.tM   34.9o"3,   11.629,3       -- -U,611.6
TELEX KIACNIE                               NO      I    -                     I -1 1i     150-0        -         -        -                ,         4.9077           -                             -    6947,7
Sub-Total CENTRAL IFFICE                                                                    9,0".  23_,78k      157,.  ,5.9 ;57.9  1740,P ?V1,7p4,4 1.2n7.?4A,5  13.407.0  14i67.8  1                   e,9 e616*311.6
Total IPJESTENT COSIS                                                                         51'1472. 482!.7  .991 l1. 5 1fl,We.I  .7.177,      A                 1111.74-.4 90.457,1 7A4.flh.  572tl,9  7P731*129.3
Total                                                                                          51*141. 1 IR,Sff,l   1.     2130.3  9 .177.4 10.045,S  7.700.7*7.9 I.32J.745,4 962,657.1 7M.719.9 57.2.919,9 7,21,129.3
*at-r=ra x.rza2xv .-razzs sosar rr s: r i     : r,-:,    :r      ;   rrlo      =rcr c=y=: c                r=t=cc    c
..................rf-----f--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --    --------                         …
Februiarsh 7, 1999  15!06                                                                                                                                                                                                  a



15? LSA
FUNITPVWlE rCWYI WflCT
WiATHf  FTATEs IfYLUOPINT 90M
I)lITTIT1IMW9A  AEWUP qWIT~fIS
Do,eilt ri-f  Tthl
1".: WI
TotAls Inorlodira Winstwin:l
Quntity                                          I'e CoeIF                                                         (U1151
unit 191t5 2619"7  9   19019 T0t0I  rrt    1391        I'A       I"       IM       195     14J.         i           11          I97        19W       191m       Total
l. INVESTMN COSTS
A. IKAINtIH
NIPA TIAINEE ACCIW    TIWN                          -     -     -     -     -   -       2.486          -        -        -         -   7          114,477.3           -                               -   1:49477.3
IMS IOCIW    ATION                                                                        111.0        -             -        - -- --0              4,315.7                 -          -         -          4415.7
CUI!/SPMINASTUCPIM5N ORX90PS                       -    -    -,-    -         -         W1M444  ?tWP,7  t.s       -,S              -  "4'Ss    15624,3Ml  34.427,7    64,335M.              -         - 594@t7
"IC"t  CO tNO                                       I    -     -     -     -  I   '0      25A00        -        -         -        -     25",0     l-4-.2                                             -    1041144?
COWUER O An A                                      -     -     -     -                    12Y9.0    I           0     20 12°.Q IP,0R0             .5417.4    64131.7    6.703.5  7.313.9   7914.9   330,1s.5
OlUSEAS STUDY 101TM                        NO      15   15 I  5   15  15   75    911 4irA.0  1.110    1.3500  1.3          .11Afn   A'50.0         51569.7   43,559.4   69.279,3  75,511.9  51720.5  W4644.4
FPOt  Hl PICKtS                            NO       2    -    -    -     -    2   211     40n.0        -         -        -        -     4".0    16,527.4             -           -         _         -    1.,577.6
AUDIO YISUAL Vl                            No      -    I    -    -    -      I  375          -    17S.         -         -        -     7                     16314 7            _         _         -    16,914,7
MINIUJS                                    1!0      -    I    -     -           1 5           -    39A.0                           -      5.              -    1                  _         _         _    15.653.?
OTHER EQUIPIENT                                    -                                      25' 1-0 7             - -  I76720                        10,937.7    17568 7                                     23,554.4
Sub-Total TRAINING                                                                         8.510.?         4'                   1 7      '  7  9   37571,1   49,19.9   14',319-2  12.921    99.6.5.5 141109540,4
1. TECHNICAL ASSISTACE
INSTITUIION DEV. SPECIlIST                 WI      3    3  15    -           -  '. W 7     M0n     QAiYh    41 t                       '          P.37#.1    40,355.2    71U993.6           -         -    99,535.9
INSTITUTION SPECINLISTILOCAL)              II      3    3  1,5          -   7.'    '       7 1        ,                  -        - _              3A151.7    3,521.0       1.944,9         -         -     3.624
COE1  TRAINING SPECIALISI                  M        3    1    3  1 A  1.S    12   75       11.1     75,1     73.O     37.5    17         W0        3,158.7    3,521.0    313699   7.129.?   2W.2    15.0,424
t01WUTCR SISTEH SPECIALIST                 II      2    -    -    -    - 2    2 00 W.     6400              -            -          *M!1    240791.4                 -            -                   -    24.701,4
FESEAIRI  LIAISON SPECIALIST               MW       6    A    6    1    3    34   35      210.0   ?100    71''h    l 'M.t    !05.0    040-"         I,543.3     9,353.3    1019031  5961.4  A,451.3    4.005A6
JKU rfACTORty   CJiMLISr                   M11      2 05!  0.5    -    -      I   300     600.4   I5Q.Q    151.Q          -        -     *00°    24,791.4       6.7         731.7           -         _    31,IU^.4
RUSICS STI MT 1 SP5ECIALIST               II       1 0,5  0.5    -    -    2   100    3W  o    150.0   'S0.0             -        -     40°       12,395.7    6,725.9      7,331.2         -    -         76457.9
MINI HYDRO SPECIALISt                      AN       2    7    2   2    2    10  M00       60,0         .       .0 AMM,  m               . n   ,t-   24,7914    2690315    29.324,1  31.9640  34,590.7   147.574&3
Sub-Total TECHICAL ASSISTAICE                                                               tW,O  %I60,0  1.472.5   '42,5    742,5   P.A77.    139411.1   97,610.7   97t706.2  401054.6  431.3,2    021635,9
C. RE6IONM. DIDS
_ ...._.........
RADIO COIICATION E0UIPMEXI                       -    -    -    -    -    -0  7.0,                            -        -        - 11-A         3254387.4  117,02.6             -         -         -   443,090.0
MINI DUS                                   No       I         -    -          I  350        11,0       -   -         -             -     350,1    14.461.?                        _         _ -             144611.
SALON CARS                                9No       7    9    3              If -       9,7500  ?.'500 0n072a .3   10a3, 0    34,656.0                                                      -         - o,57,,
FPR  HO PICOS                              No0      7    3    3    -          3    00   14000    oo.o    60u.0            -        -   '.6   o    57,344.6   26,903.5   79.324,3            -         -   1146074.9
KWl RESIOAL H1.AUARTERSQ2)                          -    .    -    -    *-  l.-l,4                              -         -        -   307104            -   IU131.4              -         -         -   1444131.4
STlFF HOU51S                                        -  I N G                              54'.  1-t74 .? '7-7   937.    641,?  .I9e11.            25,046.3   60.06.3    71t436.2  57,730.7  47,976.4   215.156.4
coImUTS                                                                       *                 14.0.0  27511.0                    -  95,750.0            -  659P134.7   64,247,9           -         -   723mms2.
COIU tMER    D 1                                    -    -    -     -     --          -          2-063.           ? ,063.  7,'343.?  00572.0             -    90,107.7   107.255.8 117.022.4 126,69.0  449024.9
GARD/ESTAIE WTICE EUIPIEN                          -     -     -     -  -               4.'37'    7117 ?    U7,4  i,575.7          -   1.ti3527  195,649.4  104,512.3  109,779.2 14,9639.7            -   5W.57P. I
ub-Toell REGIL   PRDS                                                                    Ijs775p 27.940,7  7.7$1j3  4.07A.1 7.711,4 "'11-572.4   680.6"91 1,331,447.0  374P599,9 293.592. 1619515.4 ?241,554.2   - 
P. CIVIL MIS S9 IStrTNI
_ _ ..........  .  n....
rOLt vI PicKun                             NO      5    -    -    -    -      5   700   9,0011,0       -                                          41.319.0           -           -         -          -    41.319M
Su-total CIVIL HSM   S FERVISION                                                           1,000.0        -        -        -        -   l, 0    41,319.0               -           -          -         -    414319.0



Is CENTRAL PLICY IGA
..... ..... _.._ __ . _.
1, MONITORINS 303C                                             -                     4.674,4 ?7.7.12  2-3'?2 '.337,? 2I""2  14- 02.2   191,355.9  1090719,3  171P211.3 132.697,5 14317.2  704.066,2
2. INTIVd. NIIITMINI UNIT                                             -              2.101.5  2ibl.' 7-103]5  7.103,S  ?.143,5  10.517,4  88.585.2    ".o747.4  109.090,l 1199477.7 1294241,9  54%,p94
3. SNALLW IRANTATION LIAISON STUT                 -   -0'-'  - *                                 .R-3        -        -        -   1.?M-5    29529.4   274299               -         -         -   5,5.2
4. TAXAIIRON VRING OM   WVISES                    -                                    140? 14,7 f4k     146I   140           7.7    h.3,2    7,272,7  7,961.1  3,616.1    36.739,
5. PLMIWEI U1IT3
COCIRD1NT^'ECOWIST                    m       3   A   6   3   -   10  uo            MO  1!P'!     I !O.   "M0.            -  I'1 0    37,107.1   80,710,4   P79974.3 47946.0               -  253,317.9
AGICULTIM  ADYISORS21                  19      6   J7  12   6   -   7    25    150.0    W. 0    30    1  0                  -     0.0       6,317.3   144.0    15MM59.?  8951P9              -   44,477,3
IMACTUIINl AYISORSI2)                  91      6   17  12   6    -   U        ' S , 150.0   100 0   IM0.                    -   eQ4Q0       G317,3    14 1.0        5,559.7  RoS6.3          -   449477.3
WKETIING ADISO                        mI       1   ?7                    S   30    904,0   6000           -        -        -  t      0    374187.1   269903,5           -         -         -   64,0".6
N191N6 PLNER                           III     3   6        &      -   71   75        750f   150,O         15.  20          -      75.      31358.7    7.042.0    7.77.6  8I516.I            -    76p497.0
AGRICLTURAL ECOWtSt1(2)                m11         17  12 I    6        3-      75    150.0   3n00    vn.0   150 0          -    '0.0       6317.3  134064.0   15,559.?  9,514.1             -   44i477.1
FIMCIAL ANALYSr                        M       1   6   A   1   -    ip   i5    105.0   '10 0   '11400 o          %.)        -    630.0      4,421.49    9.2.3   O1,39.1  5.961.4            -   31.132.4
CIfUTOER PrO    IER                    I       3   '   6   6             I i          45.0    9.       @0.0     ".0         -    115o0      3195.1    4.225.1    49847id  5109,9            -    35,397.7
Sul9T STAF                                       0-    -    -      -.0 1-o                      .0   12.9 0    17, O    17).0       A.0     2,526.6    5.633.5     6m,26   6.313.4  77M,3   X1,570,4
OFFICE EOUIflNT AND FlITUE- - - -                                                    1",6    54.9    2'.?    27.'           -;    8,360.4    2.63?.6    19446.0  1tM.1                       -    14,019.1
MICRO COJtER                            0      I   -           -       -    -    t  ?50    250.0                   - --              2O.   IO3,8.2            -          -         -         -    2090467
COUWTER 0 AND n                                                                      129.0    t9.0   129.0   1?9.0   !".0         644.a     5,417.4    6.11,.7    6,743.5  h.313.7   74914*9   33,i6t31
SALOON CARS                            10      3   -   -   -   -    I   ?.50    7,0n             -        -                           0    30y499.3           -          -         -         -    3o,0,
lubTotel PuIN UNIT                                                                    3.A,6  4.9,3,5  341A.7  1.971.2   24?.0 11.554.4  I361I14..   185.339.1  172342.9 10t791.9  152.2  t.47.733.
9b-Totil CENTRIL POLICY 903                                                            1t,47s,1  t.?11.7 I,07.1  A.Y1.,t 4,74.9  40.-01,7   482,07.0  427o.363    409936.9 36M.t7M97 748.4 1,935.49.
F. ENTRAL   FICE 
11C90 CWUjiK                              ND      2    -0-       -    -    ?.5         50.0         -        -        -        -    5fM,      21A692.5           -          -                   -    712692.5
CoUTER  AND                                       -   -                                 257,9   757.9   257'. 7    57.9   757 9 *   .V8'S    11,234.3   l2.263.5   13,407.0  14.677.0  15329,9    67,362,9
RADID COIVIMICATI    Wl E- I-HE-                                                        750.0   250.0        -        *        -   6-.O,f    32,533.7   11.770.3            -         -         -    44.309,0
SAOOL  CAR                                110     I   -    I   -   !  1 3 ;4           25n,n        -    750.0        -   77.i11    75. A    10,327.8           -    12,21.7         -  14,412.1    3,961.2
713 W  PIOIs                              PO      2    1   -    I   -    4  ?00    40n,0   100.0                  7n0,o0            AM,       16577.6    8.947.3            -  10,654.7         -    36,150.1
Sb-7oaIl CETAL OFFICE                                                                   2t157 q    707,9 0   07,.   457,1   'o719  4t.1-5    92n.3234    30l.005    21,25.6  25.M235  304747'7   796475.7
so CIVIL li! SWC'ISION
raj * p3>IP                                                    I                7 -  3  200    7eo'0 o       -        -        -    20.0       6,2613      __-         _          _         _           3,--- -
SubTotal CIVIL  QRKS   EiSSI                                                              20W,00-                                      20a0 wff    23,1            -           -         -         -    3,263.3
Totel lms7MNT  ros(s                                                                      4;;4.5,1  49-709.-A 20#101,1 14-07. 10.765.6 16,646.9 1,922,311.6 243539133.6 14035117. 0 0MM37,7 62943.1 4,64673.0
n.la-l  ss, _m5 .. _..      _        =a tarme 3am
lotel                                                                                      4).4R%,3 49.79.6 20.101.1 24,07.6A 10.741.6 2U 6!49.9 19022?311.6 2.359P113.0 1#035317.3 800,637.7  M419.1 kWoM73.0
s2Rt*t tSW3ttW  =m.2g .  2!2m-             3::'' .m*inmms inZZinmi m.                   ammum=          m m       m       ~
................... ... ..................... . .............................................................................................
Felwrwf 7, IM115 I't                                                                                                                                                                                                   J  



!PI IWA
FOIIRTH TlFF CPM1PS PPoAT
PREPARATION OF MiALLHOLIER fIP
IHNtSTRY PIM.TATIONH IPITRTES
Deteiled rwt Table
(PSg, ooo
Tat.fls !ncludin4 Cantinfmncies
Qumntitv                                   DasP Coatq                                      (Use)
.- -- -- -- -- - - - - - - -__ - --  lli   - - -    -------^--  -   - -_- -- - - -_--       -        -- - -- - -- -- -- -- -_
Unit  19t, 1996 1Y7 i9e I9  Totill Cost   195    19%6   197 19e  1M9 Totl                  1Y         1 R    JY7 190  JR   Totel
I. IlHSTNENT COSTS
At TECHNICAL ASSISTACE
COIlLTANTSU2)(INTERNATIAL)    M            4    4    -    -    -       8     0  1,.#0  J 0041   -    -    - 7,40010   49!5",p 531IR-               -    -    -9131979
CrSLTMTS(4)(LOCAL)                 M      16    8    -    -           24    75    400.0   200.0    -    -    -   6.000   16846t1  Q 93    -    -    -  ?6.?35,5
FIELD SURYCY BY IPI                        -    -        -    -        -             5.9        -    -    -    -   WAS9   34 PM7 I0          -    -    -    -  M137,0
COfUtER PNTAL                                                    -     -           310.1   361.18    -    -    -   671,.  1?!M9.4 16P3',1          -    -    -        2M15
REPORT PROPXTION                                                 -     -               -   281.6    -    -    -       1,A1          - t31rw.,      -    -    -  13vOF.6
SOb-Total TECHIICAL ASSISTANCE                                                      24736.0 7Ir03.4     -- 4779.4 -    -    -4  J!1W,4        o       -    -    - Wi 94
Total INVESTENT COSTS                                                                  2v731.0 2043,4    -    -    - 4479.4  113R04,4 M2680,                              5 ^ - 706 4
3383883 89893 a 329 *388411s:31 58_2_*89   339#2"ax18"ao   al33 = 3a83 38
Total                                                                                   2#736,0 29043,4    -    -    - 4,779.4  1M1M404 9'10.0,           -    -    - 74r?20,4
--srr " nano  zrs xvxa SI221c  X=2 ==r =12a - 231:1-= car  g,= 1181111:11
.-- .. ...........................................(. ... - ------D m
Februjary 7  1985  15110



-89-
Annex 2
Table 24
SRI LANKA
FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$M)
Calendar                  IDA                                Disbursement
Year         Quarter      FY         Quarter           For Quarter    Cumulative   X
1985         1            FY 85       III
2                        IV                                  - _
3           FY 86         I                  5.6 1/        5.6       10
4                        II                  2.7           8.3       15
1986         1                        III                  3.3          11.6       21
2                        IV                  3.2          14.8       27
3           FY 87         I                  3.9          18.7       34
4                        II                  3.9          22.6       41
1987         1                        III                  3.8         26.4        48
2                        IV                  3.3          29.7       54
3           FY 88         I                  4.4          34.1       62
4                        II                  3.3          37.4       68
1988         1                        III                  2.6         40.0        73
2                        IV                  1.8         41.8        76
3           FY 89         I                  1.7         43.5        79
4                        II                  2.2          45.7       83
1989         1                        III                  1.6         47.3        86
2                        IV                  1.7         49.0        89
3           FY 90         I                  2.2         51.2        93
4                        II                  1.6         52.8        96
1990         1                        III                 1.1          53.9        98
2                        IV                  1.1         55.0       100
1/  Includes US$3M to Special Account plus USS2.6M of retroactive financing.



-90-                                         Anne-'
SRI LANKA                                     Yab]
FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJECT
Financial Performance - JEDB
(Rs Millions)
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Sales Volume
Tea (kg. M.)                  72.0   77.1   82.6   77.3   85.5   69.9   64.9   80.0
Rubber (kg. M.)               14.6   21.9   25.7   22.8   22.0   20.5   18.2   21.2
Coconut (Nuts H.)             23.4   23.1   31.4   32.7   43.5   45.2   50.9   53.2
Revenue
Tea                            985    832    994   1301   1458   1596   2496   3600
Rubber                          78    169    313    234    271    225    294    360
Coconut                          -     10      23     31     50      46     84      70
Others                          13      25     18     25      21     20     23     25
1076   1036   1348   1591   1800   1887   2897   4055
Cost of Produce Sold
Tea                            626    876   1027   1227   1436   1445   1543   2487
Rubber                          70    140    207    190    232    205    197    313
Coconut                          -       9     13     22     29      31     45     59
Others                           8      13     12     17     20      24     10     15
704   1038   1259   1456   1717   1705   1795   2874
Less: Notional chgs.             4     14       5     22     63      53     50     50
700   1024   1254   1434   1654   1652   1745   2824
Gross Margin                   376     12      95    157    146    235   1152   1231
Marketing & Administration      14      26     31     36      36     46     51)
Statutory Commitments 1/        17     35      73     57     62      53    130)   184
Income before Depreciation
& Interest      345    (49)   (10)    64       48    136    971   1047
Interest                         2     11      36     67     94    113      76     18
Income before Depreciation    343    (60)   (46)    (3)   (46)    23    895   1029
Working Ratio (Z)
Tea                           63.1  103.6  102.8   92.6   94.1   87.2   59.8   67.7
Rubber                        89.7   82.8   66.1   81.2   85.6   91.1   67.0   86.9
Coconut                          -   90.0   56.5   70.9   58.0   67.4   53.6   84.3
Others                        61.5   52.0   66.6   68.0   95.2  120.0   43.5   66.0
Corporation                   65.0   98.8   93.0   90.1   91.9   87.5   60.2   69.6
Capital Expenditure
Replanting Expenditure          36     67      93    114    137    140    156    173
Factory Development              9     24       8     16     22      26     66     45
Projects                         -      -      12     32     16      81     63    297
45     91    113    162    175    247    285    515
Financed by:
Government Subsidies            22     24      28     28     38      26     33     32
Government Grants                -     25      64    100     50    123      89     78
Foreign Agencies                 -      -      15     30     51      69     51    218
Own Resources                   23     42       6      4     36      29    112    187
45     91    113    162    175    247    285    515
1/  Statutory deductions increasing because of increasing retiring gratuities
to workers.



-91-
Annex 3
SRI LANKA                               Table 2
FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJECT
Financial Performance - S.L.S.P.C.
1977     1978      1979     1980      1981     1982      1983     1984
Sales Volume
Tea (kg.M.)          71.0     71.0      81.0     78.0      80.0     70.0      65.0     77.0
Rubber (Kg.H.)       22.0     24.0      25.0     28.0      28.0     23.0      21.0     26.0
Revenue
Tea                 961.0   1004.0   1063.0   1427.0   1461.0   1674.0   2705.0   2926.0
Rubber              100.0    178.0    293.0    255.0    274.0    258.0    375.0    429.0
Other Crops           2.0     16.0      22.0     12.0      26.0     40.0      19.0     57.0
Total Pevenue      1063.0   1198.0   1378.0   1694.0   1761.0   1972.0   3099.0   3412.0
CDst of Produce Sold
Tea                 654.0   1018.0   1097.0   1350.0   1482.0   1549.0   1643.0   2143.0
Rubber               53.'    175.0    249.0    253.0    247.0    245.0    267.0    380.0
Others                  -     35.0      37.0     43.0      31.0     28.0      32.0     35.0
Total Cost          707.0   1228.0   1383.0   1646.0   1760.0   1822.0   1942.0   2558.0
Gross Margin        356.0    (30.0)    (5.0)    48.0        1.0    150.0   1157.0    854.0
Marketing and
Administration      39.0     13.0      17.0     17.0      17.0     20.0      30.0     31.0
Statutory 1/
Commitment           1.0        -      33.0     35.0      46.0     53.0    102.0    112.0
Income before
Depreciation
and Interest       316.0    (43.0)   (55.0)    (4.0)   (62.0)    77.0   1025.0    711.0
Interest              3.0     10.0      20.0     22.0      60.0     89.0      83.0   (100.0)
Income before
Depreciation       313.0        53.0)   (75.0)   (26.0)  (122.0)   (12.0)   942.0    811.0
Working Ratio(%)
Tea                  68.1    101.4    103.2      94.6    101.4      91.0      60.7     73.0
Rubber               53.0     98.3      85.0     99.2      90.1     95.0      71.2     89.0
Corporation          66.5    102.5    100.4      97.1      99.9     92.4      62.7     75.G
Capital
Expenditure
Replanting           21.0     42.0      71.0     70.0      99.0    101.0    235.0    169.0
Factory
Development            -        -         -        -         -      1.0      10.0     31.0
Projects                -        -         -        -         -        -      25.0     80.0
371.0     65.0      91.0    154.0    167.0    181.0    675.0    280.0
Financed by
Government
Subsidies           19.0      7.0     49.0      24.0      27.0     27.0      36.0     33.0
Government
Grants                 -        -      30.0    110.0      25.0    156.0      37.0    116.0
Foreign
Agencies               -      2.0       5.0     39.0      33.0     12.0       5.0     32.0
Own Resources       352.0     56.0       7.0    (19.0)    82.0    (14.0)   597.0       99.0
371.0     65.0      91.0    154.0    167.0    181.0    675.0    280.0
1/  Statutory deductions increasing because of increasing retiring gratuities
to workers.



-92-
Annex 3
Table 3a
SRI LAIIWA
FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJECT
Bank of Ceylon
Profit and Loss Statement at December 31, 1982
1982                 1981
Sri Lanra            Sri Lanka
Rupees                Rupees
*000                 *000
Profit before transfer to
Reserves and Taxation           -                       192,839               239,626
Taxation                        _                        104.812                63,367
88,027              176,259
Transfer to Reserves and
Other Funds                                              67,120               156,119
20,907               20,140
Dividends            ..                                   20.907                20,140



-93-
Annex 3
Table 3b
SRI LAM
FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJECT
Bank of Ceylon
Balance Sheet at December 31, 1982
1982               1981
Sri Lanka          Sri Lanka
Rupees             Rupees
'000               *000
ASSETS
CURRENT
Cash and Short Term Funds                                    3,765,672           2.499,785
Trade Bills                                   -                785,764            800.952
Investment in Government
Securities & Others            ..                            482,545             527,990
Advances to Customers and
Other Accounts Less Provisions  ..                          9.034,720           7,982.733
14,068,701         11,811.460
Investnents in Subsidiaries and
Other Companies                 ..                           478,435             459,146
FIXED
Premises & Equipment                    .    .                 392,010            355.787
Liabilities of Customers for
Engagements                    ..                          10.811.545          9,850.871
25,750,691         22,477.264
LIABILITIES
Current Deposits and Other Accounts
(induding Inner Reserves)                                  14,16589            11.878,903
Dividends                        ..                             20,907             15,140
Engagernents on behalf of Customers                         10,811.545           9.850,871
24,998,341         21.744,914
CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Share Capital                    _                             260.000            250.000
Permanent Reserve Fund           -                               6.000              6.000
Capital Reserve                  -                             204.50             204,350
General Reserve                  _     -                       272_0              262.000
Reserve for Bonus Issue of Share Capital                        10,000             10.000
25,750,691         22.477.264



-94-
U! LIE
DIE1Ht UII CMI PSROJECT                                                        AM=   3
Table 4
JISiA ESTATES UEWPN1 T   KMD
DKIIE STATENENT
1915   1996   1917    1989   1999  1iC
(INUMS OF CIRENTI
TEA
CROP  G.N.)                                       70.B9   71.23  71.94  7'.10  7W.93  77.14
hIET SALE AVELiRE (JW.)                           4.91  42.29  44.8?  47.34  48.43  ;1.23
CU5T F PROUCTIOIN                                 29.37  32.57  35.73  38.94  Q.06  4.7
WINI tRS. PER I.                                  14.33   9.72   9.16   8.41   6.35   6.44
MIEGIN (US.)                                    1016.07 692.4U  69.02 614.47 477.83 496.78
IIIIB RATIO                                        0.67   0.77   0.90   0.B2   0.97   0.97
a!P (K5.tl)                                       18.49  18.77  19.15  19 .4  20.23  20.65
A.I5E  MET SALE AVER.4E (.MD                      21.43  24.17  26.46  28.7?  32.54  31.21
C!ST 1F B60CION                                   13.87  15.28  16.73  18.27  19.72  20.94
AMIN (RS. PER  .1                                  7.6   9.89   9.71  1.M   12.12  10.27
i1G1I (ts.)                                      139.74 166.83  19604 205.66   39.39 212.00
uG0  tATIO                                         0.6;   0.63   0.63   0.63   0.61   0.67
COCONt1T
cRP (NJ.)                                         35.72  35.00  34.66  33.28  36.41  3-.77
NET SALE AVGE (RSJN)                              2.51   2.23   2.62   2.98    3.13   3.09
CT F PFRlDElI  (ISU)                               0.93   0.57   1.01   1-10   1.18   1.27
I:S111  S1)                                        1.68   1.36   1.60   1.78   1.95   1.82
AGI '.RS)                                         59.98  47.4   3.2B  62.72  71.11  70.41
mriLN  RATIO                                      0.33   0.39   0.37   0.38   0.38   0.41
alm  CMPS
114511 (RS.)                                      -7.4?  -1.12   2.63   5.78  14.18  1.67,
GM05 iha                                        12098.30 905.69 903.26   8.63 922.51  797.85
1I11; RATIO                                        0.6    0.75   0.79   0.90   0.93   0.83
IWA IET AM MARE D                                 62.12  69.07  76.50  94.24  91.92  9.24
STATU?                                           133.72 '.42.39 1;1.43 160.69 170.02 179.32
TWAL Eq IES                                      1958.3 211.46 227.93 244.93 261.94  7B.56
IECE Di    DEEIATION AND INTERE                 1012.47 694.22 67'.34 643.70 360.57  519.2?
ERECATION                                         80.00  84.00  52.00  99.0  107.00 109.00
INTEREST
TOTAL  EPREATION AD INTEEST                       90.00  84.00  92.00  99.00 107.00 10B.00
111NC   AFTER DlECIATMN AND INTET                932.47 610.22 S93.34 344.70 453.57 411.2?
INCOE TAX /3                                     700.00 200.00  125.00 150.00 10.00  175.00
PRIFIT AFTER TAXATIN                             232.47 410.  458.34 394.70 303.57 236.29



ANNE 3
-95-                                                         Table 5
SRI LANKA
FlJTI TREE CRMPS PROJECT
SRI LANWA STATE PLtATIONS CORPORATION
INCOME STATElEIT
IM95   1986   1987   1918   1M      1910
(MILLIONS OF CIIREINT RUPEES)
IKOUE
TEA
CIOP (Ks.at.)                                 71.23  72.19  73.49  75.78  70.56  81.73
NET SALE AVRAE SLSP)                          44.14  42.51  45.12  47.60  48.69  51.51
COST OF PRUTWON                               29.47  32.57  35.73  38.94  42.06  44.79
MARGIN (RS. PER KG.)                          14.56   9.94   9.40   8.66   6.64   6.72
MARGIN (RS.)                                1037.42 717.72 690.61 656.31 521.59 549.35
!RIN6 RATIO                                    0.67   0.77   0.79   0.82   0.86   0.87
CROP (KS.J.)                                  26.94  26.B5  26.13  27.77  29.44  29.70
4DJJSTED MET SALE AERAGE (SLSPC)              21.12  23.81  26.06  28.35  32.03  30.72
CSr OF PRODUCTIN                              13.87  15.28  16.75  18.27  19.72  20.84
4ARGIN (RS. PER KG.)                          7.2    8.53   9.31  10.08  i2.31   9.88
MARGIN  RS.)                                 194.54 229.00 243.35 279.94 350.07  293.42
UORKING RATIO                                  0.66   0.64   0.64   0.64   0.62   0.68
IiAMGIN (RS.)                                20.32  21.30  26.29  30.35  34.65  39.04
aROS  MARIN                            1252.28 968.02 960.25 966.60 906.30 891.81
IRING RATIO                                   0.67   0.74   0.77   0.79   0.82   0.84
EXPENSES
MANAGEMNT AND MARKETING                      33.69  39.80  46.69  52.83  60.76  69.96
STATUTORY                                    127.36 143.79 160.91  178.47 196.14 213.77
TOTAL EXENES                                 161.05 193.60 207.59 231.30 25'W.90 282.73
INCOME WEFE DEPRCIATION MWD INTEREST        1091.23 784.42 72.66  735.31  649.40 599.07
IEPRECIATION                                 105.00 112.00 117.G0  123.00 129.00 135.00
INTEREST                                         _      _       _      _      _ 
TOTAL DEPRECIATION AND INTEREST              105.00 112.00 117.00 123.00 129.00 135.00
INCOME AFTER BE!RECIATION AND INERST        9.23 672.42 635-.6  612.31  20.40 464.07
INCOE TAX to
PROFIT AFTER TAXATION                       9%.23 672.42 635.66  612.31 520.40 464.07



ANNEX 3
Table 6
-96-
SRI LANKA
MURTR TREE CROPS PROJECT
JANATHA ESTATES DEVELOP1IEil IBOARD
SOURCES AND Ar?LICATION OF FUNDS
1985    1986    19B7   1I8    19E9    1?90
(MlLLIONS OF CUENT RUPEES!
SORES
REJENUlE SURPWLS               232.00  410.00  45E.00  395.00  304.00  236.00
DEPRECIATION                   SO0.0    84.00   92,00   9V.00  107.00  108.00
SUBSIDY                             -       -       -        -       -       -
ONGOINGPO MJECTS               173.00  199.00   14.00        -       -       -
TM  AND CO-FINANCIErS -LOAN   114.00  345.00  348.00  302.00  264.00  146.00
TOTAL                          599.00 1038.00  912.00  796.00  675.00  470.00
APPLICATION
;NGOING PROJECTSa              225.00  265.00   52.050   82.00   77.00   73.00
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE            187.00  565.00  571.C0  496.00  434.00  239.00
LOAN REPATHENT                      -   10.00   41.00   73.00  100.00  124.00
INTEREST PAY'flE  ON LOANS          -   14.00   54.00   91.00  ll.OO  1i7.00
WORKING CAPITAL                 65.72   60.08   76.74  9?.27  124.13  13T.81
TOTAL                          477.72  914.08  7?4.74  841.27  823.13  712.81
SURPLUS                        1-1.28  123.92  1 7^26  -45.27 -178.13 -222.61
ABJUSTMENT ON TAXES                 -       -       -            81.00  122.00
SURPLUS  QOTNER ASSETS)        121.28  123.92  117.26  -45.27  -97.13 -100.81



ANNEX 3
-97-                                          Table 7
SRI LANK
FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJET
SRI LANKA STATE PLANTATIONS CORPORATION
SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
198    1:986    1987   fl88   1989    1990
I1ILLI0NS OF CURRENT RUPEES)
SOURCES
REVENUE SURPLUS                                  986DO)  672.00  636.00  612.00  520.00  44.00
DEPRECIATION                                      105.00  112.00  117.00  123.00  129.00  135.00
SUBSIDY                                               -       -       -
LOANS AN  GRANTS - ONG'ING PROJCTS                88.00   21.00    4.00    3.00       -       -
LOANS - NTIP                                     130.00  393.00  397.00  345.00  301.00  166.00
TOTAL                                           1309.00 1198.00 1154.00 103.00  950.   765-.00
APPLICATION
ONGING PROJECTS                                  I50.00 C  -99.00^  92.00  87.00   81.00  76.00
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE                              213.00  645.00  650.00  565.00  4?4.00 273.00
LOAN REPAYHENT                                        -   12.00   47.00  83.00  114.00  141.00
INTEREST PAYfENT ON LOANS                             -   16.00   62.00  104.00  134.00  156.00
WORKING CAPITAL                                   224.85  522.92   60.14   82.18   96.05  106.84
TOTAL                                            3-87.35  824.92  711.14  921.1S  9119.03  72.84
SURPLUS                                          921.1'5  33.-;S  242.86  161.8:  30. r95   22.16
ADJUSTMENTS IN TAXES                                  -       -       -       -  41.00   99.00
SURPLUS (OTHER ASSETS)                           921.15  373.08  242.86  161.82   91.9S  111.16



Annex 3
-93--                                                         Table 8
..! *.n`r :`
:l I: WN  flF ri2T R~PEES=
* -           -  321.32-  2273,33  _25('123  276-^6  3 , .9
'UT    ... ..7 T...P- -                     .       . -     23  7   34.29   41         3,5.
AŽ5Th    £39? V   kUT$   ~9 0%                           . 2    '2;31       ,.O7    3.7      4.2      A34
.nrPvnrrA-   "'TF  rp T:zrnpn  LhII                   -   i'-ii24.$A  22,54  3,16.13  3~51,Ri  t',.72
!~r4~gr~i;  rn:'rr ~rnrr       -       Kt~   Z'.00    5.0~:~   6.5    855    1 02.Yb
.. ....   .    t....
zePt~~~~~~rt:e'!^S^ ±tr'::lri'L''f.:'si,,I



_99-                                                    Annex 3
Table 9
FZJRTH TREE £RPPS PMiECTO
S-Ri' L?Jik - TATE r't;iT4TIJN1S CJRPC-PATT-
JPR-ING £APITAL
1984    1985   1"R8    198?    1988    PeQ    1990,
MOILLIt4   O UkF RC'  ?E  R.PEES')
:r¢  '- -    -  ;     ' -r'|9   r               -D  2,20  24.15 21 3,04  325-50  35.2S  33.6
i',,   P.ODIJ-bE)-n. RThE           -  1?;, 3?     , 77.QC    2.E            - 5.53   58 ,
T M' =q;1,EO-  TCT A;              in   .24   3.0L263-A       2   46A,8  414t91
*'T .- 1I    w4.1 ": 'A                                   3- ±?. .  '' ?   44, 75   A,5.64
NC:.'ERa  941   nr                                   .2' 1:    2R03.70   51e3                 6!?
,   ^     ra'7~.                                 -'   ',       2T, 32S2   A0.1.  2.'1-9   96.05  it, Q.Jz4
:e  t -;>;^- r 7   4'                              -     -  -      -     .- e    - _-'



ANNME  3
-100-                                                       Table 10
SRI LANKA
FIURTI TREE CROPS PROJECT
GUV W  REVENUE
(IN CURRENT RUPEES)
1985   1986   1987    188   1989   1990
TEA
JODB
JEDI                                               68.67   65.37  70.67   75.68  77.91   83.62
COST OF PRODUCTION                                 29.57  32.57  35.73  3B.94  42.06  44.79
TAXES, AT PRESENT RATE                             20."   19.34   21.99   24.49  25.60  28.46
LESS ADJI5TIENT                                        -       -       -       -   1.04    1.46
NET REYENUE (RSfIG.)                               20.99   19.34  21*99  24.49  24.56  26.99
CROP (KG.f.)                                       70.89  71.23   71.94   73.10  74.93  77.14
NET REEE (RS. M.)                               1487.79 1377.39 1581.66 1790.3C 1918.53 2195.27
SLSPC                                              69.15   65.82  71.16   76.20  78.44   84.19
COST OF PRODUCTION                                 29.57  32.57  35.73   38.94  42.06  44.79
TAXES, AT PRESENT RATE (RS./KG.)                   21.22   19.56  22.23   24.75  25.87  28.75
LESS ADJUSTIENT                                        -       -       -       -   0.78   1.18
NET REVEhUE (RS/KE.)                               21.22   19.56  22.23   24.75  25.09  27.56
CROP  ?6J.m)                                       71.23  72.19  73.48  75.78  78.56  81.73
NET REVENUE (RS. M)                              1511.73 1412.17 1633.36 1875.72 1971.05 2252.73
TOTAL REVENUE ON TEA                             2999.51 2789.56 3215.02 3466.10 3889.58 4448.00
JEDB AND SLSPC
TAXES ON RUEBERv AT PRESENT RATES                 476.74  603.41  701.77  842.25 1047.01 1016.&4
REVENtE FROM TEA AND RUBBER (RS.M.)              3476.25 3392.97 3916.79 4508.34 4936.59 54*64
CORPRTIONS
INCOME TAX                                        700.00 200.00  125.00  150.00  150.00  175.00
CAPITAL REPArGENT                                      -  24.00  98.00 173.00  239.00  295.00
INTEREST ON LOANS                                      -  32.00  125.00 209.00 271.00 314.00
DUIJES AND TAXES                                   20.00   63.00  63.00  55.00  47.00   26.00
TTAL REUENUE                                     4196.25 311.97 4327.79 5095.34 5643.59 6274.64
SUESIDIES
GRANT
COIWIThENT AND SERVICE CHARGES TO IDA AND ADD       0.51   0.45   0.33   0.22   0.11    0.04
TOTAL                                               0.51    0.45    0.33   0.22   0.11    0.04
NET SURPLUS                                      4195.74 3711.52 4327.46 5095.13 5643.48 6274.60



-101-                            ANNEX 4
Table 1
SRI LhNKA
FOURTh TREE CROPS PROJECT
Field ProMram (ha)
Years            :
1       2       3         4        5          Total 
TEA
JEDB
Replanting              233     245      241      234       230       1183
Nev Planting             39      34       34       34        35        176
Infilling  /712                 992    1142      1162      1081       5089
Total                 984    1271    1417      1430      1346       6448
SPC
Replanting              424     426      383      371       329       1933
New Planting             99     116      108      105       113        541
Infilling              1248    1247    1060       939       747       5241
Total                1771    1789    1551      1415      1189       7715
Total Proiect
Replanting              657     671      624      605       559       3116
Nev Planting            138     150      142      139       148        717
Infillin               1960    2239    2202      2101      1828      10330
Total                2755    3060    2968      2845      2535      14163
Rabber
JEDB
Replantig               1519    1360    1317      1181      1004       6381
New Planting             558     402      400      310       221       1891
Total                   2077    1762    1717      1491      1225       8272
SPC
Replanting               657     745      693      595       573       3263
New Planting             237     195      163      114        68        777
Total                    894     940      856      709       641       4040
Total Proiect
Replanting             2176    2105    2010      1776      1577       9644
Nev Planting            795     597      563      424       289       2668
Total                  2971    2702    2573      2200      1866      12312
Coconut
JEDE b|
Underplanting            249     356      310      303       251       1469
aJ  The area of infilling is estimated by assuming 12,500 plants for hectare.
k/ SPC has no coconut program.



SRI   NR
FOURTH TRES CROPS PROJECT
Yield Proiections
Coconut
Tea                                     Rubber                Year    Kegalle    Kurunegala    Chilav Zones Region
Year               VP Tea Yield             Year       Yield                     Region      Region       Dry       Intermediate
(kg/ba of made tea)                     (ki/ha)                 (nuts/ha)   (nutu/ha)  (nuts/ha)        (nutb/ha)
1                                           7           450            1       2,100        2,178        2,702         4,940
2                                           8           765            2        1,600       2,178        2,702         4,940
3                                           9         1,035            3        1,600       2,178        2,702         4,940
4                     -                    t0         1,215            4        1,200        1,628       2,026         3,705
5                     600                  11         1,350            5          900       1,628        2,026         3,705
6                     800                  12         1,440            6          895        1,628       2,026         3,705
7                   1,000                  13         1,530            7          648       1,408        1,756         3,211
8                   1,300                  14         1,575            8        2,989       1,562        1,952         3,295
9                   1,600                  15-16      1,620            9       4,744        1,606        1,815         1,927
10                   1,800                  17-19      1,665           10       4,851        3,138        3,550         3,264
11                   1,400                  20         1,620           11        6,958       4,428        5,690         7,019
12                   1,600                  21         1,575           12        8,382       5,219        6,504         8,346
13                   2,200                  22         1,530           13       10,121       6,484        7,520        10,054
14                   2,500                  23         1,485           14       12,355       7,749        8,333        12,140
1S                   1,500                  24         1,440           15       12,355       9,489        9,553        14,820
16                   1,900                  25-27      1,575           16-69   12,355       11,070       11,115        14,820
17                   2.600                  28-30      1,665
Kature Cycle
Mean Yield             2,125



-103-                                                     AWl
Table 3
aa
FOURTh TRZL CROPS PROJECT
Tea Price Proiections for Financial Analysis
1982        1984         1985      1986-9    1990-4   1995-2004
Price Projections (U8$/kg) in 1983 Constant US$S/        1.87         3.24        2.6a        2.30       2.15        2.33
Price Projections (U8$/kg) in 1984 Constant US8          1.94         3.35        2.77        2.38       2.23        2.41
bo 703 Price (US$Ikg)                                    1.68 ly      2.90        2.40 S)    2.06        1.93        2.09
ii Exchange Rate (U8$-SLaR)                            20.81 4      25.17 gI    25.17       25.17      25.17       25.17
bo 703 Price (SLRs/kg)                                  35.01 f/    72.99        60.41       51.85      48.58       52.61 g1
trmts for Premium over National NSA O
JUDS Po3 irice (SLRs/kg)                                                           60.54       51.96      48.69       52.72
iPC FOs Price (SLRa/kg)                                                            60.95       52.43      49.02       53.09
taunt for Factory Improvement
With Project UJ
J DB POB Price (SLRa/kg)                                                         60.54       51.96      50.15       54.30
SPC rOB Price (SLIs/kg)                                                          60.95       52.43      50.49       54.68
Without Proj ect
JZDB PON Price CSLRs/kg)                                                         60.54       51.96      48.69       52.72
SPIC 70  Price (SLim/kg)                                                        60.95       52.43      49.02       53.09
lation of Gross Sales Average i/
(a) Deductions from FOB Price
Export Duty SLRs 5.00    )                                                   13.45       13.45      13.45       13.45
Ce   SLRs 1.25            1
Other Charges SLR. 3.20 )
Cb) With Projact Gross Sales Average
JIDB  FOB Price (SLRs/kg)                                                    47.09       38.51      36.70       40.85
SPC FOS Price (SLmA/kg)                                                      47.50       38.98      37.04       41.23
ec) Without Project Gross Sales Average
JUDB 703 Price (SLls/kg)                                                     47.09       38.51      35.24       39.27
SPC 703 Price (SLRs/kg)                                                      47.50       38.98      35.57       39.64
ales Average With Project k/
(s) With Project
JUDD FOB Price (SLR1/kg)                                                    37.07      32.86       31.97      34.01
SPc Fo3 Price (SLIe/kg)                                                      37.26      33.09       32.14      34.20
Cb) Witbout Project
J7DB FOB Price (SLRe/kg)                                                     37.07      32.86       31.26       33.24
SPC FO3 Price (SLRs/kg)                                                      37.26      33.09       31.42      33.41
IRD  January 1984 Revised Price Projections (London Auction) in 1983 constant US Dollars.
Calculated by dividing 1982 Colombo FOB Price of SL1  35.01 per kg by Official Exchange Rate (OZR) for 19852  9851-20.81.
Calculated by dividing 1982 Base Price of US$1.68 per kg by 1982 projected price and multiplying by price projected for
eacb scceeding year. e.g. 1985 F.O.3. Price - 1468 s 2.77 - 2.40.
1.94
Official Exchange Rate for 1982 was US$1-SLRs 20.81.
Official Exchange Rate at pre-appraisal in March 1984 was US$1-SLRs 25.17.
Sri Lanka Tea Board Price for 1982. Projections for future years based on projected Colcbo price in USS
multiplied by OER for 1984, e.g., 70 Price for 1985 - 2.40 x 25.17 - 60.41.
No Adjustment for Marginal Revenue in Financial Analysis.
Prices adjusted by a premium factor of 1.00218 for JU5DB and 1.00907 for SPC based on the NSA received by each
corporation during the baseyear 1982 in comparison with National NSA, e.g. SPC NSA for 1982-SLRs 23.36 per kg.
Nationsl NSA for 1982-SLRb 23.15 per kg, SPC Prmniua Factor - 23 36 - 1.00907.
23 15
gith Project, adjustment is made for a quality premium of 3S due to factory rehabilitation from 1990 ona rds.
Gross Sales Averages are determined by deducting Export Duty. Cess. Buyers Cost and Margin from FOBI Price.
let Sales Average is obtained by deducting Ad Valorm Tax, Brokers Fees and Public Sales Zxpenditure
from Gross Sales Average.
Ca) Ad Valorem  tax is calculated as follows:       CSA               Ad Valorem Tax
SLR. 0-28      no tax
SLRs 28-55     50Q  of the excess over SLRE 28
Over SLit 55   40S of the excess over SLI.3  55
(b) Brokers Fee is 12 of GSA
(c) Public Sales Expenditure - SLRl. 01



-104-                                               ANI=4
Table 4
FoU  TRZ3 CROPS PROJECT
Tea Price Proiections for Eceomic and Fiscal Analysis
1932       1984        1985      1986-9      1990-4    1994-2014
1333 Price Projections (CSS/kg) in 1983 Conatant USS _a    1.87        3.24        2.68        2.30        2.15        2.33
ITID Price Projectiona (US/kg) in 1984 Constant US$        1.94        3.35        2.77        2.38        2.23        2.41
Colombo FOB Price (CSS/kg)                                 1.68 k/    2.90         2.40 £1     2.06        1.93        2.09
Official Exchange Rate (USS-SLI)                          20.81        5.         25.17       25.17       25.17       25.17
Colombo rOB Price (SLRIkt)                                35.01 .&    72.99       60.41       51.85       48.58       4.82 a/
Adjustmets for Premium over National KSA bl
.JM    S Price (SL=/kg)                                                     60.54       51.96       48.69       46.92
SPC FO3S Orice (SLRs/kg)                                                    60.95       52.43       49.02       47.25
Adjustment for Factory Improvement
With Project if
JE1 P0D Price (SLislkg)                                                     60.54       51.96       50.15       48.33
SPC 10M Price (SLRs/kg)                                                     60.95       52.43       50.49       48.67
Without Project
J=        -i"e (SL/kg)                                                      60.54       51.96       48.69       46.92
sPc FOB Price (SLUs/kg)                                                     60.95       52.43       49.02       47.25
Xsrketing and local Costs in Economic Values                                       3.82        3.82        3.82        3.82
economic Prices i
With Project
JEW 1OB Price (SLR/kg)                                                     56.72       48.14       46.33       44.51
SPC FOR Price (SLRs/kg)                                                     57.13       48.61       46.67       44.85
Without Project
JEUB FOS Price (SLXa/kg)                                                    56.72       48.14       44.87       43.10
SPC FOI Price (SLRs/kg)                                                     57.13       48.61       45.20       43.43
Prices for Fiscal Analycis ki
with Project
ODB   Price (SLRm/kg)                                                       56.04       47.46       45.65       43.83
SFC FPO Price (SLs/kg)                                                      56.45       47.93       45.99       44.17
Without Poject
JED10O  Price (SLRm/kg)                                                     56.04       47.46       44.19       42.42
SPC FOB Price (SL's/kg)                                                     56.45       47.93       44.52       42.75
af  IBiD January 1584 Revised Price Projections (London Auction) in 1983 constant US Dollars.
kf Calculated by dividing 1982 Colombo FOB Price of SLim 35.01 per kg by Official Exchange Rate (OER) for 1982. US$1-20.81.
Calculated by dividing 1982 Base Price of US$1.68 per kg by 1982 projected price and multiplying by price projected for
each succeeding year, e.g., 1985 PON Price - 1.68 r 2.77 - 2.40.
1.94
Al  Official Ezchange Rate for 1982 vas USSl-SLRc 20.81
el Official Exchange Rate at pre-appraisal in March 1984 was JS$1-SLR  25.17
,j Sri Lanka Tea Board Price for 1982. Projections for future years based on projected Colobo price in US Dollars
altiplied by OR for 1984. e.g. P03 Price for 1965 * 2.40 x 25.17 - 60.41.
|1  From 1995 onwards FOB price reduced by 11: to adjust for marginal revenue.
Al Prices adjusted by a premium factor of 1.00218 for JEDB and 1.00907 for SPC based on the NSA received by each
corporation during the base year 1982 in compariaon vith National NSA, e.g. SPC NSA for 1982 - SLRs 23.36 per kg,
National NSA for 1982 - SLts 23.15 per kg, SPC Premium Factor - 23.36 - 1.00907
23.15
.j With Project, adjustment is made for a quality premium of 3Z due to factory rebabilitation from
19"0 onwards.
iJ Calculated by subtracting marketing and local costs adjusted by a standard coversion factor of 0.85.
ki Calculated by subtracting mrketing  ad local costs.  No export duty or ad-a lorem tax is deducted.



FOURTH TREE CROP PROJECT
Rubber Price Proiectione for fioancial. sconogic. and Figcal Analysis
1982        1984         1985         1986-9       1990-4      1995-2014
IBRD Price Projections (US$ikg) in 1983 Constant US$ -A           0.97         1.24         1.25         1.31        1.38         1.43
IBRD Price Projections (US$/kg) in 1984 Constant US.              1.00         1,28         1,29         1.36        1.43         1.48
Colombo FOB Price (US$/kg)                                        0.85 hI      1.09         1.10 lJ      1.16         1,22        1,26
Official Exchange Rate (US$-SLRe) 1J                             20.1        25,17        25.17        25.17       25.17        25.17
Colombo FOB Price (SLRu/kg)                                      17.69 e/    27.43         27.69        29.20       30.71        31,71
Adjustments for Premium over National Sales Average  *1
With Project - FOB Price (SLRs/k&)                                                      29.63       31.24        32.86        33.93
Without Project - FOB Price (SLRslkg)                                                   29.63       31.24        32.55        33.61
Marketing and Local Costs in Economic Values                                                2.50         2.50         2.50        2.50
keonouic Priceg
With Project - FOB Price (SLR./kg)                                                      27.13        28,74       30.36        31.43
Without Project - FOB Price (SLRelkg)                                                   27.13       28.74        30.05        31.11
Financial Prices                                                                                                                                     L
With Project Deductions from FOB Price
Export Duty                                                                          9.05         9.86        10.6        11,20
Ceas and Local Charges                                                                2.94        2,94         2.94         2.94
Net Sales Average (SLRs/kg) 8I                                                          17.64       18.44        19.26        19.79
Without Project Deductions from
Export Duty                                                                          9.05         9.86        10.51        11.04
Ceas and Local Charges                                                               2.94         2,94         2.94         2.94
Net Sale. Average (SLR./k8) 8)                                                          17.64       18.44        19,10        19.63
Fiscal Prices hl
With Project                                                                            26,69       28,30        29.92        30.99
Without Project                                                                         26.69        28.30       29.61        30.67
AJ  IBRD  January 1984 Revised Price Projections for R8S No. 1 Spot New York in 1983 Constant US$.
hi Calculated by dividing 1982 Colombo FOB Price of SLRs 17.69 per kg by Official Exchange Rate of U8$1 * SLRs 20.81.
c/  Calculated by dividing 1982 Base Price of US80.85 per kg by projected price for 1982 and multiplying by price projected by each
succeeding year, e.g. 1985 FOB Price -_.8J  x 1.29 - 1.10.
1.00
iJ  Official Exchange Rate for 1982 was US$1-SLRd 20.81.  Official Exchange Rate at pre-appraisal in March 1984 was U8$1'9L&s 25.17.              OH
Al Actual FOB Price for 1982.  Projections for future years based on projected Colombo price in US$ multiplied by OER - 25.17, e.g.                c 
FOB Price for 1985 a 1.10 x 25.17- 27.69.                                                                                                     D 
1]  JEDB and SPC earn premiums of about 72 over the national males average.  It is assumed that vith the project, both will earn a                 u t
premium of 7%. Without the project it is assumed the premium would fall to 6% from 1990 onvards.
AL/  Net Sales Average is obtained by deducting Export Duty, Cess and Local Charges from the FOB price.  Ix ort Duty is based on a
sliding scale published in Part 1: Section (1) General Government Gazette Extraordinary of June 13, 1983 - Pages 4A-9A.  The
cee and other charges remain constant.  The cess is intended to contribute towards:  Replanting 1.15 + Rubber Controller .04 +
Research .15 + Medical .0165- 1.3565 SLRs/kg. Government reduced the duty on rubber by SLRB 2/kg in July 1984.
ij  For the fiscal analysis, marketing and local costs in financial values are deducted from the FOB price . No export duty is
deducted.



SRI LANKA
FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJECT
Coconut Price Proiections for Financial and Economic Analysis a/
1982           1984         1985          1986-9        1990-4        1995-2014
Financial
IBRD Price Projections for Coconut Oil
(US$/MT) in 1983 Constant U.S. Dollars b/   450             1,063           814            691           632         613
IERD Price Projections for Coconut Oil
(US$/MT) in 1984 Constant U.S. Dollars        466           1,100           842            715           654         634
Percentage Increase over Base Year Price            -             236           181            153           140        136
Financial Price for Fresh Nuts (SLRe/nut),          1.3 S|          3.07          2.35           1.99          1.82       1.77
Economic
IBRD Price Projections for Coconut Oil
(U M$/HT) in 1983 Constant US$                450           1,063            814            691          632         613
IBRD Price Projections (US$/MT) for
Coconut Oil in  1984 Constant USM              466           1,100            842            715         654         634
Colombo FOB Price (US$/kg)
in 1984 Constant $                               0.546 J         1.29           0.99          0.84         0.77        0.74
Sri Lanka Official Exchange Rate                  20.81            25.17          25.17          25.17        25.17      25.17
Colombo FOB Price (SLRs/kg)                       11.36            32.45          24.92          21.14        19.38      18.63
Economic Price of Fresh Nuts(SLRs/Kr) e/           1.42             4.06           3.11           2.64         2.42       2.33
a/ Financial Analysis is based on the ex-estate price of fresh nuts.
b| IBRD January 1984 Revised Price Projections in 1983 constant U.S. Dollars.
v  st S v pite, fost feseh muts is based ovk 'pTte tybM  forh MS9   tD 19a\.                                                            t
dt Colombo POB price for coconut oil was UDS546/MT in 1982. The cost of manufacture and export costs of coconut oil
amounting to BLas 1,686 is offset by production of 0.5 metric ton of a poonac as a by-product valued at SLRs 1,600.                  tv
e/  Eight nuts produce 1 kg. of coconut oil with poonac as a by-product.



-107-              ANE  4
Table 7
SRt IANIA
FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJECT
Conversion Factors
Conversion
Components                            Factor
Field Development
Tea                                 0.59
Rubber                              0.69
Coconut                             0.67
Field and Nursery Equipment            0.82
Factory Rehabilitation                 0.75
Mini Hydro                             0.73
Housing                                0.73
Vehicles                               0.78
Medical                                0.73
Operating Costs
Tea                                  0.60
Rubber                               0.60
Coconut                              0.66



-108-
Table 8
SRI LANMA
FQURTH TREE CROP PROJECT
Cost of Production, Without Proiect /a
Tea           Rubber            Coconut
(SLRs/ka)            (SLRs/nuts '000)
Fixed
Line Renovations              0.07           0.32              33.86
Others                       4.90            2.53             278.96
Variable
Fertilizer                    2.05           0.57             203.58
Electric Power                1.00           0.38                -
Plucking/Tapping              7.75           4.53
Fuel for Driers               0.95           0.18
Fuel for Engines              0.06            -                  -
Picking                        -              -                36.95
Transport of Nuts                             -                20.18
Husking and Curing             -              -                15.45
Others                        7.15           3.65              49.57
Semi-Variable lb
Soil Conservation            0.27            0.03             48.35
Pest and Weed Control         0.18           0.04               3.21
Others                       3.27            0.74             71.70
Total                          27.65          12.97             761.81
Summary of Costs (Z)
Foreign                     12              10                 18
Local                       18              15                 25
Labor                       70              75                 57
Conversion Factors (Z)          0.60           0.60               0.66
/a With Project there would be savings of 2% on fixed costs from Year 5
and a 5% on variable costs from Year 6 onwards.
lb Eighty percent of semi-variable costs are assumed to be fixed.



SRI 116
FOURTH lilt CRO~iPS 081315
JED0011*j  PROJECT COT£9  1119   )(46IRIONgIC ANA11611
9IIHOISSNOS or RP111151
1986        1986        1981         1938        9984        9990        1991         9242        94)1        1994         1996        1996        11991        1995          201$        told
NET BtNITIIS WIlItOIl1 P*OJEt1
PSOOUCTICII 41111W!i PROJECT              53491.00   65169.00   54124.00    454331.00   54932.00   54514.00   64483.00   64615300   64848 00   61184.00   63333.00   6M7).00   67.316  00   650197.00                   55218.00   55S186.M
PRICE                                        6F. 12       48 14       48, 14       48 14       48 14       44. 81      44 51        44. 87      44.8?       44.81?      43. t0       43. 10      43, 10      43. 90         43. 10      43. 90
RtAEi4UL                                3601155.14 3464544.25 3086292036 3111516.18 3126818.48 1897436 38 2893361.21 1906916.81 2109129 10 2851985.08 2129562. 30 2127193.00 2hA7586 10 2611130.70   2379895.80 2370939.50
OPERATING COST 411190WI PPOJECT         115%664.00 1198852.25 1188036 00 17178151.16 1183994.00 1116923.90 1711612.25 I?806916.2S 17181733.O 1151321.00 1157413 75 1715604.50 1123137. 75 1611317.15   1192142.50 1592142.10
REVISIt OPE4ATIMG COIll                 106333.40 1055311.35 1050621 50 1066900CM  1010395.40 1056154.10 1056016.5106895393 19 1059401.00 1056792.50 1051448125 1060918170 I1018012.66  10190256.5    9156281.0  9S1121S.10
Nil VALUE                               2541913 84 2009232.91 2025901.156 2*84424.%3 2066430.08 1A3128). 28 1828215 45 1831212. 05 1840328.16  1A05199. 48 1818204.0OS 1651885030 ItIII7CA 06 1592104.015  1424510.30 1424610. 30
9N11 IENEFIIS WITH PROJ1CT
VRODUJC11II 111111 PR04111                53206.00   63213.00   82548.00   64132.00   56907 00   85110.00   68084 00   70628.00   177161  00   22907 00   14016 00   26404 00   21609.00   16167.00                     78019.00   181019.00
PRICE                                        66.12        48 14       48. 14      48.14        48.1II      46 33       45 33        46 33       46. 33      45 33       44. 51       44.691      44.691      44.51          44.151      44.991
RIVENUE                                 3690669.60 30461051 54 3069100. 72 31092359 I983134260 98 3012142 30 3164131 22 3261162 24 13698560.28 33117181.31 3298159, 06 3400742 04 1449925 59 $418898. 1?   $412526 69 3412165 65
SAVINGS INl MICRICIIT                                  % 41.00    6902.00   13211.00   19633,00   1154  00   21646.00   21649.00   21849 00   21111.00   21649.00   79654.00   219346 00   21645.00                    29654.00   21654.00
GROSS REVENUE                           35906569.60 30456631.54 305510.2. 23106540 98 31563834983093187.30 3111976,72 3189201274 $381111.28 3390425.31 3311833.05 3412381.04 1471657(,59 3438944.11   3494270.59 3494210.69
OPIRAIING COST WITH PROJECT             1161860.16 1135124.80 172505028 11248143.97 I725'.-,J.272 1135530.60 17688A10.84 1814650.28 18651966.16 1869290.32 1880826.80 1924894.04 1945623.84 19931101.62   1966191.44 9966191.44
REVISED OPER8IIMG C11115                1061116 45 1041514685 1016116. Il 1034908.35 10'490.273 1041318.36 1061,128560 1088195 1i 1111113.90 1115574.19 11281495.081 1164935 42 11(1374 .30 1159022.3S  1173114.86 1173114.u8
NEI VAIUL                               2639643 16 2004918.18 20299).6 15 010733.83 2' *j293. 16 2062458.94 2114890.22 2200411.01 7270136 Is 1283862. 122189335.91 2211740 62 23MII195 19 2219621.82   2321166.83 2321166.81
INCRIMENTIA  BENFFIIS OiNH PR911C9        -8320.59   *4254 IS    3886 14   26009 30   62863 67  211918.65  285493 15  11286901  471909.42  418565.64  S1111$!  69 50690.22  1i%14Q7,24  686991 77    8965146.13  8956459
INVFIMNfI costs
FIElD 01V11119M9N                         31248.40   63623.00   10206.00   1921  00   25071.00   32088.00   19967 00    56)1. 00    3227.00-.. 
FIFED AND NURSERY                         16450.00      7731.00     5969.00    62A). 00    5013.00.....- 
FAC31nR1 oIvTLOPMTNI                      57756.00   60663.00   28888.00   11? 8.00    5042.00....... 
MiNi MiOCO                                        .   23604.00   22614.00   722 14. 00    8564 00.......- 0
fl141C118                                 30081.00   10336.00    7716.00    4 40 00    9986.00..
mUIIOJSnI                                  asos. 010    6035 00    4245.00    I 652 00    3528.00........--
MEDICALt                                   4270.00    2281.00    2421.00         165.00   10684.00....                                                                                                            I
SURSIOIIs                                  1492 00    4826 00   19353.00   '169.00    95905.00   14001.40*    6441.00                                .....
INvIsIItENTS                             152909 00  165919.00  161816.00  to 189.00  117114.00   45089.00   28034 00    6599.00    3211.00-....                                                                         .      -
NFl FNCREPENtAE BENEfITS
91A                                     -110499.59 -161231 95 -141139.21 -1 6129.170  -14610.33  176098.88  168319 26  316218.01  426632.42  418165 54  511132592  69069032   WM'l   74  £58612.172   861411.63  886646.63
AVugti I3. 19984  Ill S9
internal RAte Of Return of Net 51S"raS
NIOgIJTE                   30,0711
SHIIEHIGMO AUES At lOt
APPRAISAl    SNITICIING    PERCENTAGE                                                                                                                                                                     E l
StREAM                    VAlUE         VAlUE          CHANGE 1
NIUJIE            3. 332. 210. 04   6518.826.00        -I1. 431
C,  NVtsliJIE       818.11256. 0 3.132.910 04         438 481
NpvS 90 'a 2 .193.445
IARA    30. 9$
CIBA ' 67. 21



SRI LANKA
inuRTH itRE CROPS PROJECE
SPC 11* - PROJECr Cosr Awo utcficrsir cRts rnD Ecowornc ANAYIrss
IIHOUSANDS Of RUPEFSI
tIs&,       tune        t987        t9881       teen         tgon        tent        me7         tees        1694         1995        tqqs        2011        2014
A.  NET RENEFII WIJIIOUT PROJECI
PRODUCTION WITHOUT PROJECT                      71754.00   13399.00   74 112. 00   74830.00   75189 00   75082.00   74790 00   74536. 00   74605.00   74460.00   73700.00   72697 00   6471S,00   64115.00
PRICE WITHOUT PROJECT                              57. 13       48.61       48 61       48 ST       48.61        45. 20      45.20       45. 20      45.20       45.20       43.43        41. 43      42.43       43.43
REVENUE WITITOUI PROJECT                      415-6436.02 3557975.39 3802564 32 3521764 30 3654931.79 3393706.40 2360506 00 3360022, 20 3372146.Oo 33655592 00 32002d1t.o 3S12730  TI 7810527.45 76 10577.4IT
OPERATING COST WIThiOUT PROJECT               2011648.50 2024387.25 2038469.00 2048699.50 2059739.25 2057626, 50 20518S0. 50 2046843. 00 2046205.75 2045342.00 2030332.00 2010022. 75 1852781.25 1852878 25
110ISF0 OPERAIINO COStS WITHOUT PROJEUCT  12089889.10 1214832 35 12230OA1. 40 1220218. 70 1235A143.8S1 1234575 90 1211115. 20 1228105.10 1228923.45 1227209.20 12T8199. 20 12062 1 1 65 #111726.95 1111128.95
NEIT VAtUE HITHOlII PROJECT                   291494461.92 2353291 04 2379502 92 2398544. 60 2419093.44 2159130.50 2149392 30 2140921. 40 2143222.55 2138386. 80 1362591.160 1f50917.05  16`188145.50 1698645.50
B.  WET BENEFITS WilliT PROJECT
PRODUCTION WIThI PROJECT                        172415 00   72719 00   73135 00   23946.00   25352.00   171106 00   28959 00   81142.00   83535 00   84876 00   85722.00   78784 00   898157 00   804157. 00
PRICE WITH PROJECT                                 57 13        48.61       48. 61      48.61        48 I1       46 67       46 67       46 67       46.61       45 67        44 85       44 85       44.85       44.65
REVENUE WITH PROJEET                          4132068,95 3534820.59 3554605 25 36945t5.05 3652860 72 3598531.02 3685016 53 3786897 14 3898111 75 3961t62, 92 38944631.70 3n415q7. 4a 4030086.45 4030086645
SAVINGS IN ELECTRICITY-                                        541 00    6909 00    13271. 00   19633.00   21645.00   21645.00   21645.00   21645.00   21145.00   21645.00   21645. 00   21545.00   21145.00
GROSS REVENUE WITH PROJECT                     1t37058.95 3535417.59 356T515.75 3607786.06 3682493.72 3670t82.02 3706661.53 3808547. 14 3919756 25 39812807.92 3866226,70 3963242. 40 4051731.45 4051731.45
22223212222*   222222232242 222222 I02169256 2202222222  120!48292 212722t  22222 ';2 2221222222222271    2::
REVISED OPERAJING COStS WhItI PROJCIT         t202971.95 1195123.S1 1190873 40 1189764. 22 1195160 95 1205861.74 1226719. 10 1251290. 95 1278114.00 1293370.86 1302843.43 13271752 90 1349386.99 1348386.39
NET VALUE WiTH PROJECT                        2934097.00 2339293.92 2370869.85s 2418021.64 2482332.17 2414320.28 2479942.43 2557251. 13 2641642.15 2689481.06 2563433.27 2563063.50 27102244.46 2702344.46
INCREHEWIAE SIEWtITTS WITH PROJECT             -15349.9   - 13999. 12   -86113.07   19477.74   66239.33  255189.78  330550 II  416329 79  426470. 20  55ttOO.25  580811.47  685145.44 1003498 96 1003498.96
... ..... 112*2  222221   112*22#t*                                             .... 22    .....    ....-    .  ....
INVESTIN[IN COSTS
fiELD DEVEEOPENEI                               56282.00   73422.00   87699 00   86311.00   80844.00   60844 00   80644.00   08044.00   80844.00   80844.00   60844.00   80844 00   A0844.00   80844.00
FIELD AND  UNUSER?                               8514.00    6359.00    6326.00    8293.00    6328.00.-..-.-
FACTOR? DEVELOPMENT                             73870.00   52054.00   36113.00   11292 00    5245.00---
MINI 11160            -                                     22594.00   22594.00   72594 00    6654.00                                                                                                                                -
VEHICLES                                        30061 00   10335.00    7215.00    4540. 00    9586.00....-.-- 
HOUSING                                         10491.00    8543.00    7135.00    5720. 00    5367.00                            ---.----
MEDICALI                                         6365.00    2596.00       1236 00      626 00      462.00-.--                                                                     -        .-
SUBSIDIES                                        2676.00    7707.00   16705 00   11413.00   17q4g.oo   13867.00    7822 00-.--.-
INVESIMNTNS                                    188259.00  185712.00  T87583.O0  155901. 00  136450.00   94711.00   68566.00   60844.00   80814.00   80844.00   80844.00   60644.00   80844 00   80644 00
NEt INCRENFINAL AEW[FITS
tEA                                           -203608.92 -1997111,12 -196496.01 -137423 26   68210.57  160478.78  241884, 13  335485.29  417516.20  410756 26  499997.42  804307 44  927654.96  977654.96
2±222?::   t2~t   ;t:;:;..::::  222 2l1222222lfl3:22-2.........22r222... I......!!12*22I22......t27122.222...2
.                                                                                                                   -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - -                                                                                                                                                                                                              
August 13. 1984 19: 00
Internal RaIes of Return of Net Stream,
22!22222!!! 2722!222f1f 2212-
WURISIE                    27. 091
SWITCHING VALUES AT tO!
APPRAISAE     SWITCHING    PIACENTIAF                                                                                                                                                                   F
STREAM                   VAtLU          VALUE          CHANGE
NsISTE           3. 25%.090. 81 I. 125. 013 3%       -70.041 
CIRVEsSITE       1. 125. 013 .15 3. 755. 090 Al     233 783
NPV P lOt I 2.6.10.077. 5
lRp   * 2?. It
CERR  I 371



SRI 18113*
tUIRMl IREt CROPS PReAtCI
JFD8 RIIIIFR - PROJIr. COSI AND BEIIETI ShRF4SS FOI ECONOil  ANAl SIS
....... .........    ,.... .... ... .   ......   .. ............ ...... ........    .+..
IIHOUSANOS OF RllPEESI
....................................................................... ................................................................................................................................................  .................. ....... .
1985       1986        19$7       1986        1989        1990       1991        199        1993        191q4      I9S        2013        7014
....................... ....................................... - ................. .............................,.   . ....... ..   .............................  ............  .......................  ....... ..................
NET SENEFITS WINHOUt PROJECT
,  .... ........ _.................
PROOUCIION NiTHUUI PROJECI                       18493.00   18769.00  19150.00   19538 00  20234.00  20575.00  20585 00  20692.00  20561.00  20286.00   19759.0o    6240.00   7942 00
PRICE WITHOUT PROJECT                               27.13       18.74       28.74      28. 74      28. 74     30.01       30 09       30.05      30.045      30.05      31. 1;      31. 11     31. 11
REVENUE NITIHOUT PROJECt                        501719.01 539421.06 950371.00 551522.1   581525.16 I 18218. 75 6189579. 25 61794.60 617658.09 609994.30 814702.49 298346.40 241019.32
OPERATING COSTS WITH OUT PROJECT                239653.18 242464.74 745059.00 249739.48 296323.64 2S1S49.50 299644. 10 260655.32 259417.06 2569115.56 251630 14 142860.40 140041.12
REVISED OPERAtING COSIS W lRIIEUI PROJECI  143912.27  145471  84 141641140 149843.69 153794. 18 155729. 70 155781. 46 156392. 79 15950.624 154069.34 151098.08  £5716.14  84074.79
NEI VA4UE NIITHOUI PROJECI                      .571102.12  393942.22 402729.60 411678.43 427730.991 4549.05 452792.79 410400. 81 462207.11 455504 96 4t3604.41 110610.16 163050.11
||tlll~~~~~~~~~T  S  tWwfSs:'SS:stls9*   --5s t:::::'t:......... ...... ..  .....::7t: .... :75..':;a- -sStSTJtX
NEI BENEIIIS WITH PROJECI
.. +.......................
PRCOUCTION WITH PROJECT                          18493.00   18169.00   1615000   15393600  70734.00  20575.00  20987.00  71799.00  22591.00  23319.00  23821.00  14768.00  10454.00
PPICE  ITIH PROJECT                                 22. 13      28. 74      28.74      28 74       28. 74     30. 36      30.3       30 36       30.736      30.036     31.743      31.043     312 4
REVENUE WITH PROJFCI                            501715.09 539421.06 550371.00 551522. 12 581525. 16 624657100  371T65.32 661817.64 665652 76 707964.84 748819.75 464154.24 457712 21
OPERATIIG COSIS  UlTI  PROJECl                  239653.78 240451.53 241181.50 243294 84 247336.72 248581.25 252289.13 259565 01 766705.09 273249.81 17719A175 196315.32 1943899 3
REVISED OPEFATING COSTS Hill PROJECI   * 143912.217 144270.92 145068 90 145976.90 148407.01 140148.75 151371.08 155751T01 160023.05 153949.89 166679 25 117825.79 116633.12
NEl VALUE WIIH PRnJECI                          3157802.62 399150.14 405302.10 415599492 433122. it 415108.25 465194 74 5060h63 52$839.71 544014.95 582140.50 146332.45 340571  49
…2:    t1     33 (EI   111IIItlttl2-t   tt .'1  1712  *1 721lt39 ::,92?::::                                         0  15027  1117
INCREMENTAL BENEFITS WITH PROJECI                             1866.18   532  I    2990  2300 1.45  4065.A3  6;5;.89  88509.9                                          8    029e
INVESTMENI  COSIS
...... ...  I....
TIUID OEVEIOPItENI                               15697.00   19886.00  21493.00  22099.00  22676 00  12965.00   95  000   65159.00   3844.00    1825.00                                  *
TIEtt  AND NURSERY                                 811.00      754.00     226.00    244.00        198.00           *          *           -           *          *           *
FACIORT OFVEtLPE ENT                              4606.00  73341.00  11364.00   4300.00   3685.00                  *           -          -           *           *          .           -          -
VtiEICLEs                                         8857.00   9184.00   4809.00   J331.00           347.00           *           -                      *          *           *          -
IToulrlO                                           889.00    926. 00   1002. 00    596. 00    S98.00                                      *                      *                                  -
MEDICAL                                            68 1. 00    410.00     901.00    2ei.00l        91.400                                                                      
SUBSIDILS                                          309.00      854.00    1621.00   2320.00   3233.00    3810.00   3261.00   2383.00    1583 00    753.00
INVCI%TENTS                         *            32112.00  55415.00  40916 00  33701.00  31036.00   16635.00  127Sl.00   9157.00   5427.00   2576.00                                    -
..2g  : !:?!tt:t:  t:-:::-::.  :t:.::.::.:::  :tla;snr.,.,..r.- -Ste eslftIutt  I:l3ttr-*  **.3t t1t   It' 2wR- :-:r:::
Ntil INCREMtiAl RFNEITIS
.............   ...............  
RUBtFR                                         -*2112 00  54207.07 -38403.50 -29134.12 *25613.815   3875.80   10090 4t   31513.33  5812049  85931.99 118935 09 175702.29 177527.66
.:'::::'-:        :::::::::'  ':ttihte  l.st.t  PItI h t.t...tl                    .     . : ''-'   ,t-*t '-  *el-1tt- lt-t-
.. . .  . ................ ..............  ,......        ...... .   -    ......,...., ,    .  ....     .. . . .    .... ... .... ... ... ....    ... . . . . . . . .   .. .. . .....     .. . . . . . ..     . ..  . .
August 13.  19A4  18:59
InTentsz IRates oT Return oftNet Streat
UIIJREM                     23. 621
SWITCIIINO VALUES AT lot
APPRAISAL      SWITCHINII    PIRCENIACE
SItRFA                     VALUE          VA4Ul          CHANGE
e.:- -:::::::W : r:::. --........................ ,                                 2.:: I.... 
tIPJRE.              641, 193.22    111.410.864          13.721
C.I:lNVE%l.lPr       171. 410.U    6tl 41191 27          I.  all                                                                                                                                                                1
..  . . . . .   . ... ..   . ..  . .  .         .   .. .  .. .... ....... .... ............. 
NPV P IOJl  46q.767.4
IRR    * 23.9 2
CtRR     39. 61
Present Value of Streams at              Il.001



SRI tANKA
IOIIRIH TREE CROPS PROJECI
SPC RUBBER * PROJ1.CT COST ANO BtNEFIT STREAMS FOR ECONOMIC ItAltSIS
IIHOUSANDS Or *UPtS;
.............................  ...................................... ...... ..........  ..   .   ...................... ........... ..... .. . . .. ............. ....... .. . ................. .............. . ... ....................................... ..........    .... .... .. . ....
Iq85       t985       1967       lfi        loss9      tS9O       1991       1112        1293         1194        1915       2013       2014
................................................................................................... ..     ...................... .... ............ ... .... ... ......... .... ........... ................ ..... ......................    . ... ..... .. ...... ... ... .  ..
NEI BENEFIIS WIIHoUI PROJECI
............................
PRODUCIION WITHOUT PROJICI                     26840.00  28849. 00  26134.00  27181.00  72445 00  29104.00  29813.00  79980 00   21188.00   29182.00   28282. 00   8527  0o   8032 00
PRICE WITH1OUT PROJECT                            21.13      25s14       21.74      28 74      28 74      20.05      30.05      30.05       20.05        30.05       31.11      21. 11     31. 11
REVENUE WITHOUI PROJECT                       128169.70 111640.26 151091.1B 796023.56 81150a .30 892605.20 895680.65 900699 00  895129.40  176919 TO  619853.07 765306.08 249815.59
OPIRAIING COSTS WITHOUT PROJECT               348114.40 348199.54 341425.64 358883.82 363191. 70 315701.84 376238.98 377818.80  316002.48  370769.12  361755.72 174882.88 170110.12
REVISED OPERATING COSTS WITIHOUI PROJECT  208868.64 708919.12 204861.38 214130.79 717978.6 7225124.70 225743.39 226691.28  115601.49  217161.63  217053.43 104929 73 102114.43
NEI VAlUE NItIHOUI PROJECI                    519300.56 552720.54 546129.78 51893. 29 599530.88 867480.50 670137.72  874201.12  669577.91  654757.27  661799.59 160376.35 141161.oq
*2..Iu.S  2:3mm..ss  38t*3u: :t-t**UtI  st113fleet hst         W $80I0t2t  Sysru : u .E3e- 2 Iu2E2tr  3::g3::::: 121e3922:. :23:s::::    ...I.7,::
NEI RENEFITS  IIH PROJECI
.........................
PROODUCTION WilT  PROJECT                      26840.00  26849 00  26114 00  21767.00  28445.00  29704.00  30748.00  32367.00   34058.00   35514.00   31696 00  21902.00  21560.00
PRICE WilTi PROJECI                               21.31       28.74      28.74      28.14      28 74      30.38      3 5 J0J 30.36           30.36       10.         21.43      31.43      31 43
REVENUE  ITIH PROJECI                         733000.40 771640.26 151091. is 198023 58 811509.30 901813.44 933509.28 9821510.32 1024000.88 1078705.04 1153155.28 888379.86 677630.80
OPERAFINC COSTS MITH PROJECT                  348114. 40 345312. 13 3355718. I 342698.06 350604.60 359252.96 368748.52 383258.38  398505. 41  411594 86  422221.04 289222.98 268148.40
REVISED OPERATING COSI HIIH PROJECI           108468. 64  07167.28 701316.91 208617.64 210362.76 215617.78 221249.11  729915.02  239103.25  248951.92  752332.62 173S32.19 111689.04
NET VALUE WITH PROJECI                        574131. 6 564452.98 549774.25 519405.14 807148.54  888195.65 712260.17 752555.29  794697.63  631246. 17  900022.66 S14846.207 10941.16
INCREMENTAL BENEfITS WITH PROJECT               431J.10    1137.41   3144.48   1511.65   761586  18115.17  42122.91  78347.57  125369. TI 176490.86  231223.07 314459.17  358180.F7
....hu     ...::uhuw.... hyuuul.*l.2l   t... I  mle  t,.  :  :3:it                              v ....* IS ......t. S* .... I.-::?,i2
INVESTMENT COSTS
...... ......... _ 
ltElO CEVET.OPENMI                             31619.00  3414 400  31919.00  37791.00  37891.00  378S6 00  23240.00   15594.00   11845.00    7399.00    3337.00
TIlED AND NURSERY                               2362.00    935.00   1120 00    8107.00    918.00               *          *                      .           .           . *        *                                              -
FACTORT DEWLIOPMENI                             3840. 00  19965.00  13054.00   SI28.00 3O686                   -                     -           *        
VEHICtES                                       10104.00   3927 00   1622.00   1812.00   2017.00                                      -                                   -
HOUSING                                         1842.00   1647.00   1357. 00   1030.00    987.00               -          -          -
MEDICAL                                         13S3.00    584.00    218 00    137.00    108.00
SUBSIDIES                                        223.00   1648.00   3431.00   4844.00   6751. 00   8007.00   6434.00   4832.00    3199.00              1443.00
INVESIMENT COStS                               52119.00  61700.00  59181.00  92009.00  52392.00  45875.00  29674.00  21426.00   15045.00    6842.00    3337.00
NEI INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
RUBBER                                        -47281.60 -I*61917. S 56236.52 -46498.34 .44711.14 *27159 83  12448.91  56971.57  110374 71  151848.86  233886.07 354459.72 358180.67
* SS,: :::2tws2 ....        ..... .....    .. t, .. viust ..tt . , .                                       ..um...: t.::....-. .ml. fuh. Is:
.... .... ..... ................................................... . .... ..   ........... .......................   .........   ............. ...............   ....................... ...   --- --   ...........................................................
August 13. 19R4 19.00
Internal  lates of Return of Net Sltoams
lU6Sl IM                   17. 018
SWilTCHIN  VALUES 11 lOT
APPRAISAI     SWtTCHING    PERCNTIAGE
STREAM                   VALUE          VALUE          ETIAWGL
NISRtiM           1. 8i 953.74   175.071  7I          -18. 495
Ct IMISTISRE        715, 071. 7 1. 71  953. 14        364. 951
ItPV 0 10 IO *. 063 OOW. 9
TI1   I 17. IS
CIRR ' 49.91
Present Valuta of Streas at            10.001



SRI 1ANKA
IOURIH TREE CROPS PROJECI
... ......    ..................
IOt EncOOul * pRoflrCl £\fil SIO 8NITE1   5111tS40 TOo trwon0ic *mAtYSIS
................   .............   ................... I............................................. *
IIHOUSANDS or RUPEES)
.............       .................
. ............. ........ .... ................... .........  .... .... .... ... ... .    ...... .... ......... ........ ............ ....... .......... . ...... .......... .. ..................... ......    .......    .... ....................... ............... .... ... ...
1985      1986      1987       1988      1989       1990       1201        ISO?       1996        19S4       19945       lq'6       2013        2014
NET STIEFTIS WIT1HOLt; P1031*- 61---------------------
...........................
PROUCTION WiIIlUI  pROdrrI                      355I15.00 J4S9?.00 34133 00 144576 OO 45256.00 37224.00  39754.00  42216 00  43971 00  46318.00  48013 00  49454.00  48120 00  4T120 n0
PRICE WITHOUT PROJECI                                 3. 11     2 64      2.64       2.54      2.64       7.42       7 42        2 42       2.42        2. 42       2 33       2. 13       2. 31      233
REVENUE IIIIHAIJI PROJECT                       110451.65 91338.05 90111. 12 91780.54 931768.64 90082.08  96204.66 102167. 56 106409.62 117084.72 112010.09 115251.12 113517.60 113517.60
885E OPRAIIiNG COSIS NIIIOIII PROJECI            277t3.00 21432 00 217i1 00 27425.00 7777.00 28407.00  29346 00  30260.00  10910.00  31780.00  32433.00  3794300  32677,00   12672.00
REVISED OPERAIING COSI  WIIHOIII PROJECI   IS130.18 181OS 12 11997.26 18100l   S  1032.62 18146.63   19316.36   19971.60  20400.60  20974.60  21405.17   21745.68  21563.52  21461, 57
NFI VtALUt WIHOUI PROJECI                        92121 47 73230.96 77118.8t 13140.    1545$.82 71133.46  76836.32  82195.86  86009.72  91109,97  90604 11  93SOS 44  91954.08  91954 08
NET BENEF ItS WITH PO0WECI
.....................-...
POODUCTION WIIH PROJECI                          J5727.00 35000 00 34658 00 32779.00 36408.00 38773.00  41851.00  44330.00  47052.00  513S1.00  54002.00  54594.00  61232.00  672.12 00
PRICE  NIlH PROJECI                                   J. 11     2.64       2.64      7.64      2.64       2.42       2.42        2.42        2.42       2.42        2.31       2.33        2 33       7.J.1
REVE811EI WITH PROJECI                          111095.42 97400 00 91497. 12 93136 56 q6111.84 93831O,6  101279.47  107218 40 111865.U4 124769 47 126154 68 115%24 02 15mb50.56 156fi50o,5
ALVIIIUC IRON OLD PALMS                                  *               -         210.00   303 00   264.00    343 00    419.00           697.00      874 00    768 00    652.00                          -
GROSS REVENUt NIIH  PROJECI                     111095.42 92400.00 91491. 12 93345i5E 95414.84 94094 86 101622.42 101697.60 114551.84 125143.42 128922. 66 137176.02 156650.56 ISGf50.55
BASE OPERATING COSIS Will PROJElT               27935.00 21160 00 26172 00 76988 00 27353 00 29214.00  30358J 00  31230.00  32188.00  33102.00  34987 00  38251 00  39202.00  J9292.00
R1VISt0 OPtRA3tN4  COSTS VIIH PROJICI            15431. 10 17975.60 17636.52 17517.08 15059.58 19320 64  20036.28  70611.80  21244.08  22243.32  23091.42  23925.66  25932.772  25912 72
NET WALlIE WIIH PROJECI                          92645  37 74474.40 738fi0.60  45534.48 78355.25 74713.67  51585.14  87085.80  93313. 76 10o900 10 105831.24 113250, 36 130711.84 130711. 84
INrRIHEIH4A  BEliFlIS   IITH PROJCI                536.85   1741 44  1741.74  2354 34  7899.44  3440 36   4749.f7   40C9.84   7304.54   11740.1 11 5726.91  19144 97  3F1G2 76  30101.16
INVISTMENT COSIS
................
FIELD DEVELOrNENI                                  $17.00  2405.00  4100 00  SU40.00  6701.00  5443.00   SS04 00   4577.00   3750 00   3164 00   2)58 00   2179,00
FIEtD AND NURSERY                                11523.00  3049 00   930 00                                              *                      .           .          .           .          .           .I
IACTORY TITVInPmTIII                              7332 00  1050 00            *         -                    *           *          * .
VEiJCEt                                           6371.00   1014 00   546 00   335.00   281 00               -           *           *          -           *          *                      .
HOUSING                                           1318 00  1103 00   422.00   346 00   260.00                -                       *                      *          .           *                      *
NEDICAl                                            293.O0°   153.00    169.00    67.00        30 00          -
SUfSIOIES                                           41.00      60.00   569 00   845 00  1174.00   1563.00    1651.00    1731 00    1445 00    1030 00    668 00    302 00
INIISITEIIS                                      32707.00  4040 00  167116 00  7113.O0   8457.00  8016.00   1155,00   6403.00   519S 00   4194.00   2876.00   2411. 0
NEI INCRtMLNITAL 9E11£1IS
. .......... ........ .............. ..
COC(41UI                                        -72170.15 -7796.56 -4994. 26 -4838.66 -552.56 -4575 64  -2405.1t  -1513. 18   2 lOll. 54    7596, 18  12400.93   11313 92  181763.16  i1763751
z:::t:sgusrht si;'= f s ?u   ,*e!,i!.|  f  2 ::st.:  t.,S  rusts::,T *StttS ::  !:5*   t5*r'   ru::-'sss.1r e 2t:,.. ts  *5,55,11'  ?tt 2 ':::1' t 555 Xt'   5     5*s?s''-
Auguist 1i. 1984   18. 59
Inloral Rates el Risturn  l Ntb SIre^s
NUISJCE                     IC 811
SWIIICIIING VWAIVES Al 101
*PPRAI-AI      SWIITCllING    PERCENIAG F1
STI1IIA"                   V1A*1          VA) Ur         CHANGE
WTSJ;I:              17. 711 5$    60. 304. 73          -50. 86$t
r luE[SliJrE          60.309.?3    172.711 S8           103.501
.     ..  .   ....... .............. . ..   .........  ............................... 
PYV P lot - 61.421 8
II       i I165
C£1P  *7  21



-114-                                         Annex 5
Chart 1
SRI LANKA
FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJECT
Janatha Estates Development Board
Organization Chart
ministoy ot
Janotho Estates
(Minister)1
§   htemol Audit                              Canho Polkv Board                             Monitodng LWdt
(Chief)              (ChdMXm)                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~(Indlependent Consuitonts)I
BExcutIve Committee                    I       Plannin Unind
(Manoging Dlrector)2                            (Nogerf
|    Hattbn & Awswella                                               Control Boord omce              InsflMlan
(Chdmxn)          l    l                                    |    (Manaoging Drector)          Development Unit
.  RegncBowd n                                             
NunzcF Blya & Kancds                                  Moneethng                              F _   Rnowe
(Chlarnn)                                       (DeuyGM)                              (Deputy GM)
Regbial Board g  Adminstrotbon  _           Industriol Relatlons
_   o      _clo                                    (Dept GM)                             (Deputy GM)
(Chai,,-on)
PrOduce & Warehoush           _       Supplies & Insurance
Regkml Boorci iv  (DepulyCGM)        (Deputy GM)
Kegole & Nawaitpr y                                                    .          .
(Cairmron)                                    Feitlzer. Maintenonee                  Rubber. Coconuts
_                                                                          &u& Social Devebpment  & Stndy Products
(Deputy GM)       l(Depuy GM)
Regiona  ordV
ChI & Kuanegaia                                              n&                             transport
|  (Chairman)    l                      l        (Deput GM)                            (Manager)
Noas
Common to SPC & JEDB.
2Conis of Manainrg Dibctor pius Regonai Board Chairmen & Senbr Eiecute
Wold Bank-22626



Annex 5
-115-                                       Chart 2
SRI LANKA
FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJECT
Stae Plantations Corporaofn (SPC)
Organization Chart
tnstrv ot State Plantationr
(Mlnister)
irternrl Audit                          Central Pollcy Board                         Matorlng UnIt
(Chif)                                  (Chdn)                                (Infldependent Cornultants)
Executiv/e CormmMfee                           Ploanring Litt
(Mcanaging Dhmetor)2Mocsr
Regional BOard I                                                          Ia rtitution
Hation & Mdtd1e      _nDevelome nt Unwit
(Chaiman)                                                                                      (Manoaer)
Regional Boaird 11
Nunia Elyao & Hoputale                               Adminision                              Finonce
(Chaornor.)                                                                        (Geneorol Manage)
Regional Board III                               Produce Maketing                         supplies
Harano & Kolutor      _                          (General Makager)                       (Manager)
(Chaknon;)
Engineering                      Sociol Deve opnet
Regionl BoErI lV                                 (Chef Engineer)                       (MonQ;er)
Galle&MMoatro
(Choaiman)
Regionl Boad V
Patnopura & Balongoda
(Choairon)
Note:
ICaonron to SPC & JEDB
2 Consts dt Managing Director plus Regional Board Choirmen & Senior Executrvas
World Bonk-26225



-116-
Annex 6
SRI LANKA
FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJECT
Doculmnts in Project File
Item 1 - Preparation Document
Vol l(a) - Summary and Overview
Vol l(b) - Revisions to Summary and Overview
Vol 2(a) - JEDB Corporate Plan
Vol 2(b) - JEDB Revisions to Corporate Plan
Vol 3(a) - SPC Corporate Plan
Vol 3(b) - SPC Revisions to Corporate Plan
Item 2 - A Manual on Tea Cultivation (December 1983)
Item 3 - SPC and JEDB Social Development Component Details
Item 4 - Proposed Plan for Computerization
Item 5 - Tea Estate Housing Parts I and II
Item 6 - Worksheets for Financial and Economic Rates of Return Calculations
Item 7 - Financial Economic and Fiscal Rates of Return Computations
Item 8 - Working Papers
A. Institutional Development
B. Rubber
C. Coconuts
D. Tea
E. Rehabilitation of Mini-Hydro Schemes
Item 9 - Implementation Program for Organization Reform and Management
Information Systems of SPC and JEDB



I,
7
/
03'
w
o
0
C
C
a
a
*                                                                                               S
3%
7-
7
9      
>



IBRD 1l
82'                                                                         MAY
U;N                             \: - - XuSRI LANKA
----f BATTICALOA 'FOURTH  TREE  CROPS  PROJECT
:    - <-               \'.                   PLANTATION  DISTRICTS AND LAND USE
KANDY Plantation District Areas
I -   ft              \                                          °~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Selscted Towns
-% - - - 0 {   sa          >                                        0      National Capital
Land Use
Tea
--  g  ,,  ;  Rubber
Coconuts
AMPARAI                                                              Relief:
- . - i High Country (above 1200 meters)
N                  '                                    i          NlMid Country (600-1200 meters)
Low Country (below 600 meters)
-    Rivers
I--\. '3                                                           |                       District Bo.jndories
NtERAGALA j
* f   \ +    1-       )                                                                                         83-
3 1A.
I                                     -~~. Z. N D I A
ECOLOGICAL   ~ 
A                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZONES
Dry Zone
Interfrtediote
Zone
Wet Zone     *        ZA,
0     10    20    30    40    50    60    70                   0   Selected Ibwns ~
KILOMETERS                                       Napitoal                             t f
T11 Iws Dom amnuda The 1Wb lor  , s     w .. d   7 t                   Boundaries   -
VW ands amaak.yl  e*o mo h VbCM 5Iw.Sm, awV f~b
F  aw GWen The _oaom ufd VW the bmsXWW MV- n fitsB MM do ndr:                               -rJ-  =<4
.my an VW Pw of TheVAbM ari* NW NiehaV.  Fnmce CaWeb.Wn mSy p,nwt 
n                         C.      wsd_ w w nrsdana VW, mg ablo ca hfo.y oay  m.wm   vcmDftmcat ,di bme
1W~~~~~~~~6
82'                                                    Gle6






