Docmnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICUL USE ONLY
C P. AU-CC-
Rcport No. P-3972-
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 56.5 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJECT
March 4, L985
This document bhs a estrcted dkstibotm and may be med by recipients only In the performnee of
their offiial dutes Itrs contents rmy mo oewwiso be disdosed witho  Wold Bank authorintio-.



.
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =      Sri Lanka Rupee
US$1.00                SL Rs 25.17
SL Re 1.00      =      US$0.04
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB     -   Asian Development Bank
BOC     -   Bank of Ceylon
JEDB    -   Janatha Estates Development Board
MPI     -   Ministry of Plantation Industries
KTIP    -   Medium-Term Investment Program
ODA     -   Overseas Development Administration
OPEC    -   Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
SPC     -   Sri Lanka State Plantations Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJECT
Credit and Project Sunmnary
Borrower:           The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Beneficiaries:      Janatha Estates Development Board
Sri Lanka State Plantations Corporation
Amount:              SDR 56.5 million (US$55.0 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard
Relending Terms:   The Government would relend the credit at an interest
rate of 11 percent to the Bank of Ceylon (BOC), which
would onlend to the corporations at an interest rate
of 13 percent per annum. Repayment of subloans by
both BOC and the corporations would be over ten years,
including a one-year grace period. The Government would
bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project             The project aims at increasing the production of tea,
Description:      rubber, and coconuts by improving the productivity of
all publicly-held estates, rehabilitating factories,
providing field and nursery equipment, and improving
transportation.  The project would strengthen management
and financial control of the corporations, stabilize lands
through soil conservation, and improve the health and
social welfare of estate workers and their families. The
project would also improve institutional capacity by
providing training, technical assistance, and facilities
for planning and monitoring operations. The project
contains no unusual risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Cost: a/                                    Local    Foreign    Total
-----  US$ million---
Field Works                        66.7       15.0       81.7
Field and Nursery Equipment         3.1        i.9        5.0
Vehicles                            2.5        7.4        9.9
Factory Rehabilitation             13.3        8.5       21.8
Mini-Hydro Units                    4.2        4.1        8.3
Housing                             9.2        2.9       12.1
Social Welfare                      7.8        2.9       10.7
Institution Building                6.6        5.2       11.8
Base Cost                         113.4       47.9      161.3
Physical Contingencies              6.3        2.1        8.4
Price Contingencies                32.5        9.6       42.1
Total Cost                        152.2       59.6      211.8
Financing Plan:                                       Local    Foreign    Total
----US$ million---
IDA                                28.1       26.9       55.0
ADB                                21.2       23.8       45.0
ODA                                  -         5.5        5.5
Netherlands                         6.0        2.0        8.0
Norway                              4.1        1.4        5.5
Bank of Ceylon                     10.0         -        10.0
Corporations                       82.8         -        82.8
Total                             152.2       59.6      211.8
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY                 FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90
…-----US$ million------- -…
Annual                 14.8    14.9    12.1       7.2      6.0
Cumulative             14.8    29.7    41.8    49.0    55.0
Economic Rate
of Return:         26 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 5265-CE, dated February 15, 1985
Map:                IERD 18232
a/  Includes taxes and duties of US$11.1 million.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTTVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJECT
.
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit
of SDR 56.5 million (US$55.0 million equivalent) to the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka to help finance a Fourth Tree Crops Project on standard
IDA terms. The Government would relend the proceeds of the Credit at an
interest rate of 11 percent per annum to the Bank of Ceylon (BOC), which
would onlend to Janatha Estates Development Development Board (JEDB) and
State Plantations Corporation (SPC) at an interest rate of 13 percent per
annum. Repayment of all subloans would be over a period of 10 years, includ-
ing one year of grace. Cofinancing has been arranged with the Asian
Development Bank (A;B) for a loan of US$45.0 million, the Overseas
Development Administration (ODA) for a grant of US$5.5 million equivalent,
the Netherlands for a grant of US$8.0 million eqtuivalent and Norway for a
grant of US$5.5 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      A country economic memorandum, "Sri Lanka:  Recent Economic
Developments, Prospects and Policies" (Report No. 5038-CE dated May 4, 1984),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 18, 1984. Country data are
provided in Annex I.
3.      After several years of relative stagnation, Sri Lanka's economy has
experienced sustained growth as a result of the economic liberalization of
1977 and a significant increase in foreign assistance. Before 1977,
Sri Lanka's growth performance had been below the country's needs and
potential. Although in the 1960s the annual GDP growth of 4.4 percent was
above the average for low-income countries, between 1970 and 1977 it slack-
ened to 2.9 percent annually, which was just below the average for low-income
countries. Through much of this period, the terms of trade deteriorated
steadily, eroding even these modest gains. The slowdown in economic growth
in 1970-77 was the result of a combination nf factors, including inadequate
1/ This part has been revised as a result of a November 1984 mission to
Sri Lanka.



-2-
investment, poor mauagement of the economy, and a policy environment not
conducive to growth and investment. These difficulties were compounded by
poor weather in some years and by a sharp rise in the cost of imported food
and petroleum over the period.
4.      In contrast to this poor economic performance, Sri Lanka's social
achievements in relation to per capita income have been outstanding. With
respect to the most important social indicators-life expectancy, Literacy,
infant mortality, bir-h rate, nutrition levels--Sri Lanka rdnks significantly
higher than other countries at the same per capita income level.
Improvements in the quality of life, particularly the rise in health
standards, the spread of education, and the availability of subsidized food,
have been important factors in the decline in mortality. Also, the increas-
ing age at marriage, the spread of female education and employment, and a
family planning program contributed to a sharp decline in fertility. As a
consequence, population growth, net of migration, dropped steadily, from 2.7
percent annually in 1953-63 to 2.2 percent annually in 1963-71, and to 1.7
percent annually in 1971-81.
5.      The Government largely financed both its investment and social expen-
ditures by extracting the surpluses yielded by the three major tree crops
(tea, rubber, and coconuts), which traditionally have furnished easy sources
of revenue and foreign exchange. However, these surpluses began to decline
in the late 1960s, as government export tax policies discriminated against
tree crops and export unit prices weakened. With growth in other productive
sectors declining during 1970-77, budgetary resources available for social
programs were squeezed between inelastic revenues and rapid inflation. As a
consequence, expenditures for social services other than the food subsidy
declined as a proportion of total current expenditures and of GDP, thus
threatening the gains in health and education. In short, the economy could
no longer generate the resources needed to sustain a large program of welfare
expenditures. Moreover, the size of that program reduced the scope for
policy-makers to shift resources to other development activities.
6.      In 1977, the Government, in consultation with the IMF, introduced a
package of policy measures to liberalize the economy and allow a greater role
for the private sector. These policies were designed to (a) reduce govern-
ment intervention in commodity markets, (b) reduce government consumption
subsidies to assist in restoring producer incentives and public savings, and
(c) create a favorable environment for private (foreign and domestic) invest-
ment through tax concessions, the creation of an Investment Promotion Zone,                V
and the unification and depreciation of the exchange rate. Two important
consequences of this policy reform package were: (a) a decline in the cost
of selected subsidies and transfers from about 10 percent of GDP in 1977 to
about 3 percent by 1981; and (b) a periodic increase in the domestic support
price for paddy (which brought it into line with world prices) that spurred a
highly positive response from paddy producers.
7.      These policy reforms were introduced along with an ambitious public
investment program that was made possible by the increased availability of
domestic and foreign resources. As the Government began to tackle long
overdue investments, its capital expenditure as a share of GDP jumped from 6
percent in 1977 to an average of 13 percent in 1978 and 1979 and a peak of
19 percent in 1980, but subsequently declined to an average of 14 percent



-3-
during 1981-83. The Government's investment plan centered on three major
initiatives: (a) accelerated implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga
Development Program, the largest multipurpose river basin development program
ever undertaken in Sri Lanka; (b) establishment of a 200-square mile free
trade zone to attiract foreign investors located north of Colombo near the
international airport; and tc) institution of a massive housing and urban
renewal program focusing mainly on the Colombo metropolitan region, including
the construction ot a new capital complex at Kotte, a suburb of Colombo.
8.      The initial result of both the policy reforms and increased level
of investment was an impressive jump in the GDP growth rate during 1977-80 to
an annual average of 6.8 percent, which then declined to 5.3 percent in
1980-83. The activities responsible for most of this increased growth were
production of paddy, export of garments, and services. The real growth rate
of paddy production since 1977, for example, has averaged 5.7 percent a year
with the result that rice imports declined from an average 33 percent of
total rice consumption in 1970-77 to only 12 percent in 1978-83.
Manufactured garment exports, which have increased from US$12 million in 1977
to US$197 million in 1983, raised their share of non-petroLeum manufactured
exports from 41 percent in 1977 to 76 percent in 1983. Tourist arrivals
increased from 153,665 in 1977 to 407,230 in 1982, with a setback to 337,342
in 1983 due to ethnic disturbances during July.
9.      Despite these advances, some of the basic structural weaknesses
within the economy have not been addressed. Among the directly productive
activities, three subsectors have continued to perform poorly, namely tree
crops, public manufacturing enterprises, and non-traditional exports. The
volume of output from the centralLy important exporE-oriented tree crops
subsector has continued to decline or stagnate. Public manufacturing
enterprises, which account for approximately 40 percent of the value added in
the non-petroleum manufacturing sector, utilize resources inefficiently,
thereby reducing the overall growth rate in manufacturing. In addition, the
real growth of non-traditional exports, other than garments, has been fairly
low and erratic. Underlying the poor performance of these stasectors are two
principal factors: poor management of publicly-owned enterprises, and an
overall incentive framework characterized by high and uneven levels of effec-
tive protection with a general bias against export activities. Moreover, the
incentive to invest in the production of traded commodities has been reduced
in favor of non-traded goods, as the exchange rate has not been fully
adjusted in a systematic way since 1977 so as to compensate for the high
levels of domestic inflation.
10.     Another principal source of macro-financial instability, particularly
in recent years, has been the Government's budgetary policy. As a share of
GDP, budgetary spending increased from 23 percent in 1977 to a record 43
percent in 1980, subsequently declining to a still high 32 percent in 1983.
Although much of this increased expenditure was accompanied initially by a
corresponding inflow of foreign concessionary capital linked to the public
investment program, the need to resort to domestic or commercial foreign
financing increased. In addition, the Government's efforts to mobilize
additional domestic resources fell short of requirements. Due to falling
volumes and prices in the tree crops subsector and an insufficient effort to
widen the tax base beyond traditional sources, the Government increasingly
relied on ad hoc taxation measures to maintain existing revenue levels. The



-4-
rapid growth in spending coupled with increased inflows of foreign savings
and a weak domestic revenue effort resulted in large budget deficits, which
peaked at the equivalent of 23 percent of GDP in 1980 and still amounted to
15 percent of CDP in 1983. In response to increasing domestic deficits, the
Government has squeezed current spending with negative and positive
repercussions. On the positive side, the reduction in subsidies is welcome,
but on the negative side, the limits placed on both public sector salaries
and operation and maintenance expenditure are beginning to impose significant
costs on the economy in terms of recruitment/performance in the public sector
and the efficient use of the existing publicly-owned capital stock. Even so,
savings on the budgetary current account have remained negative since 1979.
In summary, despite considerable donor support for the country's development
programs during 1981-83 (equivalent to 7.3 percent of GDP), the high level of
public expenditure has meant that only 45 percent of the overall deficit was
financed by concessionary flows, with about 10 percent being covered by
foreign commercial borrowing and the remaining 45 percent through domestic
borrowing.
11.     The rapid expansion in investment and general economic activity has
been reflected vividly in the balance of payments. Between 1977 and 1980,
import volumes grew at an average annual rate of 18.8 percent--imported
investment goods increased from US$83 million to US$493 million, while inter-
mediate goods and petroleum imports tripled in current prices. As a result
of this fairly broad-based expansion, merchandise imports as a share of GDP
increased from 23 percent in 1977 to 51 percent in 1980. Export volumes,
however, expanded at a much lower rate (an average annual growth rate of
4.7 percent between 1977 and 1980) and the decline in tree crops export
volumes offset the strong growth in garment exports from firms established in
the Investment Promotion Zone. Consequently, merchandise exports as a share
of GDP increased from 21 percent in 1977 to only 26 percent in 1980. These
diverse trends in the volume of trade were accompanied by a 26 percent
deterioration in the terms of trade over the same period. Rapid growth in
tourism receipts and private remittances from abroad failed to offset this
deterioration in the trade account, and the current account balance
deteriorated from a positive 2.4 percent of GDP in 1977 to a record 19.8 per-
cent deficit in 1980. Deficits in 1978 and 1979 were more than offset by
increased net aid disbursements, even to the extent that Sri Lanka could
continue to add to net international reserves. Yet, in 1980 the situation
changed, international reserves fell by US$220 million, and the pubLic sector
began to increase its use of commercial financing.
12.     Since 1980, the external deficic has mirrored the erratic movements
of the budget deficit. Realizing that a continuation of the 1980 trends
would result in serious financial instability, the Government began in 1981,
to take corrective measures. The measures agreed upon, in consultation with
the IMF, included tighter overall monetary policy, a substantial reduction in
government spending, and a gradual realignment of the exchange rate. The
economy began to respond positively by the end of 1981 (the current account
deficit in the balance of payments had declined to 13.7 percent of GDP and
the budgetary deficit to 15.6 percent), but in 1982 the political resolve to
continue to apply the needed policy mix weakened, largely because of the
presidential elections and a subsequent referendum to extend the life of
Parliament. As a result, both the external and internal deficits increased
in 1982 (to 15.3 percent and 17.3 percent, respectively) and the GDP growth



-5-
rate declined to 5.1 percent (the lowest since 1977). Although policy
measures did contribute to the decline (to 12.4 percent of GDP) in the cur-
rent account deficit in the balance of payments in 1983, the primary factor
was the estimated 14 percent improvement in the terms of trade. By the end
of 1983, net international reserves were slightly negative, gross official
reserves were equal to about two months of imports, and the debt service
ratio continued to increase (para. 16). In addition, as a result of the
budgetary deficit and some movement in the exchange rate, inflation during
that year accelerated to an average 14 percent and the GDP growth rate fell
to 4.9 percent.
13.     Although the 1983-84 terms-of-trade improvement is bringing the
economy some relief, the need for basic structural change has not diminished,
particularly in the tree crops and manufacturing subsectors. One of the
foremost objectives of government policy should be to restructure the economy
toward exports rather than producing for the very limited domestic market.
Basically what is needed is a more neutral incentive framework that would
permit the full diversity of Sri Lanka's particular comparative advantage to
develop. In the short run, however, such a policy package would have to be
supplemented by other measures because, first, the capacity of the economy to
respond to a changed set of incentives may be limited and, second, the non-
policy-related constraints on economic growth (such as the basic infrastruc-
ture and imperfect credit markets) will continue to require the careful
attention of Government.
14.     Although an uncertain sociopolitical situation constrains the
Government from adopting a comprehensive economic policy package, recent
measures demonstrate Government's awareness of medium-term problems and its
wilLingness to implement some required reforms. For example, in the
November 1984 budget the Government moderately reduced the overall tax burden
on tree crops. This reduction, in combination with the management/incentive
reform package for state-owned plantations implemented in early 1984, has
improved incentives for producers throughout the subsector. The budget also
introduced tariff changes based on recommendations made in the final report
of the Presidential Tariff Commission on trade taxes. Although important
activities were omitted from these reforms, the general thrust of the changes
is towards a more neutral framework. The Cabinet has also laid down criteria
for selecting projects in future public capital budgets--a measure that, if
implemented, should redirect public investment into those areas where it
could be most efficiently used. In light of the rapid build-up of the
country's capital stock since 1977, the highest return to public investment
probably would come from complementary investments in existing
infrastructure, and in a few new projects that are appropriate in Long-
gestating activities (such as, power).  However, on the negative side, the
1984 budget also provided a wide range of tax concessions that will not serve
to reduce either the budget deficit or level of inflation. The currently
high tea price has enabled the Government to implement a basically expansion-
ary budget while containing its budget deficit below 10 percent of GDP. Thus
in the medium term, difficult issues related to changing the tax base and
the overall incentive framework still need to be addressed if the economy
is to undergo the type of structural change necessary for sustained growth.
15.     The international aid community has responded enthusiastically to
the Government's recent development efforts by stepping up project aid, in



-6-
recognition of the Government's efforts to increase such investment, par-
ticularly in the Accelerated Mahaweli Program. The overall level of aid
commitments increased from US$250 million in 1977 to a record US$814 million
in 1981, equivalent to US$55 per capita. Disbursements grew much more slowly
so t.hat the aid pipeline rapidly expanded to around US$1.63 billion by the
end of 1981. In 1982-83 public capital spending had to be curtailed, both
because of implementation and domestic financial constraints, with the result
that commitments declined to US$550 million in 1982 and US$370 million in
1983, halting further increases in the pipeline. Aid disbursements have
increased steadily, from US$200 million in 1977 to US$450 million in 1983, or
nearly US$30 per capita. The slow growth of disbursements relative to com-
mitments through 1981 can be explained largely by two factors: the rapid
acceleration in aid commitments and the relative shift over time from food
and commodity aid to slower-disbursing project aid. Continued high levels of
aid will depend upon donors' willingness to finance a sizeable portion of
local costs, provide supplementary financing for ongoing projects, where
needed, and to increase non-project aid. To maintain donor confidence in its
economic policies and management, the Government will have to strengthen its
domestic resource mobilization effort and continue to restrain government
expenditures as long as the budgetary situation remains tight. Local cost
financing in support of Sti ilanka's resource mobilization efforts will not
only provide valuable r0Iiar from budgetary pressures, but will also supple-
ment foreign exchange 'esources needed to support the balance of payments.
16.     At the end of 1983, external public debt outstanding and disbursed
stood at an estimated US$2.2 billion, which was about 46 percent of GDP.
Although a greater part of this debt is on concessional terms, the increased
financing resorted to in 1981 and 1982 helped to push the debt service ratio
(excluding IMF charges and repurchases) up from 10.1 percent in 1982 to
11.9 percent in 1983. Even though the record tea prices in recent months
have enabled Sri Lanka to reduce its dependence on commercial financing in
the near term, any deterioration in the terms of trade would rapidly reverse
the situation. This threat to the economy is partly offset, however, by the
Government's recent efforts to contain the budget deficit and to impLement
policy measures designed to stimulate exports and efficient import substitu-
tion activities. If progress along these lines continues, the current
account deficit in the balance of payments should decline to approximately
7 percent of GDP toward the end of the decade, and the debt service ratio,
after temporarily rising to almost 17 percent because of existing debt repay-
ment commitments, should drop below 15 percent in 1990.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.     Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, the World
Bank has approved 10 loans totaling US$127.7 million (net of cancellations)
and 37 credits totaling US$712.6 miLlion (net of cancellations) in support of
47 projects. About 52 percent of World Bank assistance has been for agricul-
ture (irrigation, tree crops, and rural and dairy development), 23 percent
for power, 10 percent for transportation, and the remainder of 15 percent
among development finance company operations, a program credit (involving the
import of raw materials for industry), water supply, construction industry,
telecommunications, and small and medium industries. Eight loans and 13



-7-
credits have been fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of
World Bank Group operations as of September 30, 1984.
18.     In Sri Lanka, the IFC has a total investment of US$2.13 million
equivalent in equity and US$16.74 million equivalent in loans. Investments
have been made so far in two textiles industries, one polypropylene bag
industry, one equipment-leasing company, one hotel, and two IFC lines of
*      credit, one of which has been extended to the government-owned Bank of Ceylon
for term loans to medium-sized industries.
*      19.      The World Bank Group's current strategy is primarily to assist
Sri Lanka in reaching a more sustainable balance-of-payments position in the
medium term through export promotion and import substitution in viable
economic activities. In order to achieve this, the lending strategy includes
support to policy changes in a number of macroeconomic areas: investment
priorities, incentive framework, coordination of economic policies and
programs, operation and maintenance expenditures, and cost recovery.
20.     Within the above framework, the World Bank Group lending program
would concentrate resources on productive sectors and in support of energy
and transport infrastructure. Within agriculture, the strategy gives the
highest priority in the vital tree crops subsector. The objective is to
channel resources into an activity in which Sri Lanka has a comparative
advantage so as to stabilize the sector in the short term and to promote
sustainable export growth in the medium term. Whether in the irrigation,
rural development or tree crops subsector, the strategy focusses on
rehabilitating the existing capital base, increasing its utilization capacity
and ensuring better operation and maintenance in the future.
21.     The Government's priority to rehabilitate rundown infrastructure is
well placed and needed to support expanded economic activity, particularly in
the private sector. Major elements of the lending program would be directed
at helping the energy needs of the economy and easing transport bottlenecks.
The World Bank has provided financing to a number of power projects for
generation, transmission and distribution. The future program would focus on
energy conservation through both required investments and policy measures.
The old and inefficient power distribution system would be rehabilitated to
reduce system losses; small but significant improvements in energy conserva-
tion would be undertaken in large energy consuming industriallcommet_ial
units; and a study is underway to recommend measures to improve energy
efficiency in the transport sector, a large consumer of commercial energy in
Sri Lanka. All of these activities would be supported through policy
measures and institutional development. Support to the transport sector
would continue with rehabilitation of the road network, institutionalizing
proper maintenance methods and improving sectoral planning of policies and
programs.
22.     The World Bank has provided financing for a broad range of large-,
medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises, primarily in the private
sector, through support of development finance companies. Export development
would focus on this assistance which has also included support to improving
the performance of private enterprises. Future lending in the sector would
continue to have this focus.



-8-
23.     Institutional capabilities, at both the planning and implementation
levels, have been constrained with the recent rapid expansion of public
investment. While continuing the emphasis on institution building project
components, future projects would also focus on such areas as human resource
development, business and industrial management, and public administration.
24.     The need for a substantial transfer of resources to Sri Lanka has
been a recurrent theme of World Bank economic reporting, both to offset the
deterioration in the world trade environment and to support a high and sus-
tained growth rate. Despite Government's increased domestic resource mobi-
lization effort in the recent past, World Bank projects in Sri Lanka have
included financing of local expenditures. The World Bank's strategic focus
on agriculture, rehabilitation rather than new infrastructure, and institu-
tional development means that the foreign exchange component of projects
tends to be small. Also, the Government's budgetary situation continues to
be tight as increased operational and maintenance requirements make demands
on domestic resources.
25.     The World Bank Croup, as of the end of 1983, accounted for 10.7
percent (IBRD, 1.6 percent; IDA, 9.1 percent) of Sri Lanka's total debt
outstanding and disbursed, and 5.0 percent of debt service on medium- and
long-term debt. The projected World Bank Group's share in total existing
external debt outstanding and disbursed will increase to 17 percent by the
end of 1985 (with IBRD's share declining to 1.3 percent). The IBRD and IDA
portions of debt service are expected to decline to about 4 percent by the
end of 1985.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR AND THE TREE CROPS SUBSECTOR
26.     Economic growth in Sri Lanka depends largely upon sound agricultural
performance, and performance in the tree crops subsector plays a major role.
About 75 percent of the poptilation lives in ruraL areas, and agriculture
accounts directly for about 25 percent of GDP, more than 50 percent of
employment, 40 percent of government revenues, and about 60 percent of export
earnings. Tree crops, mostly tea, rubber, and coconuts, occupy almost
900,000 hectares (ha) or 41 percent of cropped land. Tree crops continue to
be the main source of foreign exchange earnings and employ about one-sixth of
the total labor force. The subsector's dominant role in Sri Lanka's economy
is, therefore, unquestioned. In spite of its importance, however, the tree
crops subsector has suffered from chronic neglect, manifested by steadily
deteriorating performance. Production of the three main tree crops grew
only by about 1 percent annually during the 1960s and over the decade 1973-82
tea declined by 12 percent, rubber by 11 percent, and coccnuts by 24 percent.
The subsector's share of export earnings fell from 87 percent in 1973 to 47
percent in 1982.
27.     The poor performance of the subsector has been due to a combination
of factors: severe dislocation of ownership and operations caused by land
reform, declining producer profitability due to low prices and high export
taxes, the Government's Lack of subsectoral planning and policy formulation,
and inadequate foreign exchange allocation for agricultural inputs. These



-9-
constraints have had a detrimental effect on the entire subsector, but par-
ticularly on the plantation corporations with statutory overheads and little
flexibility of action.
Land Reform
28.     In 1972, the Government limited private landholdings to a maximum of
x      20 ha and, in so doing, acquired 135,000 ba of tree crops estates.  The
threat of estate nationalization before 1972 had resulted in decapitalization
of lands: investment was minimized, maintenance was neglected, dead and
t      diseased trees were not replaced, stand densities were greatly reduced and
soil erosion became widespread. After nationalization the Governmenlt
assigned management of the degraded estates to two public corporations--the
Janatha Estates Development Board (JEDB) and the State Plantations
Corporation (SPC). The two corporations now manage over 290,000 ha of land.
Since 1978, the structure of land tenure has been relatively stable, and the
estates have been rationally distributed between JEDB and SPC for greater
operational efficiency. Stabilization of the estates has overcome many of
the uncertainties that beset the subsector and their upkeep has begun to
improve. However, improvement has been much slower than anticipated, due to
government policies which have discouraged investment and to 'rganizational
problems within the corporations. Some of these issues have been addressed
in the ongoing Tree Crops Rehabilitation and Diversification Project and
would be further addressed under the proposed project.
Policy and Planning
29.     The principal problems that have constrained tree crops performance
since land reform stem from governmental neglect of subsectoral planning and
policy formulation and excessive taxation of tree crop exports, particularly
tea. As a result, neither the private nor public sector has been able to
perform well. Governmental responsibility for the subsector is dispersed
among ministries having no functional liaison with each other. Thus,
decision-making is ad hoc and, at times, contradictory. Subsectoral planning
has been deficient; a coherent policy has not been established, and scarce
resources have not been allocated to priority programs.
Producer Margins
30.     Sri Lanka has levied higher export taxes on its tree crops producers
*       than have competitors.  Excessive taxation has contributed significantly to
subsectoral deterioration which, in turn, has resulted in a decline in tax
revenues. Tax structures and rates vary among tree crops, causing distor-
tions and variability in producer reactions to world price changes.  A wide
range of production subsidies is paid by the Government from cesses levied on
the producers. Tax adjustments whenever undertaken by Government were
usually inadequate resulting in investment cut backs detrimental to tree
crops. The tree crop taxation system and its impact on producer incentives
was discussed with Government in the context of earlier Bank-financed
projects and during the Tree Crops Sector Review. As a result, the
Government established a Working Group in 1984 to review and make recommenda-
tion. on producer incentives. Following the6e recommendations, the
Government's 1984 budget reduced export taxes on tree crops and removed all
subsidies to the publicly-owned estates. Subsidies continue to be available



-10-
to the private sector. The rapid and full implementation of the Working
Group's recommendations indicated Government's commitment to improved
producer incentives and to reduced distortions in the present taxation
system. Further changes, however, particularly in rationalizing the taxation
structure, may be needed to improve the long-term productivity of the
subsector. Based on tlhe recomnendations of the Working Group, the Government
also announced the establishment of a Stabilization Fund. The proposed fund
is designed to maintain producer incentives during periods of falling or low
prices. The Government has not yet finalized procedures for the management
and operation of the Stabilization Fund. The proposed project would finance
a study on tree crops taxation to achieve a system of adjusting taxes rela-
tive to price movements. The Government would maintain the Working Group to
monitor factors affecting producer margins and to recomend further taxation
rationalization measures (Section 3.05, draft Development Credit Agreement).
The Public Sector Corporations
31.     JEDB and SPC are government-owned corporations.  Together they own
and manage 57 percent of Sri Lanka's tea-cuLtivated area, producing 67 per-
cent of the country's green leaf tea and 78 percent of manufactured tea.
They also own and manage 35 percent of the country's rubber-cultivated area
and process about 35 percent of the country's rubber output. JEDB produces
about 40 million coconuts per year, and both corporations, through diver-
sification of low-producing tea areas, produce small quantities of minor
export crops, principally coffee and spices. The nationalized tree crops
estates are formally vested in the corporations, but their capital structures
remain to be decided pending parliamentary approval for an increase in capi-
tal following valuation of vested assets. The:e are 530 estates; 248 of
which are managed by JEDB and 282 of which are managed by SPC. If the
estates are valued at the price paid As compensation to previous owners, then
their equity values would each be about SL Rs 1.0 billion (US$40.0 million).
Both corporations, each with annual net sales well over one billion rupees,
have been given the status of separate ministries with the President as
Minister-in-Charge.  The chairman of each corporation occupies the position
of Ministry Secretary. In 1980, management of the corporate plantations,
which previously had been highly centralized, was regionalized. Each cor-
poration is now serviced by regional boards, government-owned plantation
management compaLaies that operate groups of estates within plantation
districts. Financial control, marketing, and personnel administration remain
the responsibility of the corporations' central boards. JEDB and SPC are
relatively young corporations, staffed almost exclusively by former private
planters who, although experts in technical production and estate management,
have no previous experience iI; senior corporate management. Thus, neither
corporation was prepared or equipped to cope with huge and complex commercial
activities. After a demoralizing period following land reform, the estate
superintendents have gradually come to terms with their new roles,
procedures, and responsibiLities, and they have accepted the challenge of
getting the plantations back to efficient production as quickly as possible.
32.     The result of the decline in tree crop prices and inadequate adjust-
ments to taxes is that both corporations have operated at deficits since
1978. This was reflected in a decline of the working ratio (the ratio of
total working expenses to total operating revenue) from 68 percent in 1977 to
about 100 percent by 1981. The corporations' deficits were financed by



-11-
budgetary aid, usually too little and too late, and government-limited bor-
rowings from commercial banks. Following nationalization of the estates,
part of the working capital of previous owners was transferred to the
corporations. These funds were used to fully cover losses and the corpora-
tions suffered a severe working capital crisis until tea prices increased in
mid-1983. As a result of insufficient investment in the estates, tree crop
productivity and production steadily declined. An issue of overriding impor-
tance to corporate efficiency has been the poor operating environment; the
corporations have been allowed neither the freedom of action nor resources
to carry out their mandate. Government was also remiss for not holding the
corporations responsible for technical and financial reporting and for fol-
*       lowing established criteria for accountability.  Since early 1983, there have
been considerable changes for the better. Under the ongoing Tea
Rehabilitation and Diversification Project (Cr. 1240-CE), management consult-
ants recommended improvements in corporate structure and management
procedures, establishing physical and financial targets and reward systems,
restructuring the corporations' finances, and introducing a management infor-
mation system. An essential element in the consultantst recommendations is
that the corporations should have access to a reliable supply of financial
resources.  These findings have been fully endorsed by the Government and
IDA. A management information system is being implemented, accounting proce-
dures are being streamlined, an incentive system has been introduced,
rationalization of corporate assets and liabilities is being completed, and
capital restructuring proposals are being reviewed. The result is a sig-
nificant move towards efficient corporate performance.
The Medium-Term Investment Program (MTIP)
33.     Prior to 1983, the corporations had no investment strategy beyond
their annual budgets. Then, at the instigation of the Government and IDA,
MTIP was formulated by grouping the five-year investment proposals of the 530
estates into regional plans, amalgamating them into corporate plans, and
combining them further as a single investment program for the plantation
segment of the tree crops subsector. The investment proposals included all
activities on the estates: field development, factory rehabilitation, tran-
sportation and social welfare (i.e., housing, sanitation, water supplies and
medical), plus anticipated investments at the regional and corporate levels.
Based on estate records, expected crop yields, investment costs. and proposed
implementation plans were prepared for each estate and then subjected to
analysis and revision. The resulting corporate investment programs will be
revised annually, and investment decisions and budget approval will be based
on set criteria and norms relating to corporate performance. The first
five-year program of MTIP--1985 through 1989--forms the foundation of this
project. The joint preparation of MTIP has considerably advanced the process
of establishing corporate and subsectoral priorities and forging working
relationships within the public sector. Planning according to economic
criteria is now recognized as a subsectoral necessity, and liaison among
JEDB, SPC, and the Ministry of Finance and Planning has greatly improved.
The preparation of MTIP is evidence of this cooperative effort which brought
together Government and corporate planners and has been a significant move
forward in institution building.



-12-
IDA Involvement in the Tree Crops Subsector
34.     Since 1978, IDA credits have supported a series of projects related
to the tree crops subsector. Three ongoing projects deal principally with
the development of tree crops. The first project, Smallholder Rubber
Rehabilitation (Cr. 1017-CE), supports a rubber replanting program in the
low-country. The second, the Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea) Project
(Cr. 818-CE) is promoting rehabilitation of JEDB and SPC estates in high-                a
country tea areas. A complementary project that extends rehabilitation to
mid- and low-country estates, the Tea Rehabilitation and Diversification
Project (Cr. 1240-CE), also includes replacement of uneconomic tea with minor
export crops. These projects would not result in a net increase in tea
production as the increased production would be offset by diversification
of production in uneconomic tea lands. Two projects, Kurunegala Rural
Development Project (Cr. 891-CE) and the Second Rural Development Project
(Cr. 1079-CE) in the Matale and Puttalam areas, involve providing extension
services in crop production to smallholders as a part of rural infrastruc-
tural development. Bank policy regarding the financing of tea projects is
based on the premise that world tea supply will grow in excess of demand and
restricts financing to countries with no investment alternatives yielding an
acceptable rate of return or productivity improvements with diversification.
On the tea-growing plantations of Sri Lanka, on which almost half a million
workers depend for their livelihood, there is no alternative to tea, except
in limited areas where diversification is feasible. The proposed project
would diversify crop production as much as possible, would increase the rate
of new planting and replanting, as well as increase tea production by infill-
ing old tea. Economic analysis of marginal tea lands would be undertaken
before approval of field activities.
35.     Management of these projects is generally good, and impressive
progress has been made in field and factory development on estates. Physical
achievements, other than civil works, are close to target and technical
standards are high. All projects have suffered from high local-cost
inflation, and the limited capacity of the construction industry has neces-
sitated modification of the civil works programs. Compliance with loan
conditions is also generally good, although project accounting and auditing
were initially delayed because of cumbersome procedures. Under the Tree Crop
Rehabilitation (Tea) Project (Cr. 818-CE), JEDB and SPC staff have become
familiar with Bank procedural requirements and under the Tea Rehabilitation
and Diversification Project (Cr. 1240-CE), procurement and disbursement are
on schedule.  Accounts and audits for both projects are now up-to-date.
Important lessons have been learned from project implementation. Field
standards are sometimes excessively high, and no cost-benefit analysis is
carried out to promote efficiency.  Civil works on estates are most effi-
ciently carried out by force account or estate contractors. Social welfare
programs should concentrate on water supply, sanitation, preventive medicine,
and renovation rather than the construction of new houses. Factory renova-
tion should be on a turnkey basis and greater efforts should be made to widen
supplier competition in order to improve machinery standards. The corpora-
tions rely heavily on the competence of individual staff rather than on
tested institutional procedures. Defining objectives and identifying gaps
in institutional capacity at all levels is essential. Training programs and
technical assistance must be geared to bridging gaps in institutional
capacity ranging from estate workers to the corporate boards. Corporate



-13-
efficiency could be improved by better communication between estates and
headquarters and by computerization of estate data to provide the basis for
an efficient management information system. These lessons have been incor-
porated in the proposed project.
36.     IDA prepared a Tree Crop Sector Review and discussed the findings
with the Government in May 1984. Some of the important issues identified
were (a) tree crops taxation and subsidy systems and their impact on producer
incentives; (b) management improvements in the two public corporations; and
(c) strengthening research and extension. The Government has recently taken
a number of measures to improve producer incentives (para.30); the financial
and managerial structures and procedures of the two corporations have been
reviewed and a number of changes introduced to improve performance (para.32).
Further measures would be implemented under the proposed project.
Strengthening tree crops research and extension would be addressed in another
project now under preparation.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.     The proposed project was prepared by JEDB and SPC as their respective
total investment programs for 1985 through 1989. The Ministry of Finance and
Planning coordinated the work and combined the investment programs into a
single preparation report. The proposals were appraised in January 1984. A
Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Sri Lanka--Fourth Tree Crops Project"
(Report No. 5265-CE, dated February 15, 1985) is being distributed
separately. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C., February 4-8, 1985.
The Borrower's deLegation was led by Dr. W. M. Tilakaratna, Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Planning. A timetable of key events relating to the
project and special conditions of t.e proposed loan are given in Annex III.
Project Area
38.     The 530 estates of JEDB and SPC which constitute the project area
are grouped into regional boards, according to plantation districts in the
southwest quarter of the country (Map IBRD 18232). Of these estates, 354
grow only tea, 108 only rubber, and 18 only coconuts; 50 estates grow more
than one of these major crops. The estates are classified according to
elevation: high-country (1,200-2,000 meters), mid-country (600-1,200 meters)
and low-country (0-600 meters). Soils, topography. and monsoon conditions
usually determine the choice of crops; the highly acidic soils of the high
country restrict production almost exclusively to tea. The high-country
estates produce the renowned and flavorful teas that established Sri Lanka's
tea reputation. The low-country is ideal for rubber and, in dryer areas,
coconuts, and also produces the heaviest yields of strong black teas demanded
by Middle Eastern countries. The mid-country estates produce neither high
quality tea nor high yields and government strategy is to diversify mid-
country estates into fuelwood, mainly to supply high-country tea factories,
and spice production. This strategy would be supported by the project.
Basic needs, including barrack-style housing and basic medical care, are
provided for estate workers. Most estate workers, particularly on the high-
and mid-country estates, are Tamils of Indian origin. The remoteness of JEDB
and SPC estates with Tamil communities has precluded any detrimental effect
on the estates and workers as a result of past ethnic disturbances.



-14-
39.     Smallholder farmers surrounding tea and rubber estates provide raw
materials (green leaf and latex, respectively) for processing of the estates.
Some estates rely heavily on such smallholder supplies for their operations.
The smallholder farmers are inadequately served by government organizations
and have difficulty obtaining agricultural inputs and transporting their
produce. Under the project, a study wouLd be conducted on the feasibility of
the estates providing inputs, technical advice and produce transport
facilities for smallholders. In addition, the project would provide for the
preparation of a medium-term investment program for the smallholder segment
of the tree crops subsector.
Project Objective
40.     The main objective of the project is to increase the production of
tea, rubber, and coconuts by improving the performance of the two plantation
corporations, JEDB and SPC. This objective would be achieved by establishing
a mechanism for adjusting producer incentives, improving productivity of all
corporation estates, rehabilitating factories, and transportation
improvements. En addition, the project aims at strengthening management and
financial control of the corporations, stabilizing lands through soil
conservation, and improving the health and welfare of estate workers.
Project Description
41.     The project would include:
(a) a field program of continuing tea, rubber, and coconut planting
and replanting programs, expanding tea infilling, diversifying
unproductive tea areas into fuelwood and minor export crops, and
renovating soil conservation structures;
(b) providing field and nursery equipment;
(c) providing additional vehicles for transport of farm inputs and
produce and for estate supervision:
(d)  rehabilitating tea, rubber, and coconut processing facilities on
estates;
(e)  renovating mini-hydro units on tea estates;
(f) renovating estate workers' housing, constructing laborers'
cottages and staff quarters, providing latrines, and improving
water supplies;
(g) improving estate child care and medical facilities;
(h) developing institutional capability by providing (i) training,
(ii) technical assistance, (iii) support for regional and central
boards, (iv) a planning unit in each corporation, and (v) a
monitoring facility; and



-15-
(i)  providing funds for      Ministry of Plantation Industries to
prepare a medium-term investment program for smallholder farmers.
Project Organization and Management
42.     The proposed project would be implemented by JEDB and SPC as the
investment program of their estates, regional boards, and central boards for
*      1985 through 1989.  The project would be an integral part of corporate
affairs and would not require separate project coordination units or
procedures. The central board chairmen would be ultimately responsible for
interpreting the requirements of Government--the corporation owners. The
regional board chairmen would each be responsible for implementation in their
respective regions, and estate superintendents would be responsible for the
investment programs of individual estates. Annual investment programs, after
analysis for economic viability, would be established as part of the budget
procedure. Each corporate program, when approved by its central board, would
form a delegated authority to the executives for the physical program to be
undertaken through the regional boards and for the funds to be made
available. Independent verification of physical performance on individual
estates against the norms agreed at budget preparation would be monitored by
consultants to be recruited under the project. However, investments in tea
replanting, tea factory rehabilitation, and mini-hydro schemes would not be
undertaken unless the proposed investment would result in an economic rate of
return of at least ten percent (Section 3.01(b) and Schedule 4, paras. 1,3,
and 5, draft Development Credit Agreement).
43.     Cost control would be maintained through a budgetary mechanism.
Annual operational budgets would be prepared on the basis of coefficients
satisfactory to IDA. Financial management and control would follow proce-
dures proposed by the management consultants; including:
(a) concise reporting formats for estate monthly accounts and other
management information reports;
(b) concise formats for preparation of annual budgets;
(c) capital restructuring following valuation of vested assets, with
satisfactory debt/equity ratios;
(d) rationalization of current assets and liabilities and projection
v               of working capital requirements, with satisfactory current ratios;
(e) establishment of Limits for financial authority for various levels
of management;
(f) reorganization and staffing of the internal audit departments;
(g) computerization of accounting and the management information system;
and
(h) establishment of stock control procedures for produce in SPC.
44.     Revised formats for monthly accounts and management information
reports are expected to be finalized and put to use early in 1985. Improved



-16-
formats for annual budgets would be ready for use in 1986. Reorganization
and staffing of internal audit departments would be completed before project
implementation starts. Provision of computers under the project would be
based on a study now in progress by consultants. Independent monitoring of
financial performance would be accomplished through the normal external
auditing system. Auditing procedures would be improved by the designation of
lead auditors to coordinate audits of central, regional, and estate accounts
(Section 3.01(b) and Schedule 4, para. 9, draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Cost and Financing
45.     The estimated total cost of the five-year project, including
contingencies, is US$211.8 million, of which about US$60.0 million
(28 percent) would be foreign exchange. Taxes and duties would amount to
the equivalent of US$11.1 million (5.3 percent). Cost estimates are based
on December 1984 prices. Physical contingencies are 5 percent for field
development, field and nursery equipment, and factory rehabilitation, and 10
percent for social welfare and housing. Price contingencies, accounting for
25 percent of base costs plus physical contingencies, have been compounded at
the following levels: for local costs, 12 percent in 1985, 11.0 percent in
1986, 10.0 percent in 1987, 9.0 percent in 1988, 7.5 percent in 1989, and 6.0
percent in 1990; and for foreign costs, 8.0 percent in 1985, 9.0 percent in
1986-88, 7.5 percent in 1989, and 6.0 percent in 1990.
46.     Project cofinancing arrangements are being finalized by the
Covernment. The project would be financed by several foreign and local
sources. Foreign financing of US$119 million is proposed, representing 59
percent of total project cost, net of taxes and duties, including 100 percent
of foreign exchange cost and 39 percent of net local cost. IDA would provide
US$55.0 million equivalent (about 26 percent of project costs). The Asian
Development Bank bas agreed to provide US$45 million (about 21 percent of
project costs) for housing and factory rehabilitation. ODA would finance the
mini-hydro schemes amounting to about US$5.5 million (about 2.6 percent of
project costs). The Netherlands and Norwegian Governments would jointly
finance the social welfare program costing about US$13.5 million (about 6.5
percent of project costs). Effectiveness of the IDA credit would depend upon
the cofinancing arrangements having been formalized (Section 5.01(a) and (b),
draft Development Credit Agreement). Local financing (about 39 percent of
project costs) would come from the Bank of Ceylon (BOC), a nationalized
commercial bank, and from JEDB and SPC.  BOC would provide the equivalent of
US$10 million (about 4.7 percent of project costs). JEDB and SPC would
finance the balance of local costs (about US$82.8 million), including taxes
and duties. The corporations would finance about 39 percent of project
costs, including taxes and duties, from internally generated funds. The
satisfactory debt service ratios, before and after taxes, and high cash flow
from operations would ensure that the corporations would have the financial
capacity to limit commercial bank borrowing for a part of the working
capital. Neither JEDB nor SPC would incur any debt unless a forecast of
total revenues and expenditures showed an acceptable debt-service ratio for
each fiscal year (Section 3.01(b) and Schedule 4, para. 10, draft Development
Credit Agreement).



-17-
11 percent per annum (Section 3.02(a) and Schedule 6, Part I, draft
Development Credit Agreement). The BOC would then onlend to the corporations
at an interest rate of 13 percent per annum for a period of 10 years includ-
ing one year's grace (Section 3.02(b) and Schedule 6, Part II, draft
Development Credit Agreement). The Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk. The contributions of ADB and ODA, totaling about US$50.5
million equivalent, would be relent by the Government under similar terms and
conditions. The 2 percent mark-up would cover the BOC's administrative
costs, profit, and risk. With the financial restructuring and management
reorganization proposed by the consultants and now being implemented, JEDB
and SPC would be financially sound and BOC's financial risk of relending
would be low. Commercial bank lending rates in Sri Lanka for medium- and
long-term agricultural credit for tree crops smallholders ranges from 11 to
12 percent. Also, the 13 percent interest rate is above the inflation rate
projected for Sri Lanka over the project period. The execution of the
Financing Agreement between the Government and BOC, and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements between BOC and the corporations would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 5.01(c), draft Development Credit Agreement). The
grant funds totaling US$13.5 million equivalent provided for social welfare
by the Netherlands and Norwegian Governments would be onlent by the
Government to JEDB and SPC at 4 percent interest for 20 years including a
one-year grace period. The concessionary terms would allow the corporations
to reduce the massive backlog of social welfare works required on the estates
without adversely affecting their cash flows.



-18-
Procurement
48.     Proposed procurement arrangements are:
Procurement Method
Prudent     Force                Total
Project Element                 LCB   Shopping   Account    Other        Cost
…--…---…US$  Million---
Field Development                 -       -        110.2        -        110.2
-       -        (40.9)       -        (40.9)
Civil Works                      1.6      -           -       29.5        31.1
(1.1)     -           _         _         (1.1)
Vehicles                          -       -           -        13.3       13.3
Factory Equipment                 -       -           -       27.0        27.0
Field and Nursery Equipment       -      6.4          -         -          6.4
-     (4.5)         -         -         (4.5)
Mini Hydro                        -       -           -       11.3        11.3
Other Equipment                   -      3.6          -        2.6         6.2
-     (2.8)         -         -         (2.8)
Training                          -       -           -        1.8         1.8
-       -           -       (1.6)       (1.6)
Technical Assistance              -       -                    4.5         4.5
_  _   -  (4.1)     (4.1)
1.6    10.0        110.2     90.0       211.8
(1.1)   (7.3)       (40.9)    (5.7)      (55.0)
Note:  Amounts in parentheses are those financed by IDA.
Components to be financed by ADB, ODA, and the Netherlands and Norwegian
Governments would be procured in accordance with their respective procedures.
Procurement under the IDA-financed components would be in accordance with
procedures acceptable to IDA.
49.     Field works (US$110.2 million) consisting mostly of uprooting,
planting, weeding, and other labor-intensive operations on estates would be
undertaken by the estates' labor forces.  Field and nursery equipment (US$6.4
million) consists of small items, mostly locally made, which would not be
suitable for ICB; it would, therefore, be procured by prudent shopping,
folLowing corporate procurement procedures satisfactory to IDA. Office
equipment, computers and software, and radio comunication equipment (total-
ing about US$3.6 million) would be procured on the basis of prudent shopping
to ensure that equipment matches the specific needs of the corporations.
Civil works for the produce store and the National Institute of Plantation
Management dormitory (totaling US$1.6 million) would be procured on the basis
of Local competitive bidding following procedures acceptable to IDA. For
procurement of civil works, under individual contracts in excess of
US$50,000, specifications and draft tender documents would be submitted to
IDA for approval prior to award. Consulting services, including expatriate



-19-
and local technical assistance (costing about US$4.5 million) would be
procured in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Disbursement
50.     Disbursement from the credit would cover:  (a) 100 percent of foreign
expenditure for directly imported equipment, or 100 percent of local expendi-
96    ture (ex-factory) if locally manufactured, or 65 percent of expenditure for
equipment procured locally (US$7.3 million); (b) 70 percent of the total cost
of civil works (US$1.1 million); (c) 35 percent of total cost of field
r     development expenditure, including new planting, replanting, and infilling,
and of field works, including diversification (US$40.9 million); and (d) 100
percent of expenditure on training and technical assistance (US$5.7 million).
As a condition of disbursement for the technical assistance and training
component, the Government would appoint consultants provided under the Tea
Rehabilitation and Diversification Project (Cr. 1240-CE) to the National
Institute of Plantation Management (Section 3.04 and Schedule 1, para. 3(b),
draft Development Credit Agreement). For efficient control of
implementation, disbursement would be made against actual expenditure and not
against subloans to the corporations. Disbursement for JEDB and SPC field
development would be made against statements of expenditure, prepared from
individual estate monthly accounts; consolidated disbursement claims would be
submitted to IDA on a monthly basis. The estates' monthly accounts would be
audited by the corporations' internal auditors and the external auditors of
the estates and would be retained at corporation headquarters for examination
by IDA. All other disbursements would be made against full documentation.
The corporations' institutional and staffing capabilities in budgeting,
accounting (both financial and physical), and internal control and auditing
(both internal and external) would be satisfactory for the purpose of disbur-
sements against statements of expenditure.
Project Special Account
51.     A Project Special Account (PSA), in US dollars, would be opened in
the Bank of Ceylon to facilitate financing of expenditures under Categories
1,2,3 and 4 of Schedule 1 to the draft Development Credit Agreement. The PSA
would be established with an initial deposit of US$3.0 million, and operated
by the corporations under procedures acceptable to IDA (Section 2.02(b) and
Schedule 5, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Environmental Impact
52.     An important benefit of the project would be the stabilization of
estate lands by extensive soil conservation, by filling in gaps in tea-
planted areas, and by planting tree cover. One of Sri Lanka's major
resources, the soil of the high rainfall areas is being eroded at an ever-
increasing rate, and some once-fertile highlands will no longer support
crops. An added complication of erosion is the gradual silting of streams,
rivers, and reservoirs. The project would have a significant beneficial
impact on this problem. Also, the project would reduce environmental pollu-
tion by controlling effluent disposal from rubber factories. The provision
of latrines, drains, and water supplies and the rehabilitation of worker
housing would improve the environmental conditions on the estates. The
corporations' awareness of the safety features detailed in the World Bank



-20-
guidelines on factory safety would be expected to bring about environmental
improvement for factory workers.
Project Benefits and Justification
53.     The main project beneficiaries would be the corporations--JEDB and
SPC, their more than half a million workers, and their sole owner, the
Government.  The financial rate of return on investment would be 18 percent
for JEDB and 19 percent for SPC--higher than the opportunity cost of capital
(10 percent) and nominal (13 percent) cost of financing. Tax adjustments are
envisaged under the project to ensure that working capital is available to
the corporations.  In 1984, Government revenue from the corporations, includ-
ing export duties and taxes and corporate tax, less subsidies, is estimated
at US$184 million. With the anticipated decline in tea prices and the
proposed reduction in taxes, Government's total revenue, including duties and
taxes on project investment, less the subsidies, is estimated to decline in
current terms to US$153 million in 1985 and, thereafter, gradually to
increase to US$250 million by 1989. In real terms, this latter figure repre-
sents an increase of US$3.6 million above 1984 revenue. The project would
constitute the main thrust of the Government's development strategy to arrest
the decline in export earnings and budgetary revenues from tea, rubber, and
coconut and to diversify further the country's uneconomic tea-producing
areas. With the project, Sri Lanka's total tea production would increase
from current average annual level of around 190 million kilograms to about
217 million kilograms per year by 2001. This new level will still fall short
of the country's production of 228 million kilograms in 1965. Incremental
annual production of rubber would be 18 million kilograms and 18 million more
coconuts would be produced. At full development in 2001, net foreign
exchange earnings from project tea and rubber would amount to about US$65
million annually. Rehabilitation of factories would improve tea quality and
avoid any decline in rubber quality. Sri Lanka's international reputation
for premium teas and rubber would be maintained and the country's marketing
position would be strengthened. Rationalization of factories, improvements
in field programs, and institutional deveLopment wouLd result in reduced
costs of production that would further strengthen Sri Lanka's competitive
position on world markets.
54.     The gradual deterioration of Sri Lanka's tree crop plantations has
strained labor relations at estate and national levels. Rehabilitation of
the estates would provide secure employment for over half a million workers
who rely almosc entirely on the estates for their livelihood.  The project
would enhance the beaLth and welfare of estate workers and their families by
improving housing, water supplies, sanitation and medical facilities.
Training at all levels would encourage teamwork and would improve working
relations throughout the corporations. A combination of more employment,
better performance incentives, improved working and living conditions on
estates and increased viability of the tree crops industries would generate
corporate vitality. The improved performance of the industry would spill
over into areas outside the subsector.
55.     The project's overall economic rate of return would be about 26
percent, with rates varying between 18 percent and more than 50 percent for
tree crop components. The economic rate of return for tea, including mar-
ginal adjustment of prices to offset the impact of increased production, is



-21-
ginal adjustment of prices to offset the impact of increased production, is
31 percent for JEDB and 28 percent for SPC; for rubber, 24 percent for JEDB
and 28 percent for SPC; and for coconut, 18 percent. The lowest rate of
return--for coconuts--reflects the overall need for investment in the total
coconuts-producing area, not just in the estate areas to be planted under the
project. Diversification of degraded tea-producing lands into fuelwood
production is inexpensive, environmentally benezicial, and yields an economic
Ji     rate of return of more than 50 percent.
Project Risks
r      56.     The technical risks of the project associated with tree crop produc-
tion are low, because of the long experience of both corporations in cul-
tivating and processing tree crops. Technical assistance and training to be
provided by the project would minimize any risk associated with minor changes
in technology. Risks of unprofitable planting would be reduced by mandatory
economic analyses of proposed investment before expenditure is authorized
(para. 42). Institutional risks should not pose a major problem, because
project staff have gained considerable experience in implementing similar
projects during the past six years. Recent management and financial proce-
dures introduced and tested by management consultants have greatly improved
corporate efficiency. Regular monitoring of performance at all levels would
be improved. The management consultants would continue to work with the
corporations under an arrangement in the Tea Rehabilitation and
Diversification Project (Cr. 1240-CE). The risk of slow implementation would
be reduced by project activities being divided among 530 estates, all compet-
ing for performance rewards. Possible deiays in factory rehabilitation would
be reduced by procu'ement on a turnkey basis, by proper phasing, and by
international procurement. Civil works and social programs have been reduced
to manageable levels in the light of project experience, and procedures have
been modified accordingly.
57.     Sensitivity analyses show that incremental net benefits for tea and
rubber would have to decline more than 70 percent and for coconut by about
50 percent to jeopardize the viability of project investment in these crops.
ConverseLy, investment costs for tea and rubber would have to increase more
than 200 percent and for coconut about 100 percent to upset viability. For
the project as a whole, incremental net benefits would have to fall by 86
percent or total investment costs would have to increase more than 613 per-
cent for the overall project to be unviable. The probability of these condi-
tions is extremely low.
58.     The operation of the tree crops estates depends to a great extent
upon Tamil workers, many of whom are second or third generation estate
residents.  Recent civil disturbances in Sri Lanka have had little effect on
the estates because of their geographical isolation, and because of the close
cooperation among the workers, labor unions and management. The tree crops
estates are among Sri Lanka's most important economic resources, and the
Government is fully aware of the need to safeguard this resource. The
prcject risk associated with possible social discord is, therefore,
acceptable.



-22-
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Association and the recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.  Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additionnl conditions of effectiveness of the credit (Section
5.01, draft Development Credit Agreement) would include finalized financing
arrangements with ADB, ODA, the Netherlands and Norway; executed Financing
Agreement between the Government and BOC; and executed Subsidiary Loan
Agreements between BOC and the corporations. As condition of disbursement
against the training and technical assistance component, the Borrower shall
appoint management consultants to the NIPH.
60.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit wouLd comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 4, 1985
I



-23-
T A; 2- I  3                                     tf  I
332 LANKA       - I~~~SOCIL UICU  DATA  UM
Jo~~~~~~~~~M U.Ml sO
@|lizLEulS   0               JU  EWh   AV="A) /
iwoLk    l97OLk                ~~~~~~~~~~(MMl REUITDMATIC)
two&      MA       U     lA k      ASJ                  £ *tC  A1 4 PACIlC
AM cimu-m sq. U)
TOTAL                               65.6        63.6       63.6
AGRICULTIR                          17.2        24.2       2.0.
CllHairn CU 11)                       60.0        100.0      320.0            278.6                  1091.2
-x ~UUa - CAPiTA
(KtLOCRMS OF OIL WIQYALPl)         122.0       132.0      123.0            272.0                   567.3
CI      NH3A?IIIUAm YZFaL SThIZSTIM
POPULATIOU.MIZ-TEAR ItNOUSAlDS)    9339.0    12316.0    1319.0
UR1N POPLATION (t2 oF TOTAL)        17.9        21.9       24.4             21.7                    34.7
POrUtATION POJgCTIO
POPULATIO III TEAR 2000 CNXL)                            21.1
STATIONART POPMLATION (HILL)                             32.3
POPULATIOM nIU                                            1.1
IOPIUTIOU oa*1m
PL5 SO. 3M.                      150.7       190.8      223.0             166.6                  261.9
PMr SQ. 3l. ASRI. LAND           573.9       517.6      376.6            313.5                  1735.1
POPLATXON ASE STRUCTURE (C)
0-14 TRS                         42.1        41.9       35.2             33.8                    39.0
13-54 tM                         54.3         54.3       60.e             59.8                    57.6
65 AID ABOE                        3.6         3.6        4.3              4.3                     3.3
POPULATSION CEiT  RATE (Z)
TOTAL                              2.5         Z.4         1.e             1.9                     2.3
URBAN                              4.7         4.3        2.5              4.1                     4.3
CRUIE BIRI RATE (PER TuOUS)         35.7        29.4       2S.3             27.7                    30.1
ClODC USATH LR   (PER SI0OU)        9.2          7.5        6.0             10.1                     9.5
CROSS 3PRODDUCTIt RATE               2.6         2.2        1.7              1.8                     2.0
FAMILY PtA1MCU
ACCEPTORS. M" (ram)                 .         55.3      100.S
USECS (SOF HUARIED WOKE)            ..                   55.0               ..                    52.7
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
C 1969-71-100)                     93.0        103.0      154.0            112.8                   123.0
PER CAPITA SUP?. OIP
CALORIES (t or REQU_sIEs)        102.0       108.0       102.0            97.?                   114.4
PROTEINS (CRAMS PU DAT)           46.0        47.0       43.0             56.3                    57.0
Of RRIC ANITIUL AND PtLQE       13.0        12.0        Lo Ic            14.9                   14.1
CHILD (ASES 1-4) DEATH RATZ         7.1          5.1        2.9              1.8                     7.2
LIFE EXECT. AZ BIRH (TES)          62.0         63.6       6B.9             60.0                    60.4
117AM MOlt. RATE (MR T3O0S)        70.6         3e.5       32.0             83.8                   6e.3
ACCeSS TO SAFE W (EtS)POP)
TOTAL                               ..        21.0       20.0 /d          32.9                    37.0
UN                                  ..        4e.0       45.0 7;          70.9                    34.8
RURAL                                         14.0       13.0 7d          Z2.1                    26.4
ACCess TO eSETA DISPOSAL
C( OF POPULATIO)
TOTAL                                .        64.0       59.0 J           18.1                    41.3
UR0MI                               .         .6.0       68.0 7*          72. 8?Q
RURAL                               ..        61.0       Ss.0o             '.6                    33.3
POPULATXON PU PdYSICII           4490.0       5950.0     7170.0           3484.2                  7749.4
POP. PER NkSINC PERSON            4170.0 /f   2260.0     1340.0           4793.1                  2460.4
POP. PUR 1SPITAL 3ED
TOTAL                            320.0       23G.0      340.0 !         1066.5                  1064.2
DAS                              120I.0 If    2:0.0     240.0 i          1.93.0                  651.2
AURAL                           lOtO.O7f    570.0       5W0.0 7T        5993.4                  2594.6
ARfISSIOIS PER HWPrAL B               ..        54.4         ..               ..                    2.0
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEOLD
TOTAL                              5.4 ,b      5.8
DRNM                               6.3 W7      6.3
RUIAL                              S. z        5.5
AVERAS hO. OF PERSONS/ROM
TOTL                               LO /h       2.5
WU0N                               2.1 7i-     2.7
RUWAL                              2.0i        2.5         .
ACCESS TO UZCT. (S OF SEELLIC)
TOSAL                              7.5 lb      9.0
3HRIll                            35.9 /b     34.5
RURAL                              2.3 fb      3.0



-24-
Jl~~~tl AI 'A   3ACL 
190Lk     1970Lk.     CIAS!           1W iUeW                NZDCUS
moa  197        *simutk        AflA G PACIlE          AURA A PACIFI
AJUIRD IZOLWU        T ZOI
PUWIT    TOM                       9n.0 a.0o               102.0             97.4                    102.0
PAZZ                   100.0        104.0       0e6.o             110.3                    105.9
pvuw                    90.0         94.0       100.0              82.7                    98.
*IZ lh1t TOTAL                     27.0         47.0        31.0             33.9                     46.0
au                      26.0         44.0        49.0              44.6                    48.7                        )
Mu=                     14.0          80         54.0              26.1                    43.1
vocATZ0L (t or s111o    1              ..          0.4         0.4  j           L2                      17.3
HIFL-TUAcNn BI&Tzo
FURDMA                             31.0           3. 22.0                     38.3                    31.3
UC0IU~AT  ..  ..        ..              18.7                     23.5
AWLT LZwRUAC EAT! (I)                73.0 R       77.6        84.0              32.4                    72.9
PAS;     CARS/MUSI3ID POP             1.4          7.0         7.3              0.9                     10.1
"DIDO  MWI RS?/117V8A   Pop          35.8         39.9        91.7             112.1                   113.6
TV UCziUUUns/musD PO                   ..           ..         L4               15.7                    S0.1
81WA1 ("khILT OUNDAZ.
Um31?") CDCULAT?Ohl
MU TWIMAND POPMAT?                 36.0         4..                          16.;                     53.
CTII ANIMUL £5ZUNDAIUCAZ,A            2.9 n        7.8         4.9 ,b           3.4                      3.4
TOTAL  ABOR YOMR (TUOUS)           3391.0       4188.0      5771.0
FUAlZ (PCR=T)                      22.3         23.7        24.9              333                     332.5
A~ZCULT!R1  IE(ICDT)               54.0         55.0        54.0             69.4                     52.2
ENDEUUT (PUl  NT)                  14.0         14.0        14.0             15.8                     17.9
PAI=T.CPA?I0S RATE (PEWCINT)
TOTAL                              34.3         33.5        38.0             42.4                     38.7
RALZ                               50.1         49.1        53.0              54.7                    30.9
PUZMh                              I:1.         16.5        21.0              D.8                     26.
ICIUU   UDUDUCT RAT7O                 1.3          1.4         1.0               1.0                     1.1
- -
PDthh?r Or Pn7A=  ncG
UQSEVD BT
EIGSN   5SZ OF LDUDUDS             25.4 lb      18.2          ..                ..                    22.2
=G'W  2020S   NCSUO LU                  7       43.           ..               ..                     48.0
LOUW2S 201 or NOUW'LI               4.5          7.5         ..                ..                       .4
AU? 4o o  o z                      13.7 7       19.2         ..                ..                     15.5
ZST=AT ARIUL! Fovn?? 23comE
LI CUSS mPI  CAPT)
08W13                                ..           .t ..                      133.9                   U88.6
MAL                                  ..           ..         ..              111.6                   152.0
ESTIUAT  RMl   POVEIY tIc
LUVII (US PE CAPI)
o"                                   ..           ..         ..                ..                    L77.9
RfidL                                ._           ..         ..                ._                    146f.4
ESTIDIA POP. 3DMO AIIOLAT
POWOlY 2CCm I         CZ)
Ulm                                                                          438..  ..  ..  4.        23.4
RoAL                                 ..           .,         ..              51.7                     37.7
N,OT AVASULE
bar? APPLCIMLE
Pi 0 T E S
a Th grip Aeraa   for ed  lr.d4 ter are popuLaton-uetF..ced a.:ltIuttc means.  Coverage of countries mean the
Iadlerecrs depo_n oan aveLabllty of daca and La not unifore.
lb  Onl.w otherwtm  Med. *Ate for 150  refer to my wear becusen 19f9 snd 1961; '"Ut  for 1970" betren 1969 ad
1971; and date ftr 'lost Raemt bgttluto betwamn 1930 and 1982.
Se  1977; ad 1974; Ie 1975; Jr 19;, La 1979;  lb  1963;  I 1978;   1 1958.
.1131 1944



-25-
beasal  utiahotOo   dote o~0n fhas it- amw... meoSIt Is. '  h. sc  oioillo  Ous "OMt1mhis. It .hsd alas ha NOWc aba Stay NW ON ha ln.umaiuocLt
owsoupsMhl hacu  .1 tin  L.* c  .utadowdtusl daieltaiic     md Smost. Isod hi diltalsu  000.5.4.. Is uciti gotta  oh data.  W. dM40am. soaubt.t. scut.stoS
dasuith  .bat. of omptiOba. laeaum. gmods*  ca Nd atcmatcucuall  slot dii ALctcnoe  hafla- conan..
It. cain... noses on (I tibmv Meoryq anow of am en)t assay .5l 11) a mosav an" Sith  af t hia aoma' imon I%" aim ermaIl suw at ht.
oflhot m cc.ia  (caps in 'liSt Sauc  ft1 RSII S' i arestp Sata '81Mb ln  Wirth Lists "&. itddi bar  a 'oha boosm .1 aamcul uci-essciteatL
cutsialutt-. I. at. rtat.rooa arms ds. it. Sooraus -n pop.aicals salsltta  critlrcsaa maw in ad. Wdlmaeru  ohm Outy M&               calciii  ci a- flart- So
olphciccfraa ictucas.. lice it. aaoto  of usgnus   o  Sb- Scdioe.  da,ccd  -e lb occimlctio  ci dAn. .4 ScBe emoMflc    ouctte ma1 h
saaaicd  o  atait aotcoa  im icitocact. ia nocw. Nasa cusogu  clss  soFusl"  L.    sPlos, St o.    atlo   -  islocast a 0 Ca- emose  It. mooto  aS
b..cS  gha )iliptlIgS                                                                                    oocl    odiis  hp Sowbi If procueioi
A9Ifj - Iaocl       ; fofto,a    sOeWticlt  1ud cisc usd loSsd coasta Elow.              ft i1lw8lft1Taa o usul  soci a Semester 1.0.8.
us ales daft.                                                                   _aL.c.   at.          tamocS- IasciSic  disbaod hy ftwea of euotatos
iaant- Bealta" ci osricuitamt Oftc aed ocrcUtn,l Wi Patocoi                       oiasica Loea  a                   mani  Cerca. prusaltt oncew as
I    1ioi  pcicso   eab dc as Mabaed gutao   ta Lt. taLisca 800.                 cumin  militbale.
SkU as tot dec.                                                                      ms: .r. xazS s   ctm                                          . eocbaSs
gEpIKFlIn                  a  aia   aeaso   usscnsa.oCltAhic S. poblLc as priemb soae.  asl mopratoaiad ImSCIlMA. aso
WnSo on aLISOiMo. tmnt bastial. hceona.&CA lousboltkS as
a    aaoawt        a P05     -Meat  weretuca ocpmmastIor ci usroata                      ell       stn0cpmni   oilsd h a ductS. (In hs ceL astucal
p8cap  ocu  tso         igo.Manics  Oocfi s  ad 4pd. o.aica                          ea=c,Ss.siai. nel.) whIskI1  inW ia-sal9on  mcdcaig  eau
as ueahcowLt1 uiccttllS   Ia hiluatu  afst  uqoiSC.Iuste pct osplecs t0101.              pisoads a timeld       of em..! inilittus.
itar. Cud awlat OcS                                                                    1" sIiinntMAWi     * Tad& inSt.                        t of  daiw s idilerstc
usfasccff.icu  IO. tOs, usaft"dt.                                                    lb heeubid tot osattatloal cuoycort.
SonoOkcIawpt low.tiam        m   ltdeo                                                Anao Iaachot1 of ort    cut 10001 P-Peteo.  to.utni                    t
91    - Cttoca psopatasc ,maanelcefon hocd ISo  00s'    sot 'a   La1 oiaa. as tota  atssaMai-cel
ic1t4inSAiallaatqa  -04 so a Sdthalt c-LIltt adl islnit,t                             dciti's. tuspoticoti. heiatap aSotdo Sca-paseao  otmctute a
tals  reiescctee paemola. in  wtailit fai  eountiu  of Ltuc                         ucensa  pan..
i  --iccaio  "Ia -1qstturap.  batik istsuaio' "tit  "sit'o poF."OitSl  ,ti,  fasts                                            cc V-        goas  -MtL -
apLo. 1mm  La1s  Sd  -t. etqumi eil taonpr ftiah 'lcm   e3 71.5                           as.o-1I  t  esci   L.ac . MotiS otocitust 8I ilIs  qcion iaol
p..INS, Icirscum Sn Motiliitp tac  ab  ham  flo   ucac                           ol isol. urea, asd CunI deitlo C-pacalsci.
Smic;q doclile Sm. ftoality, sofemaidta Sane  ScootCtd 'oo  faa,
PIC-Ifs scicicco. R.e  antiL to ab  soletosd uSe ci altoa ois
isthitmui   ci sco.Saiit  aed ianatapituatda lot sooa-iu. Paso....                MfeAIusffwL "  tUI I " C lC
lasdso...1n1n.- Ta a    30Ad.o  up- usl au-sossatil er-Clil.                    iioS-j-II       tjt osa             fjc   - itma mat. eua  -4 5   1
talc  bo  scISiacod  at   IncpacS.  sA. oipodaift. ftalgtity                 --Iba    oi.ifio-Aa_u.aibri.pw  iai So pnaasmtofe Sausc=tle
talusboa celtaccip  nlast rouemlcma lama isc                                  pflaa  aohm52uo  c.a"ml oooie         . scoeta   oodioO.a 0.1k. apd 
topmoata  inns).  is -sa  a Pcsaeicslo. Sb. tArta sdc tc acoot1                        na-=a cilsaod tot dcff.mos Imaotf. of piscay Mo-otla  in
asd cos   Ca ho dooSh Mi., Ch. cia aicoaf  a. aLa.  -mtla. md tlb                      Seuctias 'out  iSft ca ad-otue Coalaof  ep, -Cos'aod  paos
giscch .tal  as a. T"a oemalan  popaolltse aaaa s. nalatcd - iha                       ulo   so meeti. am helm at abs at. a  tnat eodoaai iW.
bob atf Sb stalntc dc.  t-Lotait of t.1h sooklnbao lat. -ot                           r.cdt  -hitl-  eaciu.tlc-b                     Susbtacac
ipo   s  btt aft-   Anleu  iafluiir fob  Sc touitoscoc tact.                      adtlancin-s-   ec   s.mdacndsscy  e.cic
,'s5SSa=ooac -t Ia lb isdop lot. to".ia S       tee l a   t   oaii                  stcn       etL   otim.    icoatat Ifaait bco-alcts  tn
bafOs Sb 15c ioP olamacct-lmi Sciali, he han eOLaaud  chatI                      uni La 'oit, 'f 1i S ~t pa   .1 'mg. cucpcaocau 
L.. uSea c inS  ant mPtuwhacSim           1- he t-.s    SoLeSu. It.                    ma--Ii 5. cosdad.
maa. a     popaicai  to Sbpact  L to man   u. roic. a1t lbiitacscoo5om   nnt.   cain     casstLucciatl
It uaa .=s   b  petuct:ial   taiatum ir      tcso o. ioel fta_t d=              icosOoSt  c       acSoca oodniaaua
to  m a.-lt'a  cN.1tvs  -ot aco.  tiac-ut I Sat  t-lcos -f                    cutdascedmL.   ala.       et  1               WCoe-
iiiaoot 5O4  00  o  iO  oa                                                     dottcri tc  otc P IIoroS  oMt. chi Sc dood us-Latd   -
M;r 4i  .   atoiou   u     Cao   scat  o                                               1toioa   oda crO'   .6- sn'oi  o -l samloatus .4.411 psa   nd at.u-fe)S
taoatsdaIthctst I. .stot  -IS Chiim   511 n'otch, SCttsoo   i-               Ot
-cas.tOtIImd(taom   sasI-ptn'  c  o-c                                           a.ca Cola tn-  Ibeaco o"..autall   'etocd-         oniorca
beicicotictftp.1,ttccacl -i.t.  - oasaoiCh'nitc  atM tota  ai-              sIiateSe tyoo.1t5cc.ed
toutPosoatLo  inttIQoti.100110.Aue1001                                     SoS  icc. uttaed                 lce I-95    p1p.Lsc'of occtaI"ol
PCtoq inkO Ctcof- lot.-..ial) - SooSth  t- iceaoi it-S  tat-at ~fStbc                         .. ito ct  to  .cO'oi  mcii st u ti'c  oft psIciSa  cstbj55     o
moccistt.e tt 50,-tO. t00.!. a4 1"    0-i!.                                           iaLtrn.c  tol'otu *0catt'sS   1 -t  S    ciatt.  a  a
atd  o i  acttlb.ud  - "           uscI 0. blttfst  ibotoco1d id-,rc   s  1  IC   doll tat t.caat  -at ?ct atem    F- asotstl  Cia
Pom.t polsLa   051  Im  ad te  faa..                                                  r.cltlou c.05ct.d  teesTV
Croc l-ct ce  Oc tecad). ct`-  tOsi' "" ciut.Sntao otd1.ccit                    It w1   c,It. alsc. aaluo  -I                 ciTV toft  htol    i
patlaSasstO. Ii'I  a  OI dci.           V-cta p1    pot.                                                 %-o pscatscc titas s.clnoc Ch.     ranin
'atit   --.  a-cit. -I-no Wcot .o odlt. 910OA. lOll. as                          elwa    L- -t     9 lcs  4cm  roctuseomc- dotbood us a pctsodie1
mIll.                                                            potii,ccs.o  '.'oaaoo tuicotito cc.-S   tctotita oeta - m tt.   1 .- lssd-?d
ceo 5. ic..., . ocrcco.ii  tii  oo --L Pcaaoodl  tou   tiomat  oc1....A                                    N-           -.  Imd           1   So
a, -t.Jc'otlti joc maca of. *ptnlirie ct  ecc tocc ata a                                                      le co-t. C.
Itotlitma coy(3m .  teiaiccts.    olZt   mtld   es ft   boos ct-1.               bl
at l''icsnano   mtatit    m   .41-..'otilota  'co                           c.ia.ttcioSoooco  -lusdtaitsil   isc-    oul1ae
a  atotM SL   at'l   a.'o ctat  ltm   osaicc   i
-L-  -,Llooe- act          -,lo tlcm-7smo -r lc,uoe u 4-  Itoicuo   5 e.ncI-  tbtho-oac-picon    taaat tct.t 8" afn.,
rlAsasI-  asdtoo   m.'asc-a plec'o sc.                                                   tuIIoo.a    ,caiaoc '6  aso   oiflo   50.tl  tsiatt
tao.                                                                           *,-trtc'otIo tcSctnt-oo-h- tievl cia  no talc- pota.i1so0iu Ile
5,at "c5   ut5  o                    -La.ct.  cscnho                                     IuLc.tioSuetda F:nca. cats, fa  coi  tb   o                      Iau
so.  at cliaai   IcFe  sacL - t.-oIaiatccI 0usd tot oct.1                        ic-el' Osu t.'c.0  -1 lot_ .  tocSoIcoS oac 301 asoimo,             0.c
ot ococcaci ict L:.i.t-l  On -Cat 50. Pots.                                   trsw  isa  a.'.mmS
tot -astscoel ~t lotoli itro0 uo  Lc'- atto. d.'csccLt .t o  aaattc             t.t-o'too- *. --cs    'O  'ott1 ic'ico  tit-tta datt
'ci  ocm, 't fod  ot Ot.  at  cccc a  io.o I lain     ohn.  o.   ,ctaot.rlo5o. >0cormct,foofoc:1  cteor.cad  Oojol 5 Stat  'o
IoItcslo tt 'ol 'latusc   osot.-Ii   -tac  tctl -- t 'ototmo                    t'mioLoo...5t'o--
ollese a tO Iom.6 ai   Otico ot anu   2  di  c  'oolsoi 
at- pstol. it   sia 'mor. sisoi  oaoa'  aa.             asot-,ac   Oi'
-                     toad   mtec   ltaao  a  Ivn   1'ta   ccs   d2 taofc'.Loat'o  amZO  OOcfoloo    0,O                                                           .        I.u
Pte " 'oi.a  s.c-a.I    etic  'cn "o ac-o"icnl      Imottdot.'oc-aof   at
"un Motf tuod'snutc  60_.04 Z*08  -1.1- "da. Molloo'od.tt  -sa.  cn .n  m'o  i eta')-Lto a5toa
iattcd  te  alclo Os. nbc.   4t   cotec: 01o1  o. .d sOtcara uotousO.t dial cioc cooomo o1od.tc  tt-=ts .. to o
inc.                                                                    0: t'ctdattcue.-1t.  _&_
.,'oiiuai dottod f t-  tifo tatia.:  no. mopq oS4P!dt.ateo   tc   tto.csc   ttcsc   odfe                                                   taSt. total
;,P-!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n Lli'stOdicoteoc a.- 10.8 --tu 8d5dImaa
4801_   ZoiiS.    a.solt   ioua%ei   oc   oo  ctsl     t
s.liaCupaucai ut int  octl= -1 -utcAo Is. It  noo  totsu'i'Lu.u  -ttc        'c .s-'to        ats)ca                                          -lo
ut Olfl~~~ .aif. 5~~O0 usa  002 talc.            '-Sr.~St
oi.oa'Unaiir otc'ctmmucoo'.i  - Occat octIsut ud5 'St ut
at.. cclii k.0 cottolso  us -lic Iooai  uoLol.Csmoe. is    .
atto  cic a. paiLh.c 1    ~ c    -oadcitatd-ecCI   1   i
Iso    'onmyhaisoiari     htt o    -a d .aos ib lteoif lb
iso   Isran  ate tmcnt.cino ai.ttea  ihs  to 'msatt *.t
mfcaofc- tsuidda-  co  ' acc  adiatnctoo. Slo0
lb Jarto fosms!im  tilt aslofc nt-i'scta
ltasoutott   tsoitcictu   clie     rtt  sn    s.o



-26-
ANNEX' I
Page 4
SRIi4  -CON IC IWDIS&TOJE
OUTPUT IN 1283 BY SEICT!OR                       ""PhALL  0.   CROW.T-Q I.%    -st9au_priceu)
mili on                     12 LQ_77       19,77IZ. V2. 0      n
Agriculture                 1,304      27.5             2.0             4.2           3.0
Industry a/                 1,257      26.6             2.1             5.8           3.8
Services                    2_171.       .              3.7             7.0           5.2
Total b/                  4,732    100.0              2.9             6.0           4.3
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN-1983
uLS Million       J
GDP at Market Prices                              5,199        100.0
Investment                                        1,488         28.6
Gross National Savings                               843         16.2
Current Account Deficit                             645         12.4
Exports of Goods and NFS                          1,354         26.0
Imports of Goods and NFS                          2,136         41.1
GOVERXMENT FINANCE
________  _Gentral GovernMent
(Rs million)    :-of GDP at Market Prsces
1983          1975     1982       ILB3.
Current Receipts c/                        21,088         17.2      16.6       17.2
Current Expenditures d/                    23,822         18.3      18.0      19.5
Cu- int Surplus                            -2,734         -1.1     -1.4       -2.3
Capital Expenditures e/                    15,578          7.3      15.9      12.7
External Assistance                        10,974          3.2       8.1       9.0
a/ Manufacturing, mining, construction, and utilities.
b/  GDP at factor cost.
c/  Includes capital revenue.
dl Includes advance accounts.
el Includes net lending.



-27-                    ANNEX  I
Page 5
SI LAiPA - tECONOMIC INDICATORS
.ortY  CREDIt   AND PRICES                       1970                                             I= 1977  1223  1±!  .  19S:  1.
tend of period)                                                                 Ma million)
Money and quasi money                          3,115    5,717    10,892   15,058   19 860   24 .47   30,510   37.:57
lank Credit to Public Sector                   2,856    4,659       4,226    6,267   13,095   17,277   :1,8:8   '1.513
la8^nk Cretit eo Private Sector                1320    4.116        6.449    8.;05   12.7,09   16.690   20,570   :7,375
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as : of GDP               22.8      23.9      25.5       28.7      29.9     28.8      30.4      30.5
Gtneral Price lndez (1970-100)                 100.0    147.0    164.8        182.6    230.2    271.6    301.1    343.3
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                             .5.9      -1.:    -12.1       *10.8    *26.1    -15.0    10.9    -14.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector                   -10.4      *7.7      -9.3      *48.3   *109.0    *31.9    *26.3        -0.4
Sank Credit to Private Sector                   -8.c o    40.5    *56.7       *35.0    .46.0    .31.3    -23.2    -33.1
BALAZCE OF PAYXENTS                                                      ZERCILNDTSE EXPORTS (1983'
1au     1       1219                                         S Million
(C:SS MilIion)
Tea                               353        33.3
Exports of Goods. NFS                    1.346   1305    1,354          Rubber                             1:1        11.4
:ports of Goods. NFS                    2.055    2.:05    2.136          Coconut Products                    S0         5.7
Resource Gap (defEcit - -,                -709      -900     -782
Al. Other Coaroditees             51 '         6
Interest Payments (net2                    -8:       -80     -i1l
workers' Remitrances                         -         -         -              TOTAL                     1.059       100.0
Other Factor Paym*cts (net!                -15       -18       -18
Net Transiers                              *03       264       272
3alance on Current Account                -603      -731.    -645        EXTERNAL 2EBT :S H!1lxcri
Direct Foreign Invesatent                   49        63        38                                      Decenber    :ecenzer
Net !&LT Loans                             33-       416       360                                        !98:         i 3C.3
Disbursements                            380      .84       ".5
Amortizatiaon                             43        S8        85       Total Outstanding               3.561        3.614
Capital Grants                             161       162       171
Other Capical (net)                          3        66   ,     7        otal Outstanding
Change in Reserves (. a increase)          -33       -27        -1         and 3isbursea                 1.965        Z-:05
5ross Reserves (end-year)                  *51       520       514
Net Reserves (end-year)                      5       -22       -7;
DEBt SERV CE RAT O hi ;:        10.1         11.?
Crude Oil and Petroleum Products
Lports                                  48       _90       469
Exports                                  1'5       158      114        I3RDIIDA LENDINC. Seyte5ber 30. 1984 fSS MilLaOn.
IBRD     'DA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding and Disbursed          54.9    3L: ?
End 1978                 End 1991                                        L'ndisbursed                        11.5    318.5
'SSl.00 * Rs 15.S1      USS1.00 - Rs 20.55
Rs 1.00 - USS 0.06       Rs 1.00 a USS 0.05                              Outstanding. :nc1uding
:ndisburse4                      o6.4    661.1-
End 1979                 Zind 1982
USS1.00 - aR  15.45     5SSI.0O * Rs 21.32
Is 1.00 a USS 0.06       Rs 1.00 a USS 0.05
Erd 1980                 rt :983
USS1.00 - as 18.00      USSl.00      Rs 25.00
Rs 1.00 * USS 0.06      Rs 1.00 u ICSS 0.04
Ll Repayable in foreign currencies and vith a naturity over oac vear.
b Racio of debt service On public and publiciv ;uaranteed M&LT 4lebt (excluding L'F char7es
and repurchases) to ezpor:s of goods and services.
South Asia Programs Depar:ment
November 16. 1:984



-28-
ANNEX -I
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of Seutember 30. 1984)
USS Million
Loan or                                                                      Amount
Credit                                                               (net of cancellations)       J
No.    Year   Borrower        Purpose                             Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Eight loans and thirteen credits fully disbursed                   72.9   96.1                    -
701     1977  Sri lanka  Mahaveli Ganga Development II                    19.0      9.5
818     1978  Sri Lanka  Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea)                   21.0     10.1
891     1979  Sri Lanka  Kurunegala Rural Development                     20.0      9.4
900     1979  Sri Lanka  Road Maintenance                                 16.5      7.5
931     1979  Sri Lanka  Agricultural Extension and
Adaptive Research                            15.5      11.3
942     1979  Sri Lanka  Small and Medium Industries                      16.0      3.4
979     1980  Sri Lanka  Mahaveli Ganga Technical Assistance               3.0      1.4
994     1980  Sri Lanka  Road Passenger Transport                         53.0     21.8
1017     1980  Sri Lanka  Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation                16.0     13.2
1020     1980  Sri Lanka  Telecommunications                               30.0      6.8
1041     1980  Sri Lanka  Second Water Supply                              30.0     20.1
1048     1980  Sri Lanka  Sixth Power                                      19.5     10.5
1079 la  1981  Sri Lanka  Second Rural Development                         33.5     16.0
1130 la  1981  Sri Lanka  Construction Industry                            13.5      5.9
1160 La  1981  Sri Lanka  Village Irrigation Rehabilitation                30.0     20.2
1166 La  1981  Sri Lanka  Mahaveli Ganga Development III                   90.0     48.1
1182 La  1982  Sri Lanka  SMI I1                                           30.0     25.5
1210 La  1982  Sri Lanka  Seventh Power                                    36.0     16.3
1240 La  1982  Sri Lanka  Tea Rehabilitation and
Diversification                              20.0      14.1
2187     1982  Sri Lanka  Eighth Power                             42.7      -      11.5
1317 la  1982  Sri Lanka  Forestry 1                                        9.0      8.3
1363 La  1983  Sri Lanka  Third Rural Development                          23.0     21.1
1401 la  1983  Sri Lanka  Industrial Development Project                   25.0     21.2
1494/a/b 1984  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Development IV                    30.0     30.0
2437 /b  1984  Sri Lanka  Mahaveli Ganga Development IV            12.1             12.1
TOTAL                                                             127.7  695.6    375.3
of wshich has been repaid                                        49.2    4.2        -
Total now outstanding                                              78.5  691.4                    )
Amount sold                                3.6
of which has been repaid                 3.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA /c                                  78.5  691.4
Total Undisbursed                                                  23.6  351.7    375.3
La  IDA 6th Replenishment Credits, principal amounts shown in !JS dollars equivalent
at date of negotiations, as shown in the President's Reports and undisbursed
amonrs shown in US dollars equivalent at the rate of exchange for the SDR at
September 30, 1984.
lb. Not yet effective.
!c  The original principal of credits under replenishments 1, 2 and 3 has been
increased by the amount of the transLation adjustment as a result of the
devaluation of th US dollar in 1972 and 1973.



-29-
ANNEX 1I
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of Seutember 30. 1984)
Year             Obliaor                      Type of Business         Amount (US$ Million)
L(*_n  Equity  Total
1970       Pearl Textile                      Textiles                  2.50   0.75    3.25
1978/80/83 The Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon           Development Banking         -     0.45    0.45
1978/81    Bank of Ceylon                     Development Banking       7.00    -       7.00
1979       Cyntex                             Textiles                  3.15   0.54    3.69
1979       Mikechris Industries               Polypropylene Bag         0.89   0.10      .99
1980/84    LOLC                               Leasing                    -      0.34    0.34
1981       Taj Lanka Hotels                   Hotel                    19.30    .70   20.00
Total Gross Commitments                                  32.84   2.88   35.72
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments, and Sales                            16.10   _75   16.85
Total Commitments now Held by IFC                        16.74   2.13   18.87



-30-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SRI LANKA
FOURTH TREE CROPS PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
SECTION I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time Taken to Prepare Project             One year
(b)   Project Prepared By                       JEDB and SPC
(c)   First Presentation to Bank Group          July 1973
(d)   Departure of Appraisal Mission            February 1984
(e)   Compl.etion of Negotiations               February 1985
(f)   Planned Date of Effectiveness             June 1985
SECTION II:    Special Implementation Action
None
SECTION III:   Special Conditions
(a) Government would establish and maintain institutional
arrangements to monitor factors affecting producer
margins (para. 30);
(b) Future investments in tea rehabilitation, tea factory
rehabilitation, and mini-hydro schemes not be under-
taken unless an economic rate of return of at least
10 percent could be achieved (para. 42).



-31-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Formalization of cofinancing arrangements with ADB,
ODA, the Netherlands, and Norway (para. 46); and
(b) Execution of financing agreement between the Government
and BOC and of Subsidiary Loan Agreements satisfactory
to IDA beween BOC and the corporations (para. 47).
Condition of Disbursement (for Training and Technical
Assistance Component)
(a) The National Institute of Plantation Management
appoints consultants provided under the Tea Rehabilita-
tion and Diversification Project (Credit 1240-CE)
(para. 50).



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l ' X
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A'N ~ ~ ~ ~ N
7.
i  HAMBANTOTA
-60~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
/
806                                              810



IBRD j;
9? 1c--   3  82MAY 1
SRI LANKA
...' .. -'''--BXTTICA        8                      FOURTH   TREE  CROPS  PROJECT
:ATTICALOA --g   :-PLANTATION  DISTRICTS AND LAND USE
KANDY Plantation District Areas
0     Selected Towns
-   -b@  Notional Capital
\t.:':Land Use:
Too
Rubber
Coconuts
AMPARAI                                                            Relief:
High Country (above 1200 meters)
= ,-   )  _   hMid Country 1600-1200 meters)
Low Country (below 600 meters)
)                                                    -/    Rivers
!:_.:,   -. .   l   /District Boundaries
.kGALA  
-                 N       A
GulIf of MA4nna,r
I            ~~~ECOLOGICAL 
* Dry Zom
IIntermediate
Zone
wet Zone      'aw.,-
0    10    20    30    40    50    60    70               |      Slelcted Towns
KILOAAEThRS                     *~~~~ National   V-
KILOMETERS                         ~~~Capital                       -
6o  _       ___District                *     '
;~kS .Up hag                        d,aii gr.putwd  < Thu    8W*7 s.mBoundaries  G
Faun. Caast, Th ~,wbmuad mid MI, ia,u &Aim, an Om nw d not
im,. W VW p-i of 7?- I%vM a' Dond mI. to wna*m,i Fa,inIo Cwpwarar. any jup-wh
aW oni "Wn staiof am IN dollw or  or.dmufh  accmphimc of mid baeu
Indian  Ocean                 . . 
82                               6                   Gall.                     6A






