Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4326 
Operation Name 
Development Policy Loan  III (DPL III) 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (40%); General industry and 
trade sector (30%); Power (20%); Social protection (5%);General 
education sector (5%) 
Project ID 
P107365 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE 
Implementing Agency 
Not applicable 
Date PID Prepared 
November 18, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
November 25, 2008 
Date of Board Approval 
December 23, 2008 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
Ukraine has experienced a solid recovery since the 1998-99 financial crisis, with annual growth 
averaging above 7 percent between 2000 and 2007 and one of the fastest rates of poverty 
reduction in ECA.  The structural reform agenda was slow but steady. In May 2008 Ukraine 
became the WTO member, crowing more than a decade of efforts of successive governments 
toward this objective. Early in 2008, the economy was showing increased signs of overheating 
and macroeconomic pressures intensified after the summer.  The global financial crisis has 
further exposed Ukraine’s inherent macroeconomic vulnerabilities, leading to a domestic 
economic crisis that also prompted Ukraine to request an IMF Stand-By Arrangement (SBA). 
The IMF SBA for USD 16.4 billion (SDR11 billion) approved in early November would anchor 
appropriate macroeconomic policies over the next 2 years.   The immediate challenge is to 
follow up on the effective implementation of the IMF SBA to stabilize the economy.  However, 
to ensure a faster recovery and sustained growth, Ukraine will need to move forward with fiscal, 
business environment, and social sector reforms. 
 
2. Operation Objectives 
The programmatic DPL series supports reforms under three policy areas: (i) improving the 
investment climate to sustain growth, (ii) creating fiscal space for growth through strengthened 
public finances and public sector reforms; and (iii) improving service delivery and social 
inclusion.  As regards to improving the investment climate, the DPL-III supports the enactment 
of a Law on Joint Stock Companies, breakthrough legislation` on corporate governance, which 
will encourage transparency in corporate practices, encourage FDI, and reinvigorate the 
securities market.  It supports a package of legislative and regulatory measures that lay out initial 
steps in building a framework to rehabilitate the banking system. This operation also supports 
executive actions to reduce the quasi fiscal deficit in the energy sector as well as to improve the 
business environment for new firm growth by reducing the frequency and costs of business 
inspections. In terms of fiscal policy and public administration, the DPL III supports a new 
procurement framework, which signals the commitment of the government to increased 
efficiency and transparency in public spending. As in prior operations the DPL also supports a 
tight fiscal deficit for 2008, which is line with the IMF-supported government program.  There 
Page  2
are also a number of measures supported by the DPL geared to improving tax policy, tax 
administration as well as budgeting practices.  In terms of social areas, this operation supports 
focused efforts to bring sustainability to the pay-as-you go pension system. This is a first step 
and would be the basis for improving allocation of resources across social programs as a way to 
improved targeting.    
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
The DPL program has provided an anchor for successive government reform efforts and many of 
the measures charted originally in DPL-I have found reflection in successive government 
programs. The DPL provides a vehicle to integrate the Bank’s policy dialogue based on one 
cross-sectoral platform and thereby creates significant synergies with the investment lending 
portfolio and the Bank’s technical assistance activities. The authorities have used the DPL 
program as a vehicle for their own internal coordination. The DPL also provides a platform for 
cooperation with other donors, as evidenced in the significant parallel technical assistance 
support provided to complement the DPL.  
 
4. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
500 
 Total 
500 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
The borrower is the Government of Ukraine represented by the Ministry of Finance. This 
operation is a single-tranche loan of US$ 500 million.  The loan proceeds would be made 
available to the Borrower upon loan effectiveness.  IBRD will deposit the proceeds of the loan 
into deposit account at the request of the Ministry of Finance. The Government will maintain 
accounts and records showing that loan disbursements were in accordance with provision of the 
Loan Agreement in a form acceptable to the Bank. Within seven days of remittance of funds by 
IBRD, the Government will provide a confirmation to IBRD that the funds have been received 
by the NBU and are available for financing budgeted expenditures including debt servicing of 
foreign currency loans raised by GoU.  No audit will be necessary under this DPL. 
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
The most important economic risks lie in the size of further external shocks (terms of trade and 
credit markets squeeze), larger than expected re-capitalization needs for banks arising from a 
lack of refinancing, a potential overshooting of the exchange rate, and incomplete 
implementation of the IMF-supported government program.  Political instability poses risks of 
delays to the implementation of the overall reform program and to the recovery process itself. 
But notwithstanding the fractious politics, the country’s recent political history suggests 
Ukraine’s political system can generate compromise around key reforms. Among the more 
recent examples are: (i) the adoption of measures leading to WTO accession, (ii) passage of a 
new Joint Stock Company Law, and (iii) the strong political support in the passage of the “Anti-
Crisis Law”.  The DPL program has served an anchor to push reform efforts over time and 
contains reforms that are in line with programs across political parties.  
 
Page  3
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
The primary source of distributional impact from the reforms proposed in this operation relates 
to higher energy prices, however the 
distributional impact of tariff increases can be manageable
.
There are instruments within the Government to deal with this the situation. For example, the 
two-tier tariff that differentiates between higher and lower income level consumers.  This 
operates much like a lifeline tariff and allows Naftogaz to subsidize lower income users while 
still meeting overall cost-recovery targets. In the absence of a comprehensive social assistance 
program that can effectively target the poorest and the most vulnerable, this program provides a 
credible and pragmatic solution to this problem. Rural poor, which represent the largest share of 
the poorest in Ukraine, rely mostly on wood fuel as main source of energy and thus will be less 
affected by higher gas and electricity prices. Additionally, targeting of subsidies for housing and 
utilities could be improved through means testing instruments. The HD team of the Bank is 
working with the Government to develop such instruments.  More considerable poverty impacts 
will derive from the underlying financial crisis and the economic slowdown in Ukraine.  Among 
a
myriad of poorly targeted transfers to the population, Ukraine has few social programs that can 
help mitigate the impact of the economic downturn such as the programs for the extreme poor 
and for single mothers with
 children. As the sustainability of Ukraine’s recent social policies is 
called into question and as fiscal policy is tightened in response to the macroeconomic 
stabilization, better targeting of transfer programs will be needed to protect the poorest and the 
most vulnerable. The Bank team is discussing with the government the need for fiscal 
reallocation measures in the 2009 and 2010 budgets, in the context of a balanced budget, as way 
to phase out untargeted assistance and wasteful spending and channel funding to the existing 
well-targeted programs. 
 
Specific actions under the proposed DPL operation are not expected to have any significant 
negative effect on the environment. In sectors that have a close link with the environment and 
that are supported in one way or another by this operation such as Energy, the actions laid out by 
this operation might improve environmental conditions in the long run as they are geared to 
improve energy efficiency. 
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Pablo Saavedra 
Title: Sr. Country Economist 
Tel: (380 44) 490-6671 
Fax: (38044)490-66-70 
Email: psaavedra@worldbank.org 
Location: Kyiv, Ukraine (IBRD) 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Page  4
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
