Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4316 
Operation Name 
Development Policy Lending  III (DPL 3) 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (40%); General industry and 
trade sector (30%);Power (20%); Social protection (5%);General 
education sector (5%) 
Project ID 
P107365 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE 
Implementing Agency 
GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE 
Date PID Prepared 
November 12, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
November 25, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 23, 2008 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
The DPL program has provided an anchor for successive government reform efforts and many of the 
measures charted originally in DPL-I have found reflection in successive government programs. The 
DPL provides a vehicle to integrate the Bank’s policy dialogue on one cross-sectoral platform and 
thereby creates significant synergies with the investment lending portfolio and the Bank’s technical 
assistance activities. The authorities have used the DPL program as a vehicle for their own internal 
coordination. The DPL also provides a platform for cooperation with other donors, as evidenced in the 
significant parallel technical assistance support provided to complement the DPL.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The programmatic DPL series supports reforms under three policy areas: (i) improving the investment 
climate to sustain growth, (ii) creating fiscal space for growth through strengthened public finances and 
public sector reforms; and (iii) improving service delivery and social inclusion.  As regards to improving 
the investment climate, the DPL-III supports the enactment of a breakthrough law on corporate 
governance (the long awaited joint stock company law) which will encourage transparency in corporate 
practices, encourage FDI, and reinvigorate the securities market. At the same time, DPL-III supports 
amendments to the law on banking as regard to tightening the disclosure of ultimate owners of banks, a 
welcome measure in context of the need of improved banking supervision and the likely banking 
consolidation over the next years. This operation also supports executive actions to reduce the quasi 
fiscal deficit in the energy sector and government’s efforts in implementing the legislation passed in 
2007 and 2008 through a number of executive actions and cabinet of ministers resolutions, particularly 
as regards to business inspections. In terms of fiscal policy and public administration, the DPL III 
supports a new procurement framework, which signals the commitment of the government to increased 
efficiency and transparency in public spending. As in prior operations the DPL also supports a tight 
fiscal deficit for 2008, which is line with the IMF program.  There also a number of measures supported 
by the DPL geared to improve tax policy, tax administration as well as budgeting practices.  In terms of 
social areas, this operation supports focused efforts to bring sustainability to pay-as-you go pension 
system. This is a first step and would be the base for improving allocation of resources across social 
programs as way to improve targeting. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
Page  2
DPL III is the last operation under the programmatic series. The proposed Third Development Policy 
Loan (DPL-III) is envisaged as a single-tranche loan in the amount of US$500 million in support of the 
economic and social priorities as reflected in a series of successive Government programs. This 
operation contains a set of objectives and priorities that display significant continuity with earlier 
government programs and which are likely to remain focus areas for any incoming administration. 
Indeed, in broad terms Ukraine’s basic economic development vision is shared across the political 
spectrum and includes efforts to boost Ukraine’s competitiveness on international markets, growing 
integration with Europe and the adoption of its institutional framework for the regulation of markets, and 
emphasis on social services and inclusion. This development vision has been concretized in the program 
supported by the DPL series in three pillars described earlier. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
Specific actions under the proposed DPL operation are not expected to have any significant negative 
effect on the environment. In sectors that have a close link with the environment and that are supported 
in one way or another by this operation such as Energy, the actions laid out by this operation might 
improve environmental conditions in the long run as they are geared to improve energy efficiency. There 
is a possibility that fuel substitution towards greater reliance of fuel wood, and the substitution of 
domestic coal for imported gas as relative prices change might lead to greater carbon emissions. 
However, substitution possibilities in urban households are limited due to the predominance of central 
district heating while rural households already rely to a significant extent of fuel wood for cooking and 
heating. Nonetheless, there could be some risk deforestation if reliance on fuel wood increases. 
Persistent inefficiencies in the domestic coal industry will limit the extent of substitution to coal over the 
timeframe of this operation.  
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
500 
 Total 
500 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Pablo Saavedra 
Title: Sr Country Economist 
Tel: (380) 44 490-66-71 
Fax: (380) 44 490-6670 
Email: psaavedra@worldbank.org 
Location: Kyiv, Ukraine (IBRD)
 
