Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
.-A/ C3 0 / / - )//
Rpet No. P-4779-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMIENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUT'IVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$500 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUPLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A
TRADE AND INVESTMEUIT POLICY LOAN
NOVEMBER 30, 1988
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit - Naira (N)
On September 26, 1986, Nigeria adopted a flexible exchange rate
policy and introduced a Second-tier Foreign Exchange Market (SFEH)
comprising an auction and an interbank market. On July 2, 1987, SPEM and
the official (i.e., first-tier) rates were merged. The auction rate was
US$1 - N5.29 on November 24, 1988.
ABBREVIATIONS
CBN           -    Central Bank of Nigeria
DCP           -    Debt Conversion Program
FEM           -    Foreign Exchange Market
FMFED         -    Federal Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
IDCC          -    Industrial Development Coordinating Committee
NEPA          -    National Electric Power Authority
NEPC          -    Nigerian Export Promotion Council
NEPD          -    Nigerian Enterprise Promotion Decree
NITEL         -    Nigerian Telecommunications
NNPC          -    Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation
OECF          -    Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
SAP           -    Structural Adjustment Program
SFEM          -    Second.'tier Foreign Exchange Market
TIPL          -    Trade and I.1vestment Policy Loan
TPED          -    Trade Poli-' and Export Development Loan
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL UM ONLY
NIGERIA
TRADE AND INVESTMENT POLICY LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaRe
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ..............................................                    i
PART I - THE ECONOMY
A.  Background ...................................................                   1
B.  Legacy of the Oil Boom .......................................                   2
C.   Structural Adjustment Program ................................                  3
PART II - THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.  Overview .       ...................................... .............            7
B.  Experience with the Trade Policy and Export Development Loan .    7
C.  Trade and Investment Policy Loan Objectives and History    ......   10
D.  External Financing and Macroeconomic Prospects  ....               ...........   17
E.  Social Impact ...............................................    18
F.  Risks ...............................................                          21
G.  Loan Features and Operation ..........             ........................    21
H.  Monitoring and Tranche Release Conditions .....                ...............   22
PART III - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS ...            ...............................   23
PART IV  - RELATIONS WITH THE IMF ..................................                     24
PART V - RECOMMENDATION ..................................    25
ANNEXES
I.  Nigeria Basic Data Sheet .26
II.     Balance of Payments and Macroeconomic Indicators .28
III.  Supplementary Loan Data Sheet .33
IV.  Letter of Trade and Investment Policy .34
V.  Matrix of Policy Actions .43
VI.     Status of Bank Group Operations in Nigeria .48
VII.     Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perm¢
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank aut v'



NIGERIA
TRADE AND INVESTMENT POLICY LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:            Federal Republic of Nigeria
Executing Amency:   Central Bank of Nigeria
Amount:              US$500 million equivalent
Terms:               20 years including 5 years of grace; atandard variable
interest rate.
Description:         This is the second of a series of quick-disbursing
loans, designed to support the Government's Structural
Adjustment Program which was introduced in 1986. The
first loan concentrated on exchange rate and trade
policy. This loan supports the consolidation of the
exchange rate and trade policy initiatives that were
supported by the first loan. It also expands the
direction of the Bank's support for Nigeria's
structural adjustment effort by addressing the
underlying determinants of investment decision-making,
because it is :.argely through investment that
structural adjustment takes place. To this end, the
measures to be supported by the proposed loan are
designe'4 to encourage private investment by improving
the administrative climate, especially for foreign
private investment, so as to increase the availability
of foreign exchange and technology to the economy; to
streamline and reallocate the public investment program
to ensure that it supports growth and that foreign
financing sources are fully and efficiently tapped; and
to ensure that the price signals that inform investment
decision-making are in line with Nigeria's long run
comparative advantage. The policy agenda for the
proposed loan thus covers five broad areas: (a)
maintenance of a market-determined exchange rate
system; (b) consolidation of the reform of the
protection regime and institutional developments; (c)
implementation of export promotion measures; (d)
liberalization of the regulatory framework for private
investment; and (e) rationalization of the capital
budgeting process and the public investment program.
Benefits and Risks: The proposed loan would support the government's reform
program by easing its immediate foreign exchange
constraint. Implementation of the loan's action
program would help improve the quality of the public
investment program in 1989 and beyond and encourage the
domestic and foreign private investment that is
essential to the economy's restructuring and growth.



- ii -
The recent fall in oil prices has reduced growth
prospects at a time vhen ensuring continued political
support for the program is critical. Without the
proposed loan and the associated cofinancing, the
reduced availability of foreign exchange would lead to
intense domestic political pressures on the authorities
either to unilaterally reduce debt service payments, in
order to maintain the funding of the foreign exchange
market and to keep imports at reasonable levels, or to
return to foreign exchange rationing, as the exchange
rate that would clear the market would be politically
intolerable.
The greatest risk associated with the proposed loan is
the possibility of a shortfall in foreign exchange
receipts from other creditors or oil exports. Another
risk is that the Government would be unable to control
public expenditures and that overspending would lead to
excessive pressure on prices and the exchange rate. In
either case, the aforementioned political pressures
could emerge. These risks are expected to be minimized
by: (a) the reaffirmation of the commitment to the
reform program provided by the highest levels of
Government to the Bank; (b) close monitoring by the
Bank and the Fund of the foreign exchange cash flow,
the foreigr. exchange market, and public expenditures,
in the context of this loan and the stand-by
arrarngement with the IMF; (c) the Bank's ongoing
macroeconomic policy dialogue with the Government; and
(d) a concerted effort by the Bank and the Fund to
mobilize financial support for the program from
official creditors and donors.
Estimated
Disbursements:    The loan will be disbursed in two tranches of US$250
million each. The first tranche is to be available
upon effectiveness. The second tranche is expected to
be disbursed four to six months later, after all
conditions for tranche release have been satisfactorily
fulfilled. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed
by December 1989.
Map:                 IBRD 20709R



RE}'RT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED TRADE AND !NVESTMENT POLICY LOAN
TO THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Trade
and Investment Policy Loan of US$500 million to the Federal Republic of
Nigeria. The loan would be repayable over 20 years, including five years
grace. Interest on the loan would be at the standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The following assessment of the Nigerian economic situation is based
on the President's Report for a Trade Policy and Export Development (liiED)
Loan distributed to the Executive Directors in September 1986 (Report
No. P4359-UNI), the Country Economic Memorandum distributed to the Executive
Directors in September 1988 (Report No. 6716-UNI), continued reporting by the
Resident Mission in Lagos and missions that visited Nigeria in 1987 and 1988
to help the Government design the measures required to consolidate and
strengthen its Structural Adjustment Program (SAP). Annexes I and II contain
selected social and macroeconomic indicators.
A.   Background
3.        Nigeria is a country of considerable mineral wealth and potential
for diversified development. It is a major oil producer, with petroleum
accounting for 31 percent of total GDP (1987 prices) and about 'I0 percent of
exports. There are also vast reserves of natural gas, although little is
being exploited at present. Crop production accounts for about 30 percent of
GDP and provides employment for over half the labor force. Yams, cassava, and
food grains together account for over 75 percent of GDP derived from the crop
sector. Food crops are primarily based on small-scaie farming, and
productivity is generally low. Cocoa, oil palm, rubber, groundnuts, and
cotton are the principal cash crops, which account for less than 10 percent of
crop-based agricultural GDP. Although availability of land is becoming a
problem in some parts of the country, there are underpopulated areas in
differing climatic zones that offer the potential for a variety of
agricultural products. Manufacturing production increased rapidly during the
1970s, but because of tariff-distorted incentives, much of the expansion was
in import dependent, assembly-type activities that contributed little to local
value added and employment. The sector accounts for less than 10 percent of
total GDP and employment. Services, which account for over 25 percent of GDP,
are dominated by wholesale and retail trade.
4.        Prior to the oil boom, Nigeria was one of the world's poorest
countries. In the 1970s, however, sharply rising oil revernues boosted the
value of exports, up to US$26 billion in 1980, and per capita GNP, from less
than US$300 in 1973 to more than US$1,000 in 1980. This process has been
reversed in the 1980s as the oil market has progressively weakened. By 1987,



- 2 -
exports had declined to US$7.7 billion and per capita GNP to US$370. I/ The
decline from US$620 in 1986 reflects the use of the official exchange rate
(N1.6 - US$l) prior to September 26, 1986 and of the foreign exchange auction
rate (N4 - US.1) thereafter, although there was also a decline in real terms.
If parallel market rates are used in the calculations instead of the
previously overvalued official exchange rate, GNP per capita has been below
US$400 since 1984. Calculations using either the real effective exchange rate
or constant neira confirm the substantial decline in real GNP per capita since
the late 1970s. Nigeria's GNP per capita is projected to fall below US$300 in
1988 2/ and, notwithstanding modest increases. to remain there through 1995.
Based on these developments, the Bank recently declared Nigeria to be
IDA-eligible. 3/
5.        Nigeria's socioeconomic conditions and infrastructure are comparable
with those of other IDA-eligible Aft zan countries. The growth rate of
population, currently estimated at 3.4 percent per annum, and the crude birth
rate of 50 per thousand, are among the highest in the world. The infant
mortality rate is over 100 per thousand live births. Population per physician
is 10,500, and male and female life expectancies are a meager 48 and 52 years,
respectively. Half of IDA-eligible African countries have a higher per capita
calorie intake than Nigeria, and most offer better access to safe water
supplies in both urban and rural areas. One third of IDA-eligible African
countries have more road mileage per square mile of land area than Nigeria,
and only Live IDA-eligible Africa countries have fewer telephones per capita
than Nigeria.
B.  Lagacy of the Oil Boom
6.        Buoyant oil r venues in the 1970s provided the basis for large
increases in Government expenditures designed to expand infrastructure and
non-oil productive capacity, even as they served a valuable political and
social purpose in healing the wounds of the civil war that ended in 1969.
Some important successes notwithstanding, many public investment projects were
undertaken without sufficient attentior. either to their economic viability or
to the capacity of Government agencies and public enterprises to implement
them. Furthermore, the resources needed to accommodate the expansion of
construction and urban services associated with the increase in public
expenditures came at the expense of non-oil traded goods. Traditional
agricultural exports were particularly hard hit, since the exchange rate was
1/   Measured according to the World Bank Atlas methodology, which uses a
three-year average of the exchange rate for converting GNP measured in
local currency into U.S. dollars.
2/   The decline from 1987 to 1988 reflects the increasing weight of the
depreciated exchange rate in the Atlas conversion factor.
3/   See 'Nigeria's Eligibility for IDA Credits", IDA/SecM88-1323, November
30, 1988.



allowed to appreciate substantially. Import-competing production was affected
less, as import restrictions and an ineffective system of price controls
allowed prices of these goods to be maintained well above world levels.
Import-intensive consumer goods industries, whWch contributed 'ittle to
domestic value added, prospered.
7.        When the oil market weakened in the early 1980s, the Government
responded slowly. By 1983, sizeable external and fiscal imbalances had
emerged -- with the current account deficit reaching 6 percent of GDP and the
fiscal deficit fully twice that -- financed by public sector borrowing, a
rundown of international reserves, ar.i a large-scale accumulation of arrears
on external trade payments. In 1984, the authorities began to implement
measures to redress these deficits. Budgetary expenditures were slashed, and
administrative controls over imports -- in the form of import licensee and
prohibitions against imports of certain items -- were tightened, multiplying
the inefficiencies that had developed during the period of strong oil
revenues. Non-oil GDP fell sharply. On coming to power in August 1985, the
Babangida Government recognized the need to approach the problem through
structural adjustment and initiated measures to arrest the deterioration in
the economic environment.
C. Structural Adjustment Program
8.        The halving of world oil prices in the first quarter of 1986
increased the urgency of reform. Recognizing this, the Government formulated
its Structural Adjustment Program (SAP), covering the period from July 1986 to
June 1988. The program combined exchange rate and trade policy refcrms aimed
at promoting economic efficiency and long-term growth with macroeconomic
stabilization policies designed to restore balancp of payments equilibrium and
price stability. The centerpiece of the program was the introduction of the
Second-tier Foreign Exchange Market (SFEM) and with it a large initial
devaluation of the naira. Considerable stress was laid on shrinking the size
of the public sector and improving its efficiency. Requests for financial
assistance in the form of debt reschedulings and new money from the Paris and
London Clubs accompanied the adoption of the program. The World Bank
supported the program with a Trade Policy and Export Development Loani (see
Part II) in the amount of US$452 million, and the IMF endorsed the program
with a stand-by arrangement of SDR650 million, although no drawings were made
under this facility.
9.        There is considerable evidence throughout the economy of changes in
the incentive framework associated with the program's measures. Domestic
currency prices for exports have risen sharply, and there is now a more
economically-rational allocation of foreign exchange across competing uses.
The replacement of the import licensing system and foreign exchange controls
with a system of protection based on tariffs and a more realistic exchange
rate has greatly rationalized the incentive framework. In turn, these changes
have produced notable responses. Tree crop cultivation has witnessed a
resurgence, and manufacturers are taking advantage of the new relative price
structure. Output, investment, and employment Ln the export sector have
picked up. Producers in all sectors are increasingly seeking ways to
economize on imported inputs and to source their input needs locally. The



shift in relative prices is also changing consumer demand patterns. But the
most tangible results have been ir. non-oil exports and the recovery, albeit
modest, of the rmanufacturing sector, despite a sharp compression of imports,
reflecting the increased share of productive inputs in total imports and
shifts to local sourcing.
10.       Domestic Output.  As the implementation of the program began late in
the third quarter of 1986, its effects on activity levels were small in that
year. The evolution of non-oil GDP was largely influenced by a sharp
compression of imports, reflecting the repercussions of weakening world oil
markets and collapsing export revenues on foreign exchange availability.
Still, in 1986, because of good performance in agriculture, non-oil GDP is
estimated to have increased by about 4 percent and overall GDP by 3 percent.
In 1987, despite a program-related improvement in the urban sector, the
available evidence suggests that non-oil GDP fell by about 3 percent in real
terms, and overall GDP by &bout 5 percent. There was a significant drop in
crude oil output, related to OPEC production quotas, and overall agricultural
production fell by almost 8 percent because of adverse weather conditions.
Staple food production was particularly hard hit. But the cash crops were
also adversely affected, offsetting somewhat the favorable effects of the
program on production incentives. Meanwhil , strengthened incentives to use
local raw materials resulting from the policy changes under the SAP permitted
a recovery in the manufacturing sector, despite a further compression of
imports. The recovery of manufacturing continued in the first half of 1988,
and, based on favorable weather conditions, the short-term outlook for
agriculture is good.
11.       Agriculture.  The program's measures to revitalize agriculture and
traditional exports centered on the changes in trade policy, the exchange rate
reform, and the abolition of the commodity boards, which previously set
domestic prices for oil palm, cocoa, rubber, cotton, and groundnuts. The
combined effect of the policy changes on production incentives has varied
across products. The exchange rate change led to large domestic price
increases for most cash crops, and adverse weather conditions notwithstanding,
production increased by an estimated 6 percent in 1987. By contrast, the
immediate impact of SFEM on producer prices for food crops, which for the most
part are not traded internationally, was negligible. However, food prices
have risen sharply this year, reflecting the decline in output in 1987 and
SAP-related demand shifts to locally produced food. This trend was reinforced
by farmers' diversification into cotton and groundnut production, inter alia,
and manufacturers' increasing shift to local sourcing of raw materials.
12.       Manufacturing.  The exchange rate adjustment and accompanying
measures to liberalize trade have led to far-reaching changes in the incentive
structure for manufacturing. SAP has greatly improved incentives for all
export activities.  For priducers of import substitutes, however, there have
been some positive effects and some negative effects, according to the
relative impacts of devaluation and trade liberalization. Overall, the
competitiveness of the more efficient, local resource-based activities has
been enhanced, and the policy changes have also strengthened incentivs; to use
local raw materials. Import-intensive assembly operations for consumer
durables have suffered. On balance, the available data suggest a broadening



recovery in the manufacturing sector beginning in the first quarter of 1987.
While th3 index of manufacturing output fell by 4 percent in 1986, it rose by
5 percent in 1987 and by a further 4 percent in the first six months of 1988.
13.       Prices.  There had been some concern that the introduction of SFEM
wuuld trigger an inflationary spiral. Instead, consumuer prices fell in late
1986 following the introduction of SFEM and remained fairly flat through early
1987, but began to rise after that. More recently, inflation has accelerated
sharply, and by June 1988, the composite price index was 42 percent above its
level in June 1987. This performance mirrors the behavior of food prices,
which carry a 70 perc_nt weight in the composite CPI. These prices rose by
only 8 percent over the course of 1986, and remained flat in the early part of
1987. But, against the normal seasonal pattern, food prices increased in the
latter part of 1987 because of the weather-rela.ed declines in agricultural
production and higher prices for bread and bread-substitutes, as pre-SAP
stocks of wheat and other imported foodstuffs were depleted. In June 1988,
food prices were 57 percent higher than in June 1987.
14.       Labor Markets.  A key aspect of the austerity period that preceded
SAP was a sharp rise in unemployment, but labor was further injured by a steep
erosion of purchasing power, as the statutory price controls were unable to
forestall increases in consumer prices. But since the introduction of the
adjustment program, export prices have risen dramatically relative to wages,
thus raising the demand for labor in that sector. The labor market seems tG
be responding to this change in the environment, with the earlier rapid inflow
of labor into urban areas now replaced by return migration of workers taking
advanitage of better rural employment opportunities. The SAP has also improved
competitiveness in the urban sector.  Initial declines notwithstanding, the
available evidence suggests a 3 percent annual rise in overall employment
since the start of the program, largely attributable to better rural
employment opportunities. As employment needs to rise by 3 percent per year
simply to keep pace with labor force growth, the overall unemployment rate has
remained broadly unchanged. Following the upward revision of federal pay
scales earlier this year, nominal wages in the urban sector have begun to
rise, eroding some of the real exchange rate depreciation secured in 1986 and
1987.
15.       Balance of Payments.  The balance of payments is dominated by
developments in the oil market, debt service, and capital inflows. In 1986
oil exports, which account for 90 percent of total exports, totalled an
estimated US$6.4 bill4on, i.e., little more than one-fourth and one-half their
respective 1980 and 1985 values. They recovered marginally to US$7.0 billion
in 1987. Non-oil exports are estimated at US$0.4 billion in 1986 and
US$0.7 billion in 1987. Following successive drops since 1981, imports fell
in 1986 to US$6.7 billion, representing a drop in real terms of over
30 percent from 1985, and in 1987 to US$5.8 billion, a further drop in real
terms of some 23 percent. Debt service payments (excluding arrears) are
estimated at US$1.6 billion in 1987, while disbursements on foreign credits
are estimated US$0.9 billion. Import coverage of freely useable foreign
exchange reserves was only 1 month at end-1987. These broad trends continued
in the first half of 1988. Non-oil export performance strengthened, totalling
almost US$0.5 billion. Oil export values were estimated at US$3.4 billion,



- 6 -
close to the 1987 half year level. The value of imports was unchanged from
the corresponding period of the previous year, but the estimated 8 percent
rise in import prices implies a further compression of import volumes. Debt
service payments totalled US$0.7 billion, disbursement on foreign credits are
estimated at US$0.3 billion, and payments of arrears totalled US$0.3 billion.
The bulk of the financing of the balance of - --ments deficits has been in the
form of a rundown of reserves and debt reliet.
16.       Reschedulints.  The authorities sought the assistance of external
creditors to help finance the adjustment program. in November 1986, Nigeria
reached agreement with the Steering Committee of the London Club commercial
banks to reschedule US$1.7 billion in medium and long-term (MLT) maturities
falling due between April 1, 1986 and December 31, 1987 and US$2.1 billion in
arrears on letters of credit (LCs) outstanding as of September 26, 1986. The
package also included US$320 million in new money. But disbursement was
delayed pending the signing and effectiveness of the overall London Club
agreement, which took place late in 1987, and IMF Executive Board approval of
a new stand-by arrangement. The commitment expired in April 1988. More
recently, agreement was reached with the Steering Committee on a multi-year
rescheduling agreement, covering the LCs, which were to have been amortized
beginning this year, and MLT -- including previously rescheduled maturities
and maturities falling due in 1988 and beyond. The agreement also re3cheduled
the so-called 'payable debt', i.e., late interest and fees on the LCs, over a
three-year period. The agreement is expected to be signed in the early part
of 1989.
17.       Agreement with the Paris Club was reached in December 1986.  Thdt
agreement covered US$3.4 billion in MLT maturities and US$0.6 billion in LCs,
as well as US$2.8 billion in arrears and interest on insured trade credits
dating back to 1982-83. New money was to be agreed in bilateral negotiations
with individual official creditors. In the event, new money inflows from the
Paris Club were also delayed, pending the signing of the individual bilateral
agreements, payment of moratorium interest, and agreement with the IMF. There
have, however, been some disbursements on previously comritted loans for
ongoing projects.
18.       There was also a large stock of outstanding arrears on uninsured
trade credits dating from 1982-83. Under a previous agreement, promissory
notes were to be issued when the underlying cluims were reconciled and
accepted by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). Late interest was to be paid
when the notes were issued, and the notes were to be payable over the period
frcm July 1986 to December 1990. In 1986, the authorities announced that they
would be unable to meet the terms of the original a-reement and sought to
reschedule these claims as eell. Agreement was reached with these creditors
in January 1988 to reschedule US$4.8 billion in outstanding claims over 22
years with 2 years grace, at an interest rate of 5 percent.



- 7 -
PART II - THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Overview
19.       The external financing package for the reform program envisaged a
series of quick disbursing adjustment loans from the Bank. The TPED loan,
approved by the Board in October 1986, was the first in the series of such
loans. The proposed Trade and Investment Policy Loan (TIPL) is the second,
and work has begun on a possible third loan, which could address taxation and
public expenditure issues as well as the country's financial system. The
broad objective of this series of loans is to support the establishment of a
policy, incentive, and institutional framework designed to promote ar.
efficient supply response from the private sector, even as it eases the
foreign exchange constraint.
B. Experience with the Trade Policy and Export Development Loan
20.       TPED had grown out of discussions between senior officials of the
Government and the Bank on ways Lo stabilize the economy and to put it on a
sustainable growth path. The loan focussed on the exchange rate and related
trade policy reforms, including non-oil export promotion measures and provided
financial support for the Government's Structural Adjustment Program. With
the exception of US$2 millioni for technical assistance, the loan was fully
disbursed by May 1987. The undisbursed balance on the technical assistance
component of the loan now stands at US$1 million.
1. TPED Policy ProRram
21.       Foreign Exchange Market.  The centerpiece of the reform program and
the key measure supported by TPED was the introduction of the second-tier
foreign exchange market. Prior to SFEM's introduction in September 1986, the
allocation of foreign exchange had been subject to stringent but arbitrary
quantity rationing, as demand for foreign exchange at the official exchange
rate far outstripped supplv. With the introduction of SFEM, this cumbersome
and inefficient administt 've process was replaced by a floaLing exchange
rate system in which the price mechanism allocates foreign exchange across
competing uses. The market-determined exchange rate was merged with the
official first-tier rate as scheduled in mid-1987, transforming SFEM into FEM,
the Foreign Exchange Market. FEM comprises foreign exchange dealings between
the CBN and authorized foreign exchange dealers (through the auction of
official foreign exchgnge receipts), and between dealers and the public and
among dealers themselves (through the interbank market). Prior to unification
of the official and auction rates, foreign debt service payments and payments
to international organizations and embassies had been made at the official
exchange rate, which was allowed to depreciate more slowly than the auction
rate. Since unification, CBN still allocates foreign exchange directly for
these purposes, but the foreign exchange is valued at the auction rate.
Initially, other public sector foreign exchange requirements were also met
directly by the CBN, but at the auction rate. The 1988 budget announced that
henceforth such requirements would be met through FEM, although approvals for
such purchases are needed from the Foreign Exchange and Trade Relations
Departmen: of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development.



- 8 -
22.       Two implementation problems arose under TPED.  First, early in 1987
some crude oil receipts were diverted to special projects through so-called
dedication accounts held outside the CBN. Second, there was a tendency to
overf'md the auction -- i.e., at levels that could not be sustained given
projected foreign exchange receipts and uses. This tendency, coupled with
higher than programed public sector foreign exchange use in early 1987, led
the Batik to seek agreement with the authorities prior to the release of the
second tranche of the TPED loan on the principles to be applied in the
management of the foreign exchange cash flow.  These included: (a) the
discontinuation of the practice of setting aside oil export revenues for
special projects through 'dedication accounts' (except to build a reserve fund
for the LNG project); (b) the establishment of an agreed maximum amount for
public sector foreign exchange purchases; and (c) the reduction in the size of
the auction to the financially sustainable level of US$70 million fortnightly.
In the event, the authorities found these undertakings difficult to adhere to.
Although the oil dedication accounts were closed, the Nigerian National
Petroleum Company subsequently opened new accounts, in respect to earnings
associated with condensate production, to fund priority gas projects. And, as
the exchange rate depreciated sharply following the reduction in auction
funding in April 1987, the authorities reverted to a US$100 million
fortnightly auction at mid-year. As a result, freely useable reserves were
virtually depleted by the end of the year.
23.       The authorities' concern about the magnitude of FEM funding derives
from a deeper concern about the level of the exchange rate. That concern was
already apparent in 1987, when, in the face of a depreciating auction rate,
the authorities encouraged banks and other authorized foreign exchange dealers
to bid 'prudently' on the auction. This led to the emergence of a NO.5 per
US$1 differential between the auction rate and the interbank rate. But early
in 1988, as the public sector emerged as a major buyer in the interbank
market, that differential widened -- to over N2.0 per US$1.
24.       The pressure on the exchange rate reflected the pursuit of
expansionary monetary and fiscal policies in late 1987 and early 1988. On the
fiscal side, the substantial devaluation of the naira sharply increased the
value of petroleum receipts in naira terms, and federal revenues from customs
duties also rose. But these effects on revenues were offset by higher debt
service payments and expenditures with high import content -- other side
effects of the devaluation -- and large budgetary overruns, mostly on capital
expenditures and transfers to parastatals. In 1987, the federal budget
deficit on a commitments basis amounted to 8 percent of GDP, of which domestic
financing provided 2 percentage points. The thrust of the 1988 budget,
announced in early January, was reflationary, including a reflatiorL fund for
special works and an upward revision in federal pay scales. Monetary policy
also became more expansionary at the beginning of 1988, and in the event
private sector credit expanded more rapidly than planned.
25.       Import Policies.  Prior to the introduction of the adjustment
program, the trade policy regime was dominated by quantitative import
e~.ntrols, mainly in the form of a comprehensive licensing system and outright
bans. This approach tended to insulate relative prices in Nigeria from those
on world markets. The effect on resource allocation of these quantitative



controls, in combination with the overvalued exchange rate, overshadowed the
role of tariffs and excise duties in shaping the incentive environment. To a
large extent, customs duties served only to transfer part of the substantial
scarcity rents from importers to Government, rather than affecting the price
at which imports were sold. In conjunction with the opening of SFEM, the
previous import licensing system was abolished and the import prohibitions
list was reduced. The 30 percent import surcharge, which had been introduced
in January 1986, was also eliminated. Recognizing that dismantling import and
foreign exchange controls would mean that customs excise and duties would
become key determinants of the structure of incentives, the Government sought
to overhaul these schedules as an integral part of the adjustment program.
The first step in the process was tha implementation in October 1986 of an
interim customs and excise tariff in conjunction with the launching of SFEM.
This exercise reduced the average (unweighted) nominal rate of protection on
tariff rates for legally importable goods from over 33 to about 23 percent,
with most duty rates falling in the range of 10 to 30 percent. In general,
the interim tariff was not well received within Nigeria, partly because a
simultaneous shift ir customs procedures undermined collections. Producers in
all sectors voiced concerns about the dramatic reduction in protection
afforded by the new system, and a few of the tariff reductions were rolled
back in early 1987. The second step in the TPED action program was to
undertake a comprehensive tariff study, which was completed late in 1987, with
a view to establishing a more permanent structure of customs and excise
duties.
26.       Export Incentives.  Under TPED, the Governrment took action on
several policy fronts to promote exports. In addition to reforming the
foreign exchange regime and abolishing surrender requirements for exporters.
the Government eliminated export licensing, abolished most export
prohibitions, removed expert duties, and simplified export procedures and
documentation. As indicated above, the six agricultural commodity boards,
with their monopoly export powers, were also abolished. In accordance with
the conditions fo: second tranche release under the TPED loan, the Government
approved guidel,nes for operation of a revised Duty Drawback/Suspension
Scheme. After lengthy start-up delays caused by the need to establish a
mechanism for implementation, the scheme formally came into operation at the
end of July 1987. The CBN introduced a Rediscounting/Refinance facility for
exporters, although little use has been made of it so far. The Government
also undertook a study pursuant to the reorganization of the Nigerian Export
Promotion Council (NEPC).
27.       Subsector Studies.  Because of the critical nature of the
petrochemical and steel subsectors, the technical assistance component of TPED
financed in-depth studies to define longer term strategies and restructuring
plans for these subsectors, taking into account the radical changes in market
and resource prospects that have taken place in recent years. The
petrochemicals subsector study was completed in September 1987. It identified
a future investment strategy involving a project the scope of which would be
consistent with the size of the domestic market and prospects for export sales
and which would utilize foreign investment to assure appropriate technology
and incremental foreign exchange. The steel subsector study took longer to
launch. It began in March of this year, and the draft final report was



- 10 -
presented to Government in September. The report lays out options for the
Government, which focus on the issues of incremental capital costs (including
necessary infrastructure) to complete steel projects currently under
construction and the size of the domestic and export markets relative to
projected capacity.
2. Assessment
28.       Implementation of the program's structural measures was good,
although institutional weaknesses impeded the effective operation of some of
the trade policy reforms and undermined public support for them. With respect
to stabilization policies, implementation was initially good, but deteriorated
over the course of 1987, with public expenditures increasing sharply beginning
in the last quarter of the year. Coupled with the softening of world oil
markets this year, which reduced both foreign exchange availability and
budgetary revenues, this produced downward pressure on the exchange rate,
which the authorities resisted, undermining the central element of the reform
program, viz., the maintenance of an appropriately valued exchange rate. In
the circumstances, the urgent need is to consolidate the changes in the real
exchange rate achieved under SAP, by correcting the misalignment in the
nominal exchange rate that has developed this year and adopting macroeconomic
policies designed to stabilize prices and wages even as that correction is
made.
C. Trade and Investment Policy Loan Obiectives and History
1. Obiectives and History
29.       When the Structural Adjustment Program was first introduced, it was
heralded as a courageous break from the previous policy framework. The
experience under TPED and the first two years of reform suggests that
maintaining the reform momentum is a far more complex and arduous process than
designing and initiating new measures. The Nigerian authorities are keenly
aware of the difficulties involved in pursuing the reform path, but see
structural adjustment as a necessary step in establishing a firm economic
footing to prepare for the return to civilian rule, via national elections, by
1992. To this end, the Government has reaffirmed the goals of the SAP and
adopted a set of supporting measures designed to consolidate the reform
program, while broadening it to include investment policies. The thrust of
TIPL is thus to reinforce the policy program begun in 1986, with critical
focus on macroeconomic policies, institutional development, and mobilization
of foreign exchange resources.
30.       TIPL's appraisal was initiated in Lagos in July 1987 and was
concluded at technical discussions in February 1938. Negotiations were held
in Lagos and Washington over May-November 1988. Supplementary data on the
proposed loan are presented in Annex III. The long gestation period for the
loan reflects the complex nature of the operation, both in terms of its
bearing on many politically sensitive areas and in terms of bureaucratic
intricacies associated with the loan's institution-building components. It
also reflects intervening shifts in the stance of macroeconomic policy and the



- 11 -
subsequent major slippage on exchange rate policy that vas precipitated by the
expansionary policies pursued in late 1987 and early 1988.
2. Trade and Investment Policy Program
31.       The reform program is designed to influence the productive structure
of the economy over time by addressing the underlying determinants of
investment decision-making, because it is largely through investment that
structural adjustment takes place. To this end, the thrust of the policy
program supported by the proposed loan is: (a) to encourage private
investment by improving the administrative climate, especially for foreign
investment, so as to increase the availability of foreign exchange and
technology to the economy; (b) to streamline and reallocate the public
investment program to ensure that it supports growth, even as foreign
financing sources are fully and efficiently tapped; and (c) to ensure that the
price signals that inform investment decision-making are in line with
Nigeria's long run comparative advantage. In turn, this will require
appropriate valuation of the exchange rate and a consolidasion of the trade
reform initiatives begun last year. The policy agenda for the proposed loan
thus covers five broad areas: exchange rate policy; further refirm of the
protection regime; implementation of export promotion measures; stimulation of
private investment; and rationalization of the capital budgeting process and
the public investment program. The objectives and issues to be addressed in
each of these broad policy areas are described in the Government's Letter of
Trade and Investment Policy in Annex IV, and are discussed below. The
measures already taken, and the specific actions to be supported by the
proposed loan and their timing, are summarized in Annex V.
32.       ExchanRe Rate Policy.  The new exchange rate policy, whereby the
market rather than administrative mechanisms determines the allocation of
foreign exchange across competing uses, remains at the center of Nigeria's
reform program. However, as noted above, problems arose with the exchanee
rate system earlier this year, with thp differential between the auction rate
and the interbank rate, reaching over N2 per US$1 by August. Between
mid-September and mid-November, the authorities applied moral suasion to the
interbank market, even as the exchange rate in the auction was allowed to
depreciate. More recently, the interbank market has been allowed to operate
freely, and the auction rate has depreciated more sharply -- from N4.9 - US$l
in early November to N5.3 = US$1 in late November. Further adjustments of the
auction rate are expected in coming weeks, in line with the authorities' goal
of exchange rate unification. Pursuant to this end, the Central Bank intends
to shift from the fortnightly auction system to reliance on direct sales into
the interbank market. The new arrangements, which are to be in place by the
end of the year, were developed with technical assistance from the IMF. The
new system should also help reduce the visibility of CEN foreign exchange
sales, which had become highly politicized and led to the tendency to overfund
the market.
33.       In tandem with the shift in exchange rate arrangements, the
Government has indicated its intention of relying on monetary and fiscal
policy to ensure that the return to a market-determined exchange rate system
does not trigger a vicious circle of inflation and exchange rate depreciation.



- 12 -
To this end, the 1989 credit ceilings agreed with the IMF under the stand-by
arrangement negotiated for 1989, allow for an increase in overall credit of
9 percent and in broad money of 11 percent. The projected budget deficit
(comit.aents basis) amounts to 8 percent of GDP, compared with scheduled
foreign interest payments due, amounting to 10 percent of GDP. Seven
percentage points of the deficit are to be financed by external debt
reschedulings and financial inflows, leaving 1 percent of projected GDP to be
financed by domestic savings.
34.       This marks a substantial tightening of the stance of macroeconomic
policy. Already in mid-1988, the Government had recognized the need to scale
down its expenditure plans in the face of weak oil markets and mounting
pressures on the exchange rate. Based on cutbacks in capital spending,
expenditures in 1988 (excluding debt service) are now estimated to total some
85 percent of budgeted levels. The effect of this expenditure restraint --
combined with revenue increases from the more depreciated naira -- has been to
lower the estimated budget deficit by 5 percent of GDP compared with
projections based on the full implementation of the budget. Even so, the
fiscal deficit (commitments basis) is projected at 11 percent of GDP in 1988,
with 7 percentage points financed domestically and the remainder financed by
foreign debt service arrears   The program targets for 1939 imply a
3 percentage point reduction in the deficit-to-GDP-ratio, notwithstanding an
increase in foreign interest payments amounting to 1 1/2 percent of GDP. The
improvement reflects domestic revenue mobilization measures, including higher
excise taxes inter alia, and the effect of a more depreciated exchange rate in
boosting the naira value of oil export earnings despite their lower level in
terms of U.S. dollars. Recurrent and capital expenditures -- excluding
interest payments -- are programmed to decline by 4 percent in nominal terms,
involving a substantial real decline given the projected rise in the domestic
price level.
35.       Protection Regime.  Following the completion of the tariff study
discussed above, the Government announced a new tariff regime in the 1988
budget, enacted as the Customs Excise Tariff, etc. (Consolidation) Decree
No. 1 of 1988. Under the decree, import duty rates have been specified for a
seven year period, thus providing producers and consumers with a longer policy
time horizon within which to make decisions. Under the new tariff, while
average nominal rates of protection increased somewhat compared to the interim
schedules, for the most part the rise reflects increases in tariffs at the low
end of the spectrum, and the new scheaule exhibits lower variance than the
interim tariff. Moreover, the 28 percent average new tariff level is lower
than the average of 33 percent in the pre-reform period, which in any case
afforded much higher protection via the import licensing system. The decree
also introduced the concept of a landing charge, to serve as an implicit tax
on imports equivalent to the excise on corresponding domestic output, thus
providing the oasis tor a consumption tax, wlhich can be used to raise
additional revenues without distorting protection. In addition, the system of
General Concessionary Rates of duty on imports of certain inputs for
particular categories of producers was terminated; customs duty rates for
inputs imported for producers were unified across all regions of the country;
and discretionary duty exemptions, especially for Government and parastatal
import. ave been curtailed. These changes have removed a major source of



- 13 -
arbitrariness in the structure of protection. Finally, the prohibition list
:as revised to delete footwear and unfinished wood but to add barley malt for
brewing, aluminum sulphate, and used tires.
36.       The seven year time horizon notwithstanding, the Government
recognizes the need for finetuning some parts of the duty schedules, and is in
the process of correcting 'technical' anomalies that do not require further
study and removing selected import prohibitions. The broader aim is to
correct more substantive anomalies and to ensure that the structure of
protection is more consistent with the reform program objectives of
encouraging investment in activities with efficient local value added and
developing non-oil exports. To these ends, the Government has established a
Tariff Review Board with economy-wide responsibility for providing independent
advice to the Government on a wide range of assistance and protection issues,
based on the national interest as a whole and utilizing procedures that both
allow all interested parties to argue their respective positions and sabject
requests to rigorous analysis. The Board, which is served by a secretariat to
support its work, is undertaking a program of priority reviews of those
anomalies in the new schedules that require detailed examination of intra and
inter-sectoral issues. The initial agenda comprises cotton and synthetic
textiles; metals and engineering goods, including transport equipment,
machinery, appliances and other basic metal products; and paper and
paper-based products. These are all areas where substantial anomalies exist
under the 1988 tariff, often associated with negative effective protection for
downstream producers. The Board has also been instructed to review the items
on the import prohib'tion list, with a view towards replacing the prohibitions
with tariffs.
37.       Under the int rim tariff regime, deficiencies in customs procedures
resulted in significant under-collections of revenues due on imports, which
undermined protection and evoked a strong political backlash against the
interim tariff.  The Government has addressed the collections problem directly
by introducing a new import entry system, which links duty assessment to
offshore pre-inspection, involves the Treasury Department more closely in
collections, and facilitates the reform of customs surveillance procedures to
deter smuggling. New procedures took effect in April, and after an initial
teething period, are now functioning satisfactorily, with customs revenues up
considerably from the comparable period in 1987. Oversight for these efforts
is lodged with a newly created inter-ministerial Import Duty Monitoring
Committee, whose secretariat is to be established in the Budget Office. It is
expected that development of this secretariat will further enhance collections
through effective monitoring procedures, and that as public confidence in the
new system is established, the Government will be able to make further
progress in reforming the system of protection.
38.       Export Incentives.  The Government attaches high priority to
effective implementation of the export incentive measures initiated under
TPED, the most important of vhich is the implementation of the Duty
Drawbackl/Suspension Scheme (DDS). Duty drawback has been granted to several
manufacturing exporters. but implementation and processing of drawback
requests remains subject to difficulties in verifying the underlying import
and export transactions. The Government is in the process of transferring



- 14 -
responsibility for verification from the Department of Customs and Excise in
the Ministry of Internal Affairs to the Budget Office, where the Import Duty
Monitoring Committee is to develop the capability for maintaining the
appropriate data base. Duty drawback is also to be specifically included as a
line item in the 1989 budget. It was not budgeted specifically in 1988, but
treated as a reduction in customs revenues, which hindered the processing of
drawback requests.
39.       Private Investment.  A resumption of private sector investment is
essential both for growth in output and employment and for restructuring the
productive capacity of the economy. The reform program envisages that the
Government's role will be focussed on establishing a more stable and certain
policy environment, providing needed infrastructure and support services, and
eliminating the impediments to investment created by restrictive and
cumbersome regulations governing investment. These broad objectives are being
framed in a Statement of Industrial Policy, to be issued shortly. In keeping
with the new approach, the Government has recently established the Industrial
Development Coordination Committee (IDCC) as a one-stop shop for investment
approvals, and is providing a secretariat to support its work. The enabling
decree for the IDCC brings both the business permit and initial expatriate
staff quota under its jurisdiction. The decree requires the IDCC to approve
or reject proposed investment proje<-s within 30 days from receipt of
application. It also reaffirms thL ibolition of the need for locational
approval -- except for activities in which the Government has an equity
interest.
40.       A key issue in promoting private investment is the creation of a
more attractive environment for foreign equity investment. One important
consequence of SFEM/FEM has been improved access of foreign investors to
foreign exchange for remittance of dividends. In addition, the Government has
recently amended the Nigerian Enterprises Promotion Decree (NEPD) to expand
the range of activities in which foreign ownership is permitted, with a new
schedule allowing up to 80 percent foreign ownership in some activities.
Under the amendment, the definition of a Nigerian enterprise, a designation
which confers benefits in terms of access to credit and investment in
subsidiaries, has been changed from 100 percent Nigerian ownership to simple
majority ownership. Further liberalization of the foreign ownership
regulations is under active consideration.
41.        In order to promote private investment while reducing foreign debt,
the Government introduced a debt conversion program (DCP) earlier this year.
Initially limited to the promissory notes, the DCP is to be expanded to
include commercial bank debt, under the terms of the 1988 rescheduling
agreement with the London Club Steering Committee. The response so far has
been positive, with applications for the right to bid on the DCP auction
already amounting to over US$1 billion. Most applications are in the range of
US$7-10 million, covering new investments in manufacturing, agriculture and
agro-processing, and tourism. Bidding is on the basis of the discount offered
as a percentage of the face value of the debt to be redeemed, with each
successful bidder paying his bid discount. At the inaugural auction on
kSovember 30, there were bids totalling US$188 million for US$40 million in
conversion rights. The range of bid discounts was from 58 percent to



- 15 -
36 percent. There were 8 successful bids, including projects in the
manufacturing, agriculture, and mining sectors.
42.       The Government launched a program of fiscal incentives to encourage
private investment last year. The 1987 budget announced a 3-year tax
exemption for dividends derived from capital imported between 1987 and 1992
Tnd an increase in capital allowances.  In the 1988 budget, the Government
limited tax liability on dividends, interest, and royaltie6, to the amounts
subject to withholding, reduced the company tax rate for small and
medium-scale enterprises to 20 percent for the first 3 years of operation, and
further increased capital allowances for certain activities. More recently,
the Government has completely removed the previous 50 percent limit on the
proportion of profit that can be declared as dividends.
43.       Public Investment.  During negotiations of the TPED loan, it was
agreed that the Government would review with the Bank the size and composition
of the 1987 federal investment program, with the understanding that future
Bank adjustment lending would be directly related to the implementation of the
rationalization program. The Bank's review t the 1987 budget proposals
unearthed serious shortcomings in the federal capital budgeting process. The
most important was that there was no central procedure for selecting projects
based on economic rates of return and other quantifiable considerations. In
addition, there was no coordinated strategy for obtaining private and external
financing where appropriate. In the past, insufficient efforts had been made
to find external financing for some high return projects, while other projects
with large external financing requirements were approved, despite low or
negative rates of return, largely because of the availability of foreign
financing. Nor were there established procedures for responding to
fluctuations in revenues or to decisions by higher levels of Government to add
expenditures to the approved budget. Finally, neither the information nor the
procedures for budget and project monitoring were sufficient to prevent large
differences between the budget and actual spending.
44.       As part of the TIPL action program, the Government has intensified
its efforts to secure financing from non-budgetary sources. Ministries are
now expected to seek private sector participation where appropriate, and
efforts to seek external financing for viable projects have been increased.
The Federal Ministry of Finance & Economic Development (FMFED), which is
coordinating the foreign financing efforts, issued a policy statement in
February 1988 setting out guidelinee on foreign financing criteria. These
stipulate that for a project in the economic sector to be cleared for foreign
financing, it must be supported by a feasibility study establishing that it
has an internal rate of return that is at least as high as the cost of
borrowing. Subject to this proviso, external loan requirements of private
sector projects and public sector projects that are of a commercial and
quick-yielding nature may be sourced from international capital markets.
Concessionary financing is to be sought for social service and infrastructural
projects. All projects are being subjected to comparative minimum unit cost
tests using national and international yardsticks.
45.       During loan preparation, the Government appointed an inter-
ministerial Subcouuit'.ee on Public Investment to prepare guidelines for a



- 16 -
reformed capital budgeting process. Many of the Subcommittee's
recommendations were incorporated in the call circular for the 1989 Federal
Budget, including requirements for proper documentation of submitted projects
to enable the Ministry of Planning and Budget to make an accurate appraisal of
the economic rate of return. Emphasis was also given to encouraging selective
completion of ongoing projects before beginning new ones, mairtenance of
existing assets, and projects with low foreign exchange costs. Explicit
account is to be taken of the impact of each project on future recurrent costs
and external debt service charges. Each new capital project must be cleared
with the National Planning Office before budget reqaests can be made.
Cooperation and contact between the Planning and Budget Departments have been
enhanced now that they are in the same Ministry. An inter-ministerial budget
monitoring committee has been established to develop recommendations for
budget releases during the year that are in keeping with actual revenues and
the Government's macroeconomic targets.
46.       The Government's policy on public expenditures is to increase
emphasis on human resources and physical infrastructure as essential
complements to private sector growth and to decrease direct investment in
activities with commercial potential. These priorities are reflected in the
decreasing percentage of the capital budget allocated to steel and other
industries, and the increasing percentage to health and road transport. In
the recurrent budget, expenditures on materials and supplies, which have been
a key constraint on the provision of essential public services, were increased
in 1988. and a specific provicinn was made for maintenance. When reductions
in spending became necessary during 1988, the largest percentage reduction
(75 percent) was in the reflation fund projects, which had been designed as
non-core projects to be undertaken if financing was available. The average
reduction in the regular capital budget was 30 percent, while recurrent
spending was protected at budgeted levels. While the specific allocations for
the 1989 budget have not been finalized, the authorities have indicated the'r
broad agreement with the recent Public Expenditure Review mission's findings
and their intention to rely on the reformed capital budgeting process.
47.       As noted in para. 27, TPED financed studies of the petrochemicals
and steel subsectors. The petrochemicals study had a major impact on the
Government's approach to petrochemicals development and on scaling down of the
proposed development plan in line with the projected market size. The steel
study has just been finished and it will take some months before the
Government formulates its restructuring plan. Meanwhile, the Government has
slowed the pace of works at the Ajaokuta project and the associated Itakpe
Iron Ore Mine and set a cap for expenditures on the steel subsector --
financed from all sources including arrears -- at an annual rate of
1700 million at an annual rate. This contrasts with an estimated N2.0 billion
in 1987 and N1.2 billion in 1988.
48.       Subventions to parastatals have been a substantial drain on the
federal budget, and the Government has been taking steps to place them on a
sound financial footing. Work on the rationalization of public enterprises
with a view towards commercialization/privatization as appropriate is well
underway, in accordance with the Privatizatioa and Commercialization Decree
issued in July 1988. The Decree identified 14 companies for partial



- 17 -
commercialization -- including Nigerian Electric Power Authority (NEPA), the
Nigerian Railway Corporation, and the Ajaokuta Steel Company -- and 11
companies for full commercialization -- including Nigerian National Petroleum
Corporation (NNPC), Nigerian Telecommunications (NITEL), and the Nigerian Port
Authority.  The Decree defined commercialized enterprises as profit-making
commercial ventures operating without subventions from the Government, with
the power to set prices, capitalize assets, and borrow money. In line with
the Government's objective to establish the financial independence of the
parastatals, tariffs for Nigeria Airways and the Nigerian Railway have been
raised, and, at the request of the Government, the Bank is assisting in an
urgent review of the railwavs to recommend major reforms in future operations
and opportuniti-s to raise revenues further. NITEL tariffs for overseas
telephone calls were also increased last year, by 300-600 percent, followed
last month by 100 percent increases in tariffs for domestic service.
Proposals have recently been approved for a sweeping reform of NEPA -- which
will permit efficiency to be pursued in the context of partial
commercialization. It appears that long overdue increases in electricity
tariffs could begin to occur in 1989, but the pace has yet to be determined.
NNPC has been fully commercialized to operate as an international oil company.
It has been empowered in principle to set domestic petroleum prices in line
with those prevailing in world oil markets. A formula for such pricing has
been adopted, which when fully implemented, will largely eliminate the
implicit subsidy on such products and permit changes in world oil prices and
the exchange rate to be automatically passed through to domestic prices.
D.   External Financing and Macroeconomic Prospects
49.       External Financing.  The financing requirements of the program are
substantial and have been increased by the continuing weakness of world oil
prices. Because of the already large stock of debt outstanding, Nigeria is
unable to secure as much foreign finankcing as it could profitably use. Taking
into account the trade-off between growth and foreign exchange availability,
the Bank and the Fund have worked closely with the Government to determine the
financing gap and to put together a feasible financing plan for 1989. Broadly
speaking, the projections assume the rescheduling of all MLT, the
re-rescheduling of the London and Paris Club LCs, and the rescheduling of
scheduled interest on Paris Club MLT and all interest on previously
rescheduled debt falling due in 1988 and 1989. With respect to new money, the
Japanese Government is considering cofinancing TIPL under its recycling
program through its two implementing agencies, Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund (OECF) and Exim Bank. The U.K. is also considering providing financial
suppoft for the program, while the reopening of cover by export credit
agencies is expected to lead to US$250 million in tied new credits from Paris
Club participants.
50.       Prospects.  The limitations imposed by the foreign exchange
constraint notwithstanding, there are prospects for positive real growth in
1988 and 1989. Agriculture should recover from the sharp declines registered
in 1987. Moreover, the shift to local sourcing for inputs into manufacturing
should continue. Coupled with an improved composition of imports, this should
permit modest growth in the sector despite the projected decline in the total
volume of imports. Overall GDP is forecast to grow by 5 percent in 1988 and



- 18 -
2.5 percent in 1989. However, because of intervening increases in population,
this amounts to a small drop in real consumption per capita over the two-year
period.
51.       Based on projected world oil market developments, the situation
should ease somewhat starting in 1990 -- although there will be a need for
further reschedulings and donor support. The price for Nigerian crude oil is
projected to rise from US$14.50 per barrel in 1989 to US$16.50 per barrel in
1990 and to rise further in 1991, reaching US$19.50 per barrel by 1995. Oil
export volumes should also increase, reflecting domestic substitution of gas
for fuel oil in power production and the effects of projected increases in
domestic petroleum prices or. local usage. Gross investment as a percentage of
GDP is projected to increaee from its low point of 12 percent in 1987 to about
14 percent in 1995 -- which is still below the levels reached in the early
1980s -- with most of the projected increase in private investment. The
national savings rate is also projected to increase, primarily because the
very large federal deficits of recent years are expected to decline as higher
projected oil prices bring increa3ed revenues to the governmert.  Even so,
substantial inflows of foreign capital will be necessary to offset large
projected debt service payments and thereby to permit growing export revenues
to be translated into sufficient real import growth to sustain modest
increases in per capita consumption over tLe period.
52.       Creditworthiness.  The above forecast implies net additions to the
external debt stock of Us$8 hillion hetween end-1987 and end-1995* But even
assuming long rescheduling periods, some US$3 billion would need to be on
concessional terms if the post-rescheduling debt service ratio is to be kept
in the 35 percent range. These assumed inflows notwithstanding, Nigeria's
cumulative resource balance over the period 1990-95 would still be in surplus
(about US$13 billion) reflecting the continuing high debt service
requirements. On this basis, external debt, which is approaching 400 percent
of receipts from exports of goods and non-factor services, would decline to
275 percent of projected export receipts by end-1995.
53.       Oil Price Sensitivity.  Given that oil revenues supply
90 percent of export proceeds, any shortfall from the base case oil price or
volume assumptions would lead to a reduction in resources available for
imports and, in turn, for growth. Under alternative assumptions about oil
price developments, for example, if oil prices increase by only 3 percent in
1990 (compared to 13 percent in the base case) and then grow at the same rate
through 1995, the projected growth in per-capita income in 1990 would be
eliminated, and even the growth rates in subsequent years would be slightly
lower because of the foregone intervening investment.
E.   Social Impact
54.       In assessing the program's social impact, it is important to
distinguish between the effects of the shocks that necessitated the program
and the effects of the program itself. The decline in oil export revenues,
from US$25 billion in 1980 to US$12 billion in 1985 and to US$6 billion in
1986, prompted a sharp cutback in imports, which fell from US$18 billion in
1981 to under US$7 billion in 1986.  In real terms, the decline was even more



- 19 -
dramatic. The program, by contrast, includes the shift to a market-based
foreign exchange rationing system, the exchange rate change, and the stance of
macroeconomic policy. The additional distinction -- between the program's
actual effects and public perception within Nigeria of its effects -- is also
relevant, as it is critical for an understanding of the dynamics of public
support for the program and the design of measures to bolster its political
sustainability.
55.       Much of the economy's foreign exchange earninbe during f-he oil boom
was absorbed by public investment projects and capital flight, with the
remainder directed mostly at providing imports for the growing urban market.
Imports of raw materials and intermediate products were required to supply the
assembly industries established in the 19709 and early 19809, and large
foreign exchange allocations also went for imports of wheat, rice, and other
foodstuffs. Travel and other perquisites of the urban middle class absorbed
additional amounts of foreign exchange. These activities, by virtue of their
prominence in foreign exchange use, have naturally borne the brunt of the
adjustment to the over level of foreign exchange availability. Accordingly,
the urban upper and middle classes, and producers specializing in assembly
operations for consumer durables directed at that market, have been most
affected by the shortfall in foreign exchange earnings. But the poor have
also suffered, as urban consumers' shift from imported food products to yams
and cassava has ratcheted up prices for these products, which were further
boosted by last year's poor harvest.
56.       While the cutbarks in foreign exchange use were inevitable, the
utilization of market-mechanisms to effect them was not. Indeed, during
1983-85, the Government had relied on direct foreign exchange rationing and
import licensing, which conferred substantial scarcity rents on those securing
access to foreigr, exchange. But the exchange rate depreciation that
accompanied the reform program put a price tag on access to foreign exchange,
with the revenues therefrom accruing to the Government. While the Federal
Government's increased naira earnings have been broadly offset by
commensurately higher naira expenditures for foreign debt service and
import-dependent public investment projects, state governments, who share in
oil earnings via the revenue-sharing formula, are less encumbered by foreign
obligations. Their budgets have improved since the introduction of SFEM.
Over time, this should permit some restoration of social services, which had
been drastically cut back in the pre-reform era.
57.       The exchange rate depreciation has also altered relative incomes
within the private sector. Although overall GDP growth has been limited since
the introduction of SAP because of the foreign exchdnge constraint, the
changed structure of incentives has implied increases in income for some and
losses for others. For example, the exchange rate depreciation has sharply
increased returns to non-oil exports, and producers of agricultural cash
crops, especially cocoa, have enjoyed significant increases in their output
prices.  Those engaged in the manufacture of products based on local resources
have also benefitted from the movement in the exchange rate. Jith respect to
food crops, the effect of the SAP has so far been small compared with the
impact of weather conditions. Adjustment-related supply shifts into



- 20 -
cash crops and adverse weather conditions caused a 10 percent decline in total
food crop production in 1987. But the resumption of more favorable weather
patterns -- and sharply higher prices -- is expected to result in increasec
production of food crops in both 1988 and 1989.
58.       Prior to the introduction of the SAP, the rate of urban unemployment
had risen to 11 percent as a result of the decline in oil revenues and real
public sector expenditures. In the initial phase of the SAP, the situation
worsened as the large scale manufacturing sector continued to release labor.
But by March 1988, the urban unemployment rate had fallen below 8 percent,
suggesting considerable buoyancy in the informal sector and the emergence of
new enterprises. The reduction in urban unemployment also reflects a movement
of labor back to agriculture in line with the newly emerging structure of
incentives. Survey results indicate that most migrant.i returned to their own
villages and gained access to land relatively easily. Family land allocation
mechanisms thus seem to have been able to accommodate the re-entry process.
These favorable developments notwithstanding, overall unemployment has not
decreased. Growth in employment of 3 percent a year has been sufficient to
just offset the increase in the labor force leaving the aggregate unemployment
rate broadly unchanged. Thus, while the effects of the SAP can be discerned
in the changes in the structure of employment, an improvement in the
unemployment situation will require further relaxation of the foreigni exchange
constraint.
59.       While the principal losers from the drop in oil prices and the
program have been the urban middle classes, rising food pr.ces have
highlighted the plight of the poor in Nigeria, who spend over 75 percent of
thelr income on food. These effects have been exploited by the opponents of
reform, who have argued that the program 'lacks a human face." In the
circumstances, the Government recognizes the need for special measures to
mitigate the social costs of adjustment, and is taking action along two
fronts. First, in view of the urgent need for additional flows of foreign
exchange, the Government is preparing for a Consultative Group for Nigeria.
The first meeting of the Group would provide an opportunity to generate
concessional assistance to finance the increased flow of imports necessary for
adequate growth. The recent Bank decision to make Nigeria IDA-eligible will
impro-re substantially the prospects for a successful meeting. Second, the
Government's public investment program is being focused more directly on the
needs of the poor. For example. within the share of the budget allocated to
education, fuwnding is being directed away from higher education towards
primary education. Similarly, health expenditures are being directed
increasingly towards primary care, with the objective of establishing one
model health care unit in each Local Government Area. In additiol the
Government is preparing several projects that are designed to address
specifically the needs of some of the disadvantaged groups in society. Among
these are the Entrepre.eurship Development Program, which will help those
seeking to establish new businesses, a Public Works Program intended to
generate employment while simultaneously creating fixed assets, and a Mass
Transit Scheme, which will support the development of inexpensive urban
transport and offset some of the effects of higher fuel prices. These
programs would be candidates for funding through the Consultative Group.



- 21 -
F.   Risks
60.       The SAP has produced fundamental changes in the economic
environment, and the dynamic and entrepreneurial spirit of the Nigerian people
has responded well to the shift to a more market-oriented incentive framework.
Major signs of adjustment are evident throughout the economy and a recov2ry of
the manufacturing sector is underway, despite the further sharp compression of
imports during 1986-88. These gains notwitheti ting, there remains an
undercurrent of dissatisfaction in Nigeria with the program. For the most
part, this reflects its close association with the depreciation of the naira
and rising prices, along with the widespread perception within Nigeria that
the pace of the recovery has been too slow. Timing has also been a factor, in
that the program period coincided with the second wave of the collapse of
world oil markets.
61.       While commitment to the program at the highest levels of Government
remains strong, the political coalition that supports reform is fragile, and
there is continuing pressure for visible evidence of an economic turnaround.
The low level of oil prices has made the task of delivering on these goals
that much harder, as the Government's ability to finance imports at levels
consistent with a susta'ned recovery has been severely reduced. In additicn,
the further depreciation of the exchange rate that is now required will weaken
political support for reform and strengthen the hand of those who have already
been arguing for unilateral reductions in external debt service payme ts.
Pressures to abandon the program and to reject conditionality imposed by the
international community will undoubtedly intensify, unless sufficient external
resources can be mobilized to ensure a reasonable level of impozts.
G. Loan Features and Operation
62.       Loan amount.  The proposed loan amount is US$500 iillion.  The loan
proceeds would be used to finance general imports of goods co support the
implementation of policy reforms discussed above. The procdeds would
supplement the Government's own resources and other external funding to be
channeled through the foreign exchange market. No technical assistance
component to assist in implementation of the action program is envisaged;
these needs would be met through existing technical assistance projects.
63.       Loan Channelling.  The Government of Nigeria would be the borrower
of the proposed loan, the foreign exchange proceeds of which would be made
available by the Government to the CBN. The CBN would administer and disburse
the funds, and a project agreement would be concluded between the Government
and the CBN. The CBN would: (a) maintain separate accounts to record and
monitor disbursements and repayments; (b) establish a special account; and (c)
arrange for an audit of such accounts by auditors acceptable to the Bank and
submit certified copies of the relevant audited accounts to the Bank within
six months of the end of each fiscal year. The auditor's report would include
an opinion on whether satisfactory procedures are in operation at the CBN
regarding the use of Statements of Expenditure.



- 22 -
64.       Procurement.  The proceeds of the proposed loan would be used
exclusively for the financing of the foreign exchange cost of eligible imports
through the foreign exchange market. Procurement procedures have been
designed to permit rapid use of the funds while ensuring efficiency and
economy. Except for a ew exclusions that would comprise imported crude oil,
luxury goods, defense items, and uranium, any imports would be eligible for
financing. There would be no retroactive financing. Imports below
US$5 million by private entities and parastatal would be procured in
accordance with their normal procedures; the parastatals procedures have been
reviewed and are acceptable to the Bank. Imports by the Government sector
below US$5 million would be procured according to local procedures which have
been reviewed and are acceptable to the Bank. Imports worth US$5 million or
more would be subject to international competitive bidding according to Bank
guidelines. International suppliers are well represented in Nigeria; this,
together with the foreign exchange market and trade liberalization, should
ensure an internationally competitive market in which importers can be relied
on to procure their goods and services from the most efficient sources and to
minimize costs.
65.       Disbursements.  The proposed loan is expected to be disbursed within
a period of 12 months. The loan would finance 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for imports of eligible goods. Contracts for less than US$50,000
in value would not be eligible for reimbursement. All disbursements would be
fully documented, with the exception of reimbursement applications related to
_ontracts of less than US$2 million, wh'ch would be disbursed on the basis of
statements of expenditure and for which the supporting documentation would be
reta'ned by the CBN. To facilitate rapid execution of the project, the Bank
would, upon loan effectiveness, make an initial deposit in a Special Account.
H. Monitoring and Tranche Release Conditions
66.       Under TPED, a monitoring unit housed in the Ministry of Finatice was
established to prepare periodic reports for the Bank and Fund on key
indicacors of the program. The unit has been strengthened by computerizqtlon
of the reporting system financed under a World Bank Technical Assistance
Project. Under TIPL, it will continue to provide regular reports on the
program includ.ng the following: monthly foreign exchange cash flow
statements fro. the CBN, monthly accounting statements of the Nigerian NNPC,
monthly reports from the joint working group overseeing the new customs duty
assessment and collection prc:ne'l1res, quarterly reports on ministerial
spending, including extra budgetary allocations and supplemental warrants, and
expenses incurred and expenditures made for all steel projects including
Itakpe Iron Ore. The Bank will also monitor the program through the resident
mission in Lagos and regular visits from headquarters staff.
67.       Disbursement of the proposed loan would be in two tranches of
US$250 million each. The first tranche would be available upon effectiveness
of the loan. The second tranche would be disbursed following a tranche review
some 4-6 months after Board presentation.  The tranche review would assess
general adherence to all commitments, including the status of the loan's
institution-building components. The specific focus wou.lid be on (a) progress
in meeting the external financing needs for 1989; (b, funding and operation of



- 23 -
the foreign exchange market; (c) implementation of the 1989 budget, including
specifically the public investment program; (d) the adoption of a
restructuring plan for the steel subsector; and (e) Tariff Review Board
operations and adjustments in tariff schedules and the import prohibition
list. Broadly speaking, the objectives of the review would be to ascertain
that the program was on track with respect to its objectives of encouraging
private investment, streamlining public investment, and ensuring appropriate
price signals for private and public sector decision-making. Given the
authorities' intention to use monetary and fiscal policy to influence the
exchange rate, the interplay between budgetary developments and the operation
of FEH according to market principles will clearly be central elements in the
review, which will be conducted in close consultation with the IMF.
PART III - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
68.       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of September 30, 1988 amounted to
US$4,147.8 million, The amount of loans disbursed as of September 30, 1988
was US$2,630.5 million, leaving an undisbursed balance of US$1,477.4 million.
Two IDA credits (dating from the 1960s) totalling US$39.9 million equivalent
have been fully disbursed.  Agriculture accounts for 40.0 percent of total
Bank and IDA commitments, industry and energy for 15.7 percent; transport,
urban an.d water supply for 28.0 percent; education, health and population for
3.2 percent; adjustment lending for 10.9 percent; and other operations
(including technical assistance and a post-war rehabilitation loan) for
2.2 percent. IFC loans and equity investments amounted to US$69.7 million as
of September 30, 1988; about 84 percent of these were for manufacturing
industries and 16 percent for tourism. Annex VI contains a summary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments.
69.       To support the Government's reform program, the Bank's proposed
lending program envisages a series of quick-disbursing policy-based loans. A
Financial Policy and Development Loan, aimed at promoting efficient resource
intermediation, both through the budget and financial intermediaries, has been
included in the lending program as a follow-up to TIPL. The Bank's adjustment
lending would be complemented by a broad program of sector activities, the
ultimate objective of which would be to facilitate growth in the productive
sectors in line with Nigeria's long run comparative advantage. The sectoral
strategies stress improvements in efficiency, along with various
sector-specific objectives.  Project specific assistance vould help ease the
constraints to growth created by infrastructure bottlenecks, in many cases
arising from years of inadequate maintenance. Institutional strengthening and
rationalization, aimed at a greater degree of public sector cost
effectiveness, would be integral parts of these operations.
70.       Agriculture will remain the backbone of the sectoral lending
program, with the objective of developing institutional capability via
financing of programs designed to promote sustainable increases in crop and
livestock production. The multi-state development projects would focus on the
dissemination of high yielding packages through strengthened extension and
supporting credit systems, while federal projects would cover research and
credit. Industry is likely to respond to the structural adjustment program by



- 24 -
a shift toward exports and a change in composition towards small and
medium-sized firms and towards agro-based and high domestic value-added
industries. Given the emphasis on private sector development, the Bank's
current strategy stresses technical assistance and an apex lending operation
for private small and medium-scale enterprises. An industrial restructuring
operation envisaged for FY90 would also cover industrial enterprises needing
to adjust to the changes in the exchange rate and tariff protection. In the
oil and gas sector, emphasis will be placed on progressively substituting
natural gas usage for oil and other fuels in the domestic economy and on
realizing Nigeria's non-oil hydrocarbon export potential.
71.       Costs and inefficiencies arising from poorly msintained
infrastructure are important themes in the water, urban, power, transport, and
telecommunications sectors. These are all critical areas for growth in the
productive sectors. In view of the large unmet needs, the strategy in the
urban and water sectors emphasizes both rehabilitation and expansion of
infrastructure. Important institutional and policy o"jectives include
improved management and resource mobilization, at both the state and local
government levels, and establishment of sustainable, market-oriented,
financing mechanisme for priority investments. In power, the emphasis is on
both relieving generation bottlenecks and improving transmission and
distribution facilities, while ensuring cost recovery through economic
pricing. In the transport sector, maintenance and rehabilitation of federal
and state highways take priority, along with improved operations and finances
of the transport parastatals.
72.       The social sectors will concentrate on improving quality and
effectiveness by upgrading planning capacity and public management capability.
In education, the objective is also to shift the focus of higher education
away from academic subjects towards providing more technical skills relevant
to the market place. The health, population, and nutrition program is
designed to help deliver effective primary health care and family planning
services, focussing on rehabilitation of existing public health facilities,
strengthening the capacities of the local governments and communities to
provide effective services, installing efficient drug supply measures, and
mobilizing revenues through cost recovery. The Bank is also helping to
develop a national population project to assist the Government in implementing
its recently enunciated population policy. The project aims at developing a
multi-sectoral institutional capacity to design and manage population
activities.
PART IV - RELATIONS WITH THE IMF
73.       The Government began discussions with the IMF on a possible drawing
under the Extended Fund Facility in 1983. However, these discussions made
little progress and broke down over differences over exchange rate policy.
Following the introduction of the SAP in 1986, negotiations with the IMF for a
stand-by arrangement were initiated. However, the Nigerian authorities made
clear at the outset their intention, for domestic political reasons, not to
draw on the facility. In mid-December 1986, the IMF Executive Board
conditionally approved a 13-month stand-by arrangement for SDR650 million in
support of the program. It was fully approved in January 1987, when the



- 25 -
critical mass of the commercial banks had expressed willingness to participate
in the 1986-87 rescheduling package. However, the Fund was unable to complete
any of the reviews under the stand-by, partly on account of difficulties with
public sector spending, but agreement on the domestic price for petroleum
products also presented an obstacle. The stand-by expired at
end-January 1988. Negotiations for a new stand-by, for 1989, were recently
completed. The program is expected to be presented to the IMF Executive Board
in January.
74.       Bank and Fund staff will continue to work together in providing the
Government technical assistance in managing the adjustment effort. In this
regard, the IMP's concentration will be on the operation and modalities of the
foreign exchange market, and in monitoring fiscal and monetary policies. The
Bank will assist the Government in designing and monitoring of trade
liberalization measures, including tariffs and the incentive framework, the
public investment program, private investment incentives, and sectoral
policies. The staffs of the two organizations will continue to share
information and coordinate actions and recommendations throughout the period
of the loan.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 30, 1988



- 26 -                                   ANNEX I
(Page I of 2)
NIGERIA BASIC DATA SHEET
Social Indicators:
Area:  921 .                          Population:    16. 7                         D.neityi  116
(1,166l kie)                          (millons 1907)                              (per km-)
Rat. of growth: 3.4
Population Characteristics:                            He lth:
Crude birth rat. (per 1,616):  56                      Infant mortality:  104
Crude death rate (per 1,606):  16                      (per 1,00  live births)
Life expectancy (years):        C1                     Population per physician (1,666)   9.4
Population per hospital bed (1,666)   1.4
Access to safe water:                                    Maternal mortality:  15
X of populatlon - urban:  60                           (per 1,006 live births)
- rural: 15
Nutrition:                                             Education:
Calorie Intake:  2139                                  Primary school enrollment rat.o  75X
Per capita protein Intake (g/day): 46
GWP per capita (US$, 1987): 370
GROSS NATIONAL PROOUCT.              1997               ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (X. constant prices)
USsMin       %           1977-01        1991-86           1987 (Eat)
NP at Market Prices            23 67      166.6          -3.a              0.1            -5.60
Gross Dometic Investment        3603       13.6           2.7            -17.6           -21.6
Gross National Saving           2683       11.6          -0.4              6.9           -14.9
Current Account Balane          -464       -2.0         -16.3               --              --
Export of Goods, NFS            7738       38.6           4.0             -1.3           -12.6
Import of Goods, NFS            6709      29.1           656             -20.0           -26.0
OUTPUT. EMPLOYMENT, AND PRODUCTIVITY:
Value Added               Labor Force            V  o par Worker
USSVln                    MiUn      XUt                     X 
Agriculture               7468    29.7           25.6       s8            269           44
Petroleum                 7907    31.7            0.4         1         19768         3037
Manufacturing             2187     9.8            3.7       16            691           91
Conetruction               331     1.3            6.5        1            662          102
Services                  6861    26.7            7.6       20            887          137
Total/Average         24484                   37.6                     661
GOVERNMENT FINANCE:
General Government                   Fedoral Government
(N Sin)        % of CDP             (N Bin)            X of GOP
Current Receipts         26.1         26.8  20.9             17.2            17.6   11.6
Curront Expenditure      21.6         21.4  14.6             16.3            16.6    6.7
Current Surplus           6.1          6.2   6.4              0.9             0.9    4.9
Capital Expenditures    12.1          12.8  16.1              8.6             8.7   12.3



- 27 -                            ANNEX I
(Page 2 of 2)
MONEY, CREDIT A PRICES:                 1965         1966      1"?       Jun. 196S
7i II IIne-oresi re,   itof pe-l*d5
Moey Supply (M2)                        28702       24344      29670       531W
lonk Credit to Public Sector            l1551       17644      19474       19M2T
Book Credit Private Secter              14580       16611      18746       26079
(Percentes_ or Index Numbers)
M2 as S of f                               29          80         80          --
Consuer Price Index (1975 * 100) 1/    474            58$        591         756
Annual percetage chanrt    In: e
Consumr Price Indx j/                       1          14          *          42
Sank Credit to Public Sector                1           8          10          7
Sank Credit to Prlvoto Sector               9          29         18          28
BALANCE OF PAYFENTS:
1964    1966   1966   1967   MERCOANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1984-87)
(-illins ofSS))
USS Mln     X
Exports of Goode, CNFS          12,824  12,861  6,978  7,998   Petrolou- Products                       9,388     96
(of which Petroloum V)        11,660  12,203  6,871  7,032   Cocoa                                     232       2
Importe of Goods, CNfS          10 749   9 910  8 069  6 709   Manufactured Goods                          62      1
Resource Gap (deficit * -)      -157I   UUT -11Th   1,28    All other coinoditioo                         122      1
Total                                 9'99 i    T
Interost Paymento (net)         -1,629  -1,612   -600 -1,174
Othor Factor Payments (net)       -811    -190   -191   -480   EXTERNAL DEBT (12/31/87)
Net Transfoer                     -382    -260   -171   -184                                           USS Min
Balance on Current Account         -897     879 -1,970   -454
Direct Private Foreign              169     360    866    886   Public Debt.  ncl. Guaranteed and
Investment                                                     Non-Guaranteed Private Dobt
Net MLT Borrowing                  -165  -1,216    811   659    Total Outstanding A Disbursed           28,283
Disbursements                  2,000   1,650  1,268    688
Amortization                  -2 216  -2 6D6   -989   -270   I8RO/IDA LENDING
Subtotal                        ±111      -   -6TW    -i                                              ISRO     IDA
Other Capital (net)                                              Outstanding A Disburosd           2,939.31   32.29
and Capital no.l.              1 U88      283  -476 -1 100                                         983.91        0
Inereas  In Roserves (.)           476    21R       --W   I7 a,I92 M2   Uli
Gross Roesrvoe  (end yeor)        1,692   1,693  1,144    842   NET DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1987 3/
Public Debt, inel. Guareanted and
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding A Disbursed                 20.9
EXCHANOE RATE:
Annual Avoroee             End Period
196      ;967   Jon-Jun 1988   iov1T
USS1.00 a N    1.86      4.01       4.20          4.67
N1.00 a US8    0.74      0.25       4.67          0.19
End of period.
j/ Crude and derivatives.
Poet-ro ehoduling debt service, not of Interest earned on foreign exchango reserves, as a
percentago of Exports Goods, NFS. Inclu os undisburoed payments Into Bank of England special account for
tho 1996 Paris Club roecheduling agreement.



- 28 -                                                   ANNEX II
(Page 1 of 5)
Nigeria   BAlANCE OF PAYKENTS  a/
(US$ millilons)
Actual                  Preliminary                          Projected
1982    1983    19P4   1985   198b   1907   1988   1989   1990   1991    1992    1993   1994   1995
_       - - -   - - -    - - - _-_ _- -_ _ -  ..  ..     - - -    - - -   - - -   - - -   . . .   - - -   -  -
A.I. Eaports                        12668  10738  12324  12851    6973    7993    7389    7162   8491    9154  10589  11326  12140  13033
2. Merchandlse                    12154  10370  11891   12560   6770    7732    7117   6919   8204   8844  10231  10943  11729  12593
3. Mon-factor Services              514     368     433      285     203     262     272      242     287     310     358     383      411    '41
5.1. Imports                       -18353 -13827 -10749  -9910   -8089  -6709  -6507   -6756  -7075  -7605   -8198  -8858  -9757 -10746
2. Merchhndise                   -14879 -11651   -8882  -8279  -6744   -5774  -5600  -5814  -6089  -6545  -7055  -7623  -8397  -9248
3. Non-Factor Services            -3476  -2376  -1867  -1631   -1345   -935    -907    -942    -986  -1060   -1143  -1235  -1360  -1498
C.1  Resource Balance               -5685  -3089    1575   2941   -1116   1284    882           606   1416    1549   2391    2468   2383   2287
D.1. Not Factor Income              -1416  -1723  -2140  -.802    -691   -1604  -1091  -1749  -2393  -2511   -2555  -2509  -2415  -2327
2. Factor Receipts                  356     110      116     122      96      50      28       40      72      99     109     127      139    135
3  Factor Payents                 -1772   -1833   -2256  -1924   -787  -1654  -1119  -1789  -2465  -2610  -266'  -2637  -2556  -2462
a. Interest Debits            -1251   -1632  -1945  -1736    -596  -1224   -951  -1615  -2283  -2414   -2453  -2408  -2303  -2185
. 1. Net Current Transfers           -629    -395    -332    -260   -171    -134    -150   -150    -165    -182    -186    -191    -196   -201
F1.. Current Account                -7530  -5207    -897       879   1978   -454        359  -1494   -1142  -1144    -351    -233    -228   -241
G.1. Long-term Capital               3373   2262        34   -866      652      98     4*35    1476    1694    1221      515     497     244    126
2. Net Dlrect Investment            630     365     189      35SG    3r8     34e     355     400      447     469    4*92     517     543     570
3. Official Transfers                 0       0        0       C      2e       C'      C        0       0       0       0       0       0       0
4. Hot LT Borrowing                2943    1897    -155    1215    3i       s5s6      80   1076    1247       752      23     -2C   -299   -46
a. Disbursements               3769   3058   206:   165C    025'    86b           7l5   1995   2103    1682    1497    1588   1559   1634
b. Repayments                  -827  -1161   -2216    28t6   -9.-         2 '    6ss   -919    -856    -930  -1474  -1608  -1857  -2078
8.1. Other Items (net)               1790   2300    1338       283     4'S   llCC       -22     230       0       0        0       0       0       0
2. Net Short-Term                 -1143   -2095       18     5.4  -I59S    -138    -353      230        0       0       0       0       0       0
3. Reduction of Arrears            2929    3135        0               C    2-.    245          0       0       0       0       0        0      0
4. Errors L  missions                 *   1260    1320    -it,   2270    '72        56         0       0       0       0       0        0       0
I 1. Chagrte in Reserves  bi         2367     645    -47',  -2-"t    8SK       S -        -    213   -552       -77    -16'    -264      -16     115
2. NHt Credit from IMF                0                                                         0 -     0       0       0       0        0       0
3. Other Reserve Charges           2367     645   -475    -29'    8s1"    S,         -54   -2:3   -552        -77    -164    -264     -16     115
l lindicates reductlonal
Shares of CDP (Current US$)
1. Resource balance                  -6 1I   -3 4X    1 71    3,1       8:     S 30         1I 7        55      5 71   8 0X    727   6.8X    6.01
2. Total Interest Payments            0 90    0 11 I     3       *1   -           c:         . .    6 71   8 91   8 8X    8 31    7.5X   6 6e    5 8:
3  Current Account balance           -8 I1  -5 8       ; Cl                             : X  :  :-'1    t 2X  -- 47  -4 20  -1 2X  -0 70  -0 7X  -0 6X
4  LT Capital Inflow  (Line 0)    3 20   2 1i0   22 _               -     -               3    4 5    4 9X    2 8X    0 10  -0.11  -0 9X  -1.20
5. Not Credit from the IMP            0 CZ   0 01   0 G1    .1             :      X       " o:   Lk C2   0 00   0 00    0 01   0 0X    0 0S   0 0:
Mamorandum Item
GDP (millions of current US$)  93169  89890  9330_  9' l"   s L              2--    28397-  2392 ,  25o82  27302  29707  319 42  3.807  37938
Foreign Exchange Reserves:
1. Int'l Reserves                    1931    1201    148'   147--               3-8    1636     55   1126    1204   1368    1632    16-8   1533
2. Gold (end yr London price)         313      242     212     2?      2t-      ii      '3-     33-     3..    334.    334       33.    334    334
3  Gross Reserves  incl  Gold        22'.   146'   1492    189;   1..-    7-            *r       9'    144     1538    1702    :966   :982    1865
4  Gr  Rsj  in Months Imports         1 5    1 3    : 4    2                                    I t1    2 5    2 4    2 5    2 7    2     2 1
aI  Cash basis, post-rescheduling tactua  57d proJ e-t
b)  The 1987 f igure excludes payments int o t he Bar,  rf Lng l o            a  a, c-mt e -b  t  .,Iir hed under the 1986 Paris Ci'ub
rescheduling agreement   These payments are counted aboe in interest debits and amortkzation



-  29 -                                            ANNEX  II
(Page 2 of 5)
31gerl&: PROJCTZD _P03GNM EXCEAICZ RBQUIRREKNTS a*
(US$ 11lions)
PreliinLary                       Projected
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
DI oUSUTAX   S
A. Publie *d Publiely Guaranteed            793    662   1895   2068   1647   1462   1553   1524   1599
1. OfficLal                              793    636   1645   1768   1347   1162   1120   1091   1165
a. *1tiLateral                       384    297    972   1116    935    862    820    791    865
1. of wbich, lbRD & IDA           384    297    822    916    734    662    620    590    665
b. Bilateral                         409    339    674    653    412    300    300    300    300
2. Private Creditors                       0      26    250    300    300    300    433    433    434
*. Private  om-Guaxrenteed                   75      83    100       35     35      35      35      35      35
C. Total Disbursments (A+B)                 668    745   1995   2103   1682   1497   1588   1559   1634
D. DI   Purobaseh                             0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0
3. Total Disbursements (C+D+Z)              866    745   1995   2103   1682   1497   1588   1559   1634
RDAYUIS
A. Pubilc and Publicly Guaranteed           120    515    754    786    895   1439   1573   1822   2043
1. Official                              120    215    373    476    500    891   1015   1257   1468
a. multilat.ral                      120    215    223    233    242    286    386    450    478
1. of Which, IBRD & IDA           120    215    223    233    242    286    314    369    388
b. Bilateral                            0      0    150    242    258    605    629    807    990
2. Prlvate Creditors                       0    300    381    311    395    548    558    565    575
B. PrLvate Non-Guaranteed                   150    150    165        70     35      35      35      35      35
C. Total Disbursements (A+B)                270    665    919    856    930   1474   1608   1857   2078
D. DW  Rpurchases                             0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0
Z. Total (C+D+I)                            270    ti5    919    856    930   1474   1608   1857   2078
XWTDZST
A. Public end Publicly Guaranteed          1198    928   1595   2268   2401   2440   2396   2291   2174
1. Off'ic'l                              '37    232    '58   i4?0   16::   :6-2   :6°5 ,*C t:55^
a. *Atillaterl                       210    231    253    314    380    428    459    479    490
1. of Which, IBRD & IDA           208    229    245    291    341    373    394    408    415
b. Bilateral                         528       2    515   1157   1231   1254   1226   1152   1069
2. Private Creditors                     460    695    827    797    790    758    711    660    615
B. Private mon-Guaranteed                    26      24      20      15     13      13      12      12     11
C. Total Disbursements (A+B)               1224    951   1615   22e.   2414   2453   2408   2303   2185
D. Dr   Charges                               0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0      0
3. Total (C+D+I)                           1224    951   1615   2283   2414   2453   2408   2303   2185
___Ca__basi.____-ree___(_ula_p
*/ Cash basis, post-reachodulLng (actual and projected).



- 30 -                                                      ANNEX II
(Page 3 of 5)
NIGERIA: 34ACROECOUIC VARIABLES
Curtent                             Shares of Gross Domstic Product (from current price data)
US,         -  - -  - -  - - -  - -  - -  - -  - - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - - -  - -  - -  - --  -
Lihlions                            listorical          Est.                     Projected
A. National Accounts                              1987           1962      1913      1964     1965      1966      196?      1966      1989      1990     1995
Gross Domestic Product u.p.                       24.4          100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100 0    100 0    100 0
get Indirect ?axe                                0.3            3.6      2.7       1.9       2.3       235       1.9       2 4      2.4       2 3       23
mmoe-il GDP                                     16.1          79.6      63.2      83.1      32.1     66. 4     65.7      72.3      69.2      65.1      64 0
AS iculture                                    7,2          27.1      30.9      35.1     34.3      35.4      29.4      32.8      31 5      29.4     27 7
Nan"Uacturing                                  2 1          16.7      11 7      10.6      11.6     12.4       a 7       9.6       9 1       a 9     10 2
Ceeatructios                                  0.3            4.7       3.5       1.7       1.7      2.3       1.3       1.3       1.41      1.4      16
Services                                      6.4           34.0      37 1     35.       34.5      36.4b    26.4       26 3      27.2      25.4    2'7
Petroleum                                        7.9          16.7      14.2      15.0      15.6      11.1     32.4      25.3      26.5      32.6      33 6
Resource BaLaince                                  1 0           -6.1      -3,4       1.7      3.3      -1.6       4.2       3.1       1 7       5.5      6 0
Exports of GNP$                                  7 7          13.6      11.9      13.2      14.2      11.4     31.7      26.0      29.9      33.1      346.4
I"orts of GUtS                                   6 7          19.7      15.4      11.5      11.0     13.2      27.5      22 9      26.z      27 5      26 3
Total IQapaditures                                23.4,         106.1    103.4      96.3      96.7    101.6       93.6      96.9     96.3      94.3      94 0
Consumtion                                      20.4,         90 7      92.0      92 3    69 1        91.9     63.3      83 0      83.6      60.3      79 2
Gross Domestic Investment                        3 0           13 4     11.4       6.0       7.7      10.0      12.3     13 9      14.3      14 2      14 6
Gross Domestic Saving                              4.0            9 3       6 0       7.7     10.9       6.1      16.5      17 0      16 2     19 7      20 6
Gross National Saving                              2 7            7 7       6.0       5. 6k .9           7.0      11.0      13 2       8 9     10 4      1'47
Percentage Growth Rates at Constant Prices
1962     1963      1964      1965      1986      1967     1988      1969      1990      1995 I/
Gross Domestic Product u p.                                       0 3      -5 0     -7 4       8 3       3 4      -5.0       5.2       2 6         5      ' 3
Net Indirect Taxes                                            -5 2    -29.0    -34.0        32 2      11 4    -25 4      30 6       2 6       4 5       4 3
Von-Oil CDP                                                     23      -4.2      -9.4.      76a       4.2     -3 1       3 9       33        aS5       45
A&rIcuLturs                                                  31        0 1      -6 7     14.3       9 2      -77        5 5       36        3.6       36
4aAu.facturing                                               B 7   -21.9    -14.2        13.2      -3 1       5 1       5 0       2 0       9 0      7 7
Construction                                                -7B£   -23.8    -49.5        -1 7       7 7       1 0      11 2       0 2       5 2      5 C
Servicos                                                     04        1 3     -7 0       0 2       1 6      -0 4       1 5       36        3 9      42
Petroieum                                                    -10 5      -a 1      11.7       a a      -1 4    -12 3       9 2      -1 6       4 5       32
Rsu.       5.I.*!-%e                                             -3A8   -52 8  -153 6    153 6          67 1      -0 0      23 7       2 6       6 8      3 8
Exports of GP?S                                              -19a6    -6 2        15 5      11 9      -2 6    -12 6       9 0       I 4       6 5       43
Imports of GNP$                                              -14a6   -22 6    -20 9         -6 a    -31 0    -25 I    -10 4        -36        6 0       5 2
Total Expenditures                                                00       -77    -11k,        56        08a      -53        368       2,       4 3       44
Total Cons.Mtion                                                5I      -5 4      -7 7       4 3       1 0     -4 1       2 9       30        '.2       4.3
Gross Domestic Investment                                    -25 7   -24 1   -46 2          28 6      -1 6    -21 5      18 5      -2 9       6 C       5 5
Gross Do"estic Saving                                           -37 4      -0 4     -A. 2     56 1    22 6    -11  1    21 3           0 1      6 5       '.5
Gross National Saving                                           -37 5      -6 0    -13 1    66 9        39 9    -14 9       25 5      -2 5       3 8      5 3
Current
'jss
SiLILons                            Shares of Gross Domestic Product (fhoe  current price data)
B. Public Finance:                                /967           1982      1963     1984      1985      1966      1967      1988     1989      1990      1995
Revenues                                           635           20 9      19 1     20 0      19 0      23 0      26 7      25 0     26 2      28 4      2 97
Current Expenditures 2/                            4.2           13 9      16.2     17.2      14 0      16 3      17 3      17 a     1 5 7     16 2      16 1
Public Investment                                  2 9           14 4      10 7      5 3       6 6       9.6      11 7      11 2     10 6       9 9       6 6
C. Other Indicators:                                             1962     1963      1964      1965      1966      1967      1968     1969      1990      1995
Consumer Price Index (I change In annual average)                 9 9     23 2      39 6       5 5       5 4      10 2     25 0      15 0      10 0      iC 0
GDP Deflator (I Change)                                           6 4       9 2     18 4       4 4      -2 0      25 7      23 1     Ia 4      14 4      17 3
Investment Deflator (I change)                                    2 9       1 3      7 6      11 a      33 9    87 6       23 5      26 a      10 C      1I0
Pop..lation Growth Rate (I)                                       3 4       3 4      34A       36        3 4       3 4       3 4       3 4      3 4       34
import Elasticity (PWNPSIGDPMP)                                -56 2       4 5       2 8      -1 1      -9 0       5 0     -  0      -1 4       1 3       1 1
ICOR (1 yr.  floatins base)                                      11 5     -4 3      -1 3       0 N       1 9      -3 2      a         5 C       4 7       . 6
1/ Average annual growth rate 1990-1995
2/ Excluding foreign interest



31-                                                 ANNEX  II
(Page 4 of 5)
NIGERIA: SLICTED INDICATORS
1982    1983    1984       1985    1986    1987        1983     1989    1990      1995
(Percentages unless specified otherwise)
GROSS IMSTKgNT/GDP (87 naira)                      27.4    21.9    12.8    15.2    14.4    11.9    13.4             12.7     12.9    13.6
PUZLIC INVZSTMrT/GDP (87 natra)                    19.1     15.8       9.6    10.7      11.1      9.6      9.1       8.0      7.8      6.9
PRIVATE INVESTIMPTIGOP (87 naira)                   8.3       6.2      3.1      4.5      3.3      2.4      4.3       4.7      5.1      6.8
DOaZSTIC SAVINCS/GDP (real)                            7        7        8       11       13       12        14       14       14       14
NATIOKAL SAVINGS/GNP (real)                            6        6        6       10       13       11        14       13       13       13
MARGINAL RATIONAL SAVINGS RATE (real)              -344         7       10       54       81        35       53      -15       12       13
DONESTIC SAVINGS/GDP (nominal)                         9        8        8       11        8       17        17       16       20       21
NATIONAL SAVINGS/GNP (nominal)                         a        6        6        9        7        12       14       10       11       16
MARGINAL NAT SAV RATE (nominal)                     -99       -46       -1       36      -80       44        20      -21       22       15
GOVERNMENT REVZEU1S/0DP (nomLnal)                     21       19       20       19       23       27        25       26       28       30
GOVERNZT  EXPZNDITURES/GDP (nominal)                  31       30       24       22       27        31       31       30       32       28
DEFICIT (-) OR SURPLUS (+) /CDP (nominal)           -10       -11       -4       -3       -4       -4        -6       -4       -3        2
DOCESTIC bONRO'.IN/GDP (nominal)                       7        9        4        3        3         2        7        1        2        3
PUSLIC/TOTAL INVESTMENT                               71       73       77       79       79       73        71       66       63       52
ICOR ADJUSTED (1 year floating base)               11.5    -4.3      -1.3       0.8      1.9    -3.2       4.0      5.0       4.0      4.6
EXPORT GROWTB RATE GNFS (real)                    -19.8      -6.2    15.5    11.9    -2.6   -12.6          9.0       0.4      6.5      3.3
EXPORTS GNFS/GDP (nominal)                            14       12       13       14       11       32       26        30       33       34
IM TOR? GROWTH RATE GNFS (real)                   -14.8   -22.6   -20.9    -8 8   -31.0   -25.0   -10.4            -3.6       6.0      4,6
INtKOTS GNFS/CDP (nominal)                           20        15       12       11       13       27       23        28       28       28
INTONT ZLASTICITY (real)                          -56.2      4.5      2.8      -1.1     -9.0      5.0     -2.0     -1.4       1.3      1.1
CURRENT ACCOUNT (USS billions)                     -7.5    -5.2       -0.9      0.9    -2.0    -0.5       -0.4    -1.5       -1.1    -0.2
CVRRENT ACCOUNT/GDP (nominal)                      -8.0     -5.8    -0.9        1.0    -3.2      -1.9    -1.3      -6.2      -4.5    -0.6
RESOURCE 3ALANCE/GDP (nominal)                     -6.1     -3.4       1.7      3.3    -1.8       4.2      3.1       1.7      5.5      6.0
TRADE DALANCE/GDP (nominal)                        -2.9    -1.2        3.2      4.7      0.0      7.0      5.3      4.6       8.2      8.8
TERMS OF TRADE INDEX                              106.6    99.0   100.0    92.1         43.4    49.8    40.3       36.2    40.7       43.0
GDP GROWTH RATE (real)                              0.3    -5.0       -7,4      8.3      3.4    -5.0       5.2      2.6       4.5      4.3
GDP/PER CAPITA GROWTH RATE (real)                  -3.1     -8.4   -10.8        4.9      0.0    -8.4       1.8    -0.8        1.1      0.9
CONSUPTTION GROWTH RATE (real)                      5.1    -5.4    -7.7         4.3      1.0    -4.1       2.9      3.0       4.2      4.5
CONSUMPTION GROVTH RATE PER CAPITA (real)           1.7    -8.8   -11.1         U.9    -2.4      -7.5     -0.5    -0.4        0.8      1.1
CNP/PZR CAPITA (ATLAS) (US$)                       1110       985      901      952      805      370      298      228       222      254
PUSLIC SAVINGS/GDP (nominal)                        7.0      2.9       2.8      5.0      6.7      9.4      7.6    10.5    12.2    13.6
PRIVATE SAVINGS/GDP (nominal)                       2.3      5.1       4.9      6.0      1.5      7.1      9.4      5.7       7.5      7.3



- 32 -
ANNEX II
(Page 5 of 5)
NIGERIA: FEDERAL FISCAL AGGREGATES
1987      1988       1989
Outturn Forecast Forecast
(Billions of Naira)
Revenues
Federal Retained Revenue                           17.2       18.6       22.3
New Revenue Measures                                  --        --        1.7
Total Federal Revenue                              17.2       18.6       24.0
Expenditures
Wages & Salaries 1/                                  2.7       3.4        3.6
Goods & Supplies                                     3.6       3.1        4.2
Net Reduction in Spending Pipeline                    --       0.9         -_
Domestic Interest                                   2.7        4.8        4.2
Foreign Interest 2/                                 8.2       10.1       14.1
National Economic Recovery Fund Spending             --        0.5         --
Capital Expenditures 3/                             8.3        8.0        9.8
Extra Budgetary/Contingency 4/                        --       1.5         --
Reduction in Domestic Arrears                       0.2         --         --
Reduction in Interest Arrears                      -0.9       -6.1         --
Total Federal Spending                             24.8       26.2       35.9
Deficit
Budget Deficit (Cash Basis)                         7.6        7.6       11.9
Net Foreign Financing 5/                            5.4       -1.4       10.0
Domestic Financing                                  2.2        9.0        1.9
(Percentage of GDP)
Budget Deficit (Cash Basis)                         7.8        5.9        8.0
Net Foreign Financing                               5.5       -1.1        6.7
Domestic Financing                                  2.2        7.0        1.3
Budget Deficit (Commitments Basis)                  8.5       10.8        8.0
1/ Includes pension costs.
2/ Debt service is presented as amounts due after accounting for rescheduling
agreements already reached but without assuming new reschedulings.
3/ These include loans and grants to parastatals and payments from
dedication accounts but exclude expenditures earmarked tor investment under the
Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation joint venture account.
4/ Extra-budgetary spending in 1987 is included in the appropriate category.
5/ External disbursements minus external amortization payments plus new
debt relief plus change in other debt related arrears.



- 33 -                           ANNEX III
NIGERIA
TRADE AND INVESTMENT POLICY LOAN
Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable for Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 3 months.
(b) Departure of Appraisal Mission: June 1987.
(c) Completion of Negotiations: November 1988.
(d) Planned Date of Effectiveness: December 1988.
Section lI: Special Conditions
(1) Conditions for Loan Effectiveness
Undertake the following all in i manner consistent with the
Program:
(i) Establish the Tariff Review Bc'.rd (see para. 36); the
Industrial Development Coordinating Committee (see para.
39); and secretariats to serve the Tariff Review Board, the
Import Duty Monitoring Committee (see para. 37), and the
Industrial Development Coordinating Committee;
(ii) Issue a Statement of Industrial Policy (see para. 39) and
guidelines fir the preparation of the Federal capital budget
(see para. 45); and
(iii)  Amend the Nigerian Enterprises Promotion Decree (see
para. 40).
(2) Conditions for Release of Second Tranche (see para. 67)
(i) Satisfactory assurances that the Borrower has made adequate
provisions to meet its external financing needs for 1989;
(ii) Satisfactory funding and operation of the foreign exchange
market;
(iii)  Satisfactory progress in carrying out:  agreed federal
budget and public investment program;
(iv) Adoption of a viable restructuring and development program
for the steel subsector (see para. 47); and
(v) Amendment of the Customs, Excise, Tariff, etc.,
(Consolidation) Decree in a manner consistent with the
Program (see para. 35).



- 34-                             ANMzx IV
(Page 1 of 9)
Office of the Honourable Minister
Federal Ministry of Flnance
Now Secretariat, ikoyl, Logo*
Tel. 619577
F11373/8 82/C 84/T/Il                 November 28, 1988
Mr. Barber Conable
President
The World Bank
Washington DC
Dear Mr. Conables
TRADE AND INVESTMENT POLICIES OF THE FEDERAL MILITARY GOVERNMENT OF NIGERIA
The Federal Military Goverrnent of Nigeria wishes to request the World Bank
for a loan in support of its Trade and Investment Policy (TIPL) programme.
I wish to recall that the Ban!c in 1986, granted a similar loan in support
of our Trade Policy and Expo.:t Development (TPED) programme, which was
designed to realign the exchange rate of the Nigerian currency, eliminate
price and import ';nttols, rationalise the customs tariff and excise
schedules and promote the dtevelopment of non-oil exports. The Trade and
Investment Policy programme is indeed the logical next step in our
sustained strategy to restructure and revitalise the productive sectors of
the Nigerian economy with a view to achieving long-term economic growth
with stable prices. The Trade and Investment Policy programme. which is
discussed in this letter, aims at establishing a conducive climate for
private investments and ensuring that public investments are more
definitely geared towards contributing towards the resumption of growth.
In this connection, it is proposed, among other things, to strengthen the
trade and exchange rate regimes which were put in place last year.
The Structural Adiustment Propraunne
2.        As you are aware, both the TPED and the TIPL are offshoots of
Nigeria's Structural Adjustment Programme (SAk), which was launched by the
Federal Military Government in July 1986 to correct the distortions in the
incentive system and simultaneously address other long-term structural
problems militating against sustained growth of the Nigerien ecoromy. The
basic feature of the SAP, which is the introduction of the Second-tier
Foreign Exchange market, SFEM, has now been implemented. Consisting of an
auction, an interbarlc market and bank transactions with tne public, Sr7M
has now been in operation for over twenty-four months. Since its inception
the external value of the naira in the market has depreciated by an average
of about 66 percent. However, the wide margins which existed pre-SFEM,
between the parallel and the official exchange rates, have narrowed
considerably. On July 2, 1987, in keeping with the Government's philosophy
of liberalisation and de-regulation, the first and second tier foreign
exchange markets merged and a single Foreign Exchange Market (FEM) emerged.



- 35 -                             ANNZX IV
(Page 2 of 9)
3.        Concurrent with the establishment of SFDM, the Government
abolished imports and export licensing, all ex-factory price controls, and
the mandatory surrender of all non-oil export proceeds. The import
prohibition list was drastically reduced, while customs tariffs were alco
reduced pending a comprehensive review. Financial markets were liberalised
and on August 1, 1987, interest rates were deregulated. In the meantime,
Government's effective action to privatise and commurcialiue parastatals
have been progressing well. The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation
has just been fully commercialised to operate as an international oil
company.
4.        The overall impact of the SAP on the Nigerian economy so far has
been rather mixed. On the one hand SAP has fostered efficiency and
competition by economic agents. Resource allocation has improved
considerably, while there has been increased access to foreign exchange by
the prime movers of the economy, thus enhancing capacity utilisation. Non-
oil exports, in particular of foods crops have received a welcome boost.
On the other hand, inflation, importaticn of finished goods, and
unemployment have been rising. Nevertheless, preliminary data suggest the
beginning of a recovery in the manufacturing sector in 1987, in spite of
further compression in the value of imports. During the year, industrial
output rose by an estimated 5 percent. But exogenous factors led to a
decline in crude oil and some agricultural production.  Although oil
revenue rose by 6 percent between 1986 and 1987, volumes fell sharply due
to OPEC quota reduction. In agriculture, poor whether adversely affected
grains and toot crops and partially counteracted the strorg positive
effects of the reform programme on cocoa, rubber, etc. Price performance
had been favourable, with the composite consumer price index rising by only
6 percent between end-September 1986 when SFEM started and end-September
1987. Since then, due to increasing food prices, the pace of inflation has
picked up. So also has unemployment.
5.        Nigeria's foreign exchange position has been much tighter than
envisaged when the SAP was adopted. With the exception of World Bank
assistance, anticipated new money flows failed to materialise and the stock
of arrears and payments pending at the time of the introduction of SFEH was
larger than estimated. As a result, the stock of freely usable
international reserves fell to US$300 million at the end of 1987. In early
1988, our f- eign exchange situation was exacerbated by the further
weakening of the world oil market. The constrained foreign exchange
situation leaves Government with little room to maneuver on the
macroeconomic front. We want to encourage growth, but not through
excessive monetary and fiscal expansion because this could further weaken
the naira and spark an inflationary spiral. In the circumstances, our
strategy is to concentrate our efforts on: (1) maintaining a macroeconomic
environment consistent with low inflation and positive real growth; (2)
increasing the inflow of foreign excnange so as to fuel non-inflationary
growth; (3) establishing a stable and predictable investment policy
framework; and (4) setting the stage so that the revival of investment
activity will be along the lines of Nigeria's comparative advantage.



- 36 -                            ANNEX IV
(Page 3 of 9)
Macroeconomic Framework
6.        The weakening of the world oil market and its effect on foreign
exchange availability meant that the budgetary expenditure levels
originally envisaged from 1988 would have led to excessive pressure on the
exchange rate and prices. Accordingly, earlier in the year, we took
measures to trim expenditures, including, inter alia, a reduction of Nl.1
billion from regular ministerial capital expenditures and 11.9 billion from
the reflation fund. Strict cash limits were also set, with provisions fox
extra-budgetary approvals to be offset by cutbacks in other spending, and
measures were taken to reduce the recourse of the major parastatals to the
budget. The effect of these measures and the more depreciated exchange
rate -- has been to lower the projected budget deficit by 5 percent of GDP.
We shall also ensure that the 1989 budget is consistent with the
maintenanLe of macroeconomic balance. To this end, we intend to keep
banking system credit to Government to ar. amount not exceeding M2.4 billion
for the year as a whole, some 1.7 percent of projected GDP.
7.        We are in the process of implementing a comprehensive programme
of parastatal reform designed to reduce the drain of subsidies on the
capital budget.  Tariffs for the Nigerian Railway Corporation were raised
last year, while tariffs for Nigeria Airways were raised last year and
again recently and tariffs for overseas telephone calls and telexes were
increased by 30G to 600 percent early this year.  Partial commercialization
of the Nigeria Electric Power Authority (NEPA) and full commercialization
of the Nigerian Tclecommunications (NITEL) have been approved.
Implementation will permit increases in domestic telephone and electricity
tariffs, which will substantially reduce the need for federal subsidies.
The Nigerian National Petroleum Corpotation (NNPC) has been fully
commercialized to operate as an international oil company. It has been
empowered to set the prices of domestic petroleum products broadly in line
vi.'h their opportunity cost in international markets. However, Government
recognizes the need to phase ia these market determined prices gradually,
with due consideration for their social impact and the availability of mass
transit systems. Work on the rationalization of other public enterprises
with a view; to their commercialization or privatization as appropriate is
also underway. Some enterprises, such as hotels, insurance companies, end
tood and agro-procebsing companies, are being fully privatized. For
enterprises that will remain in government ownership, rigour will be
exercised in the budgetary process; strict criteria will be employed for
the determination of parastatal financial sLpport, if need be; and
reductions will be made in subsidies through cost cutting, revenue
enhancement measures, and organizational restructuring. They will be given
the freedom to set prices and control levels of employment with minimum
regulatory oversight.
Foreign Exchange Market
8.        The weakening of world oil prices has accentuated Nigeria's
already tight foreign exchange position. We have thus reduced public
sector foreign exchange use to an absolute minimum and have tSken steps toj
ensure that all current approvals fer foreign exchange use are sourced
through FEH. With very few exceptions, public sector letters of credit are



- 37 -                            ANNEX IV
(Page 4 of 9)
not being opened by the Central Bank, and the priority projects that used
to be funded by the dedication accounts -- which, with the exception of the
one for LNG, we discontinued last year -- are now included in the budget,
with their foreign exchange needs met through FEK. FEH funding will be
subjected to constant review and we intend to review the cash flow
quarterly, taking account of oil receipts and foreign financing inter alia.
Our approach is to seek new money and rescheduling terms from our creditors
such that they keep our payments of debt service (net of balance of
payments assistance) to a minimum and to redouble our efforts to secure
fresh inflows of new capital from other sources. Given our constrained
creditworthiness and difficulty in securing balance of payments financing,
this means improved incentives for private direct foreign investment (see
para. 13), and special attention to project financing for the public
investment programme from export credit agencies (see para. 17).
9.        The broadening of FEM's coverage at the beginning of 1988 to
include the public sector's sourcing of its foreign exchange needs added
considerably to demand on that market. By mid-year, the differential
between the exchange rate on the interbank market, which had been operating
completely on the free market principles, and the auction ratios had
widened to 30 percent. Based on a close review of the exchange rate
mechanism, we have decided that under present conditions the fortnightly
auction is not the %ppropriate vehicle for achieving the desired goal of a
single exchange rate for the naira. We thus intend to eliminate the
auction and rely directly on Central Bank interventions in the interbank
market, for channeling official foreign exchange receipts Into the economy,
with monetary and fiscal policy set to achieve our exchange rate
objectives. To this end, measures have been taken to contain public sector
demand for foreign exchange by enforcing strict cash limits in keeping with
budgetary provisions.
Investment
10.       With regard to investment, the thrust of our programme this year
will be: (1) to encourage investment by streamlining the regulatory
environment for private investment; (2)  - rationalize the public
investment programme to ensure that it supports growth, even as foreign
financing sources are fully and efficiently tapped; and (3) to ensure that
the price signals that inform investment decision-making are in line with
Nigeria's long-run comparative advantage.
Private Investment
11.       The speed of the adjustment process will depend crucially on a
resumption of investment activity geared to developing new markets,
products, and production methods, in the light of the changed incentives
framework. As elucidated in the forthcoming Industrial Blueprint for
Nigeria, the Government is strictly limiting its direct investment in
productive activities, while encouraging the necessary investment in those
areas reserved for the private sector. The Government's primary role will
be to establish a policy environment which welcomes new investors. Given
the critical importance of foreign exchange availability, we are trying to
encourage investments that bring their own foreign exchange, but do not add



- 38 -
ANNEX IV
(Page 5 of 9)
to our already heavy debt servicing obligations -- i.e., foreign equity
investments, which we hope will be a catalyst for recovery. Moreover,
given the very rapid rate of increase in the labor force, new investments
in labor intensive activities will be necessary if the pressing problem of
unemployment is to be solved. With this in mind, the Government has
designed a special programme to encourage small-and medium-scale enterprise
development.
12.       In order to streamline the process for new investments, we have
promulgated a decree establishing the Industrial Development Coordinating
Committee (IDCC) to act as a one-stop agency for all initial approvals
which investors are required to obtain.  The IDCC is a Committee of
Ministers served by its own secretariat, which is empowered to grant
approvals for commencement of new businesses and the relevart expatriate
quotas; approval in principle for imported capital in new ventures; and
approval of a range of technology agreements. By bringing all initial
approvals under the authority of the IDCC, the difficulties that
characterized the previous system, in which authority was spread over
several ministries and agencies, will be reduced, and the tendency for
conflicting demands to be placed on potential investors will be removed.
13.       Profitable investment opportunities abound ir. Nigeria for the
foreign investor in the new price environment created by the FEM.
Moreover, the FEM has permitted a marked improvement of the timeliness of
commercial payments for repatriation of dividends, and outstanding pre-SPEM
private remittances are being handled on an orderly basis. In addition, we
have removed the restrictions on the proportion of pro'its that companies
can declare as dividends. In order to encourage more foreign equity
investment in a wider range of activities, we have amended the Nigerian
Enterprises Promotion Decree to expand the range of activities in which we
will allow majority foreign ownership and increased the proportion of
allowable foreign equity in such activities from 60 percent to 80 percent.
We are also in the process of changing the definition of a Nigerian
enterprise to simple majority Nigerian ownership, which will facilitate
investment in new activities by joint ventures. In order to provide new
ways for investors to bring additional foreign exchange into Nigeria for
purposes of equity investment, while reducing the nation's overall debt, we
have introduced a debt conversion scheme. Under this scheme, Nigerian and
foreign investors will be able to finance equity investments with local
currency funds acquired as consideration for the retirement of certain
types of Nigerian foreign exchange liabilities.
14.       The Government assigns high priority to private sector small -
and medium-enterprises (SHE) development. As compared with large-scale
operations, SMEs are generally more labor intensive, require less foreign
exchange, and are intensive users of domestic raw materials. They also
tend to have smaller investment requirements, quicker payback, and greater
flexibility. With the radical shift in relative prices that has taken
place under the SAP, SME development should also help establish linkages
with larger industries through subcontracting. In order to promote this
critical subsector, the Government has adopted a comprehensive policy
package for private sector SME development, supported by a World Bank loan.



- 39 -                            ANNEX IV
(Page 6 of 9)
Public Investment Programme
15.       In addition to making room for the private sector by reducing
public sector involvement in areas better suited to private ownership and
control, the Government is determined to make efficient use of all
available resources. Thus, in those areas where the public sector will
retain a presence, it is critical that all such spending make a positive
contribution to economic growth. Separate budgetary provision has been
made for the maintenance of existing assets, reflecting our determination
to improve the maintenance of our public assets. The execution of the 1988
federal capital budget has emphasized human resources, infrastructure, and
complementarity with private sector growth. Rather than launching major
new projects, emphasis has been on completing critical projects such an the
Eacravos-Lagos pipeline, Shiroro power, and on rehabilitating and
maintaining assets vital to our economic development. These areas have
been identified to be protected to the extent possible, with reductions and
deferments concentrated on lower priority projects.
16.       In view of the critical nature of the petrochemical and steel
subsectors, the SAP had called for in-depth studies to define longer term
strategies and restructuring plane for these subsectors, taking into
account the radical changes in market and resource prospects that have
taken place in recent years. The petrochemicals subsector study was
completed in September 1987, and we expect that the Bank will participate
in the financing of a project, together with other external sources. The
scope of the project will oe consistent with the size of the domestic
market and prospects for export sales. Foreign investment will assure
appropriate technology and maximum production efficiency from the outset,
and will provide incremental foreign exchange. The steel study began in
March of this year, and we received the draft final report in September.
On the basis of that report, a restructuring plan for the steel subsector
is to be formulated. Pending the adoption of the restructuring plan, we
are holding capital expenditures in the steel sector to an annual rate of
N700 million. We are increasing the proportion of capital expenditures
devoted to working capital and spare parts in already commissioned
facilities in order to increase capacity utilization and operating
efficiency, while investment expenditures for the non-commissioned
facilities at Ajaokuta have been reduced.
17.       We have begun to subject the public investment programme and its
financing to greater rigour in project selection. To improve the
efficiency of public investment project selection, we have strengthened the
capital budgeting process to ensure that all major investment projects are
based on independently prepared and reviewed proper feasibility studies and
that decisions on public investments are based on economic rates of return
where appropriate, and quantified least-cost criteria for other projects.
Ministries and parastatals are not to enter into contracts for major
projects without the review and approval of the budget process.
Recommendations along these line; were formulated in the report last year
of the Public Investment Subcommittee. They are now being used in the
preparation of the 1989 capital budget. We have also intensified our
efforts to secure financing from non-budgetary sources. Ministries will be
expected to seek private sector participation where appropriate, and



- 40 -WANNEX IV
(Page 7 of 9)
efforts to seek external financing for viable projects will be increased
and vill be coordinated by the Federal Ministry of Finance and Economic
Development (FHFED). Given the very tight foreign exchange position,
central coordination of this process is essential to get the best financing
possible for the good projects and to intercept, at an early stage,
financing negotiations for low priority projects. We have provided the
Bank with the policy statemnt issued in February of this year setting out
the specific guidelines.
Trade Policy Reform
18.       One of government's key concerns in introducing the SAP was that
past trade and exchange rate policies had encouraged investment in
activities that were inconsistent with Nigeria's underlying comparative
advantage. These policies had impeded the development of export activities
in agriculture and industry, and encouraged the developmerit of import-
dependent consumption patterns, and low-value-added assembly activities.
The introduction of the SFEM and the abolition of import licensing and
price and export controls were essential first steps in correcting these
policies. Through these measures, we achieved a major relaxation of the
direct administrative controls that had constrained the private sector and
channeled its energies into unproductive, rent-seeking activities, at the
same time that the depreciation of the naira enhanced the profitability of
exports and tended to put local imports on a competitive footing with
imports.
19.       Protection.  Coincident with the opening of the SFEM and the
dismantling of import licensing, we adopted interim customs and excise duty
and import prohibition schedules and launched a comprehensive review to
determine the modalities for a more permanent structure of duty rates. The
study, inter alia, examined the impact of the interim duties on import-
competing and export activities, and assessed the arguments for changes in
protection which had been submitted to the Government, including
allegations of dumping. The study identified a number of distortions in
the duty schedules, and efforts were made to correct these in the Customs
Excise Tariff, etc. (Consolidation Decree NO. 1 of 1988 which was adopted
together with the 1988 Budget). Howeve:, under the interim tariff,
problems in customs procedures resulted .n significant under-collections of
revenues due on imports and seriously undermined protection. Pending the
effective resolution of these problems, the Government was not in a
position to introduce signifisant reductions in statutory duty rates and
import prohibitions. Accordingly, we have retained a number of import
prohibitions and increased average protection rates. However, the new
rates are still lower than the average rates prevailing in the pre-reform
period, when even higher rates of protection had been provided by the
import licensing system.
20.       The new Decree specifies import duty rates for a seven-year
period, thus providing producers and consumers with a longer policy time
horizon within which to make decisions. The Decree also introduced the
concept of landing charge, to serve as an implicit tax on imports
equivalent to the excise on corresponding domestic output. The landing
charge/excise tax constitutes a flexible tax instrument, which can be used



- 41 -                            ANNEX IV
(Page a of 9)
to raise additional revenues without distorting protection. Finally, the
system of General Concesuionary Rates of duty on imports of certain inputs
for particular categories of producers has been terminated; customs duty
rates for inputs imported for producers have been unified across all
regions of the country; and discretionary duty exemptions, especially for
Government and parastatal imports, have been curtailed. These changes have
removed a major source of arbitrariness in the structure of protection.
21.       The Government is in the process of taking further action to
reform the system of protection. First, we recognize that effective
custcos collections are a pre-condition for further trade policy reform.
We have thus addressed the collections problem directly by introducing a
now import entry system, which links duty assessment to offshore pre-
inspection, involves the Treasury Department more closely in collections,
and facilitates the reform of customs surveillance procedures to deter
smuggling. To ensure the effective operation of the new system, we have
established a Monitoring Committee, charged with reviewing the customs and
import documents and overseeing corrective action in the case of
irregularities. In turn, the Committee is served by a secretariat endowed
with the capability to process and reconcile information flowing from
different parts of the system -- such as the Department of Customs and
Excise, the Treasury, the Central Bank, and the preshipment inspection
agents. The Committee will undertake periodic reviews of the rew duty
collection procedures to evaluate their effect on revenues, levels of
protection, and consumer prices.
22.       Second, the Government has established a Tariff Review Board
charged with economy-wide responsibility for ongoing reviews of protection
and for considering requests for changes in protection. The Tariff Review
Board includes representatives of Government and the private sector and has
been vested with responsibility for providing independent advice to the
Government on a wide range of assistance and protection issues, based on
puidelines focusing on the national interest as a whole, and utilizing
procedures that both allow all interested parties to argue their position
and subject requests to rigorous analysis. The Board will, as a matter of
priority, undertake a review of the new tariff schedule to ensure its
consistency with our objectives of encouraging investment in activities
with efficient local value added and developing non-oil exports. To this
end, the Board is in the process of reviewing and correcting anomalies in
certain key areas. Subsequently, the Board will undertake a programme of
reviews of those areas in the new schedules that require detailed
exam4nation of intra- and inter-sectoral issues, including the impact of
the remaining import prohibitions. The Board will be served by a suitably
staffed secretariat, which will formulate proposals for the consideration
of a Tariff Technical Committee.  That Committee will, in turn, make
recomendations to the Tariff Review Board.
Export Incentives
23.       The Government attaches the highest priority to effective
implementation of the export incentive measures initiated under TPED.
These include: implementation of the revamped Duty Drawback/Suspension
Scheme (DDS) and effective reorganization of the Nigerian Export Promotion



- 42 -                             ANNEX IV
(Page 9 of 9)
Council (NEPC). As regard. the DDS, guidelines and procedures were
approved in the 1987 Budget, and the scheme is already in partial
operation. However, delays in affecting actual drawback have resulted from
difficulties in verification associated vith customs procedures, and until
these problems are solved -- by the development of a reliable data base for
import and export transactions -- the granting of duty drawback will
continue to be slow. Meanwhile, we have established a secretariat for the
Duty Drawback Committee in the NEPC, which will be responsible for the
routine processing of duty drawback requests, in collaboration with the
Ieport Duty Monitoring secretariat, and for preparing reports for the
Cooittee. Ultimately, routine processing will be vested in the banks. To
strengthen the legal basis for these changes, and for the 100 percert
drawback approved in the 1987 Budget, we are in the process of amending the
Duty Drawback enabling legislation and the 1958 Customs Management Act.
With regard to the NEPC, priority is being given to Implementation of
measures designed to promote and facilitate exports.
24.       In support of the measures being taken, the Government would
appreciate a favorable consideration of the request for a Trade and
Investment Policy Loan amounting to US$500 million. We look forward to
continuing exchange of ideas with the Bank, and to the successful
implementation of the Adjustment Programme.
Thank you.
THE FEDERAL MILITARY GOVERNMENT OF NIGERIA
by /s/
Chu S. P. Okongwu
Minister of Finance and
Economic Development



- 43 -                                       Annex V
(Page1 rofu
NIGERIA
TRADE AN INVESTMENT POLICY LOA
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
I.  EXCiNE RATE POLICY
Objective: Maintain a unified market-determined exchange rato system.
----------------------------------------------------------------__-----------__---------------------------------
Performnce under TPED and            TIPL Action Program                  Monitorable Actions and Schedulo
Implications for TIPL
1.  SFEMU, covering an auction an'  1.  Unification of the foreign        1.  Conditions for Effectiveness:
Int-:'bnk market, was launched In   exchange rate sy4tem, through        None
Septembr 1986.  The official         replacement of the auction with
exchange rate was gradually          CBN interventions in a froely        2.  Conditions for second trench.
adjusted downwards and  erged        operating interbank market,          release:
with the auction rate in July                                             (a) Adequate provisions for 1989
1987.                                2.  Supporting budgetary and         external financing requirements.
financial po icies ',o minimize      (b) Funding o' the foreign
2.  There was a tendency to          price and *  hange rate              ex^hangs markot in a financially
'ovorfund  in 1967 and 1988,         proesures.                           sustainoblo manner.
relative to foreign exchange                                              (c) Operation of the foreign
availability, in order to keep                                            exchange market according to
the exchange rate from                                                    market principles.
deprciating excessively.                                                  (d)  Consistency of 1989 budget
Auction funding thus took                                                 and its implementation with macro
precedence ovwe debt service                                              economic balance.
paymente and reserve
accumulation.
S.  Serious probl ems with the
foreign exchange mrket emerged
this year beginning in March.
The differential between the
auction rate and the interbank
rate, which had been In the
neighborhood of NO.5 per USSI,
widened to over M2 per US2I.
Thus the urgent need under TIPL
to correct the exchange rate
mechanism, through a restoration
of market processe and flanking
monetary and fiscal policies.



- 44 -                                       Annex V
(Page FTIoYC
NIGERIA
TRADE AND INVESTMENT POLICY LOAN
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
SI. REFORlM OF PROTECTION REGIME
________________________________
Objective: Establ:sh a stable structure of protection that proootes investment In aroas where Nigeria has a
comparative advantage.
Perforoneo under TPED and            TIPL Action Progrt'.                  Monitorable Actions and Schedule
Implications for TIPL
1.  With the Introduction of         1. Introduce new 7-year customs       1.  Conditions for effectiveness:
SFEM, import licensing               and exciso  tariff and import         (a) Establish TRB.*
requirements were abolished along   prohibition schedulos basd on          (b) Ettablish secrotarist. to
with foreign exchange controls on   review, Incorporating landing          serve the TRS and the Import Duty
trade transactions.  Price           charge Into import dutios to          Monitoring Comittes.
controls were eliminated, and the   separate revenue and protection
import prohibition list was          functions.*                           2.  Conditions for second tranche
rationalized and reduced. An                                               release:
interim tariff schedule was          2. Implement new duty assoessnt    (a) Amendment of the Customs,
introduced, pending the              and collection procedures.*           Excise, Tariff etc.
completion of a comprehensive                                              (Consolidation) Decree in a
tariff review that was to lay the   3. Corroct technical anomalies in   manner consistent with the
basis for a more permanent tariff   now duty schedules.                    program.
structure.                                                                 (b) Satisfactory operstion of now
4. Establish Tariff Review Board    duty assessment and collection
2.  The elimination of the            (TRB) with appropriate               procodures.
advance duty deposit schem  led      composition to review tariffo and
to sevore problem  with under-        Import prohibitions.*
collections of custom  dutieu,
undermining protection.  Negative   S. Establish secretariat. t
effective protection in some         serve the TRB and the Import Duty
areas under tho Interim tariff       Monitoring Co_ittee.
further eroded public confidence
in the new tariff.                   6. Reduction of import
prohibitions.
* Action alr-ady taken.



- 45  -                                     Annex V
(page F-oTIY
NIGERIA
TRADE AQ INDWESTUEIET PIMCY LOAN
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
III. EXPORT INCO4TIYE POLICY
Objective: Promot efficiont, non-oil Oxporta.
________________________________________________________________________________________________ - ---------------
Perforence under T6D and                   TIPL Action Progree           Monttorabl- Actions and Schedule
lmpl stions for TPIL
1. Th  new exchange rate            1.  Council approval of revised      1. Condition of effectieness:
arrangemnt  havo removod much of   guidelines and  amndmo nt, to the    (a) Establish a secretarivt
the previous bias against non-oil   Customs Managemnt Act and            to serve the Duty Drawback
exports. The M percent              transfer of responsibility for       Co_mittee..
depreciation of the Noira on the    approval of duty drawback
opening of SFEU, end the             requests to Budget Office.          2.  Condition of second tranche
subsquent depreciotion of the                                            release:
Interbank rat., th, relevant rote   2.  Ultimte delegation of            (a) Satisfactory operation of
for exporters, has sharply           routine processing of duty          0ity Drawback Systom.
increased return, to non-oil        drawback roquests to commercial
exporta.                             and merchant banks.
2. The Duty Drawback system
Introduced under TPED, howover,
has been beset by administrative
problems, including difficulties
in verifying the underlying
import and export trononctiona,
which have slowed th, processing
of drawback requesta.
* Action already taken.



- 46 -                                        Annex V
(Page T*of
NIOERIA
TRADE AND INVESThNIT POLICY LOAN
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
IV. PRIVATE UNVESTMENT POLICY
Objective: Crtio7n of a stable enabling policy environ emt for private -- foreign and domeetic --
lnvestmat.
Performane  under TPED and            TIPL Action Progrm                    tionitorable Actions and Sehedule
Implications for TIPL
1.  Whilo private sector               1. Eliminate limit on profits         1.  Conditions for Loan
Incentives were greatly enhanced    that can be declared as                  Effectiveness:
by the exchange rate and trade        dividende*.                            (a) Establish the IDCC and
liberalization supported by TPED,                                            secretariat.s
private Investment has remained        2.  Revise Nigerian Enterprise        (b) Amend NEPO.*
encumbered by regulatory and          Promotion Decree (NEPO) to same        (c) Release Statement of
administrative bottlenecks.            restrictions on foreign               Industrial Policy.
During TIPL preparation,               investment, including increas  in
proposals for  easaures to             range of activities and In            2.  Condition for second tranche
encourage private investment were   maximum percentage of foreign            release:
formulated by an inter-agency         *quity in high foreign equity          (a) Satiufactory operation of the
working group on private               schedule.  'Nigerian *nterprisoe    IDCC.
investment,                           to be redefined as majority
Nigerian ownernhip.*
S. Issue Statement of Industrial
Pol cy with poiicy outiline for
private sector investment.
4. Establish the Industrial
Development Coordination
Coemittee (IDCC) as offective
one-stop agency for invoestent
approvals* -- including
expatriate quota and busineos
permit.*
S. Eliminate need for locational
approval.*
S. Introduce debt conversion
scheme.
* Action already taken.



- 47 -                                       Annex V
(Pag  I1- 1
NIoERIA
TRADE AND INVESTdf4T POULCY LOAN
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
V. CAPITAL UWOETDNO PROCESS AND PUBUC INVESTMdENT PROGRAM
Objective: Rationalize the public inveetment program.
Perfor_nce under TPED and            TIPL Action Progrm                    Monitorable Actions and Schedule
Impilcations for TIBL
1.  TPED financed studie  of         1.  Rewles capital budgeting          1.  Conditi-nv for effectivenes:
petrochemical and steel              process to incorporate the use of   (a) Issue g.idelinee for the
subeectors.  The petrochemical       economic criteria In public           prepration of the 1969 Federal
dtudy was completed in 1967.  The   invostment program  (PIP)              Capital Budget.*
draft final report for the steel   developmnt and to monitor
study was completed In Soptember    implementation regularly.              2. Conditions for second tranche
196.                                                                       relose:
2.  Iscsue and lplemet              (a) Implementation of 1989 PIP In
2.  The Bonk's public Investment    guidelines on securing external        accordance with guidelines.
review In 1966 indicated severe      financing for public Investment       (b) Adoption of a viable
problems In capital budgeting        projects.*                            restructuring and development
process.  During TIPL                                                      program for tho steel subsector.
preparation, an Inter-agency         3.  Rationalize tho PIP by
working group on public              cancelling non-viable proj*cta,
investment was formed to make        deferring low priority projects;
recomendations for reforws in        *xidiltiously Completing high
the capital budgeting process and   priority/quick gestation
externai financieg policy.           projects; allocating priority for
maintenanceo/rohabilitation;
incroesing emphasis on social
sector and infrostructure; and
k;-ping expenditures under agreed
Coilings.
4. Prepare and adopt
restructuring programs for
p3trochemicals* and steel sub-
sectors, based on respective
studies. Pending the adoption of
the reotructuring plan for steel,
expenditures financed from all
sources, including external
arrars, to be held to M700
million at an annual rate (bi-
monthly monitoring.)
a Action already takn.



- 48 -                                   Annex VI
(Page 1 of 2)
TEE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1988)
Amount in US$ million
Loan     Fiscal                                                          (less cancellation)
Number   Year      Borrower      Purpose                            Bank      IDA    Undisbutsed
Thirty-eight loans and two credits fully disbursed                1375.4      39.9
1668-UNI   79     Nigeria    Ilorin Agricultural Devt               27.0                  0.9
1711-UNI   79     Nigeria    Kaduna Water Supply                    92.0                 13.6
1719-UNI   79     Nigeria    Agric & Rural Mgmt Train Inst           9.0                  0.1
1838-UNI   80     Nigeria    Oyo North Agric Devt                   28.0                 10.9
1883-UNI   80     Nigeria    Highway VI                             78.0                  7.2
1981-UNI   81     Nigeria    Bauchi Agricultural Devt              132.0                  7.4
1982-UNI   81     Nigeria    Kano Agricultural Devt                142.0                 18.3
2029-UNI   81     Nigeria    Agricultural Tech Assistance           47.0                  7.4
2036-UNI   82     Nigeria    Anambra Water Supply & Sanit.          67.0                 18.8
2185-UNI   82     Nigeria    Sokoto Agricultural Devt              147.0                 43.6
2299-UNI   83     NIDB        Industrial Devt (NIDB IV)            120.0                 57.9
2376-UNI   84     NBCI        SmalllMedium Scale Industry I         41.0                 29.3
2390-UNI   84     NNPC        Gas Technical Assistance              18.4                 17.3
2436-UNI   84     Nigeria    Integrated Agric Devt (Kaduna)        122.0                 91.3
2480-UNI   85     Nigeria    Technical Assistance                   13.0                 10.3
2503-UNI   85     Nigeria    Sokotc Health                          34.0                 29.9
2528-UNI   85     Nigeria    Borno Stete Water Supply               72.0                 69.2
2607-UNI   86     Nigeria    Urban Development II (Imio)            53.0                 42.7
2618-UNI   86     Nigeria    Industry Tech Assistance                5.0                  4.0
2620-UNI   86     Nigeria    Lagos ';olid Waste & Storm.            72.0                 65.1
2733-UNI   86     Nigeria    Multi-'tate Agric Devt I              162.0                152.7
2734.-UNI   86    Nigeria    Transport Parastatals                  20.9                 19.3
2737-UNI   87     Nigeria    Livestock Development !I               81.0                 69.0
2741-UNI   87     Nigeria    South Borno Agric Devt                 25.0                 20.0
2758-UNI   87     Nigeria    Trade Policy & Export Devt            452.0                  1.5
2760-UN1   87     Nigeria    Forestry II                            71.0                 68.9
2925-UNI   88     Nigeria    Infrastructure Devt Fund a/            69.5                 69.5
2926-UNI   88      Nigeria    Technical Education b/                23.3                 23.3
2963-UNI   88      Nigeria    Highway Sector a/                    250.0                250.0
2985-UNI   89     Nigeria    Lagos State Water Supply a/           173.2                173.2
2988-UNI   89     Nigeria    Multi-State Agric Devt II a/           85.2                 85.2
TOTAL                                                   4107.9      39.9     1477.4
of which has been repaid                              622.5       8.2
Total now held by Bank & IDA                         3485.5      31.7
Amount sold                        16.8
of which has been repaid       16.8
Total undisbursed                                    1477.4       0.0     1477.4
a/ Agreement to be signed.
b/ Agreement signed but not yet effective.



- 49 -                               Annex VI
(Page 2 of 2)
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTHENTS
____________________________
(As of September 30, 3988)
Investment   Fiscal                             Types of                 Loan   Equity   Total
Number        Year       Obligor                 Business               (Amount in US$ million)
70-UNI        64    Areva Textiles Ltd.        Textile Hfg.              1.0     0.6       1.6
121-UNI         67
70
68-UNI        64    Nigeria Industrial         Dev. Finance Co.                  1.4       1.4
246-UNI         73    Funtua Cottonseed         Vegetable Oil             1.6               1.6
Crushing Ltd.
247-UNI         73    Nigeria Aluminum          Aluminum                  1.0     0.3       1.3
74      Extrusion Ltd.            Processing
289-UNI         74    Lafiagi Sugat Estate      Sugar                             0.1       0.1
482-UNI        80    Nigeria Textile Mills    Textiles                   20.8     0.7      21.5
962-UNI         87      Ltd.
540- IN!        81    Ikeja Hotel               Tourism                  10.6     1.5      12.1
720-UNI        85
990-UNI        88
724-UN'        85    Tiger Battery              Dry-cell Batteries        5.5               5.5
960-UNI        87    Nigeria Engineering        Motor Vehicles and       12.1              12.1
Works Ltd.                Accessories
1000-UN!       88    Dunlop Nigeria             Motor Vehicles and       12.5              12.5
Accessories           ___
Total gross coamitments                                     65.1      4.6     69.7
Less cancellations, terminations, exchange
adjustments, repayments and sales                         37.1     2.0      39.1
Total commitment now held by IFC                            28.0      2.6     30.6
Tot:,l undisbursed including participants portion           14.7      0.0     14.7



V96L *-qn'O
sx ~~)                       '   -4!_   
tA                              ~       ~        ~~~~~J _\
V  ; S   !      /                     , /         4 ~    ~~,  . ! K
3---   I I   1*         e                         I              
9|   . i,-       S   i)9                            
osoz aug.



