Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3011 UNI
                (Trade and Investment Policy Loan)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                      CENTRAL BANK OF NIGERIA
                       Dated December 22, 88
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  December  22,  1988,  between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the CENTRAL
BANK OF NIGERIA (the Central Bank).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between the Federal  Republic  of  Nigeria  (the Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has  agreed  to  make  available to the Borrower an
amount in various  currencies  equivalent  to five hundred million
dollars ($500,000,000), on the  terms  and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but  only  on  condition that the Central Bank
agrees to undertake such  obligations  toward  the Bank as are set
forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by a subsidiary  financing  and administration agreement
to be entered into between the  Borrower and the Central Bank, the
proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be
made available to the Central Bank on the terms and conditions set
forth in the  Subsidiary  Financing  and Administration Agreement;
and
     WHEREAS the  Central  Bank,  in  consideration  of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement  with the Borrower, has agreed to
Page  2
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, wherever
used in this  Agreement,  the  several  terms  defined in the Loan
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                       Particular  Covenants
     Section  2.01.   The   Central   Bank   shall,  through  FEM,
administer the proceeds of the Loan on behalf of the Borrower with
due diligence and  efficiency  and  in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and  banking  practices and policies and
procedures satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  The  Central  Bank shall
provide, or cause to be  provided,  promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities,  services  and   other   resources  required  for  the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement.
     Section 2.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by  the  provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The  Central  Bank  shall  duly perform all its
obligations  under  the  Subsidiary  Financing  and Administration
Agreement. Except as the  Bank  shall otherwise agree, the Central
Bank shall not take or concur  in  any action which would have the
effect  of  amending,   abrogating,   assigning   or  waiving  the
Subsidiary Financing and Administration Agreement or any provision
thereof.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Central  Bank  shall, at the request of
the Borrower or the Bank, exchange views with the Borrower and the
Bank with regard to the  progress  of the Program, the performance
of its obligations under  this  Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Financing and Administration Agreement, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  The Central Bank shall  promptly inform the Borrower and
the  Bank  of  any  condition  which  interferes  or  threatens to
interfere  with  its  responsibilities   under  the  Program,  the
accomplishment of the purposes of  the Loan, or the performance by
the Central Bank of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the Subsidiary Financing and Administration Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a)  The  Central  Bank shall maintain separate
records and accounts adequate to  reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices  its  operations  and  financial condition in
respect of the Program.
     (b)  The Central Bank shall:
          (i)  have the accounts referred  to  in paragraph (a) of
               this  Section  and  the  Special  Account  for each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
Page  3
               each such year: (A)  certified copies of its annual
               audited financial statements for such year; and (B)
               the report of the audit required under (i) above to
               be carried out by  the auditors therein referred to
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning said accounts  and  financial statements as
               well as the audit thereof  and said records, as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Central Bank shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with  paragraph  (a)   of  this  Section,  separate
               records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain,  until  at   least   one   year  after  the
               completion of  the  audit  for  the  fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such separate  accounts are included in
               the annual audit  referred  to  in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that  the report thereof contains,
               in respect of  such  separate  accounts, a separate
               opinion by said auditors as to whether the proceeds
               of  the   Loan   withdrawn   in   respect  of  such
               expenditures were used  for  the purposes for which
               they were provided.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 4.O2. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of the Central Bank thereunder  shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement  shall  terminate  in accordance with its
terms,  and  the  Bank  shall  promptly  notify  the  Central Bank
thereof.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
Page  4
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                       Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     For the Central Bank:
          Central Bank of Nigeria
          Tinubu Square
          P.M.B. 12194
          Lagos, Nigeria
          Cable address:                       Telex:
               CENBANK                           21350 Cebank NG
               Lagos
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the  Central  Bank may be taken or executed
by the Governor  of  the  Central  Bank  or  such  other person or
persons as the Central  Bank  shall  designate in writing, and the
Central Bank shall furnish to  the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the  authenticated  specimen  signature of each such
person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                             INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                             RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                             By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                             CENTRAL BANK OF NIGERIA
                             By /s/ Hamzat Ahmadu
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
                            Procurement
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part  B hereof, goods shall be procured
Page  5
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods estimated to cost an  amount equivalent to five million
dollars ($5,000,000) or less, being goods to be procured by public
sector agencies of  the  Borrower (excluding commercial parastatal
agencies) may be procured under  contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of  price  quotations  from  at  least  three suppliers
eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with procedures
satisfatory to the Bank.
2.   Goods to be procured by  private sector importers and commer-
cial parastatal agencies  of  the  Borrower  shall  be procured in
accordance with the normal  commercial  practices of the importers
and the parastatal agencies.
Part C:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract  for  goods estimated to
cost  an  amount  exceeding   five  million  dollars  ($5,000,000)
equivalent, being goods to  be  procured by public sector agencies
of the Borrower  (excluding  commercial  parastatal agencies), the
procedures set forth in paragraphs  2  and  4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two  conformed  copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the  Bank  pursuant  to paragraph 2 (d) of said
Appendix shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the
first payment  out  of  the  Special  Account  in  respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With respect to  each  contract  for  goods estimated to
cost an amount equivalent to  five million dollars ($5,000,000) or
less, being goods to be procured  by public sector agencies of the
Borrower (excluding commercial parastatal agencies) the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 3  and  4  of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for  such  contract are to be made out
of the  Special  Account,  such  procedures  shall  be modified to
ensure that the  two  conformed  copies  of the contract, together
with the other information  required  to  be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be  furnished to   the Bank as
part of the evidence to  be  furnished  pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 3.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 10% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
