Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18822
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT FOR THE
PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
GEF GRANT NUMBER 28305
January 22, 1999
Europe and Central Asia
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA'S FISCAL YEAR (FY)
January 1 - December 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 30, 1998)
Currency Unit        Slovenian Tolar (SIT)
US$1         169.5777 SIT
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Slovenian Tolar per US$
1994         1995          1996             1997            1998
until August 31
128.8086     118.5185      135.3654         159.6893        169.6274
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Roger Grawe, ECCO7
Sector Director: Kevin Cleaver, ECSSD
Sector Leader, Environment: Michele E. De Nevers, ECSSD
Responsible Staff: Krisztina Kiss, Program Team Leader (ECSSD)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEE  -  Central and Eastern Europe
CFC   -  Chlorofluorocarbon
CIS      Commonwealth of Independent States
COE  -  Chamber o Economy of Slovenia
CTC   -  Carbon Tetrachloride, a regulated substance
DME  -  Dimethyl Ether
Fl  -  Financial Intermediary
FSU   -  Former Soviet Union
GEF  -  Global Environment Facility
GET  -  Global Environment Trust
GIS  -  Geographic Information System
GOS  -  Government of Slovenia
GWP       Global Warming Potential
HCFC   -  Hvdrochlorofluorocarbon
HFC   -  Hvdrotluorocarbon
ICB   -  International Competitive Bidding
IS  -  International Shopping
LCB   -  Local Competitive Bidding
LIB   -  Limited International Bidding
LS  -  Local Shopping Procedures
LS  -  Local Shopping
MEPP  -  Ministry of Environment and Physical Planning
MIFMP  -  Mlultilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Montreal
Protocol
MP  -  Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer
NBF  -  Not Bank-Financed
NCB   -  National Competitive Bidding
NS  -  National Shopping
OD   -  Operational Directive
ODP  -  Ozone Depleting Potential
ODS  -  Ozone Depleting Substances
OORG   -  Ozone Operation Resource Group
PAA   -  Project Administration Agreement
PCE  -  Perchloroethylene
PIM   -  Project Implementation Manual
PIU   -  Project Implementation Unit
PU   -  Polyurethane
SDR   -  Special Drawing Right
SEF  -  Slovenian EcoFund
SOE  -  Statement of Expenditures
SIT  -  Slovenian Tolar
STAP  -  Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel
TAG   -  Technical Advisory Group
TCE  -  1 . I -Trichloroethane
UNEP  -  United Nations Environment Program
USD   -  United States Dollar
3R   -  Recovery, Reclamation and Recycling
This document has a restrcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performnance of their official duties. Its contents may not, otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT FOR THE
PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
GEF GRANT NUMBER 28305
Contents
Preface ..............................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .............................................                                                   ii
Introduction .........................................................                                          ii
Project Objectives ......................................................... ii
Implementation Experience and Results .........................................................                 ii
Summary of Findings, Future Operation, and Key Lessons Learned ..................................................... iii
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ............................................... 1
A.   PROJECT CONTEXT AND OBJECTIVES  ..........................................................I
Project Context ..........................................................I
Project Objectives ..........................................................4
Evaluation of Objectives .........................................................               .4
B.   ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ..........................................S
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT    ..13
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                           ..14
E. BANK PERFORMANCE    ..14
F.  RECIPIENT PERFORMANCE ........................                                                          14
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME                             ..15
H. FUTURE OPERATION                            ..16
1.  KEY LESSONS LEARNED .....................,,.,.,.,                                                       18
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES                                      ...                             ...................... 20
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ..............................                                              21
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ............................                                            23
Table 3: Project Timetable ............................                                                    23
Table 4: Loan/Credit/Grant Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (USS million) ................... ... 24
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .....................................................................  24
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .....................................................................  28
Table 7: Studies and Workshops Included in Project .          ....................................................................  28
Table 8: Project Costs and Financing ..................................................................... 29
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ..............       ........................................................ 29
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants Republic of Slovenia ODS l'haseout    ..................................................... 30
Table I 1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ..................................................................... 30
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...................................................................... 30
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .....................................................................    31
APPENDIXES:
A. Aide-memoire offinal mission
B. Recipient's contribution to the ICR
C. Map IBRD 26882



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT FOR THE
PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
GEF GRANT NUMBER 28305
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Technical Support and
Investment Project for the Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances in the Republic of Slovenia.
for which a GEF Grant (Grant # 28305) in the amount of SDR 4.2 million equivalent was
approved on November 9, 1995 and made effective on December 27. 1995.
The Grant was closed six months later than originally envisaged. June 30, 1998 instead of
December 31, 1997. It was fully disbursed and the last disbursement date was October 27, 1998.
The ICR was prepared by Krisztina Kiss, Program Team Leader, Eastern Europe and
Central Asia Region, ECSSD, and Mr. David Gibson, Consultant. It was reviewed by Ms.
Michele de Nevers, Sector Leader for Environment, ECSSD, Mr. Gottfried Ablasser, Portfolio
Manager, ECSSD and Mr. Mahesh Sharma, Senior Regional Coordinator, ENVGC.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision and project
completion mission, which took place from May 4-8, 1998. It is based on material in the project
file and discussions with the Director of the EcoFund, the Project Implementation Unit, officials
of the Ministry of Environment and Physical Planning and other relevant entities. The recipient
participated in the preparation of the ICR by contributing their own project completion report.



- i -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT FOR THE
PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
GEF GRANT NUMBER 28305
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
i.    The Republic of Slovenia was among the first group of countries eligible for Global
Environment Facility (GEF) grant funds to launch a comprehensive Ozone Depleting Substances
(ODS) phaseout program. In 1993, the Government of Slovenia (the Government) requested
World Bank assistance for the preparation of a GEF funded ODS Phaseout Project (the Project).
When the Project closed in mid-1998, it was the second successfully completed ODS phaseout
project worldwide. GEF support provided the necessary incentives for Slovenia's early adoption
of ODS phaseout activities, which have yielded environmental and economic benefits.
Project Objectives
ii.    The principal objective of the Project was to assist Slovenia in the cost-effective phaseout
of ODS consumption as mandated by the Montreal Protocol (the Protocol) and its amendments
and adjustments. Specific objectives included: a) the progressive phaseout of chlorofluorocarbon
(CFC) consumption in Slovenia through adoption of new cost-effective CFC-free technologies;
and b) institutional strengthening to improve the capability of the Ministry of Environment and
Physical Planning (MEPP) in managing and overseeing ODS phaseout activities.
Implementation Experience and Results
iii.   Overall, the objectives of the Project were fully achieved. Use of primary CFCs was
phased out through the implementation of sub-projects for which funding was provided by the
GEF on a grant basis to cover the investment costs that enterprises would not have incurred had
Slovenia not been a party to the Protocol. In addition, the Project enabled appropriate Western
technologies to be identified and introduced into the country. The Protocol is based on the
elimination of ODS consumption; the fate of existing stocks of ODS is not considered and
signatories are free to manage these in any way they choose. Slovenia's approach reflects that
adopted in all Western Countries.



- ii -
iv.    Project time frame. The Sub-projects were prepared in 1994, but because of the need to
clarify whether Slovenia qualified as an Article 5 developing country, the Grant Agreement was
not signed until November 1995. The Project completion date had to be extended by six months
to June 30, 1998 because of delays in implementation by Gorenje Servis and Krka; the former
because of prior business commitments elsewhere and the latter due to minor changes in sub-
project design.
v.    Investment Components. Projects involving investments in equipment were carried out at
LTH (commercial refrigeration equipment), Gorenje Servis (domestic refrigerator service), Krka
and Lek (aerosols), Trimo (building panels) and Labod (dry cleaning). All of these were
successfully implemented and the enterprises concerned are satisfied with both the technology
chosen and the performance of the new plant. Minor technical problems remain to be solved at
LTH and Lek and discussions are currently underway between the respective enterprises and
their contractors on the measures to be implemented. Notwithstanding the technical problems,
both firms have achieved normal production levels with the new technology and their Sub-
projects are deemed completed.
vi.    All participants benefited from the Project and commercially they are in a stronger
position now than at the start of the operation.  Loss of markets suffered following the
disintegration of Yugoslavia and the ensuing wars have been by and large offset by stronger
export performance of LTH, Lek, Krka and Trimo. This was made possible by the adoption of
modern non-ODS using technologies under the Project.
Summary of Findings, Future Operation, and Key Lessons Learned
vii.   The Project is the second of its kind to be completed after the Czech Project. The PIU
was fortunate in that it was able to learn from the experience of the Czech PIU with procurement
and management through workshops organized by the Bank.  Thlis contributed to the
exceptionally efficient management of the Project. The Slovenian experience is being shared
with the neighbouring countries and is expected to prove invaluable for ongoing GEF funded
ODS phase-out projects in Poland and the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS).
viii.  Legal and Regulatory Frameli'ork, ODS phaseout took place within the framework of
Slovenia's obligations under the London Amendment, whose provisions have the force of law in
the country.  Legislation controlling ODS imports and consumption was promulgated in
December 1997 in the form of a ministerial decree. Further regulation is required to make
deliberate venting of CFC refrigerant illegal, and for making mandatory a licensing scheme for
refrigeration technicians. The PIU is confident that legislation covering these measures will be
in place by the first quarter of 1999. The legislation is important for the effective operation of
the recovery, reclamation and recycling (3R) scheme'. The legislation will cover Slovenia's
obligations under the Protocol, which do not include management of the existing stocks of CFC
Whilst Slovenia ratified the London Amcndment in 1992. the Copenhagen Amendment to the MP was ratified on October 8.
1998



- iii -
refrigerants. These amount to about 360 tons of CFC-12, 20 tons of R-502 and 9 tons of CFC-11
contained in existing refrigeration systems throughout the country.
ix.    Major Factors Affecting the Project. The most significant factor that affected the Project
was the time taken to resolve the issue of whether Slovenia should have Article 5 or Article 2
status under the Protocol. This took about 12 months to address and delayed signing of the Grant
Agreement until November 19957.
x.    The regional workshops. launched by the Bank and organized by the PIU, were
particularly useful in designing the recovery, reclamation and recycling (3R) scheme. The
network of contacts that has been developed will be of particular importance as the proposed 3R
scheme gets underway.
xi.    Recipient Pcarticipcation. Many of the Project's achievements were due to the exemplary
cooperation between the project management entities (EcoFund and the PIU) and Sub-project
participants in successfully tackling the challenges that emerged during implementation. LTH,
Gorenje Servis, Krka, Lek, Trimo and Labod all adapted quickly to these challenges. LTH has
been successfully restructured financially and the new technology has strengthened its market
position. Krka, Lek and Trimo introduced new innovations during the implementation of their
Sub-projects. Gorenje Servis, on its own launched a public awareness raising campaign and
Labod was the first to successfully complete its Sub-project. The performance of the staff of the
Slovenian EcoFund (SEF) and the PIU was exceptional throughout the project cycle and could
serve as a model for other countries.
xii.   Bank  Performance.    The  Bank's  performance  in  preparation, appraisal and
implementation was satisfactory, despite three changes in task manager over the life of the
Project. The Bank's missions were staffed with highly qualified professionals in financial,
environmental and technical fields. The priorities of both Slovenia and GEF were appropriately
addressed as were those of the Protocol and its related amendments and adjustments. The
decision in 1996 to move supervision responsibility for the Project to the Bank's Regional Office
in Hungary was welcomed by the Recipients as it overcame some of the problems arising from
distance and time. Also, project supervision from the field greatly facilitated the launching and
managing of a series of regional workshops with the involvement of the grant recipient countries.
xiii. Implementation Structure. The arrangements for coordinating implementation of the
Project worked well. The enterprises and, in turn, the PIU and SEF submitted the progress
reports to the Bank in a timely fashion. All participating entities eventually welcomed the
discipline of Bank reporting requirements and procurement procedures. Enterprises stated that
their ODS phaseout Sub-projects would have been delayed without GEF funding. Lek, for
instance, was of the view that it would have stopped Byvacin production, were it not for GEF
funding. Acquisition of modern technology gave enterprises a strongly needed boost that helped
them ride out the difficulties caused by the disintegration of Yugoslavia. GEF funding enabled
2 Because her per capita ODS consumption fell below the 0.3kg threshold in 1995, Slovenia was automatically reclassified as an
Article 5 country. This is merely a technicality since phaseout was based on the assumption that she came under Article 2.



- Iv -
LTH to acquire cyclopentane foaming technology. Without it, in all likelihood, the enterprise
would have lost its share of W. European markets and not survived as a major company.
xiv.  Commercial Motivation. A high degree of co-operation was displayed by all Sub-project
enterprises. In the case of the industrial Sub-projects, the possibility afforded by the Project of
re-directing their activities towards new export markets via new technology was a significant
factor in ensuring their commitment.
xv.   Sustainability and Fuiture Operations. All enterprises are financially sound and have
successfully implemented their respective Sub-projects based on state-of-the-art non-ODS
technologies. They are, therefore, likely to remain in business and the equipment provided under
the Project will be used until the end of its useful life. The Project addressed every area of CFCs
use, except for a nationwide refrigerant recovery, reclamation and recycling 3R scheme, since the
Slovenian market of only two million population was found too small for including the
investments of such a scheme in the key investments funded by the grant. A 3R scheme is being
planned jointly by Gorenje and LTH, which will collect refrigerant from industrial, commercial
and domestic users. Two studies have been carried out to assess the viability of the proposed
scheme, based on the findings of which a reclaim center was put into operation in December
1998 at LTH funded by their own sources. Implementation of the scheme will bring Slovenia in
line with other countries in receipt of GEF funding for ODS phaseout, where such schemes are
either under way or planned. A comprehensive feasibility study carried out by the PIU shows the
existing stocks of ODS refrigerant being finally exhausted in 2023. By then, all existing stocks
of CFC-12 and R-502 will have been exhausted through unavoidable system leaks.  The
combined use of refrigerant recycling and retrofit reflects the approach taken by all developed
countries where existing refrigerant stocks are recycled for as long as possible.
xvi.  The Bank completion mission recommended that the 3R scheme design should
incorporate significant financial incentives for refrigeration technicians. Along with the legal
provisions required, this should avoid a repetition of the experience of the Czech 3R scheme.
Insufficient redemption price paid for recovered refrigerant is considered to be the main reason
why the majority of technicians have re-used the refrigerant directly rather than selling it to the
scheme's reclaim facility. The involvement of an entrepreneur who runs a successful scheme in
the UK is a welcome step in ensuring that the design of the Slovenian scheme is practical.
xvii. Demonstration Value and Replicability. Some Sub-projects (Krka, Trimo, Lek) have
resulted in innovations, which are expected to be of interest to foreign companies engaged in the
same business. Labod has already run workshops to show that the hydrocarbon dry cleaning
technology it uses is a cost-effective replacement for the equipment currently used by other
companies. Likewise, LTH has run refrigeration training courses for service companies in other
parts of the former Yugoslavia. Also, LTH has advised companies in Bulgaria and Macedonia
who are procuring equipment similar to theirs for foam sub-projects.
xviii. Cost Effectiveness. By comparison with the Protocol's thresholds, the cost effectiveness
of the Project was poor. This is due to the disproportionately large size of the industries,
compared to Slovenia's population. The industries are large but by the time the Project was



prepared, their output had declined drastically because of the disintegration of Yugoslavia. Thus,
in the reference pre-Project year, their ODS consumption was low by comparison with their
production capacity. The costs of conversion are proportionate to installed capacity rather than
output. The cost effectiveness ratios were provided in the original Sub-project documents
approved by GEF in 1995. Actual cost effectiveness ratios are comparable to those predicted in
1995. These are presented in Statistical Table 5H.
xix.  Overall the Project progressed exceptionally smoothly and provides an example for other
countries involved in ODS phaseout. The PIU provided a high level of management co-
ordination that was matched by the level of efficiency and co-operation displayed by the Sub-
project enterprises.
xx.   Global significance. New non-ODS use technology supplied under the Project helped
participants consolidate export markets and find new ones. This has contributed to their present
sound finances and helped companies weather the loss of markets in the former Yugoslavia.
xxi.  Key lessons learned. Although the Project proceeded smoothly, the enterprises criticised
themselves for lack of planning. All felt their Sub-projects would have benefited from more
careful thought before the sub-grant agreements were signed. Equipment omitted through
oversight from the original Sub-project designs had to be purchased with funds saved through the
procurement of other items and technological developments made by the enterprises during
implementation, i.e. that equipment costs got lower than estimated at Project design, Project total
costs did not change. PIUs in countries where ODS phaseout projects are under implementation
or about to be initiated would benefit from the experience of the Slovenian enterprises.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT FOR THE
PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
GEF GRANT NUMBER 28305
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   PROJECT CONTEXT AND OBJECTIVES
Project Context
1.    The Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer (1985) and the Montreal
Protocol (the Protocol) on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, signed in 1987, are
international environmental agreements which call for the phaseout of substances that deplete the
stratospheric ozone layer (hereafter "regulated substances").  More than 160 countries,
accounting for over 95 percent of the world's consumption of these regulated substances, have
ratified the Protocol and the Vienna Convention. The Protocol, with its amendments and
adjustments, mandates the complete phaseout of production and consumption of a number of
ozone depleting substances in developed countries by January 1, 1996. All industrialized
countries have initiated comprehensive national programs to develop cost-effective strategies to
phase out the use of these substances among various end-user sectors. The largest family of
ODS is chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), which are widely used in industrial applications, including
domestic, commercial and industrial refrigeration and air conditioning; flexible and rigid
insulation foam; and in numerous other applications such as aerosol propellants, and solvents.
2.    Slovenia committed to the complete phaseout of the consumption of regulated substances
by 1996, as mandated by the Protocol and its amendments. In July, 1992, Slovenia assumed the
obligations of the Protocol, which was initially ratified by the former Yugoslavia on December
26, 1990. Slovenia ratified the London Amendments to the Protocol in December 1992 and the
Copenhagen Amendment in October, 1998. Initially, when Slovenia became party of the
Protocol, it was classified as an Article 5 country3. At the end of 1994 Slovenia with the Bank's
support in the clarification process was classified to a non-Article 5 country status and was
ineligible for financial assistance from the Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the
Montreal Protocol (MFMP). GEF resources, therefore, were mobilized to finance the Project
under the Reduction of the Ozone Layer Depletion component. In 1995, Slovenia's consumption
fell below 0,3kg per capita and it was automatically re-classified as an Article 5 country. This is
a technicality and has no real significance because the country's strategy was based on the
original decision to give Slovenia Article 2 status.
3 A developing country whose annual calculated level of consumption of the controlled substances in Annex A of the Protocol is
less than 0.3kg/capita



- 2 -
3.    Slovenia has been actively planning its ODS phaseout strategy since 1992.  A
comprehensive Country Program based on the Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances was
completed in June 1994 using the year 1992 as the basis, with Bank assistance (see paragraphs 4.
5. and 6. below). The Program served as the basis for establishing the priorities for the Slovenian
Government, and for identifying key policy and regulatory measures which, while supporting a
cost effective phaseout. would minimize disruptions to the industrial sector utilizing ODS. The
activities funded under this Project (see paragraphs 19. through 37.) are among the priorities
identified in the Country Program.
4.    In 1993, total usage of regulated ODS was approximately 1,936 metric tons, -- of which
855 tons CFCs represented 848 tons of ozone-depleting-potential (ODP) in weighted tons, --
about 35 percent lower than in 1990 and equivalent to 952.5 ODP in weighted tons. In terms of
ODP. 89 percent was accounted for by CFCs, ten percent by l,1,1-Trichloroethane (TCE) -
solvents account for 95 percent of TCE consumption - and the remaining one percent by
hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs)'. Usage and consumption of ODS in Slovenia in 1993 are
shown in Statistical Tables 5.A. and 5.B. Consequently, the focus of the Country Program and
thus the Project was on phasing out the consumption of CFCs.  Details relating to the
consumption of ODS (CFCs) in 1993 are shown in the chart below:
Slovenia's consumption of regulated CFCs in 1993
Solvents            Refrigeration
4%                   17%
Aerosols
42%
37%
5.    Phaseout Stralegy.  The strategic objective was "to protect human health and the
environment against adverse effects resulting from modifications of the ozone layer" (in the
words of the Vienna Convention). In order to achieve this, the Protocol's requirement for
Slovenia was to eliminate its ODS consumption5, since there was no ODS production in the
country.  No requirement to manage existing stocks in any particular way is placed on
signatories. The Country Program (mentioned in paragraph 3) described Slovenia's ODS (only
CFCs) elimination strategy based on ten investment sub-projects, six of which were finally
4 These figures were included in the Project Document of October. 1995.
5This is defined as Imports + production - export. Slovenia does not produce ODS.



- 3 -
endorsed by GEF for funding6. The six participating enterprises were selected on the basis of
their capacity to undertake their Sub-projects, their technological leadership positions, or their
special situation within the context of ODS consumption (e.g., a sufficiently low level of
production exports) and their financial viability. The six investment Sub-projects represented 31
percent, 345 tons of annual ozone depleting potential (ODP) (i.e. 347 tons of CFCs) phaseout of
the Country Program (100 percent 1,098 tons of ODP, equivalent to 1,108 tons of CFCs in
1992). Trends in CFC usage in Slovenia by end-use between 1986-1993 are shown in Statistical
Table 5.C. All the ODS usage (100 percent of the 1108 tons of the 1992 CFCs usage) under the
Country Program was phased out as mandated by the Protocol. Slovenia thus fully met its
obligations under the Protocol.
6.       The Country Program  did not describe a recovery, reclamation and recycling (3R)
scheme or make any reference to the use of existing stocks, since that is not required under the
Protocol. It described the disposal of refrigerants as a waste management problem that would be
taken care of in due course. Since the refrigeration service CFC demand was low by comparison
with other sectors, it was not considered a priority. After participation in a Bank sponsored
workshop in Budapest, the PIU decided to encourage the establishment of a 3R scheme to
recycle the existing stocks of refrigerant (see paragraphs 64. and 73. below). Estimates of the
existing stocks of CFC refrigerants are known from the feasibility study made by the PIU to
demonstrate the scheme's financial viability. These are about 360 tons of CFC-12, 20 tons of R-
5028 and 9 tons of CFC-I 1. The annual phaseout amount (by 1998) of CFCs was 340 tons
(338.2 ODP tons), which is high by comparison with the existing stocks. This is because the
biggest consumer of ODS, a manufacturing industry, was set up to supply the much larger
market of Yugoslavia, with a population of 24 million. The existing ODS stocks which consist
almost entirely of refrigerants in existing refrigeration systems9 correspond to Slovenia's
population of two million.
7.      The Republic of Slovenia was among the first group of countries eligible for grant
funding from the Global Environment Facility (GEF) to launch a comprehensive ODS phaseout
program. In 1993, the Government of the Slovenian Republic requested World Bank assistance
in the preparation of a GEF funded ODS Phaseout Project. Preparation and implementation of
the Project took place during the period of economic transition and industrial restructuring.
Hence, only those enterprises that were likely to financially survive the transition were deemed
eligible for participation in the Project.
6 The four non-funded sub-projects were: i) substitution of CFC refrigerants with HFC-134a and substitution of CFC blowing
agents with cyclopentane in the production of household refrigerating-freezing appliances, Gorenje GA, Velenje; ii)
substitution of CFCs in the production of polyurethane (PU) flexible foams, Plama-Poliuretani, Podgrad; iii) substitution
of CFCs in the production of flexible polyethylene and rigid PU foams. Plama-lzoterm, Podgrad; and iv) conversion of
1.1. 1-trichloroethane with water based detergent cleaning procedure, Kolektor Idrija. All these sub-projects were financed
by the companies themselves and implemented as mandated by the Protocol.
7 Taking into account all Annex A and Annex B substances of the Protocol (CFCs, halons, 1, I, I-trichloroethane and CC 14), all
the 2.001 tons of ODS or 1206 tons of ODP projected on the 1992 consumption of the country got phased out.
8 A blend of CFC-1 15 (ODP = 0.6) and HCFC-22 (ODP = 0.05) the ODP of R-502 stocks is about 7 tons
9 Gorenje Servis and LTH - respectively the largest refrigerator and commercial refrigeration service companies, both purchased
quantities of CFC refrigerant in 1994 and 1995 to use for the future service of existing equipment. Gorenje has 7 tons of
CFC- 12 left. LTH has exhausted her stock.



-4 -
8.    Cost Effectiveness. The grant cost effectiveness of the Project is poor when compared to
the Protocol's threshold figures, but only slightly lower than what was calculated at appraisal.
The industries are large but by the time the Project was prepared, their output had declined
dramatically because of the disintegration of Yugoslavia. Thus, in the reference pre-Project year,
their ODS consumption was low by comparison with their production capacity. The costs of
conversion are proportionate to installed capacity rather than output. The cost effectiveness
ratios were provided in the original Sub-project documents approved by GEF in 1995. Actual
cost effectiveness ratios are comparable to those predicted in 1995 at appraisal. These are
presented in Statistical Table 5H.
9.    Rationale fior GEF Involvement. The Project was developed and structured to meet the
specific ODS phaseout requirements of Slovenia as outlined in the Country Program and the
general project eligibility criteria guidelines of the GEF Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel
(STAP). GEF funding was obtained on the basis of Slovenia's eligibility for such assistance, i.e.
it was not classified as a developing country according to the Protocol, and hence was deemed
ineligible for funding from the Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Protocol.
Project Objectives
10.   The principal objective of the Project was to assist Slovenia in the phaseout of ODS
consumption in a cost-effective manner as mandated by the Protocol and its amendments and
adjustments. Specifically the Project was to assist Slovenia in: (a) phasing out the consumption
of CFCs through adoption of new cost-effective CFC-free technologies; and (b) institutional
strengthening to improve the capability of the Ministry of Environment and Physical Planning
(MEPP) to manage and oversee the phaseout program.
11.   GEF support provided the incentives for the early adoption of ODS phaseout activities.
In so doing the country captured additional environmental and economic benefits, which
otherwise would have been lost. By focussing on the key sectors and enterprises, the Project was
to support the phaseout of the 345 tons of ODP per year.
Evaluation of Objectives
12.   The objectives of the Project and the strategy within which it was embedded were
appropriate according to the requirements of the Protocol and in line with the objectives of the
country assistance strategy and the Bank's global goals of environmentally and socially
sustainable development. Financial assistance to aid the phaseout of ODS played a pivotal role in
enabling Slovenia to meet its obligations under the Protocol.
13.   The overall approach to ODS phaseout was essentially the same as the one adopted in
other central European countries. Funding was provided to enable non-ODS technologies to be
introduced at key enterprises. Owing to the small size of Slovenia, only two Sub-projects could
be financed under the Project for local demonstration purposes. Some innovative approaches
were developed that have demonstration value beyond Slovenia's borders.



-5 -
14.    The Project milestones were clear since the Project took place within the framework of
Slovenian law that banned CFC import from the end of 1995 in line with the country's
commitments under the Protocol.
B.  ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
15.    The import of ODS into Slovenia has been stopped by law since 1996 in accordance with
the requirements of the country's status as an Article 2 member of the Protocol. Start-up of the
Project was delayed by about 12 months because of discussions over whether Slovenia was
entitled to Article 5 status. Several participants described this as a factor that jeopardized their
strategy for conversion, although on balance all felt that GEF's role was critical in speeding up
the conversion  from  ODS  use.   All consumption  of CFCs was phased  out through the
introduction of alternative technologies. All the objectives of the Project (as described in
paragraphs 10. and I 1.) have thus been fully met.
16.    Pro/ect-wide Fcactors.  The defining legal framework for the Project was the London
Amendment to the Protocol, ratified by Slovenia in  1992.  Following this, the Protocol
requirements enjoyed the force of law. In July. 1994 the Government of Slovenia adopted the
Country Program (see paragraph 5.) for the phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances, identifying
the key investments and regulatory measures to be implemented. All imports'° of CFC
substances ceased by the end of 1995. without any particular phaseout schedule being imposed.
17.    Specific ODS legislation was passed in December 1997 in the form  of a ministerial
decree. This decree controls production, imports, exports and use of ODS and ODS containing
products. However, it does not address the wider issues of existing ODS use in the country",
which was not part of the Project either. Implementation of a 3R scheme will require additional
regulation on banning ODS venting in the country (see paragraphs 64. and 71. - "Future
Operation "and "Recommendcations " below).
18.    Monitoring. The Protocol and its amendments require signatories to phase out their
production and consumption'" of ODS. There is no requirement placed on them to estimate or
control stocks of ODS which, for non-producing countries like Slovenia, consists mostly of
refrigerants lying in working systems. Countries are free to manage existing refrigerant stocks as
they wish. Signatories are obliged to report on ODS production and consumption each year. The
compliance with the Protocol is monitored by the calculation of the annual consumption in
comparison to the consumption in the reference year. The reference year for Article 2 countries
is 1986, while for the Article 5 countries the baseline is the average ODS consumption in 1995-
10 Slovenia did not produce any ODS.
1 Estimated current total quantity of CFCs in the existing refrigeration and air conditioning equipment or stored in Slovenia is
about 380 ODP tons. which will need reclamation or incineration some time in the future. Of this, the estimated annual
amount available for reclamation is about 11.5 tons. about half of which could be reclaimed in the next 15-20 years. Some
CFC refrigerants are assumed to have been smuggled into Slovenia to satisfy the refrigeration service demand, but no
reliable estimates can be made. This is being reduced by improved training of customs officers and the 3R scheme (see
paragraph 70. below) which reduces the basic service demand through recycling.
12 Protocol definition of consumption is production plus imports minus exports of controlled substances.



- 6 -
1997. The appropriate monitoring indicators for an ODS phaseout project are thus the ODS
consumption before, during and after project implementation. Statistical Tables 5D. and 5E. give
a complete picture of this consumption, broken down to show the contribution made by each
Sub-project to phaseout. In fact, because of increased production since 1994 the defacto amount
phased out was higher than envisaged for all Sub-projects except Gorenje. Details are presented
in Tables SF and 5G. The Implementation Committee under the Non-compliance Procedure for
the Protocol reported in 1998 that Slovenia's ODS phaseout was in compliance with the
consumption reduction schedule and fully successful
Institutional Strengthening Component
19.   Sub-project 1. Project Implementation Unit.  The Chamber of Economy (COE), the
Slovenian EcoFund (SEF) and the MEPP set up an ODS Phaseout Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) in 1995. The PIU coordinated the implementation of the Project, oversaw procurement
and disbursement in close cooperation with SEF and supervised Project activities according to
the requirements of the GEF, the World Bank and the MEPP. As necessary, the PIU arranged for
technical assistance and consultants to assist in project implementation, and provided support to
facilitate cooperation among governmental institutions and the consumers of ODS. Finally, the
PIU assisted small ODS users not covered under the Project and advised the participating
enterprises concerning any changes in ODS phaseout strategies and technologies and their
implications and trained staff of the enterprises. The PIU and the SEF fulfilled their role an
exemplary manner. Funding of this Sub-project out of the grant was however higher than
originally envisaged, US$327,196 actually, compared to the US$219,690 original estimate.
There were two reasons for this. More technical assistance and involvement of also foreign
experts were required during implementation (details on studies, training and workshops are
presented in Table 7.) than originally envisaged, and the Project closing date extension meant
also that the PIU operation was required for an extended period of time. Technical assistance
activities of the PIU under the Project covered the preparation of a manual on good practices in
refrioeration and air conditioning, the management of 11 training courses for service technicians
for refrigerating-freezing and air conditioning equipment, a workshop for customs officers and
inspectors on the implementation of new regulations related to ODS phaseout and control,
regional and international workshops, and a study regarding the establishment of a 3R scheme
for Slovenia.
Investment C`omponent
20.   Su.rb-project 2. Sub-project for Conversion and Phaseout of ODS at L TH. LTH is the
largest producer of commercial refrigeration appliances in Slovenia. The objectives of the Sub-
project were the substitution of CFC refrigerant with HFC-134a and HFC blends, and of CFC-1 1
blowing agent with cyclopentane. Product development has proceeded smoothly and most units
have been converted for either HFC-134a (high and medium temperature applications) or R-404a
(low temperature) uses. A small amount of HCFC-22'3 (4.9 tons in 1997) is still used. There
13 Use of this substance has a small ODP (0.05) is allowed until 2030 under the MP. It is still widely used in the EU as a
"transitional substance" although its use in new equipment is liable to be banned in new equipment from 2001 according to
proposed EU legislation.



remains a small problem concerning leaks of nitrogen from the storage tank provided under the
Project. This is not serious, however, and will be addressed by the plant contractors.
21.    LTH provided expert lecturers for a course in refrigerant handling, organized by the PIU.
The course was well attended by technicians from LTH and other participating enterprises. A
further course is planned to support a 3R scheme (see paragraphs 24. and 64. - "Future
Operation" below).
22.    The heat recuperator was omitted from the original Project design by mistake. This was
approved during Project implementation and paid for from cost savings on the purchases of other
equipment.'4 Incremental Operating Costs (IOCs) were lower than predicted during Project
design.".
23.    LTH's financial situation had deteriorated, following the loss of Yugoslav markets. As a
result the enterprise was unable to obtain the bank guarantee, which was a requirement for grant
disbursement under the Project Administration Agreement. This and the need to re-structure the
company delayed implementation by about a year.
24.    Sub project 3.  Servicing of Refrigerators and Freezers, and Substitution of CFC-12
Refrigerant in Heat Pumps with HFC134-a at Gorenje Servis. Gorenje Servis is the largest
refrigeration service organization for household appliances in Slovenia. Gorenje, the production
company of household appliances, phased out CFCs used as refrigerants and polyurethane (PU)
foam blowing agent at their own cost'6 and now produce refrigerators foamed with cyclopentane,
and charged with eitherHFC- 1 34a or R-600a (isobutane - a flammable hydrocarbon) as
refrigerant. The Sub-project involved the provision of equipment to enable Gorenje Servis
technicians to service Gorenje's products (e.g. mobile recovery units, charging equipment, leak
detectors). Refrigerant recovery equipment was also provided to enable technicians to collect
refrigerant instead of venting it and participating in the 3R scheme planned by Gorenje Servis
with LTH (see paragraphs 21. and 64. "Future Operation"'). Conversion to R-600a had not been
anticipated in the Project and Lokring pipe sealing tools'" were added during implementation.
25.    Gorenje technicians have participated in the course organized by PIU  for technicians'
described earlier (see paragraph 20. - LTH Sub-project description). After the start-up delays,
implementation has proceeded smoothly. Some delays occurred concerning the certification of
recovery cylinders on behalf of the sub-contractor to Ekotez, the supplier of the mobile recovery
units, but the certification was acquired in time.
14 Equipment omitted through oversight from the original Sub-project designs had to be purchased with funds saved through the
procurement of other items. the costs of which got lower since project design, and technological developments made by the
enterprises during implementation. The total costs of the Project did not change.
15 This was due to lower refrigerant and compressor prices than anticipated. The heat recuperator also helped to offset running
costs.
16 The fact that Gorenje exports the bulk of their production to non-GEF eligible countries made them ineligible for a GEF
funded manufacturing project.
7 This is a mechanical method of sealing charging stubs that enables R-6ooa refrigerators to be repaired at householders'
premises



-8 -
26.   Gorenje Servis also undertook a public awareness raising campaign. Leaflets were
prepared and distributed to households informing them about CFCs and the Ozone Layer
problem and the need for using qualified technicians. This, together with another awareness
camnpaign carried out by the Gorenje Holding Company, resulted in a gratifying 20 percent
increase in general service work"8. Such a positive response from the Slovenian public to
atmospheric issues bodes well for further awareness campaigns planned by the PIU (see
paragraph 74. below).
27.   Sub-project 4. Conversion of Aerosol Production to CFC-Free Propellants at Krka
Kozmetika. Krka is a major producer of aerosols for cosmetic and technical applications. The
objective of the sub-project was to phase out the use of about 80 tons of CFCs aerosol
propellants and substitute them with dimethyl ether (DME) in colognes and hydrocarbon aerosol
propellants in all other products. A new explosion proof wrapping machine had to be procured
under the Project. This was not included in the original Project design, but made necessary by
Slovenian flammable gas regulations. It was financed from unallocated funds.
28.   No technical problems were encountered in implementation. The flexible DME/liquid
petroleum  gas (LPG) filling line arrangement is unusual but works well.  Incremental
Operational Savings (IOSs) have turned out to be lower than estimated (IOSs 4.9 US cents/unit
compared to the estimated 5.4 US cents/unit).
29.   Sub-project 5. Substitutionfor CFC Propellants in the Production of Pharmaceuticals at
Lek Chemical and Pharmaceutical Co. Lek is one of the largest aerosol manufacturers in
Slovenia. The company produced pharmaceuticals in Ljubljana, and cosmetics in Lendava, a
town about 200 km from Ljubljana. LEK had converted its cosmetic aerosol production in
Lendava to hydrocarbon aerosol propellant (HAP) in 1993 in advance of Slovenian legislation.
The objective of the Sub-project was to phase out the use of 157 tons of CFCs aerosol
propellants and substitute them with hydrocarbon aerosol propellants in the production of
pharmaceuticals. The Sub-project involved conversion of a CFC based medical aerosol facility
in Ljubljana where Byvacin (a spray antibiotic) was produced. Other equipment provided under
the Project was a storage tank for n-Pentane. This is used in conjunction with the LPG (already
in use) to reduce the propellant pressure and achieve an even distribution of the Byvacin
antibiotic on the skin surface. One relatively straightforward technical problem concerning the
cooling unit of the air conditioning system was left for Lek to resolve with the mechanical
contractors. Implementation of the Sub-project proceeded smoothly. The HAP based Byvacin
has achieved spectacular results in export markets and has virtually restored LEK business
position to pre- 1989 levels.
30.   IOSs were estimated at US$80,000 at completion, compared to US$192,360 IOCs at
preparation.  Savings were largely due to technological developments Lek made during
implementation. A new binary product formulation was developed that eliminated the need for
one component and enabled the filling process to be simplified.
1 For the 3 months June-August 1998 compared to the same period in 1997.



- 9 -
31.    A garment sterilizer was approved during Project implementation. Under Slovenian law,
Byvacin production can be modified only if the latest regulations regarding sterilization are
met.'9 Lek had originally intended to satisfy this requirement by outsourcing the work to a local
hospital, but this did not prove to be a cost effective. Since the existing equipment would not
meet the latest regulations, a new one was purchased from savings made on the procurement of
other equipment (see footnote 12.).
32.    Sub-project 6. Elimination of CFC-11 in the Production of Light Building Panels at
Trimo. Trimo is Europe's largest manufacturer of light building panels. PU foam is used as an
adhesive to bond the mineral wool fibers to the metal walls of the panels. The Sub-project
involved the provision of equipment to enable the adhesive to be foamed with carbon dioxide in
place of CFC-I 1. In addition to the adaptation of the technological equipment of adhesive
application and new double belt line, a new extension to the factory was partly funded to
accommodate the longer curing time required for the carbon dioxide foamed panels after
manufacture and before removal to storage. The new arrangements for this Sub-project required
a mechanical handling facility for removing the panels from the conveyor for which a forklift
truck was envisaged in the original Project. This was changed to a gantry crane20 and was funded
by unallocated funds, cost savings from Sub-projects and their own funds. Implementation has
proceeded smoothly and no technical problems remain.
33.    Trimo is a classic example of a so-called "triple win" Project2'. A review of production
methodology occasioned by the Project catalyzed the product re-design described below (see
paragraph 44. - "Innovation" below).
34.    Suib-project 7. Substitution for CFCs with Aliphatic Hydrocarbons in Dry Cleaning at
the Labod C'ompany. The country's largest dry cleaning business used CFC-I I and CFC-1 13 for
cleaning fine garments. This was replaced under the Sub-project by an aliphatic hydrocarbon
(C,,H24). The technology employed was of Japanese origin, modified by the Germans to fully
address safety issues.  The modified technology allows potentially explosive hydrocarbon
(HC)/air concentrations to be monitored electronically in the equipment, which is disconnected
automatically if the Lower Explosive Limit (LEL) is approached.
35.    Since the cleaning fluid is liquid at ambient temperatures (boiling range 180-200 Deg.C),
any leaks of the cleaning fluid out of the machine would be of a stable liquid, so flammable
air/HC concentrations cannot easily develop in the work area where the machine is located.
36.    No special safety training was included in the Sub-project apart from that provided by the
equipment manufacturer during commissioning, when employees were made aware of the
19 In effect the relevant European Directive applies. This requires that the most up-to-date methods for equipment testing be
employed. These are set out in "Validation of Steam Cycles" (Technical Monograph # 1) published by the Parental Drug
Asscn. Inc. The old Fedagari FOF/4 sterilizer cannot meet these requirements.
20 Calculations made by Trimo showed that panels would suffer excessive deflection if supported only at the center
21 i.e. one which yields technical as well as economic and financial benefits. Trimo's development reversed Trimo's fortunes by
greatly increasing their export potential, bringing potential tax revenue and foreign exchange benefits to Slovenia as a
wvhole.



- 10-
explosion risks and the response of the automatic safety equipment to these risks. There has
been virtually no change in operating procedures, except that operators are now required to wear
gloves when removing garments from the cleaning drum and placing them in the drier.
37.    Negative Incremental Operating Costs (IOCs)22 were calculated in the Sub-project and
deducted from the investment grant. Implementation of this Sub-project has proceeded smoothly.
38.    Global Benefits.  IOCs were significantly lower than originally envisaged for Sub-
projects implemented by Labod, Lek and Krka23. All other enterprises provided evidence of
actual Incremental Operating Costs incurred. These were verified by the Bank's technical
evaluation mission for the preparation of the ICR74.
39.    One significant benefit was shared by all companies apart from  Labod and Gorenje
Servis. All other participants were major producers for whom the former Yugoslavia was the
largest market.  The civil war in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia that followed the
dissolution of Yugoslavia in 1991 had a devastating effect on business. Exposure to new non-
ODS technologies, however, enabled these enterprises to acquire a foothold in new European
markets that at least partly offset their loss of the Yugoslav market and enabled them to stay in
business. In Lek's case the success of Byvacin in the export market has virtually restored their
turnover to pre- 1989 levels. Krka's present turnover of 1.5m units is a fraction of the 6m units per
year they enjoyed at their peak, but is largely due to new export markets. Trimo has added
Russia and the Czech Republic to their traditional local and German markets. Their export
strength is partly due to a significant technical innovation (see paragraph 44. - "Innovation"
below) and compliance of their product with the latest German fire standards25. Conversion to
non-ODS technology enabled LTH to increase its exports to Croatia, Macedonia, Czech Republic
and Russia. Exports to Germany, France, Netherlands, Italy and the UK, however, have declined
because of increased competition within the EU.
40.    Many Sub-projects have enjoyed benefits that will facilitate Slovenia's accession to the
European Union (EU)26. By conforming to ISO  14001 (validation is currently being sought),
Trimo will satisfy EU criteria in respect of environmental compliance. Its equipment meets
stringent noise and dust emission standards and a new EU regulation on the size of fiber dust
particles allowed in the workplace. In order to sell products in the EU, LTH needed to test
products according to European (EN) standards27. Best international practice in terrns of safety
and the environment was employed on all Sub-projects, and no additional investments will be
22 There was no disbursement category for lOCs. the calculation however was important for calculating the needed grant
amount (in the summary table of the 1995 Project Document).
23 These were anticipated and project funding adjusted accordingly.
24 Krisztina Kiss (Task Team Leader) and David Gibson (independent technical consultant) visited Slovenia from in September
1998 to verify project completion.
25 DIN 4002. The cost of certification was met by the Project.
26 Slovenia initiated the process of becoming an associate member of the EU in 1997. Full membership is expected in 2003.
Screening of Slovenian legislation for EU compatibility will start in January 1999.
27 Test results have to be deposited at approved EU institutions for inspection by interested parties



- 11 -
needed when Slovenian legislation is harmonized with EU law in 1999. The exception to this is
LTH, where HCFCs will continue to be used as refrigerants.  The use of HCFCs in new
refrigeration systems of the type made by LTH is likely to be prohibited in 2001 under proposed
EU legislation. Replacement of HCFCs by HFC refrigerants in new equipment production is
straightforward. Since it already uses HFCs (HFC-134a; R-404a) in other production, LTH will
experience little difficulty in converting the remainder of its production. Investment costs will be
minimal and related to small design changes that LTH might anyway make in the course of
normal product development. The Project's objective. however, was to meet the requirements of
the Protocol not of the EU legislation.
41.   No other Sub-projects employ HCFCs or any other substance for which controls are
proposed in EU legislation.
42.   The discipline of Bank procurement procedures and reporting requirements was welcome
by all participants. Conversion to non-ODS technology coupled with moving premises was the
largest project undertaken by the family-run firm of Labod, since the company was founded.
Bank guidance was invaluable. The requirement of International Shopping brought them in
touch with technologies superior to those with which they were familiar with and the Sub-project
benefited as a result. Even for mature enterprises like Krka, Trimo, Lek and LTH, the discipline
of Bank procedures was finally welcomed, though at the outset it was seen as a problem. Krka,
LTH and Lek freely admit that better planning would have resulted in smoother project
implementation.
43.   LTH. Gorenje Servis, the SEF and the PIU welcomed the opportunity of networking
afforded by workshops launched by the Bank and organized by the PIUs of countries where ODS
phaseout projects were underway (Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovenia).  Krka has
*'8
characterized the Bank's technical input on aerosols as invaluable-
44.   Innovation.  All Sub-projects were innovative in the sense that Western European
technologies of choice were introduced into Slovenia. Labod is the only dry cleaning company
in Slovenia using a hydrocarbon based cleaning fluid, though this is fairly standard technology in
Western Europe. In the case of the two aerosol Sub-projects (Krka and Lek), hydrocarbon
aerosol propellant was already being used, though in both cases the Sub-projects resulted in
unusual developments with demonstration potential for other medium sized producers. Krka's
flexible DME/Liquid Petroleum Gas filling line is thought to be unique. Lek developed a new
product formulation that dispensed with the use of beeswax and simplified the filling procedure
for their spray antibiotic.
45.   At Trimo, the Project served as a catalyst for in-house technical developments that have
generated interest worldwide29. LTH is testing hydrocarbon based refrigerants30 in its equipment
28 Gino Nardini - OORG reviewer and president of the Mexican Aerosol Institute.
29 Technicians from several European countries. Japan. Russia and Saudi Arabia have visited Trimo to learn more of this
development.
30 These are expected to follow HFCs which are significant Global Warming agents. Hydrocarbons have negligible Global
Warming Potential (GWP) but are flammable which creates the major barrier to their use.



- 12 -
but is wary of premature innovation. It sees its interests being best served by staying in step with
Western European practice. However, the experience of re-designing the equipment for HFC
refrigerants will stand the company in good stead for eventual transition to hydrocarbon based
refrigerants.
46.   Demonstration Value and Replicahiliy.  The innovations by Krka. Lek and Trimo
described above are all potentially interesting to other enterprises in similar industries converting
from ODS. They are the only' such producers in Slovenia however. Krka and Lek have made
innovations that are theoretically interesting for other medium sized cosmetic/pharmaceutical
producers. Trimo has already had visits from overseas building panel producers interested in its
technique.
47.  ILabod has a significant potential to demonstrate hydrocarbon based dry cleaning to about
300 other dry cleaning enterprises in Slovenia. Without exception these use Perchloroethylene
(PER). Labod can demonstrate that transition to hydrocarbon cleaning is cost effective as well as
desirable for health and environmental reasons3'.  The enterprise has already hosted one
workshop where it shared the experiences with 70 local dry cleaners. Labod's experience shows
that not only are the equipment cheap but that it also reduces operating costs. It ought to be clear
to other Slovenian operators that transition to hydrocarbon based equipment makes good
business sense when replacing existing equipment.
48.   LTH's cyclopentane based foaming installation is standard, but is of interest to other PU
foam users in the region. LTH has already been visited by companies in Macedonia and Bulgaria
procuring equipment for similar GEF funded projects.  The company has transferred its
experience in new refrigerant handling, retrofit and recovery to service companies in Croatia,
Bosnia and Macedonia.
49.   In general. Project implementation proceeded very smoothly. The high level of co-
ordination and effective project management by the PIU combined with the efficiency and
commitment of the enterprises can well serve as a model for other countries.
50.    afr'vty. All Sub-projects, except Trimo, involved the use of flammable fluids, as foaming
agents (LTH). aerosol propellants (Krka, Lek), cleaning fluid (Labod) and refrigerants (Gorenje
Servis).  These Sub-projects have all addressed the safety aspects, adopting measures that
represent best international practice. A combined Environmental and Safety Statement was
required by the Ministry of Environment and Physical Planning as a condition of grant
disbursement for each Sub-project. The Statement specified safety and environmental legislation
to be followed for each Sub-project.
51.   A Permit to Operate was also required before normal production could be resumed, which
was issued by the local authority after prior approval by the health and the fire protection
inspectorates.
31 PER is thought to be a carcinogen which also contributes to Tropospheric Ozone (smog) formation



- 13 -
52.   Local safety experts have been involved. Gorenje's repair technique for R-600a based
refrigerators has been approved by Kova, a safety specialist consulting company. Technicians at
Krka receive refresher courses in safety equipment operation32 and hydrocarbon sensors are re-
calibrated every two years. Operators undergo annual short refresher courses in-house, which
cover safe equipment operation. All enterprises have a safety manual33 and have identified safety
representatives whose specific task is to monitor behavior in the workplace and identify safety
problems, if any.
53.   GEF Involvement. All enterprises stated that their Sub-projects would have been delayed
or cancelled had the GEF grant funding not been available. Labod would not easily have found
the $200,000 funding required from their net profit of $60,000 per year. Borrowing from local
banks would have taken even longer than the GEF Project preparation and self-financing was not
an option. LTH stated that conversion would have been impossible without GEF help34. Krka
said their Sub-project would have taken much longer because GEF funding via the Bank was
quicker and less complicated than acquiring a conventional loan from a local bank. Trimo stated
that the availability of the GEF grant shortened the time taken by its Sub-project by two or three
years.
54.   The Project served as a catalyst for a number of technical innovations described above
(see paragraphs 44. and 46. above). Without the grant, Gorenje Servis would have deferred the
3R scheme, although it would have funded conversion to servicing non-ODS refrigerators from
its own resources. Lek admitted that without GEF funding it would have ceased Byvacin
production with the probable loss of about 20 jobs. This would have been ironic given the
success of Byvacin spray. Instead, 20 additional jobs have been created in one of the highest
unemployment areas in the country.
C.  MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
55.   From a technical standpoint implementation has proceeded smoothly and all enterprises
have indicated that they are fully satisfied with the results. The major external factor affecting
project implementation was the time taken to clarify Slovenia's status under the Protocol.
Slovenia initially applied for Article 5 status, but was finally classified as an Article 2 member.
This process took about 12 months from mid-1 994. The Grant agreement was finally signed in
November 1995. (Slovenia is now technically an Article 5 country - see note to paragraph 2.).
56.   The PIU was able to benefit from the regional workshops described above (see paragraph
38. - "Global Benefits") especially in designing the 3R scheme as well as from the other
countries' experience with project management and implementation. The exceptionally smooth
implementation of the Slovenian Project was due in part to these workshops. Contacts made
during these events will also be useful as the 3R Scheme is developed (see paragraph 64. -
32 At the Slovenian Electrical Association
33 Krka and Lek have updated their existing safety manuals to take account of the expansion of their hydrocarbon based filling
activities. and the new hydrocarbon storage facilities provided under the project
34 They could probably have funded transition to new refrigerants, but not cyclopentane foaming. Their performance in
European markets would have been at risk and their survival as a major company unlikely



- 14 -
"Future Operation" below). The Czech and Hungarian experience with such schemes will
provide valuable input as detailed design of the Slovenian scheme is undertaken.
D.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
57.   Under the Project state-of-the-art technologies were introduced. The hydrocarbon based
technologies used in most Sub-projects removes Stratospheric Ozone Depletion and Global
Warming concerns, but hydrocarbon's are not completely benign because, as Volatile Organic
Compounds (VOCs), they contribute to Smog forination35. Only one enterprise (Trimo) uses
environmentally harmless technology. Some (Labod. Gorenje Servis) use technologies which
are unlikely to be superseded in the foreseeable future. Processes at Krka and Lek are likely to
be changed in the medium term as VOC issues are addressed. Krka is considering using C02 as
a propellant and already use hand pump dispensers for insecticide"6. This will require only
modifications to their existing hydrocarbon aerosol propellant filling equipment.
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
58.   The Bank's performance in preparation. appraisal and implementation was satisfactory,
despite three changes in task manager over the life of the Project. The Bank's missions were
staffed with highly qualified professionals in financial, environmental and technical fields. The
priorities both of Slovenia and GEF were appropriately addressed as were those of the Protocol
and its related amendments and adjustments. The decision at the mid-term to move supervision
responsibility for the Project to the Bank's Regional Office in Hungary was welcome by the
Recipient, as it overcame some of problems arising from time difference and distance. Also
launching and managing a series of regional workshops dealing with policy issues and incentives
for example for the 3R scheme with the involvement of the grant recipient countries of the region
for exchange of experiences and good practices was found to be by all participants.
59.   The working relationships of the groups involved in the Project, namely the Bank, the
grant Recipient institutions. the MEPP. the SEF, the PIIJ. and the six enterprises were excellent.
Bank missions ensured that rules regarding GEF eligibility criteria, and procurement and
financial reporting guidelines, were being followed and provided useful guidance on technical
issues, project management, and institutional strengthening advice to the PIU, the financial
intermediary and the grant recipient enterprises.
F.    RECIPIENT PERFORMANCE
60.   Many of the Project's achievements were due to the exemplary cooperation between the
project management entities (SEF and the PIU) and the participating enterprises. This enabled
them to successfully tackle the challenges that emerged during implementation. LTH, Gorenje
Servis, Krka, Lek, Trimo and Labod all adapted quickly to these challenges.  LTH was
35 Tropospheric Ozone
36 Curiously in some markets anv aerosol is perceived by customers as environmentally damaging and pump dispensers are more
popular.



- 15 -
successfully restructured financially and the new technology strengthened its market position,
Krka, Lek and Trimo introduced new innovations during implementation of their Sub-projects.
Gorenje Servis, on its own, launched a public awareness raising campaign and Labod was the
first to successfully complete its Sub-project. The whole staff of the SEF and the PIU were
highly committed, good professionals, whose input was critical for the exceptionally effective
project management and coordination. The experience could serve as a model for other
countries.
61.   All main legal covenants were met in a timely fashion. The closing date was extended
once by six months.  The extension was required because of delays in implementation,
procurement and some changes in Sub-project designs, and difficulties regarding the proper
design of the 3R scheme, which was not part of the original Project and is expected as future
action. All of the Slovenian agencies involved with the Project performed in an exemplary
fashion. Approval of the anticipated legislation on banning the venting of CFCs will enable the
private sector to carry out refrigerant reclaim  efficiently and economically.   Project
implementation and reporting was punctual and efficient. The SEF and the PIU organized an
exhibition on the results of the Project and on awareness raising regarding ozone layer protection
at a major fair in Ljubljana at end of October, 1998.
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
62.   Overall, the performance of the Project has been very good. Not only have satisfactory
technical solutions been identified and successfully implemented, but the business position of all
enterprises has also improved as a direct result of the Project. To date economic costs to
Slovenia have been zero, and the Project appears to be a classic example of a "triple win"
scenario3". Owing to Slovenia's position as a former member of the Yugoslav Federation, with
industries configured for supplying this region of 24 million people, its position, as these markets
disappeared could have been dire. The Project provided a timely opportunity for a section of
Slovenia's industrial output to be re-directed towards the relatively stable markets of Western
Europe. The social and economic benefits of this for the development of Slovenia, an economy
in transition, are significant.
63.   Efficacy.  The importance of the institutional component in supporting the Country
Program and the phaseout of ODS in Slovenia needs to be stressed. The PIU's involvement
during preparation and its management and coordination activities at the country level, and the
provision of exchange of information and knowledge, resulted not only in smooth Project
implementation, but in the complete phaseout of ODS in Slovenia as required by the Protocol.
The PIU initiated and supported the ODS phaseout at companies which were not included in the
GEF financed Project. It adopted the ODS phaseout legislation including the ODS import/export
licensing system, the introduction of which is required by the Montreal Amendment to the
Protocol (1997). The ratification of the Copenhagen Amendment to the Protocol is also a Project
output, since the PIU provided the knowledge and expertise to the MEPP in the preparation of
37 This is currently true. Disposal of domestic refrigerators will entail a significant economic cost when the 3R scheme is
implemented. See later - "Future Actions".



- 16-
the necessary documentation and supported the MEPP in meeting other requirements under the
Protocol (e.g. reporting to the Protocol Secretariat).
H.  FUTURE OPERATION
64.   Trimo, Krka and LTH are all actively considering further developments in product
design. These have been described above under "Innovation". No Bank support is envisaged or
required for these Sub-projects, as these are deemed viable by the companies themselves.
65.   Slovenia has just ratified the Copenhagen Amendment to the Protocol and will soon pass
legislation banning the deliberate venting of CFC refrigerants. Further ODS regulation needed to
support the proposed 3R scheme is discussed below (see paragraph 73.).
66.   The countrywide 3R scheme represents the major future activity and the only one that
relates to ODS consumption3". Such a scheme, in compliance with the National Environmental
Action Program, involves the collection and re-processing of refrigerants from service
operations, retrofitting commercial and industrial systems with non-ODS refrigerants, and the
disposal of domestic refrigerators. The scheme would be based on the establishment of one
reclaim center at LTH's premises at Skofja Loka, the main supporter of the scheme along with
Gorenje Servis.
67.   Two studies have so far been carried out to determine the best approach. The first
concluded that reclaim in Slovenia was more cost effective and logistically viable than exporting
recovered refrigerant abroad. Regulations will prevent cross border transport of waste products.
Already today there are quotas and special permits are needed for the cross border transport of
refrigerants. Based on a conservative cash flow analysis, the scheme has been found to be viable.
The scheme could reach a target of 5.7 tons reclamation per year. The second study was carried
out by a British reclaim expert39 who runs a successful refrigerant reclaim company in the UK.
This endorsed the findings of the Slovenian study and focussed on the detailed organization of
the scheme in which the expert participated. As a result in December 1998 a reclaim center was
commissioned at LTH and was fully financed out of the company's own funds. Some R22 has
already been reclaimed. This good start is also an indication that the reclaim center operation
will be viable.
38 A countrywide refrigerant recycling scheme where refrigerant is collected instead of being vented to atmosphere and
processed for re-use in special equipment.
39 Derek Capper. CEO of Refrigerant Products Ltd.. Manchester.



- 17 -
68.    The role of a 3R scheme is threefold: i) to permanently reduce the demand for all
refrigerants, 40 ii) to specifically reduce the demand for CFC refrigerant currently being partly
met by illegal imports4'and iii) to reduce the economic cost of retrofitting the country's stock of
refrigeration equipment by extending the period over which this takes place. The feasibility
study carried out by the PIU made estimates of the existing refrigerant stocks based on the
known production of refrigeration equipment over three decades (see paragraphs 6. and 19.
above). If the 3R scheme works as predicted, stocks of CFC-12 and R-502 will fall to zero by
2023. By this time 32 tons of HCFC-22 will have been recycled, in addition to 183 tons of CFC-
12 and 14 tons of R-502. Small stocks of CFC-l 1 (about 9 tons) are contained in working
centrifugal refrigeration systems. Experience elsewhere suggests that there will be no market for
reclaimed CFC-1 .
69.   The destruction of CFC refrigerants through incineration figures in the proposed 3R
scheme only to the extent that different refrigerants mistakenly recovered into the same bottle,
will be incinerated in case such mixtures cannot be separated and reclaimed. If no market for the
CFC- 1 can be found, this too will be incinerated.
70.    The 3R scheme will reduce the demand for new CFC-12, which might be met by illegal
imports from Ukraine and Croatia. Customs officers have been informed about regulatory
measures and techniques of detecting ODS.
71.   Recommendations. The basic approach is correct, though there is an essential difference
between Slovenia and Western Countries that should be addressed in the design of the scheme.
The principle difference is the relative value of CFC refrigerants compared to a mechanic's
wage. The value of CFC is approximately constant everywhere in Europe42 whereas mechanics'
wages vary considerably. A Slovenian mechanic earns about 20 percent of the wages of his/her
British counterpart. Mechanics' wages in the Czech Republic are comparable to those in
Slovenia and the performance of the Czech scheme has provided a valuable lesson in how these
schemes function. Levels of refrigerants recovered there are very high by world standards, but
almost none is reclaimed as individual technicians by-pass the reclaim centre and re-use
refrigerants directly. This has the effect of shortening the life of the refrigeration equipment in
which it is used43. Technicians do this because they can earn the equivalent of about one day's
wages for each kilogram of CFC-12 collected, whereas the reclaim centre offers only a fraction
of this. Ironically shortening the life of equipment imposes a significant economic cost to the
economy, whereas the rationale of a 3R scheme is precisely to reduce the economic cost of
phasing out ODS refrigerants.
40 10- 15% of the GWP problem is thought attributable to the direct emission of refrigerants. The GWP of replacement
refrigerants is in most case of the same order as the CFCs they replace
41 This reduces the demand for new refrigerant at the sources. Russia. China and India
42 About $US20/kg for CFC-12.
43 Hernmetic compressors are particularly sensitive to contaminated refrigerant.



- 18-
72.    Design of the 3R scheme should be predicated on returning the greater part of the value
added in recycling to the refrigeration mechanics, who actually recover it44. Gorenje's 29
technicians could earn an extra US$ 500/year if they could retain about US$ 4 after each kg of
refrigerant is reclaimed. Representing about 5 percent of annual earnings, such a bonus is
sufficient to generate the cooperation necessary to the scheme's success.
73.    Although a financial incentive is the key to successful operation, further regulatory
measures are required to support the 3R scheme. A new regulation making refrigerant recovery
and technician licensing mandatory is expected by the first quarter of 1999. Training in recovery
and retrofit techniques is important; the PIU has already made progress in this by organizing a
technician training course, and another is planned for 1999. The idea of the "green card45" could
be profitably borrowed from the Hungarian 3R Scheme.
74.    The financial analysis of the proposed scheme is based on high recovery rates, up to 50
percent of the annual refrigerants in use. Achieving these targets would require retrofitting
existing equipment at a fairly high rate46. Commercial refrigeration end-users will be heavily
targeted by an upcoming PARC, planned by the PIU. It will make a convincing case for early
retrofit of CFC based systems, as well as encouraging end-users to demand that technicians
working for them are qualified.
75.    The Slovenian customs should make every effort to reduce the eventual smuggling of
CFC refrigerants. This is a notoriously difficult task, as the experience of the Western Countries
shows. The imminent agreement by the Russian Federation to cease production in 2001 should
ease the situation in the medium term, although frantic efforts at stockpiling can be expected in
the intervening period.
I.   KEY LESSONS LEARNED
76.    Trimo would have started earlier and Krka would have received more funding if both
enterprises had  planned  more carefully47.   Lek  expended  effort unnecessarily  by  making
procurement packages too small and using both its own and Bank procurement procedures.
Gorenje would not have purchased specific refrigerant charging equipment had it known that the
parent company was going to introduce R-600a refrigerators into the market.
77.    These elements point to the clearest lesson that can be drawn from the Slovenian Project -
careful planning pays dividends. The PIU and participants benefited greatly from the Bank
44 Net of the 3R scheme running costs.
45 An identity card that identifies the holder as having undergone a refrigerant handling course.
46 The possibilities of recovering refrigerant from ordinary service work are small. Retrofit and recovery together form a
mutually dependant dynamic, with refrigerant recovered from retrofitted systems supplying the service requirement of
non-retrofitted systems after re-processing. Eventually the stock of CFC refrigerant dwindles to zero through unavoidable
system leaks. However. the scheme continues to operate indefinitely reducing the demand for non-ODS refrigerants, most
of which are global warming agents.
47 Ironically LTH reported that had their project not been delayed they would have incorporated new refrigerant developments
into their production.



- 19 -
organized workshops described earlier, but these were held once the Project was under way.
That better planning was required was a consistent self-criticism made by all Sub-project
enterprises.
78.   This is a major lesson that can be passed on to other countries at an earlier stage of
project preparation such as the CIS. The PIUs should encourage participating enterprises to
study their Sub-projects in detail and make sure that every eligible item is covered and that a
feasible implementation plan is prepared well ahead of time.
79.   The Bank procurement procedures should be explained in detail along with the benefits
of seeking to widen the scope of tendering. Enterprises should be discouraged from trying to use
local suppliers they know where this is not appropriate. Labod was grateful that the need for
international tendering brought it in touch with a superior version of hydrocarbon cleaning
technology that the company did not know existed.






-21 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT FOR THE
PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
GEF GRANT NUMBER 28305
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 5A: Usage of ODS in Slovenia in 1993 Broken Down by Substances
Table 5B: Consumption of ODS in Slovenia in 1993 according to UNEP tormats
Table 5C: Trends in CFC Usage in Slovenia by End Use, 1986-1993, tons (and % distribution)
Table 5D: ODS Consumption
Table SE: ODS Phased out
Table 5F: ODS (CFCs) Phased out in ODS tons
Table 5G: ODS (CFCs) Production Weighted Phaseout ODP tons
Table 5H  Cost Effectiveness of the Slovenia ODS Phaseout Pro'ect
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies, Training and Workshops Included in Project
Table 8:  Project Costs and Financing
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions



- 22 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial        Partial         Ner lIgible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                        E                                 D
Sector Policies                                         1               11 0
Financial Objectives                  E                                WI
Institutional Development             Z              EI
Physical Objectives                   11                                                   D
Poverty Reduction                     2                                 D
Gender Issues                                                          0 liii
Other Social Objectives
Environmental Objectives                                                D                  D
Public Sector Management                                               E                  E]
Private Sector Development                                             E lI               I
GEF Objectives                                        LI               LI                 L
B. Project Sustainabiiity              Likely                   Uinlikel                    Uncertain
(v')                       (/)                        (V)
(Contitued)



-23 -
Highly
C. Bank Performance                 Satisfactory             Satisfactory               Deficient
(')                     (V)                        (1)
Identification
Preparation Assistance             c
Appraisal                                                   E0
Supervision                                                  E 0
Highly
D. Recipient Performance            Satisfactory             Satisfactory               Deficient
(v')                    (V)                        (V)
Preparation                                                                           lii
Implementation                      i3                       0 
Covenant Compliance                                          0
Operation (ODS Phaseout)                                     E
Highly                                            Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome            Satisfactory    Satistactory   Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory



- 24 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit/grant/study       Purpose          Year of approval       Status
title
Preceding operations
1. Environment - Air    Reduce ambient      FY 1996           Implementation under
Pollution Abatement     concentration PM o                     way
Program                 and sulfur dioxide
Following operations
3. GEF Grant for the    Biodiversity        FY 1999            Study under
preparation of          protection/Nature                      preparation
Biodiversity Strategy,  conservation
Action Plan, and National
Report
4. Land Cadastre        Improving land      FY 2000            Under preparation
registration and tax
collection
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned         Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)  11/93            11/93
Preparation                               06/94/            06/94/
Appraisal                                 05/95             05/95
Negotiations                              09/95              09/95
Board Presentation                        I()/95             11/95
Signing                                   11/95              11/95
Effectiveness                             11/95              12/95
Project Completion                        12/97             06/98
Grant Closing                             12/97             06/98



- 25 -
Table 4: Loan/Credit/Grant Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(USS million)
FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98
Appraisal estimate         0.00    4.20    5.70    6.20
Actual                     0.00    1.84    4.99    5.88'la
Actual as % of estimate             44      88       95
Date of final                                       10/27/98
disbursement
Note:
(b) - Total grant procceds including boreign exchanige loss.
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
A. Usage of ODS in Slovenia in 1993 Broken Down by Substances
Substance            Total Use        Ozone depleting        Total Use
(tons)          potential (ODP)        (ODP tons)
Annex A, Group I
CFC-l1                       399.5                  1.0               399.5
CFC-12                       355.9                  1.0               355.9
CFC-113                       31.0                  0.8                24.8
CFC-114                       66.6                  1.0                66.6
CFC-115                        2.0                  0.6                 1.2
Subtotal                     855.0                                    848.0
Annex A, Group II
Halon 1211                     0                    3.0                   0
Halon 1301                     0                   10.0                   0
Halon 2402                     0                    6.0                   0
Subtotal                       0                                          0
Annex B, Group I
Other CFCs                     0                    1.0                   0
Annex B, Group II
CC14                           0.7                  1.1                 0.8
Annex B, Group III
MCF                          984.0                  0.1                98.4
Annex C, Group I
HCFCs(a)                      96.0"';              0.055;")              5.3(a)
TOTAL                       1935.7             _                      952.5
Note:
(a) - ODP for HCFC-22 was used for the determiniation of 01)1' usage ot I 1('l:("s



- 26 -
B. Consumption<') of ODS in Slovenia in 1993 According to UNEP Formats
Substance                Consumption   ODP                         ODP                ODP kg
(metric tons)                      Consumption   per capita*
(ODP tons)
Annex A, Group I
CFC-11                        153.0               1.0           153.0
CFC-12                        371.0               1.0           371.0
CFC-113                        23.0              0.8              18.4
CFC-114                        51.0               1.0             51.0
CFC- 115                         1.5             0.6               0.9
Total                              599.5                              594.3
Annex A, Group II                        0                                 0
Annex A, Total                     599.5                              594.3                  0.299
Annex B, Group I                         0                                 0
Annex B, Group II                     0.7              1.1               0.8
Annex B, Group III                  809.0              0.1              80.9
Annex B, Total                     809.7                               81.7                  0.041
Note:
--I'opulation in 1993: 1 989 408
(a) - The difference in the data for ODS consumption according to UNIT fiormats and actual used quantity is due to dill'rerit deflinitionis of'
c(nsumption and methods of presentation of'data. I'he formier is the consumptioni calculated as productioni plus imports mllus exports of'
ODS (lNEP guidelines), and the latter is the real usage in the manUlacturing ofg oods. including  D)lS which had becin imiportcd bhit not
used belore 1993.
C. Trends in CFC Usage in Slovenia by End Use, 1986-1993, Tons (%° distribution)
Year End         1986        1987        1988        1989        1990         1991         1992         1993
Uses
Refrigerants      311        252         241          238         346          281          195          150
(11%)    (10%)          (9%)       (10%0        (17%)       (18%)        (18%)        (17%)
Aerosols          1133       1 1 53      1281        1089         884          710          436          357
(42%)    (46%)         (48%)       (45%)        (44%)       (46%)        (39%)        (42%)
Foams             1244       1088        1083        1029         728          511         432           317
(45%)    (43%)         (4 1%)      (43%)        (36%)       (33%)        (39%)        (37%)
Solvents           37         25          50          45           50          54           45           31
(1-2%)    (I %)         (2%)        (2%)        (2-3%)       (3%)         (4%)         (4%)
TOTAL            2725        2518        2655        2401        2008         1556         1108          855
Note:
-- In the period 1986-1989 the data regarding CFC usage as refrigerants do not comprise those for maintenance purposes. It is impossible to
estimate the fraction for servicing in Slovenia and in other republics of orimer Yugoslavia. From 1990 onwards, the data regarding
refrigerants comprise those for servicing purposes for the Slovenian market.



- 27 -
D. ODS Consumption
Company           1992 Actual                                      CFC Consumption in. Tons
Use Tons                1994             1995              1996              1997              1998
LTH-l                     68.9             22.2              17.(0              I2.0'               0                 ()
Goren.je Servis            9.6              4.8               4.2                  W'" ,            0"
KRKA                      79.0"'           60.8              17.9                                  IJ                 0
LEK                      157.0            146.0             151.8                 0                 0                 0
'I'rimo                   22.4              16.3'd)           1 6.2"            9.7"'                                 ()
Labod                      3.5              2.3               3.1                 D                 (                 0
Total                    340.4            252.4             210.2              21.7                 0                 0
Nole:
(a) - Imported by the company itself in December 1995 or bought on the Slovenian market in 1'996. used o0lI tor scrv ice purposes.
(h) - There has been no inports of CFCs, althoughi the company is still usilng CFC Jbr service purposes fromil the stockpiled almlOuLnt made prior the
phaseout date (iilported by the producer ot household appliances). The stock is estimated to 7 tols.
(c) - 1993 ACtLal Use in 'I'ons
(d) - Calculated on the basis of the used amount of'preimiixed polyoi. 'I'he use in premixed polvol \\as not reported to UNIT. -- Slovenia's total
consumption ofODS (Annex A and Annex B substanices of the Plrotocol) reported to UNIN  w\as 625 Xl 1ODI1 tonis il 1994 40)2.51 O)DP tons in
1995, 0.65 ODP toins in 1996, 0.392 ODP tons in 1997.
E. ODS Phased out
Company           1992 Actual                                  Cl:C's phaseout                                 Total actual
Use of CFCs                                                                                     OD()S
1994           1995           1996            1997           1998          phasCout
[T ll                 68.9            46.7            5.2             5.0           12(0              0            68.9
(iorenje Servis        9.6             4.8            0.)6            4.2              ()                           9.6
KRKA                  79.0(a)         18.2           42.9            17.9             ()              (            79.0)
1.EK                 157.0            11.(0          -5.8           151.8             ()              ()          157.1)
I'rimo                22.4             6.1               _.1          6.5            9.7              0            22.4
Labod                  3.5             1.2           -(1.8            3.1             ()              (             3 5
Total                340.4              88           42.2           188.5     [    21.7               0           340.4
Note:
(a) - 1993 Actual tJse in To'I'ns



- 28 -
F. ODS (CFCs) Production Weighted Phaseout ODS tons
Estimated in FY(a)                        Amount lPhased out hasedl on actual
productioni(b)
Investment Sub-             '94        '95        '96       '97      '98      '94        '95         96        '97       '98
projects
2. LTI1                    20.7        41.4      66.6    68.9    68.9        46.7        5 1.9     56.9       68.9      68.9
3. Goren.je Service            0           0       9.6      9.6      9.6        4.8        5.4        6.3       7.()       7.(J
4. KRKA Kozmetika              00                 39.0    79.0    79.(    103.3          142.0      88.3       88.3      88.3
5. LEK                         0           0     157.0   157.0   15 7.0          (                  68.0    194.8       162.7
6. 'Frimo                      0           0       7.5    22.4    22.4          6.5        5.7       17.7      33.0      35.1
7. Labod                       0           0       3.5      3.5      3.5        1.2        0.4        3.5       3.5       3.5
Total                       20.7        41.4    283.2   340.4   340.4        162.5       205.4    240.7    395.5    365.5
Note:
(a) - Estimated phaseout was calculated:
*        against the actual CFC use in 1992 (LTI 1, Gorenje Servis. Lck. F'rinio. I abod) or in 1993 (Krka). The fil-res for T'rinio and (Oorenijc
Servis do not correspond exactly to the Projcct DocuL11cnt1. sincc in this thc phhaseont l'or -rinio and (iorcinje Scrvis sub-projects was cstimated
oni the basis of'predicted production level/service demanid in the first year of tull operation of the alternativc technology.
(b) -Actual phascout was estimated oni the basis oftshe:
-        actual use against the 1992 usc of C'[C (1.'1'11. (oren.je Serv is. Labod)
-        actual use against the calculated amount accordinig to thc ann11ual product ion level ol acrosol ullits/palelIs (K rka. I.F K. 'I nrhlo). Ihcsc
i igures are the total demand for propellant based on production net ofClC' actuall used. thc figure thus represcnts thc ([VC that si odlav ha c
been used had the Project not been implemented.
G. ODS (CFCs) Production Weighted Phaseout ODP tons
Estimated in [:y(a)                       Amounlt ilhased out based on actual
production(b)
Investment Sub-             '94        '95        '96       '97     '98       '94        '95        '96        '97       '98
projects
2. LW'I'l                   20.7        4 1.4     66.6    67.4    67.4        46.7        5 1.9      56.9      67.4      67.4
3. Goren je Service            0           0       9.6      9.6      9.6        4.8        5.4        6.3       7.1)       7. 1
4. Krka Kozmetika              0           0      39.1)    79.1)    79.0)   11)3.3       142.0)     88.3       88.3      88.3
5. LEK                         ()         ()    157.(0   157.0)  157.1)          ()          ()     68.0      1 94.8    162.7
6. Trimo                       ()          0       7.5    22.4       2 .4       6.5        5.7       17.7      33.0)     35.1
7. L.abod                      ()          ()      2.8      2.8      2.8        1.()       (1.3      2.8        2.8       2.8
Total                       20.7        41.4    282.5   338.2   338.2        162.3       205.3    240.0    393.3    363.3
Note:
(a) - Estimated phascout was calculated:
agakist the actLtal CFC ttse in 1992 (11l1. (iorenje Servis. I.ek. 'I'rinto. I.ahod) or it 19')93 (Krkat). Ihe hcigures for irimo and Goretije Servis do
inot correspond exactly to the lPro ject 1)ocuLIrnelt, SinicC in this the phascottt for 'iritlio anid (iorenije Scrvis sub-projects was estimated on the
basis of predicted productioll Icvcl/servicc dcmand in thc lirst year of ittll operatiotn of thc alternative technology.
(b) -Actual phascout was estimiatcd on thc basis ol'thc:
actual utse against the 1992 use ofCPC (L'l'l. (ioren.je Servis. L.abod)
actual use against the calculated amount according to the anIull production level of aerosol ullits/palnels (Krka, LEIK 'Frimo). '[hese figurcs are
the total demand for propellant based on production net otf('t:C actually uscd t lhc igure thus reprcsents the CFC that wvould have been used
had the Project not been impicmented.



- 29 -
H. Cost Effectiveness of the Slovenia ODS Phaseout Project(a'
Company       GCrant Cost             1997 ODS            GEF (Grant       Grant Cost         Montreal l'rotocol
Etl'ectiveness, Estimates Phaseout Actual    Actual Use     Effectiveness     Thlreshold
of'October. 1995                                            Actuial
lJS$/klg              in tons             USS millions      USS/kg             IJS$/kg
1I 11                      22.19               68.9             1.754              2546                15.21
(iorcnjc Servis            11.((                 9.6            0.126               13.13      Not applicable
KRIKA                       4.48               79.0             0.4 14              5.24                4.40
I 1 K                     12.68               157.0)           1.777              11.32                4.4()
'I rimio                   36.87                22.4            1.153              51.47                9.53
I abod                    63.96                 3.5            (.181              51.71        Not available
Total                      15.60              340.4             5.405              15.88
Note:
(a)-As a comparison tihe actual grant cost effectiveness ol' thc Czech  1) D  Phascout project was 0).98XJS$/kg based on the 1997
O)DS phascout figurc. Ihlc same for the I lungary and Poland projects unideri itiplemicnitation is around 6US$/kg and for the
k lkrazince project that starts no%,. is arountdc I3US$/'kg.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No operation indiccators were defined in the project document
Table 7: Studies, Training and Workshops Included in the Project
StLIN               P'urpose as definied at         Status                  Impact ot'study
appraisal, redefined
Chamber of tconoomv   Coiintrv Plrogram for the PlhaseoLit Implemented  Key regulatory measures and investment
ol Slovenia            of OI)S in Slovenia (was not GEF                 projects identilied. Investment prqiects
_i_i_anced)                                     submitted for GEF funding.
Clhamliber of Economriv   Good l'ractices in Refrigeration   Implemented  Manual prepared for training courses on
of' Slovenia          and Air conditioning - manual                    good practices in ref'rigeration.
Chambiber of Economl\   Reclamation of Refrigerants in    Inplemented  Based on the results of this study a decision
olf Slovenia           Slovenia                                        was taken to introduce a 3R Scheme in
Slovenia.
Refrigerants Products   Slovenia 3R Scheme             Impiemiiented    [he study supported the outcomes of the
L-imited. UJK                                                          study already prepared by COE.
D)ewpoint Consultants.  Technical Evaluation of ODS    Implemented     Technical evaluation and preparation of
LJK                    Phaseout Project                                ICR.
ODS Pliaseout Project        Workshop and Training Activities                 Date                Venue
Sub-project 1.            Implementation of Regulatory Measures on    June 1997                 Ljubljana
ODS Phaseout and Control                   Local workshop
Organized by Sub-project I. Alternatives for Ozone Depleting Substances   October 1997          Ribno
related to Sub-project 7.    in the Solvent Sector                    Regional workshop
Organized by Sub-project I. Training on Good Practices in Refrigeration    Eight (8) courses in 1997   Ljubljana and
Related to Sub-projects    and Air Conditioning.                      and three (3) in 1998.    other cities in
2.and 3.                                                              Participation of 211 service Slovenia
technicians.



- 30-
Table 8: Project Costs and Financing
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate                  Actual (USS million)             Out ofw hich
(US5 million)                                                         htnancecd b
Item.    Local costs  Foreign                                      I-Totil    Local    Foreign       ['otal   the GEF grant
costs                  costs      costs               (UJSS million)
Sob-project Il'Il (inclutling -inancial    1.032                   1.032      (0.495     ().o8      ().503        0.479
intermedi'ar\ l'ce and contingency)
Sub-project 2.                            2.948        1.084       4.1)32     2.(03      1.20)7     3.210)        1.754
Sob-project 3.                            0. 358      11.1(19      0)467      (1.37!1    1).196     0.467         0). 126
Gorcnije Ser vice
Sub-project 4.                            1).1)8      (0 167       (.075      01322      (0.70)3     1.0)25      (0.414
Krka                                                  _____
SUh-provect 5                              1.749       0.436       2 185      1.311)      ).521)    1.830        1.777
Soib-prtojcct 6.                          () 73           0.475    1.148      01.776     (0.84      1.617         1.153
['riino
SoLh-project 7.                           (A.         (1.179     0(.179    _()037G1)   11.220(   (0.183           ().181
lahod(
Iota)                                     7.26S       2.450       9.718 X    5.240)    3.595        8.835         5.884
Notc:
(a) - NSe,atic \aluc is due to i)icrcmcital operational savi's dCdL]ctcd (roti local costs.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate                             Actual
(US$ million)                          (US$ million)
Item                                             Local        Foreign       Total        Local        Foreign    Total
costs         costs                     costs         costs
1. GEF Grant                                 3.750          2.450    6.200   3.274    2.610    5.884
2. Counterpart fuinids                        3.518          0.000        3.518        1.966         0.985        2.951
(enterprises,)
Total                                         7.268          2.450        9.718        5.240         3.595        8.835
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic analysis of project was estimated at appraisal



-31 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Republic of Slovenia
ODS Phaseout Project
Grant                Co%enant    Present        Original       Revised       Description of      Comments
Agree-   Section       Typc        Statuis    Fullillient Date   :ulfililment   Covenant
ment                                                             D)ate
(irant   4.01.      I. 2          C          Yearly                        Accounting and       In compliance
(a).(bh).(C)                                                      Auditing lProgram
(irant    6.01      8             C          12/27/95                      Elftctiveness        In compliance
(a).(h)
Ctovenanit types:                                                      IPreseint Statlus:
1. = Accounts/aUdils                                                    C = covenant complied wvith
2. = F:inancial peribrimance/revenue                                    CD = complied with afler delay
generation tromil beneliciaries                                      ('I' = complied with partially
3. = I-low% and utilization ot project fiunds                           NC = not complied wvith
4. = CouL1terpart lunding
5. = Manaig:1gement aspects oftlhe project or
execulting agency
6. = Elnv ironmental cov,enants
7. = ln oluntarv resctlcment
8.- I.Afecti%eness
Table II: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement nulilber and title           Describe and comment on lack of compliance
No lack of compliance was observed.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                      Revised                        Actual
Stage of project cycle     Weeks       US$          Weeks          US$              Weeks         US$
Preparation to appraisal     13.5        47,100        22.2       58,300               15.1        32,600
Appraisal                     1.0         9,700          1.5      12,900                1.6         7,700
Negotiations through Board   5.5         19,500         5.5       19,500                4.8        15,900
approval
Supervision                  30.8        99,000        30.1       43,100               31.8        39,200
Completion                    5.5         11,700        5.5       11,500                5.7         8,700
Total               56.3        187,000       60.1      145,300               59.0       107,100



- 32 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating2
Stage of project cycle     Month/   No. of Days in   Specialization'          Implem.       Developm       TyProblems
Year   Persons   Field                            Status       objectives
Identification               01/94      3        2         E, T, F
Pre-appraisal                10/94      3        3         E, T
Appraisal                    05/95      4        3         E, T, P, L
Negotiations                 09/95      3                  E, P. L
Supervision 1.                11/95     2        3         E, T               I                I
SuIpervision 2.              04/96      2        3         E, T               I                I
Supervision 3                10/96      2        3         E                  I                I
Supervision 4.               01/97      2        5         E, P               I                I
Supervision 5.               09/97      2        4         E, P               2I                             P, D
Supervision 6. &             05/98      2        5         E. P               I                I
Completion
Technical Evaluation Visit  09/98       2        5         E, T               i                I
Total                                   62        E, T, P L          I                I
I - Key to Specialized stal' skills:    2 - Kcy to lPerformance Ratings:         3 - Kc\ to 1'ypes of Problems:
iF=iinancial Analvst                     I =Minor or No Probleiiis              Pl=Procurement
F=invironniciltal Economist             2=Modcratc Problems                      D=Disbursemcnt bchind schedule
N=lngincer                              I IS=! lighlyv Satisfactory
I-='lchnical Speciialist                S=Satisfactorv
l'=11rocurmcnt Specialist
v.aWcr



- 33 -
Appendix A.
SUPERVISION AND COMPLETION MISSION
May 4-8, 1998
AIDE-MEMOIRE
L.    Introduiction.
I.    A World Bank mission consisting of Krisztina Kiss, Team Leader and Gyorgy Novotny,
Procurement Specialist between May 4-8, 1998 visited Slovenia for the supervision of the Ozone
Depleting Substances Phaseout Project. The mission visited one ongoing sub-project site:
Gorenje Servis. The meetings with Messrs. Marko Slokar, State Secretary and Janko Zerjav,
Government Counselor of the Ministry of Environment and Physical Planning (MEPP) and with
LTH representatives were held at the Slovenian EcoFund (SEF). The mission would like to
express its thaniks to the State Secretary of MEPP. the representatives of the SEF, the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) and of the visited company for the well organized program, effective
discussions, good cooperation and hospitality. This Aide Memoire becomes official only upon
the approval of Bank Management in Washington, D.C.
.1.   Status of the Project
2.    Overall Implementation status of the project. Out of the six investment sub-projects, four
have been completed, the draft sub-project completion reports have been prepared and discussed
with the mission. The implementation of Krka and Gorenje Servis sub-projects are still ongoing
but will be completed by the end of June 1998.
3.    Disbursed rate of the grant including the Special Account is 93% as of end of April, 1998.
The disbursed and committed ratio including the Special Account is 100% as of May 8, 1998.
4.    The project represents 31% (345 tons until end of 1997) of ozone depleting potential
(ODP) of the country program (100%, 1108 tons). 334 tons, 97% of the above 31% of ODP is
actually phased out.
5.    The PIU  and EcoFund, the financial intermediary and Ljubljanska Banka, its
subcontractor for banking services, operate extremely well and in very good cooperation with all
participants of the Project. The audit of the Special Account and all project records is being done
by Auditors KPMG Slovenia, and the audit report will be submitted to the Bank by end of June
1998.



-34-
III.    Major Issue: Thte Recovery, Recycling and Reclamation (3R) Scheme for
Refrigerants.
6.    Slovenia signed the Montreal Protocol and its related London Amendment in 1992, but
the national legislation for entire coverage has not been made. Venting of refrigerants is still not
illegal in Slovenia and there is no regulation on the proper collection, storage and use of CFCs.
This legislation needs to be made urgently to allow for the proper utilization and operation of the
equipment procured under the project and the 3R scheme. It is important for Slovenia to catch-
up with the proper legislation related to the protection of the ozone layer in the EU accession
process, especially since the EU Directives are even stricter than the Montreal Protocol. Also
Slovenia has yet to ratify the Copenhagen Amendment of the Montreal Protocol.
7.    Only production and imports of controlled substances as well as products containing
CFCs and the usage of CFCs in new equipment have been prohibited in Slovenia from January
1, 1998. The major private sector participants of the 3R scheme are LTH, Gorenje Servis and
other service technicians. There is a significant quantity of R12 in the existing refrigeration and
air conditioning equipment in Slovenia (estimated annual amount available for reclamation is
about 11.5 tons and the total amount is about 180 tonls, -- figures from the study mentioned
below in this paragraph), which will need reclamation or incinieration at a certain time in the
Luture.  Additionally, companies providing refrigerationi services have stocks of new R12
sufficient for several years. It is clear that the reclamation service of refrigerants has to be
provided for the Slovenian market.  A preliminary study has been prepared by Slovenian
consultanits under the management of the PIU and the EcoFund and on consultation with LTH
and Gorenje on the "Reclamation of Refrigerants in Slovenia". The study was reviewed by and
discussed with the mission. As also the study suggests, there are two alternative solutions for the
reclamation of refrigerants for Slovenia: i) establish a reclamation plant at LTH to serve the
whole counltry, ii) collect, store and transport R12 for reclamation to reclamation plants in
Hungary or the Czech Republic. Both alternative solutions require government measures to be
taken in order to get the 3R scheme started and operating sustainably.
8.    A cost recovery scheme needs to be set up for the recovery and temporary storage of
refrigeranits from old appliances collected by LTH, Gorenje Servis and other service entities, and
to support the start-up phase of reclamation and for incineration. The introduction of a product
fee for new refrigeration appliances could form the basis of funds for the recovery of costs of the
companies carrying out the service. Similarly the costs of reclamation will need to be paid for,
preferably by the users.
9.    A proper and feasible financing scheme needs to be worked out to provide for sufficient
incentives for the servicemen to take the recovered refrigerant for reclamation and not to refill it
without proper cleaning. The refill of recycled but not reclaimed refrigerants would lead to early
damage of the appliances and this way to additional external costs for the whole of the country. --
LTH and Gorenje informed the mission that they will write a letter to the minister of
environment, listing the Government legislative and related enforcement measures that are
needed for them to start and sustainably operate the 3R scheme. -- Mr. Derek Capper, Consultant
will be hired by the PIU to review the preliminary study on "Reclamation of Refrigerants in
Slovenia" and give advise to all the participants of the 3R sub-section regarding the



- 35 -
establishment of proper incentives and financing of the 3R scheme. Mr. Derek Capper's Terms
of References and Contract will be prepared by the PIU before his visit planned for end of May,
1998.
10.   A nationwide Public Awareness Raising Campaign (PARC) related to thle ozone layer
protection issues, with special respect to actions that everybody can take to protect the ozone
layer, will need to be launched and carried out under the management and coordination of MEPP
to make sure that everybody involved in the issue will understand well how to take an active part
in contributing to the phaseout process and to enhlance the enforcemenit of the legal regulatory
framework. All entities participating in the 3R scheme for refrigerants and halons should
actively contribute to the PARC. --The mission was informed by Mr. Marko Slokar. State
Secretary that a major waste mzanagemlienit campaign fuLnded by MEPP (20 million SIT) will soon
be launclhed by MEPP, under which the public awareness raising related to old refrigeration
appliances will be covered. Gorenje produces 50,000 brochures on public awareness raising
regarding the use of controlled refrigeration substances and will disseminate them through their
service and sales network, key customer club and special exhibitions at fairs. Gorenje initiative
is very useful. It will however reach a limited number of people. The mission therefore strongly
recommended that all refrigeration and fire protection sub-sector entities should, with joint
efforts and under a Government umbrella, implement the PARC. The most effective media for
public awareness raising is through TV before the news time.
11.   The capacities of customs, and environmental and other competent authorities need to be
reinforced so that the possible illegal market and illegal imports of RI 2 can be phased out.
12.   PHARE provided 120,000 ECU for a study "Development of an Implementation Program
for the Slovenian Waste Management Strategy" covering also the legislative framework for the
disposal. dismantling and recycling scheme, inter alia, for old cars, refrigerators and other old
houselhold appliances.  The study would serve as preparation for legislation making and
implemiienitation. The first part of the Draft Progress Report of the study prepared by Halcrow
was given to the mission and was also briefly discussed with the mission. The final report will
be completed by end of July 1998 to serve the basis of waste legislation to conform with EU
Directives.
13.   MEPP informed the mission that legislation on Waste Management has been drafted and
will get passed probably in this year. The new legislation regarding the handling of appliances in
use, will also be important and therefore is related to proper operation of the 3R scheme.
I V.   Sub-projects' Status, Issues, Agreed Next Steps:
IV. 1. Project Implementation Unit, Institutional Strengthening Sub-project.
14.   The PIU performance in project coordination and management of technical assistance has
been very effective. The cooperation among the main project management entities, i.e. the PIU,
Eco Fund, MEPP, the participating companies and World Bank officials is excellent. Two thirds
of service technicians under partial funding by GEF already received training and certificates.
The remaining servicemen will need to pay full costs for the training to be made in the future.



- 36-
15.   Series of Regional Workshops for knowledge dissemination, exchange of experience,
good practices, transfer of know-how and replicability of project results. The Bank has launched
a series of regional workshops for the GEF grant recipient countries in the region for the
exchange of experience and good practices for the phaseout of ODS. The first workshop for the
PIUs and company representatives of the refrigeration and fire protection sub-sectors of the
Czech. Slovenian and Hungarian Projects was held in Budapest in May 1997. The workshop
was considered very useful and successful, the relevant counterparts of the Czech and the
Slovenian ODS Phaseout Projects have adopted in practice what was learnt at the workshop. The
second workshop on alternative technologies in the solvents sub-sector and on project
managenment was held by the Slovenian EcoFund and the PIU in Bled and Ljubljana in October,
1 997. this time also with the involvement of the relevant Polish counterparts. The third regional
workshop on1 ODS phaseout was held in Prague on March 4-6. 1998, opened by Mr. Erik Geuss,
Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Environment. Thle worklshop dealt with the 3R scheme,
retrigeranits in the commercial, industrial and refiigerated transport sectors and on preparation of
the recipienit's contribution to the ICR. on project completioni and outcome evaluation with the
participation of seven countries receiving GEF grants for ODS phaseout purposes (Czech
Republic. Slovenia, -Ilungary, Poland, Belarus. Russia and Slovakia). Lecturers from the UK,
Austria and Belgium were invited to present their couLntries' strengths of the 3R schemes. The
tourth workslhop is plannled to be held in Warsaw, Poland or Germany in October 1998 probably
on Public Awareness Raising re. ODS Phaseout. If possible, it will be connected to the
Nuremberg refrigeration fair. The fifth will be held in Moscow or Kiev. Further workshop
venues and topics will be identified in due course. -- It would be extremely important and useful
that the relevanit Slovenian counterparts could continue to participate in the future workshops to
transfer their know-how and experience.
1 V.2. L TH Sub-project.
16.   LTIH  completed  its sub-project according  to the original design, and  related
modifications. LTH prepared and submitted its draft sub-project completion report, which was
reviewed and discussed with the mission.
17.   Currently the service unit of LTH operates as a cost center. The servicing, including the
operation and maintenance of the reclamation plant should operate as a profit center. LTH will
submit a letter to the minister of environment detailing the need of the proper regulatory
environment to start-up and sustainability operate the 3R scheme, with special respect to the fact
that LTH is willing to procure a reclamation plant after the closing of the Project. The plant will
serve the reclamation needs of the whole of the country.
IY.3. Gorenje Servis Sub-project.
18.   Gorenje Servis will complete all investments and servicemen training by end of June
1998. Gorenje made a very good initiative to launch an awareness raising campaign for their
customers. A nationwide campaign however as described in paragraph 5. of the Aide Memoire
would be more effective. Gorenje will write a letter to the minister of environment on the need
of the proper regulatory environment to start-up and sustainably operate the 3R scheme.



- 37 -
Upon completion, Gorenje Servis will prepare their sub-project completion report as their
contribution to the ICR and will submit it to the PIU by end of June , 1998.
IV.4. Krka Sub-project.
19.   The draft sub-project completion report was submitted to and discussed with the mission.
Krka still has to install the last delivery of wrapping equipment whlich will take place by end of
May 1998. The company will successfully complete their sub-project before the closing date.
I V. 5   Lek, Trinio, an d Labod Sub-projects.
20.   All three sub-projects were successfully completed, the sub-project completion reports
were drafted and submitted to the mission. The mission reviewed and discussed all the draft sub-
project completion reports. Based on the mission's comments the final sub-project completion
reports will be submitted to the PIU as early as possible but latest by the end of June, 1998.
V.     Inmplenmentation   Coompletion   Report,  Recipient's  Evaluation   of  Project
Irpleenieittation
21.   All the grant recipient companies will have to prepare and submit their Sub-project
Completioni Reports by end of June, 1998 according to the disseminated and discussed
guidelines.  The PIU  will submit the Bank the draft Recipient's Contribution to the
Implementation Completion Report by end of July, 1998 and the final by end of August, 1998.
Bank Guidelinies and Directives for the preparation of the Recipient's Contribution to the
limplemiientation Completion Report (ICR) were discussed with the PIU.  The Recipient's
responsibilities in the preparation of the ICR are indicated in the Bank's Operational Manual
Statement and Good Practices (GP) for ICR Preparation. Copies of all relevant parts of the Bank
Procedures (BP) and GP were given earlier to the Grant Recipient. As indicated in BP 13.55 and
GP 13.55. the Recipient's ICR should include a summary not exceeding 10 pages, together with
the supporting background information and annexes.
22.   Project Cost and Financing Plan: To enable a comparison of appraisal and actual project
costs and financing plans, the Recipient should update the relevant tables of Schedule A, B, C, D
and The Summary Table (Summary of Sub-project Data and Costs) of the Project Document.
23.   To enable the Bank to complete the draft of Part I of the ICR, it was agreed that the
recipient would ensure that information in relation to the grant and technical assistance
components is sent to the Bank together with the updated ODS phaseout, project costs and
financing tables.
24.   Outputs and schedule: To enable the timely submission of the final ICR, including both
the Recipient's and the Bank's parts to the Bank's Board of Directors by December 31, 1998, as
required, it was agreed that the following timetable would be followed: the PIU to send the Bank
by July 31, 1998 the background information on sub-project components, the ODS phaseout,
project cost and financing tables, the implementation / disbursement schedule, and the summary
table of all technical assistance and consultancy components.



- 38 -
25.   Coordination of ICR Preparation. The following persons would coordinate the
preparation of the Recipient's and the Bank's preparation of the ICR:
For the Recipient:   Ms. Janja Leban, Head of the Project Implementation Unit
For the World Bank: Ms. Krisztina Kiss
26.   A completion visit including the technical evaluationi of the Project with the involvement
of David Gibson, Consultant is scheduled for end of June or JulR   1 998.
Ljubljana. May 8. 1998.
Krisztina Kiss, Program Team Leader



- 39 -
Appendix B.
THE GRANT RECIPIENT'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Project Implementation Unit
SLOVENIA
TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT FOR THE
PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
GEF Grant No. 28305
October, 1998



- 40 -
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 30, 1998)
Currency Unit        Slovenian Tolar (SIT)
US$ I         169.5777 SIT
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Slovenian Tolar per US$
1994         1995          1996          1997       Till August 31, 1998
128.8086     118.5185      135.3654      159.6893          169.6274
REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA'S FISCAL YEAR (FY)
January I - December 3 1
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEE  - Central and Eastern Europe
CFC  - Chlorofluorocarbon
COE  - Chamber of Economy of Slovenia
DC  - Direct Contracting
DME  - Dimethyl Ether
FA  - Financial Agent
GEF  - Global Environment Facility
GET  - Global Environment Trust
GWP      Global Warming Potential
HCFC  - Hydrochlorofluorocarbon
HFC  - Hydrofluorocarbon
IBRD  - International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
ICB  - International Competitive Bidding
ICR  - Implementation Completion Report
IS  - International Shopping
LIB  - Limited International Bidding
MEPP  - Ministry of Environment and Physical Planning
MFMP  - Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the
Montreal Protocol
MP  - Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the
Ozone Layer



- 41 -
NBF - Not Bank-Financed
NS - National Shopping
ODP - Ozone Depleting Potential
ODS - Ozone Depleting Substances
PAA - Project Administration Agreement
PIU - Project Implementation Unit
PU - Polyurethane
SDR - Special Drawing Rights
SEF - Environmental Development Fund of the Republic of
Slovenia
SIT - Slovenian Tolar
UNEP  - United Nations Environment Program
3R - Recovery, Recycling and Reclamation



TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE                                                                              43
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                                   44
Introductioll                                                                     44
Project Objectives                                                                44
Achievemiienit of Objectives                                                      44
Project Sustainability and Futire Operation                                       45
Performiaice of Participating Enitities                                           45
Implementatioln Experience and Results                                            46
ConciLusion and Recommetndations                                                  46
PART 1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                            48
A   INTRODUCTION                                                                  48
B   PROJECT OBJECTIVE                                                             48
C   P'ROJECT DESCRIPTION                                                          49
D   P'ROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT50
E   ACIIIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES                                                    54
F   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATION                                   55
G   PERFORMANCE OF PARTICIPATING ENTITIES                                          55
11  IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS                                         56
I CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                                  57
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES                                                          59
Table I: Timiietable of Key Project Processing Events                             60
Table 2: Project Implementationl Schedule                                         61
Table 3a: CFC PliaseouLt in Tons                                                  63
Table 3b: CFC Phaseout in ODP Tons                                                63
Table 4a: Disbursemenit of GEF Grant (US$)                                        65
Table 4b: Disbursemenit of GEF Grant By Procurement Method and Category (US$)     66
Table SA: Project Costs (US$ Million)                                             67
Table SB: Project Financinlg (US$ Million)                                        67
Table 6: Studies and Workshops Included in the Project                            68
Table 7: Sumlimary of Sub-projects Data and Costs (US$ Million)                   69



PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Technical Support and
Investment Project for the Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances in Slovenia, for which
Global Environment Trust Grant Agreement (GET Grant No. 28305) in the amount of SDR
4,200,000 equivalent was signed on November 13, 1995 between the Republic of Slovenia and
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting as implementing agency of
the Global Environment Facility (GEF). The Grant Agreemenit was declared effective on
December 27, 1995.
The grant was closed on June 30, 1998 instead of December 31, 1997 the original
closing date. 100 percent of the grant was disbursed and the last disbursement date was August
11, 1998.
The ICR was prepared by Mrs. Janja Leban. PIU Manager, Senior Consultant,
Chamber of Economy of Slovenia and Mrs. Vesna Vidic, Assistant Director, the
Environmental Development Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. It was reviewed by Mr. Janko
Zerjav, PIU member, Counselor to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Ministry of
Environment and Physical Planning.
Preparation of this ICR began after the World Bank final supervision and project
completion mission in May, 1998.  It is based on documentation on sub-projects
implementation and discussions with participating enterprises responsible for sub-projects
implementation. Participating enterprises contributed to the ICR by preparing their own sub-
projects completion reports.



EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
The phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) in Slovenia took place within the
framework of the obligations incurred by the ratification of the London Amendments to the
Montreal Protocol in 1992. In July 1994, the Government of Slovenia adopted the Country
Program for the Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances in Slovenia where key investments
and regulatory measures were identified. Slovenia was ineligible for financial assistance from
the Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the MP. therefore GEF assistance was
requested. The activities proposed for GEF funding are among those priorities identified in the
Country Program.
Project Objectives
The principal objective of the Project was to assist Slovenia in the phaseout of ODS
consumption in a cost effective manner as mandated by the Montreal Protocol and its
amendments and adjustments. Specific objectives of the Pro,ject were to assist Slovenia to: (i)
support the phaseout of the consumption of chlorolluorocarbons (CFCs) through adoption of
new cost-effective CFC-free technologies; and (ii) througlh institutional strengthening improve
the capability of the Ministry of Environment and Physical Planning (MEPP) to manage and
oversee the phaseout of ODS in Slovenia.
By focussing on the key sectors and enterprises, the project was to phase out 345 tons
of ODP per year related to 1992 consumption.
Achievement of Objectives
The project consisted of (i) an Institutional Strcngthening Component; and (ii) an
Investment Component comprising six (6) Sub-Projects in the lollowing areas and six (6):
production of commercial refrigeration appliances (LTI 1). servicing of household refrigerating-
freezing appliances (Gorenje Servis), aerosols (Krka and Lek). loams-light building panels
(Trimo), solvents-dry cleaning (Labod Company).
The overall objectives of the Project were fully achieved. The consumption of CFC
was phased out through the introduction of long term alternative technologies. In addition, the



Project helped the enterprises to keep their existing market and/or to obtain the new ones, what
was the urge after the breakdown of former Yugoslav market, and in some cases even to
increase the sale of ODS free products.
In December 1997 a ministerial decree was adopted. The decree controls production,
import, export, placement into circulation and use of ODS and ODS containing products. It
does not address venting into the atmosphere and the treatment of used ODS and ODS in
existing products and devices. Therefore additional legislation is expected to be adopted by the
first quarter of 1999. In October 1998 the Copenhagen Amendments were ratified.
Project Sustainability and Future Operation
The chosen non-ODS technologies are considered to be long term solutions. The
enterprises will continue to use them in the future. This is ensured by the fact that the import
of CFCs, products containing CFCs and usage of CFCs in new equipmenit is forbidden by the
law.
The technologies introduced are based on state-of-the-art approaches to each type of
activity. As the alternative technologies, they have better enlvironmental performances.
although e.g. in the case of HFC used as refrigerants they contribute to the global warming due
to the increased GWP.  Since there are no other more acceptable alternatives for the
refrigerants used in commercial appliances, at present IFCs are considered to be the best
solution and further technology changes are not expected for the next at least 5-6 years. Any
hazard due to the use of inflammable substances e.g. cyclopentane as foaming agent or LPG as
propellant is minimized by the introduction of appropriate safety measures.
In order to respect the objectives of the Protocol as a whole, the 3R scheme is planned
to be established in the future with reclamation unit located at LTI-l. The future operation of
Gorenje Servis project and part of LTII project depends on the adoption and enforcement of
proper legislation, prohibiting venting of ODS refrigerants. and on the establishment and
operation of nation-wide 3R scheme. Without this legislative mecasures support, Gorenje
Servis and LTH could not be competitive to other service organizations.
Performance of Participating Entities
The working relations with the World Bank stalt' and tecliical consultants were
excellent throughout the whole project cycle. 'I'he World Bank gave all needed support
regarding technical questions, procurement, project maniagemiient and disbursement. Although
the World Bank task manager was changed three times, this had nio negative influence on the
Project implementation.   The transfer of responsibilities for overseeing the Project
implementation to Budapest, resulted in even closer cooperation with the World Bank staff and
PIUs in other countries of Central and Eastern Europe, in which GEF ODS phaseout projects
are being implemented. Especially welcomed were the regional workshops launched by the



World Bank and organized by PIU in each country, which gave the PIU, SEF and other
participants the opportunity for exchange of experiences in project implementation,
management, procurement and other issues related to ozone depletion, in particular the design
of the 3R scheme.
Excellent co-operation was also established between PIU, SEF and all participating
enterprises as well as other entities involved in the country. PIU and SEF provided to
participating enterprises all needed support on a day by day basis, especially at project
preparation and at the beginning of project implementation.  The enterprises respected
guidelines and all requested procedures, responded timely to all PIU and SEF requests.
Implementation Experience and Results
Very close and good cooperation between PIU, SEF, participating enterprises and all
other involved entities, exchange of information, knowledge and experiences resulted in
smooth project implementation.
All enterprises welcomed the World Bank procurement procedures, although
sometimes time consuming, at the end resulted in better prices of purchased equipment and
services. All enterprises obtained additional knowledge in procurement procedures and project
management that will be used in their forthcoming projects.
During the Project implementation the enterprises gained new experiences in technical
knowledge, that could be shared with other companies in Slovenia and abroad.  The
implementation of Trimo project represents a technological achievement in the worldwide
range. Labod is the first company in dry cleaning sector in Slovenia installing dry cleaning
machine using hydrocarbons as a solvent. Krka project is interesting due to the flexibility of the
filling line, which can work with either DME or hydrocarbons. Lek developed new product
formulation for the antibiotic spray. LTII obtained experiences in new refrigerants handling,
recovery and retrofit procedures. The new cyclopentane foaming equipment is of interest to
other PU foam users in the region.
Conclusion and Recommendations
Slovenia is the second country in the region of Central and Eastern Europe and
worldwide successfully completing the ODS phaseout project financed by GEF.
The overall objectives of the Project were fully achieved. The consumption of CFC
was phased out through the introduction of alternative technologies. The Project speeded up
ODS phaseout activities at enterprises which were not included in the Project.



The technologies introduced are based on the state-of-the-art approaches to each type
of activity. They are considered to be long term solutions. Due to flammability of some
alternative substances appropriate safety measures were introduced.
The Project helped the enterprises to keep their existing market or to obtain the new
ones, and in some cases even to increase the sale of ODS free products.
Additional knowledge in procurement procedures and project managemenlt, as wvell as
new experiences in technical knowledge was obtained.
The regional workshops launched by the World Bank proved to be very importaint.
On the basis of the experiences of other countries (Czech Republic, Hungary) and lessons
learned, a nation-wide 3R scheme is being designed.
The series of training courses on good practices in refrigeration organized by PIU for
service technicians were considered as very useful and successful, the established cooperation
with the participants is expected to continue, especially in the planned future activities.
retrofitting and operation of the 3R scheme. Appropriate public awareness raising campaignls
are expected to continue as a future activity.
As our recommendation we can stress that careful project preparation and elaboration
of the project in detail, in advance, is crucial for its smooth implementation. Very close and
good day-to-day cooperation between all participating entities, exchange of information,
knowledge and experiences are also important for smooth project implementation.



PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    INTRODUCTION
The Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer (1985) and the
Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer (1987) are international
agreements which call for the phaseout of chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), halons and other ozone
depleting substances (ODS). The Protocol was signed in 1987 in Montreal and has since been
ratified by more than 160 countries worldwide. The Montreal Protocol with its amendments
and adjustments calls for a complete phaseout of production and consumption of a number of
ozone depleting substances (ODS) in developed countries by January 1. 1996.
In July 1992, Slovenia succeeded to the ratification of the Vienna Convention for the
Protection of the Ozone Layer and the Montreal Protocol, that were ratified by former
Yugoslavia in 1990. In December 1992, Slovenia ratified the London Amendments. The
Copenhagen Amendments were ratified in October, 1998. Slovenia was ineligible for financial
assistance from the Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the MP. therefore GEF
assistance was requested.
Slovenia has been actively planning its ODS phaseout strategy since 1992. In July
1994, the Government of Slovenia adopted the Country Program for the Phaseout of Ozone
Depleting Substances in Slovenia where key investmiients and regulatory measures were
identified. The activities proposed for GEF funding are among those priorities identified in the
Country Program.
B.    PROJECT OBJECTIVE
The principal objective of the Project was to assist Slovenia in the phaseout of ODS
consumption in a cost effective manner as manidated by the Montreal Protocol and its
amendments and adjustments. Specifically the Project was to assist Slovenia to:
(i) support the phaseout of the consumption of chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) through adoption
of new cost-effective CFC-free technologies; and
(ii) through institutional strengtheninig improve the capability of the Ministry of Environment
and Physical Planning (MEPP) to manage and oversee the phaseout of ODS in Slovenia.
GEF support should provide an incentive for the early adoption of ODS phaseout
activities and should capture additional environmental and economic benefits which otherwise
would have been lost or delayed. By focussing on the key sectors and enterprises, the project
was to phase out 345 tons of ODP per year related to 1992 consumption.



C.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The project consisted of (i) an Institutional Strengthening Component (Sub-Project
No.1); and (ii) an Investment Component comprising six Sub-Projects (Sub-Projects No.2-7).
Below is a description of each of these components.
a) Sub-Project 1:       Project Implementation Unit for the Phaseout of Ozone Depleting
Substances.
Together with the COE and SEF the MEPP slhould set up an ODS Phaseout Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). The PIU should coordinate the implementationi of the Project,
oversee procurement and disbursement in close cooperation with SEF and supervise project
activities according to the requirements of the World Bank and the MEPP. As necessary, the
PIU should arrange the technical assistance and consultants to assist in pro,ject imiplementation,
and provide support to facilitate cooperation among governmzental institutions and the
consumers of ODS.
b) Sub-Project 2:       Conversion and Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances at LTH.
LTH is the largest producer of comnmercial refrigeration appliances in Slovenia. The
objectives of the project were: (i) substitution of CFC refrigerant with HFC-134a and HJFC
blends; and (ii) substitution of CFC-1 I blowing agent with cyclopentane. The compalny started
the project with its own funds in July 1992, and should finislh it by December 1996. The result
of the project was to be the annual phaseout of 67.4 ODP tons of CFCs.
c) Sub-Project 3:       Servicing of Refrigerators and Freezers and Substitution of CFC-12
Refrigerant in Heat Pumps with HFC- 1 34a at Gorenje Servis.
Gorenje Servis is the largest service company in Slovenia and has exclusive rights for
servicing Gorenje appliances during the warranty period. Service repairs of Gorenje Servis
represent about 30 percent of repairing household refrigerating freezing appliances in the
Slovenian market. The objectives of the project were: (i) servicing the refrigerating-freezing
appliances and heat pumps which contain CFC-12 as refrigerant and its recovery; (ii) servicing
the refrigerating-freezing appliances which contain HFC- I 34a as refrigerant; and (iii)
substitution of CFC-12 with HFC-134a in the production of' heat pumps. The result of the
project was to be the annual phaseout of 11.4 ODP tonls of CFCs.
d) Sub-Project 4:       Conversion of Aerosol lProduction to CFC-Free Propellants at Krka
Kozmetika.
Krka is a major producer of aerosols for cosmetic and technical applications in
Slovenia. The objective of the project was to phase out the use of 79 tons (1993) of CFCs
aerosol propellants and substitute them with Dimethyl Ether (DME) in perfumes and colognes,



and hydrocarbon aerosol propellants in all other products. The company started the project with
its own financing in 1993, and should finish it in July 1996.
e) Sub-Project 5:     Substitution  of  CFC   Propellants  in  the  Production  of
Pharmaceuticals at LEK.
Lek, Pharmaceutical and Chemical Companiy, is one of the largest aerosol
manufacturers in Slovenia. It is the only one that manufactures drugs in aerosol form, in
addition to cosmetic aerosols. In 1990 Lek started to use propane-butane gas as propellant for
cosmetic aerosols, and in 1993 the use of CFCs was excluded from the production of cosmetic
aerosols. The objective of the project was to phase out the use of 157 tons of CFCs aerosol
propellants and substitute them with hydrocarbon aerosol propellants in the production of
pharmaceuticals. The project should be finished by mid-1996.
f) Sub-Project 6:     Elimination of CFC-1 I in the Production of Light Building Panels
at Trimo.
Trimo, with its annual production capacity of 600.000 m2. is the largest European
manufacturer of light building panels filled with mineral wool. Trimo panels are metal
sandwichs filled with mineral wool and glued with a polyurethane (PU) foam. The objective of
the project was to permanently eliminate the CFC-1 I consumption in Trimo's production
process by replacing the CFC- 11 with C02 based foaming agent for its polyurethane
adhesives.
g) Sub-Project 7:     Substitution of CFCs with Aliphatic Hydrocarbons in Dry Cleaning
at the Labod Company.
The Labod Company is the biggest dry-cleaning company in Slovenia. Leather clothes
(30 tons/year) and silk clothes and similar fine materials (25 tons/year) were cleaned using
CFC. Labod used 3.5 tons of CFC-1 13 per year, thus representing about 72 percent of CFC use
in dry cleaning. The objective of the project was to phase out 3.5 tons of CFCs by replacing
CFC with aliphatic hydrocarbons.
D.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
1993 - 1994   The Country Program for the Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances
in Slovenia was prepared and key investments and regulatory measures
identified. Slovenia was classified as a non-Article 5 party to the MP.
1995          The Project was approved to be financed by GEF and the Grant
Agreement was signed and declared effective. The Project should be
carried out through MEPP, SEF and COE signing the Project



Administration Agreement and establishing an ODS phaseout Project
Implementation Unit. SEF was determined as a financial agent.
1996           The Sub-gran; Agreements betweeni SEF and all six participating
enterprises were signed.
Environmental and Safety Statements as a conditioni for the
disbursement of funds according to the Grant Agreement, were issued
by MEPP. except for Gorenje Servis Sub-project.
All conditions for disbursement were fulfilled by tour out of six
investment sub-projects. The conditionis for disbursement were not
fulfilled by (i) Gorenje Servis due to non-issuance of Environmenital
and Safety Statement; and (ii) LTIH due to non-issuance of bank
guarantee, which was required as an additional condition for
disbursement by Project Administration Agreement and Sub-grant
agreement.
The participating enterprises started witlh procurement procedures and
the first disbursements of GEF funds were made.
1997           Gorenje Servis obtained the Environmental and Safety Statement and
fulfilled the conditions for grant disbursement.
LTH obtained the bank guarantee and the implementation of the sub-
project started.
The implementation of the majority of the sub-projects was completed.
Through the implementation it turned out that some changes in sub-
projects design and therefore some additional works/equipment were
needed. These were approved by the World Bank to be co-financed by
GEF funds.
Due to changes in sub-projects design and delays in sub-projects
implementation the closing date was extended to June 30, 1998.
1998           The project was completed. 100 percent of GEF funds were disbursed.
In general, the Project implementation proceeded smoothly without major problems.
All purchased equipment was tested during the trial production, and it proved to operate
satisfactory. The outstanding problems concerning N, leakage (LTH) and the cooling unit of
the air conditioning system (Lek) is being resolved.
The enterprises respected Slovenian legislation concerning environmental protection
and safety at work as foreseen in the Environmental Safety Statement. According to the
Building Construction Act, most of enterprises had to obtain a permit to operate which is a
condition for starting and operating a technological process. Safety at work is ensured by
.appropriate organizational and technical solutions, as well as by ensuring regular training of
staff.



The major factor affecting the Project was the enforcement of the London
Amendments and Adjustments on the basis of which the import of CFCs was already restricted
in 1996. In most cases the participating enterprises had to introduce temporary solutions
before the long-term solutions could be performed as planned by the Project.
The factor, which influenced the sub-projects implementation positively, was
Slovenian internal additional requirement for disbursement of grant funds. It was the bank
guarantee. Since it cost some money, in a way, it forced participating enterprises to implement
their sub-projects very seriously and to speed up the sub-projects completion in order to meet
the condition for bank guarantee expiration.
An additional factor influencing Project implementation was the regional workshops.
Slovenian representatives actively participated in three (3) regional workshops launched by the
World Bank and organized by PIUs in each country (Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovenia). All
participants welcomed the workshops giving the opportunity for exchange of information and
experiences. Slovenians benefited especially in getting the idea how to design its 3R scheme.
Below is a description of each sub-project implementation.
a) Sub-Project 1:     Project Implementation Unit for the Phaseout of Ozone Depleting
Substances.
The PIU in close cooperation with SEF was coordinating the Project implementation
and overseeing procurement and disbursement. It was providing information and advice to
ODS users and ministries. A manual on good practices in refrigeration and air conditioning
was prepared and eleven training courses for service technicians of refrigerating-freezing and
air conditioning equipment were executed. A workshop for custom officers and inspectors on
the implementation of new regulations related to ODS was executed in June 1997. In October
1997, a regional workshop on the alternatives for ODS in the solvent sector was organized for
Slovenia, Hungary, Czech Republic and Poland. A study Reclamation of Refrigerants was
prepared on the basis of which a decision on the establishment of the 3R (Recovery, Recycling,
Reclamation) scheme was taken. After the successful completion, the results of the Project
were presented on the Slovenian Environment Protection Fair in October 1998.
b) Sub-Project 2:     Conversion and Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances at LTH.
The selection of the majority of equipment suppliers was executed in the first half of
1996. LTH could not conclude any supply contracts until March 1997, since the company
went through financial difficulties and the issuance of their bank guarantee was delayed. After
this was obtained, the sub-project implementation proceeded smoothly. The increase in GEF
contribution due to the decrease in export to the GEF non-eligible countries and financing of
additional items (e.g. storage of cyclopentane and nitrogen, heat recuperator) were approved.



The sub-project implementation was completed successfully by the end of 1997. The CFC
phase out was completed, but a small amount of HCFC is still used.
c) Sub-Project 3:     Servicing of Refrigerators and Freezers and Substitution of CFC-12
Refrigerant in Heat Pumps with HFC-134a at Gorenje Servis.
The implementation of the sub-project started with a substantial delay, which was due
to organizational matters, lack of capacities for the finalization of the project documentation
and because the company was looking for the proper technical solution to meet both HFC- 1 34a
and isobutane use products servicing.  In October 1997 the company started with the
procurement procedures and in May and June 1998 the purchased equipment was given to
service technicians. Due to introduction of isobutane refrigerant on the Slovenian market an
additional item was approved to be financed. The public awareness raising campaign in the
form of leaflets and joint TV spot with Gorenje Holding proved to be very effective, since the
demand for Gorenje Servis services has increased. 7 tons of CFC were phased out. 2.6 tons of
CFC will still be in use, while 1-1.5 tons of CFC is expected to be recovered during servicing
and sent to the reclamation unit.
d) Sub-Project 4:     Conversion of Aerosol Production to CFC-Free Propellants at Krka
Kozmetika.
After the delay in the start-up the project implementation was proceeding smoothly.
The new equipment was successfully included in the production process and a gas station was
built. There were some slight changes in the project design, additional equipment (e.g.
wrapping machine for finished aerosols in PE foil) was approved to be cofinanced. The ODS
phaseout was completed.
e) Sub-Project 5:     Substitution  of  CFC   Propellants  in  the  Production  of
Pharmaceuticals at LEK.
The implementation was proceeding smoothly, although through the implementation it
turned out that some changes in project design as well as additional equipment (e.g. sterilizer)
were needed. The project resulted in the complete phaseout of CFC in the production of
pharmaceutical aerosols in 1996. In addition, there are some savings compared to the approved
grant amount.
f) Sub-Project 6:     Elimination of CFC-l I in the Production of Light Building Panels
at Trimo.
The project implementation was proceeding with no major problems, although the
whole investment of which the small part was related to CFC phaseout, was very demanding.
The installation of the manufacturing line, a crucial part of the project, started in May and was
completed in September 1997. Through the implementation of the sub-project, Trimo has



established, that technological equipment in maturing chamber for light building panels was
needed and was partially financed by GEF. ODS phaseout has been completed.
g) Sub-Project 7:       Substitution of CFCs with Aliphatic Hydrocarbons in Dry Cleaning
at the Labod Company.
The implementation was very smooth. The HC machine was installed in October
1996. The Labod project was the first successfully completed investment Sub-project. 3.5
tons of CFC-1 13 was phased out.
E.  ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
The overall objectives of the Project were fully achieved. The consumption of CFC
was phased out through the introduction of long term alternative technologies.
The institutional strengthening through the whole project cycle resulted not only in a
transition to ODS free alternatives in enterprises included in the Project, but also sped up ODS
phaseout activities at enterprises which were not included in the Project48.
Due to the Project, other requirements imposed by the Protocol have being fulfilled
e.g. monitoring of ODS consumption and reporting to UNEP.
In December 1997 a ministerial decree was adopted. The decree controls production,
import, export, placement into circulation and use of ODS and ODS containing products. It
does not address venting into the atmosphere and the treatment of used ODS and ODS in
existing products and devices. This regulation is expected by the first quarter of 1999. The
Project resulted in other benefits too e.g. incremental operating savings in Krka, Lek and
Labod, increase in demand for Gorenje Servis services, new experiences and knowledge (from
the technological point of view, procurement and project management), which can be
forwarded to other companies in Slovenia and other countries.
In addition, the Project helped the enterprises to keep their existing market and/or to
obtain the new ones, what was the urge after the breakdown of former Yugoslav market, and in
some cases even to increase the sale of ODS free products: Trimo expects slightly more
favorable business results, Lek increased the production of pharmaceutical aerosols, the
production of LTH products has started increasing after the decline in the previous years. The
Project has helped to promote the environmentally friendly behavior of the participating
enterprises.
48 In 1992. the consumption of CFC was 1108 tons, out of which the Pro ject represented 31%. The projects of most other
enterprises did not fulfill eligibility criteria for GEF funding.



F.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATION
The chosen non-ODS technologies are considered to be long term solutions. The
enterprises will continue to use them in the future. This is ensured by the fact that the import
of CFCs, products containing CFCs and usage of CFCs in new equipment is forbidden by the
law.
The technologies introduced are based on state-of-the-art approaches to each type of
activity. As the alternative technologies, they have better environmental performances,
although e.g. in the case of HFC used as refrigerants they contribute to the global warming due
to the increased GWP.  Since there are no other more acceptable alternatives for the
refrigerants used in commercial appliances, at present HFCs are considered to be the best
solution and further technology changes are not expected for the next at least 5-6 years. Any
hazard due to the use of inflammable substances e.g. cyclopentane as foaming agent or LPG as
propellant is minimized by the introduction of appropriate safety measures.
The 3R scheme was not a part of the Project. In order to respect the objectives of the
MP as a whole, the 3R scheme is planned to be established in the future with reclamation unit
located at LTH. The future operation of Gorenje Servis project and part of LTH project
depends on the adoption and enforcement of proper legislation, prohibiting venting of ODS
refrigerants, and on the establishment and operation of nation-wide 3R scheme. Without this
legislative measures support, Gorenje Servis and LTH could not be competitive to other service
organizations.
As future action needed is to continue training courses for service technicians on good
practices in refrigeration and air conditioning as well as to continue the performance of wider
public awareness raising campaigns.
G.   PERFORMANCE OF PARTICIPATING ENTITIES
The working relations with the World Bank staff and technical consultants were
excellent through the whole project cycle. The World Bank gave all the needed support
regarding technical questions, procurement procedures, project management and disbursement
of grant funds. Although the World Bank task manager was changed three times, this had no
negative influence on the Project implementation.  The transfer of responsibilities for
overseeing the Project implementation to Budapest, resulted in even closer cooperation with
the World Bank staff and PIUs in other countries of Central and Eastern Europe. in which GEF
ODS phaseout projects are being implemented. Especially welcomed were the regional
workshops launched by the World Bank and organized by PIU in each country, which gave the
PIU, SEF and other participants the opportunity for exchange of experiences in project



implementation, management, procurement and other issues related to ozone depletion, in
particular the design of the 3R scheme.
Excellent cooperation was also established by all participating enterprises and other
entities involved in the country. PIU and SEF provided to participating enterprises all needed
support on a day by day basis, especially at project preparation and at the beginnling of project
implementation.  The enterprises respected guidelines and all requested procedures, and
responded timely to all PIU and SEF requests.
H.   IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
Very close and good cooperation between PIU. SEF. participating enterprises and all
other involved entities, exchange of information, knowledge and experiences resulted in
smooth project implementation.
All enterprises experienced for the first time the implementation of projects that are
financed by grant funds. All stressed the importance of good and careful project preparation,
clear definition of packages and elaboration of the project in details before starting the
implementation.
All enterprises welcomed the World Bank procurement procedures, although
sometimes time consuming, at the end resulted in better prices of purchased equipment and
services. All enterprises obtained additional knowledge in procurement procedures and project
management that will be used in their forthcoming projects.
During the Project implementation the enterprises gained new experiences in technical
knowledge, that could be shared with other companies in Slovenia and abroad.
The implementation of Trimo project represents a technological achievement in the
worldwide range. There are very few similarly designed technological lines for the production
of light building panels with mineral wool filling. Manufacturers of such products have not
solved important technological and environmental problems yet, and are interested in possible
solutions based on experience of this project.
Since Labod is the first company in the dry cleaning sector in Slovenia, which has
installed dry cleaning machines using hydrocarbons as a solvent, new experiences and
knowledge have been shared with other companies during seminars and workshops.
The Krka project is interesting due to the flexibility of the filling line, which can work
with either DME or hydrocarbons. Lek developed new-product formulation for the antibiotic
spray.



LTH obtained experiences in new refrigerants handlinig, recovery and retrofit
procedures, which has already been interesting for companiies in Bosnia, Macedonia and
Croatia. The new cyclopentane foaming equipment is of interest to other PU foam users in the
region.
Since the Gorenje Servis equipment is in use from the end maya 1998, there are no
special experiences yet.
The active participation at the regional workshops launlclhed by the World Bank has
been very important for the future operation of Slovenia Project.  On the basis of the
experiences of other countries (Czech Republic, Hungary) and lessons learned, Slovenia has
designed its 3R scheme, the implementation of which is expected in 1999.
The series of training courses on good practices in refrigeration were considered very
useful and successful, the established cooperation with the participants is expected to continue,
especially in the planned future activities, retrofitting and operatiorn of the 3R scheme.
I.  CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Slovenia is the second country in the regioni of Central and Eastern Europe and
worldwide successfully completing the ODS phaseout project financed by GEF.
The overall objectives of the Project were fully achieved. The consumption of CFC
was phased out through the introduction of alternative technologies. The Project sped up ODS
phaseout activities at enterprises which were not included in the Project.
The technologies introduced are based on the state-of-the-art approaches to each type
of activity. They are considered to be long term solutions. Due to flammability of some
alternative substances, appropriate safety measures were introduced.
The Project helped the enterprises to keep their existing market or to obtain the new
ones, and in some cases even to increase the sale of ODS free products.
Additional knowledge in procurement procedures and project management, as well as
new experiences in technical knowledge was obtained.
The regional workshops launched by the World Bank proved to be very important.
On the basis of the experiences of other countries (Czech Republic, Hungary) and lessons
learned, a nation-wide 3R scheme is being designed.



The series of training courses on good practices in refrigeration organized by PIU for
service technicians were considered very useful and successful, and the established cooperation
with the participants is expected to continue, especially in the planned future activities,
retrofitting and operation of the 3R scheme.
Since a ministerial decree adopted in December 1997 does not cover all Montreal
Protocol requirements, additional legislation to support the planned 3R scheme is expected by
the first quarter of 1999. In October 1998 the Copenhagen Amendments were ratified.
As a recommendation it should be stressed that careful project preparation and
elaboration of the project in detail, in advance is crucial for its smooth implementation. V ery
close and good day-to-day cooperation between all participating entities, exchange of
information, knowledge and experiences are also important for smooth project implementation.



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PIROCESSING EV7ENTS
TABLE 2: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
TABLE 3A: CFC PHASEOUT IN TONS
TABLE 3B: CFC PHASEOUT IN ODP TONS
TABLE 4A: DISBURSEMENT OF GEF GRANT
TABLE 4B: DISBURSEMENT OF GEF GRANT BY PROCUREMENT METHOD
AND CATEGORY
TABLE 5A: PROJECT COSTS
TABLE 5B: PROJECT FINANCING
TABLE 6: STUDIES AND WORKSHOPS INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
TABLE 7: SUMMARY OF SUB-PROJECTS DATA AND COSTS



Table 1: Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
Planned           Actual
(a) Time Taken to Prepare:                              20 months
(b) Prepared by:                                        MEPP, COE and World
Bank
(c) First Presentation to the Bank:                     November 1993
(d) Appraisal Mission Departure:                        May 1995
(e) Negotiations:                    September 1995     September 1995
(f) Board Approval:                  October 1995       November 1995
(g) Signature of Grant Agreement:    November 1995      November 1995
(h) Date of Effectiveness:           November 1995      December 1995
(i) Date of Completion:              June 1997          June 1998
(j) Date of Closing:                 December 1997      June 1998



Table 2: Project Implementation Schedule
Planned                Actual
Date of Signature:                                             November 1995        November 1995
Date of Effectiveness:                                         November 1995         December 1995
Date of Completion:                                                  June 1997             June 1998
1. Institutional Strengthening Component
Sub-Project I      Project Implementation Unit for the               1994- 1997           1994- 1998
Phaseout of Ozone Depleting
Substances
11. Investmenit Component
Sub-Project 2      Conversion and Phaseout of Ozone
Depleting Substances at LTII.
Component for Substitution of CFC              August 1996       December 1996
Refrigerant with HFC-134a
Component for Substitution of CFC           December 1996        December 1997
Blowing Agent with Cyclopentane
Sub-Project 3      Servicing of Refrigerators and
Freezers and Substitution of CFC- 12
Refrigerant in IFleat Pumps with IIFC-
134a at Gorenje Servis
Component for Servicing of                  December 1995              June 1998
Refrigerators, Freezers, and Heat
Plumps in which CFC-12 is used as
Refrigerants (Includes Recovery)
Component for Servicing of CFC-            December 1995               June 1998
free Refrigerators and Freezers (HFC-
I 34a used as Refrigerant)
Component for Substitution ofCFC-           December 1995              June 1998
12 as Refrigerant with HFC-134a in
the Production of Heat Pumps
Sub-Project 4      Conversion of Aerosol Production to
CFC-Free Propellants at Krka
Kozmetika.
Phase l - Installing Explosion Proof             May 1993              May 1993
Aerosol Filling Machine and Safe
Room for Filling Hlazardous
Propellants
Phase 2 - Storage for Flammable                   July 1996            June 1997
Propellants and Reconstruction of
Finished Goods Warehouse
Phase 3 - Stretchbanding Machine                           -           May 1998
Sub-Project 5      Substitution of CFC Propellants in
the Production of Pharmaceuticals at
LEK.
Provision of Technical Information             August 1995             July 1996
and Documentation
Civil Engineering and Installation          December 1995        December 1997



Works
Installation of Equipment                  November 1995         November 1997
Training in Operation of Equipment           February 1996       November 1997
Sub-Project 6      Elimination of CFC-1 I in the
Production of Light Building Panels
at Trimo.
Modification and Upgrading the                    July 1996      September 1997
Double Belt Line
Equipping the Warehouse with a             September 1996        November 1997
Panel Transportation System
Sub-Project 7      Substitution of CFCs xvith Aliphatic
Hydrocarbons in Dry Cleaning at the
Labod Company.
Installation of Equipment                   December 1995          October 1996



Table 3a: CFC Phaseout in Tons
Investment Sub-project                                          Estimated in FY                                        Actual in FY
'94       '95       '96        '97        '98       '94        '95        '96       '97        '98
2. Conversion and Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances at LTH.       20.7       41.4      66.6       68.9       68.9      46.7       51.9       56.9       68.9      68.9
3. Servicing of Refrigerators and Freezers and Substitution of CFC-       0          0       11.4      11.4       11.4        4.8       5.4        6.3        7.0        7.0
12 Refrigerant in Heat Pumps with HFC-134a at Gorenje Servis.
4. Conversion of Aerosol Production to CFC-Free Propellants at Krka    o(a)       0(a)      39(a)     79)        79(a)   1033(b)   142.0(b)    88.3(b)   88.3)   88.3(
Kozmetika.                                                                         I_I
5. Substitution of CFC Propellants in the Production of                   0         0        157        157        157         0         .0         68      194.8     162.7
Pliarmaceuticals at LEK.                                       _
6. Elimination of CFC- I1 in the Production of Light Building Panels    6.5        5.7        7.6      27.4       35.1        6.5       5.7       17.7       33.0      35.1
at Trimo.
7. Substitution of CFCs with Aliphatic Hydrocarbons in Dry                0         0         3.5       3.5        3.5        1.2       0.4        3.5        3.5       3.5
Cleaning at the Labod Company.
TOTAL                                                                  27.2       47.1     285.1      347.2      354.9      162.5     205.4      240.7     395.5      365.5
Note: (a) -The phaseout was estimated on the basis of the actual CFC use in 1993 (79 tons).
(b) -The calculation is based on the annual production of the aerosol units each year and on the estimation, how much CFC would be used for this production (in 1994, the alternatives were
already introduced   in some products) . diminished for the CFC actually used.
Table 3b: CFC Phaseout in ODP Tons
Investment Sub-project                                          Estimated in FY                                        Actual in FY
'94       '95       '96        '97        '98       '94        '95        '96        '97       '98
2. Conversion and Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances at LTHi.      20.7       41.4      66.6       67.4       67.4       46.7      51.9       56.9       67.4      67.4
3. Servicing of Refrigerators and Freezers and Substitution of CFC-       0          0       11.4      11.4       11.4        4.8       5.4        6.3        7.0        7.0
12 Refrigerant in Heat Pumps with IIFC-134a at Gorenje Servis.    _                           -_-_-_79 a__---___
4. Conversion of Aerosol Production to CFC-Free Propellants at Krka    o(a)       o(a)      39(a)     79(a)      79(a   1033()  142.0(b)    88.3(b)   h88.3T   88.3(b)
Kozmetika.                                                                         I
5. Substitution of CFC Propellants in the Production of                   0         0        157        157        157         0          0         68      194.8     162.7
Pharmaceuticals at LEK.                                                                                                         _
6. Elimination of CFC-1 I in the Production of Light Building Panels    6.5        5.7        7.6      27.4       35.1        6.5       5.7       17.7       33.0      35.1
at Trimo.                                                                      2_8  _ 
7. Substitution of CFCs with Aliphatic Hydrocarbons in Dry                0                  2.8        2.8        2.8        1.0       0.3        2.8        2.8       2.8
Cleaning at the Labod Company.
TOTAL                                                                  27.2       47.1     284.4      345.0      352.7      162.3     205.3      240.0     393.3      363.3
Note: (a) - The phaseout was estimated on the basis of the actual CFC use in 1993 (79 tons).
(b) -The calculation is based on the annual production of the aerosol units each year and on the estimation. how much CFC would be used for this production (in 1994. the alternatives were
already introduced
in some products) . diminished for the CFC actually used.



Table 4a: Disbursement of GEF Grant (US$)
Actual                                       TOTAL
Sub-Project Title and Description              FY96                   FY97                   FY98
I.Project Implementation Unit for the Phaseout          136,006.58             118,110.61              73,078.96             327,196.15
of Ozone Depleting Substances
2.Conversion and Phaseout of Ozone Depleting                  0.00           1,387,978.05             365,897.82            1,753,875.87
Substances at LTH.
3.Servicing of Refrigerators and Freezers and                 0.00                   0.00             125,688.62              125,688.62
Substitution of CFC- 12 Refrigerant in Heat
Pumps with HFC- I 34a at Gorenje Servis.
4.Conversion of Aerosol Production to CFC-                    0.00             363,928.02              50,000.00             413,928.02
Free Propellants at Krka Kozmetika.
5.Substitution of CFC Propellants in the                919,250.56             754,634.76             102,661.33            1,776,546.65
Production of Pharmaceuticals at LEK.
6.Elimination of CFC-1 1 in the Production of           553,545.79             467,155.86             132,762.43            1,153,464.08
Light Building Panels at Trimo.
7.Substitution of CFCs with Aliphatic                   175,350.44               5,336.25                   0.00              180,686.69
Hydrocarbons in Dry Cleaning at the Labod
Company.
FA Fee                                                   57,852.97              51,491.40              42,561.12              151,905.49
TOTAL                                                 1,842,006.34     1     3,148,634.95 [           892,650.28 J          5,883,291.57
Estimated                                           Actual
FY96            FY97              FY98            FY96             FY97              FY98
Annual                               4,200,000         1,500,000        500,000        1,842,006.34     3,148,634.95      892,650.28
Cumulative                            4,200,000        5,700,000      6,200,000(a)     1,842,006.34     4,990,641.29    5,883,291.57(a)
Cumulative as % of total GEF grant       68               92              100               31               85               100
Note: (a) - TIhe Grant was 100% disbursed. Date of final disbursement: August I1. 1998. US$ 316.708.43 currency exchange loss, because of changed exchange rate between SDR and US$.



Table 4b: Disbursement of GEF Grant By Procurement Method and Category (US$)
Estimates by Procurement Method                                         Actual by Procurement Method
Category          LIB         IS         NS         DC         Other       Total        LIB         IS          NS          DC         Other       Total
1.  Works              -                  1,591,580                           1,591,580      -           -         .471,932     62.584                1 ,534,516
2.  Goods           1,083,820   1,562,130    180,200    125,270           -   2,951,420   1,150.654   1,836,514      40.177     281.186      -        3,308,531
3.  Consultancies      -                                            625,800     625,800      -           -           -           -          561.143     561,143
4.  Miscellaneous
4.1 PIU                                                           219,690     219,690      -                                           327,196(a)    327.196
4.2 FA Fee                                                        155,064     155,064      -                                              151,905     151.905
4.3 Contingency                                                   656,446     656,446      -
TOTAL               1,083,820   1,562,130   1,771,780   125,270   1,657,000   6,200,000   1,150,654   1,836,514 [  ,512,109     343,770   1,040,244   5,883,291
Note: (a) - Includes DC for consultants, providing technical assistance and NS for procuring computers.



Table 5A: Project Costs (US$ Million)
Estimated                                                    Actual I
Sub-Project Title and Description     Financed     Local      Foreign  1   Sub-      Proposed      Financed   {Local   [Foreign         Sub-       GEF
by       by GEF      by GEF  I Project        GEF            by        by GEF    by GEF    Project    Grant
Slovenia                           Costs (a)    Grant    Counterparts                           Costs (a)
1. Project Implementation Unit for the Phaseout  0.000     0.220      0.000       0.220       0.220          0.024      0.319       0.008      0.351      0.327
of Ozone Depleting Substances
2. Conversion and Phaseout of Ozone            2.536       0.412       1.084       4.032       1.496          1.456      0 791      0.960      3.210       1.754
Depleting Substances at LTIH.                      I 
3. Servicing of Refrigerators and Freezers and  0.342      0.016       0.109       0.467       0.125         0 341       0.030      0.096      0.467      0.126
Substitution of CFC-12 Refrigerant in Heat
Pumps with HFC- 134a at Gorenje Servis.
4. Conversion of Aerosol Production to CFC-    0.321       0.187       0.167       0.675       0.354          0.611      0.283      0 131      1.025      0.414
Free Propellants at Krka Kozmetika.
5. Substitution of CFC Propellants in the      0.192       1.557       0.436       2.185       1 .993         0.053      1.257      0.520      1.830       1.777
Production of Pharmaceuticals at LEK.              I__
6. Elimination of CFC-I I in the Production of  0.127      0.546       0.475       1.148       1.021 |.464               0.437      0.716      1.617       1.153
Light Building Panels at Trimo.
7. Substitution of CFCs with Aliphatic         0.000       0.00(       0.179       0.179       0.179         0.002       0.(02      0.179      0. 183     0.181
Hydrocarbons in Dry Cleaning at the Labod
Company.
Subtotal for Component I-Sub-Project I         0.000       0.220       0.000       0.220       0.220          0.024      0.319      0.008      0.351      0.327
Subtotal for Component 2-Sub-Project 2-7       3.518       2.718       2.450       8.686       5.168          2.927      2.803      2.602      8.332      5.405
Subtotal for Components 1-2                    3.518       2.938       2.450       8.906       5.388          2.951      3.122      2.610      8.683      5.732
FA Fee                                         0.000       0.155       0.000       0.155       0.155 |).(00              0.152      i)()00     0.152      0.152
Contingency                                    0.000       0.657       0.000       0.657       0. 657 l-                            -                      -
TOTAL                                          3.518       3.750       2.450       9.718       6.200          2.951      3.274      2.610      8.835      5.884
Note: (a) - The Sub-project Costs are calculated as- (i) Incremental Capital Costs + Incremental Operating Costs, and (ii) Increnmental C apital (osts - Increnicntal Operating Savings
Table 5B: Project Financing (US$ Million)
Estimates                                                   Actual
(US$ Million)                                              (US$ Million)
Item                        Local Costs        Foreign Costs           Total            Local Costs       Foreign Costs           Total
1. GEF Grant                                      3.750              2.450               6.200               3.274               2.610              5.884
2. Counterpart funds (enterprises. )              3.518               0.000              3.518                1.966              0.985               2.951
TOTAL                                             7.268               2.450              9.718               5.240               3.595               8.835



Table 6: Studies and Workshops Included in the Projeet
Sub-project 1. Project Implementation Unit for the Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances
I. Studies               Prepared by        Date of          Study Impact
Preparation
Country Program for      Chamber of         June 1994        Key regulatory measures
the Phaseout of ODS      Economy of                          and investment projects
in Slovenia              Slovenia                            identified. Investment
projects submitted for GEF
funding.
Good Practices in        Chamber of          March 1997      Manual prepared for
Refrigeration and Air    Economy of                          training courses on good
conditioning - manual    Slovenia                            practices in refrigeration.
Reclamation of           Chamber of         June 1998        Based oni the results of this
Refrigerants in          Economy of                          study a decision was taken
Slovenia                 Slovenia                            tointrioduce a 3R Scherme
in Slovenia.
Slovenia 3R Scheme       Refrigeranit       June 1998        The expertise supported
products Limited,                  thie outcomes of the study
UK                                 already prepared by COE.
Technical Evaluation     Dewpoint            September 1998  Techinical evaluation and
of ODS Phaseout          Consultants, UK                     preparation of ICR.
Project
II. Workshops
Implementation of        Local workshop for custom officers    Ljubljana, Slovenia, June
Regulatory Measures      and inspectors.                     1997
on ODS
Alternatives for Ozone   Regionial workshop in a series of   Ribno., Slovenia, October
Depleting Substances     workslhops, launched by the World   1997
in the Solvent Sector    Bank. Participation of: Czech
Republic, Hungary, Poland, Sloveniia.
Training on Good         Series of 4-days courses for service    Eight (8) courses in 1997
Practices in             technicians.                        and three (3) in 1998.
Refrigeration and Air                                        Participation of 211
Conditioning                                                 service technicians.



T able 7- Sumnmary of Sub-projects Data and Costs (US$ Million)
Estirn2ted                                                                    Actual
Sub-Project Title and Description    Annual      Share    Incremental    Icrementai    Sub-    Proposed    Annual             Share    Increiental                       S b        GEF
Phaseout      of      Capital Costs    Operating     Project      GEF       Phaseout       of      Capital Costs    Operatinig     Project     Grant
(ODP      Export                       Costs        Costs       Grant       (ODP       Export                        Cost        Costs ()
. tons)          (/)    _                ___            _                         tons)       I%()           __        _ 
I.   Project Implementation Unit for                     ,          0.033          0.187      0.220       0.220            -          -          0.023           0.328      0.351       0.327
the Phaseout of Ozone Depleting
Substances
2.  Conversion and Phaseout of Ozone       67.4        44          21838          1.194       4.032        1.496        67.4        31           2.901           0.309      3.210        1.754
Depleting Substances at LTII.
3.  Servicing of Refrigerators and         11.4          0          0.125           0.341     0467         0.125         7.0          0          0,126           0.341      0.467       0.126
Freezers and Substitution ofCFC-
12 Refrigerant in lleat Pumps with
IIFC-134a at Gorenje Scrvis.
4.  Conversion of Aerosol Production       79.0          0          1.068         (0.393)     0.675        0.354        88.3          0           1.221        (0.196)      1.025       0.414
to CFC-Free Propeilants at Krka
Kozmetika.
5.  Substitution ofCFC Propcllants in     157.0          0          1.993          0.192      2.185        1.993       194.8          0           1.909        (0.079)      1.830       1.777
the Production of Pharmaceuticals
at LEK.                                __. ___.
6.  Elimination of CFC- II in the          27.4         13          1.053          0.095       1.148       1.021        33.0         13           1.511          0.106      1.617       1.153
Production of Light Building
Panels at Trimo.
7.  Substitution of CFCs %n iti             2.8          0          0 218         (0.038)     0.179        0.179         2.8         0           0.224         (0.041)      0.183       0.181
Aliphatic Hydrocarbons in Dry
Cleaning at the Labod Company.
Subtotal                                                            7.328           1.578     8.906        5.388           -                     7.91            0.768      8.683       5.732
FA Fee                                                                  -          0.155155                                             .                        0.152      0.152       0.152
Contingency                                               .                         0.656     0.657        0.657
TOTAL                                     345.0                     7.328           2.389 ]    9.718T      6.200       393.3 [          1        7.915 1         0.920      8.835 |     5.884
Note: (a) - The Sub-project Costs are calculated as: (i) Incremenital Capital Costs + Incremental Operating Costs; and (ii) Incremental Capital Costs - Incremental Operating Savings



Appendix C.
Map



MAP SECTION



8                   8    I  T      A           o   }~,  I 
4   d  S o           i ~~~~~~~~~~~~F >          0 X
a~~~                                   -              aDg\    
0~~                          ~     ~~~~~~ ~ 0   2   .  
,\°,-,~~~~~~~~~~~7   a   a-  , E
X X h  < X $<~~~~~~~~~~< 
> .v xh > mn 2 t- sZ S t X ° ! 40
X   i s .  s   g C    k            z              r r 4N- (   z  I
c SS-XX  J  5 8_ X/ *  m  _ oQ; 



