Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4747 - MOR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Rural Roads Project) 
 
between 
 
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated April 8, 2005 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 4747 -MOR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated April 8, 2005, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter (“Lettre
de
cadrage
et
de
choix
stratégiques
”)
 dated June 7, 2004, from the Borrower describing a program of objectives, 
actions and modalities (the Program) designed to promote road access by the majority of 
rural populations by the year 2015, and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the 
execution of the said Program; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS (C) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) with the modification set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
The text in Section 5.01 which reads “(a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories: or (b)” is deleted in its entirety. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“CNER” means the National Center for Road Studies and Research 
(Centre
National
d’Etudes
et
de
Recherches
Routières
)
within MPWT (as this term is 
hereinafter defined); 
Page  4
-
2
-
(b) 
“Dirhams” and “MAD” mean the lawful currency of the Kingdom of 
Morocco; 
 
(c) 
“DPE” means the provincial offices of MPWT (as this term is hereinafter 
defined) (Directions
Provinciales
de
l’Equipement
); 
 
(d) 
“DRCR” means the Borrower’s Directorate of Roads and Road Traffic 
(Direction
des
Routes
et
de
la
Circulation
Routière
)
within MPWT (as this term is 
hereinafter defined); 
 
(e) 
“DRE” means the regional offices of MPWT (as this term is hereinafter 
defined) (Directions
Régionales
de
l’Equipement
); 
 
(f) 
“EMP” means the Project Environmental Management Plan, satisfactory 
to the Bank, prepared by the Borrower and submitted to the Bank on April 30, 2004, 
included in the Project Implementation Plan (as this term is hereinafter defined), as the 
same may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior agreement; 
 
(g) 
“Environmental Assessment Procedures” means the Borrower’s 
environmental assessment procedures dated April 30, 2004, satisfactory to the Bank, 
furnished by the Borrower to the Bank and defined in the Project Implementation Plan (as 
this term is hereinafter defined), as such Procedures may be updated from time to time by 
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for the implementation of the Project in 
accordance with appropriate environmental standards and guidelines, including, inter alia, 
the procedures governing the preparation of environmental assessments for construction 
activities to be carried out under Part A of the Project;  
 
(h) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(i) 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower, starting January 1 
and ending December 31 of each calendar year; 
 
(j) 
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework” means the land 
acquisition and resettlement policy framework, satisfactory to the Bank, prepared by the 
Borrower and submitted to the Bank on April 30, 2004, as the same may be amended 
from time to time with the Bank’s prior agreement, included in the Project 
Implementation Plan, and setting forth, inter alia, the requirements applying to land 
acquisition in connection with construction activities to be carried out under Part A of the 
Project;  
 
(k) 
“Midterm Review” means the midterm review to be carried out pursuant 
to Part D of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
(l) 
“MPWT” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works and Transport 
(Ministère
de
l’Equipement
et
du
Transport
)
or
any successor thereto; 
 
(m) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
May 7, 2004, included in the Project Implementation Plan (as this term is hereinafter 
defined), covering the initial 12 month period of Project implementation, as the same 
shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 to 
this Agreement, to cover succeeding 12 month periods of Project implementation; 
 
(n) 
“Project Area” means the area covered by the Project in the Borrower’s 
regions of Tanger-Tetouan, Taza-Al-Hoceima-Taounate, Fez-Boulmane, Meknes-
Tafilalt, Tadla-Azilal, Doukkala-Abda, Rabat-Sale-Zemmour-Zaër, Casablanca, Oriental, 
Marrakech-Tensift-El Haouz, Chaouia-Ourdigha, Gharb-Chrarda-Beni Hsen, Souss-
Massa-Draâ and the Borrower’s province of Guelmin; 
 
(o) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the project implementation plan 
prepared by the Borrower and submitted to the Bank, at all times satisfactory to the Bank, 
setting forth, inter alia: (i) the respective roles and responsibilities for the implementation 
of the Project; (ii) the accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements; (iii) the 
Procurement Plan; (iv) the monitoring and evaluation procedures including the selected 
indicators for Project performance; (v) the Environmental Assessment Procedures; 
(vi) the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework; and (vii) the EMP; as said 
Plan may be updated periodically by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank; 
 
(p) 
“PPRR” means a provincial priority rural roads program (Programme
provincial
des
routes
rurales
prioritaires
)
prepared by DRCR to serve as a basis for 
consultation with provincial authorities and local municipalities (communes
)
in planning 
rural roads rehabilitation and construction; 
 
(q) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
 
(r) 
“Specific Provincial Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
Part B.2 (d) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, to be entered into between MPWT and each 
of the Borrower’s province or municipality (commune
)
within the Project Area, with a 
view to ensuring the maintenance and the contribution of right-of-way land for local rural 
roads provided for in the respective PPRR of said province or municipality. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirty one 
million Euros (EUR 31,000,000). 
Page  6
-
4
-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dirhams a special deposit account in its general treasury (
Trésorerie
Générale
du 
Royaume
)
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments 
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2010, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself 
the amount of said fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Euros for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
Page  7
-
5
-
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate technical, engineering, transport, environmental, social, 
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
Page  8
-
6
-
this Agreement, the Project Implementation Plan, the Environmental Assessment 
Procedures, the EMP and the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later 
than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.  
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section  for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
Page  9
-
7
-
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of 
 
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s reporting obligations 
set out in the preceding Section 4.01 and Parts B.1, B.2 and D of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare  and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring 
report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Loan, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of  
such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation ; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than sixty (60) 
days after the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover 
the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end 
Page  10
-
8
-
of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover 
such calendar semester. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Privatization of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Privatization 
Avenue Mohammed V 
Rabat 
Kingdom of Morocco 
 
Cable 
address: 
    Facsimile: 
 
MINFIN     212-37-67-75-30/31 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or  (202) 
477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Rabat, Morocco, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO 
 
By /s/  Fathallah 
Oualalou 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/  Ferid 
Belhaj 
 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle-East and North Africa 
 
Page  12
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1  
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 Category
(Expressed in Euros)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
27,000,000 
85 
% 
 
(2) 
Goods 
40,000 
100% of foreign 
 
and Equipment 
 
 
expenditures and 85% 
 
of
local expenditures 
 
for other items  
 
procured locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ 
1,300,000 
70% of local 
 
and other services 
 
expenditures for 
 
services of  
 
consultants domiciled 
 
within the territory of 
 
the Borrower and 
 
75%
of foreign 
 
expenditures for 
 
services of other 
 consultants 
 
(4) 
Front-end fee 
310,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(5) Unallocated 
2,350,000
TOTAL 31,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
Page  13
-
11
-
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding EUR 3,000,000 may be 
made in respect of Categories (1) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after  
July 1, 2004. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods and 
equipment costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than 
$2,500,000 equivalent per contract; (c) for services of individual consultants costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent per contract; and (d) for services of consulting firms and road 
laboratories under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  14
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to increase the level of road access by rural 
populations, especially in the Borrower’s more disadvantaged provinces in the Project 
Area, through the implementation of national program of rural roads development and 
measures aiming at strengthening the Borrower’s institutional capacity.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
A. 
Rural Roads Improvement
Carrying out a program of civil works aiming at improving rural roads 
accessibility through the rehabilitation and construction of about 625 km of rural roads 
within the Project Area, including small complementary infrastructure and the provision 
of consultants’ services for the design and supervision of civil works. 
 
B. Institutional 
Support
Provision of consultants’ services to DRCR to: (i) develop a monitoring and 
evaluation system to measure implementation progress of PPRRs and their impact on 
rural roads accessibility, while strengthening participation in the formulation of PPRRs, 
disseminating progress achieved under PPRRs and facilitating sectoral integration within 
the Project Area; (ii) identify local economic opportunities resulting from enhanced 
accessibility to rural roads; (iii) improve local rural roads management; and 
(iv) strengthen the capacity of the DRCR, DPEs and DREs to undertake social and 
environmental assessments.  
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2009. 
Page  15
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Euros) 
March 15, 2010 
855,000 
September 15, 2010 
865,000 
March 15, 2011 
875,000 
September 15, 2011 
885,000 
March 15, 2012 
900,000 
September 15, 2012 
910,000 
March 15, 2013 
920,000 
September 15, 2013 
935,000 
March 15, 2014 
945,000 
September 15, 2014 
960,000 
March 15, 2015 
970,000 
September 15, 2015 
980,000 
March 15, 2016 
995,000 
September 15, 2016 
1,010,000 
March 15, 2017 
1,020,000 
September 15, 2017 
1,035,000 
March 15, 2018  
1,045,000 
September 15, 2018 
1,060.000 
March 15, 2019  
1,075,000 
September 15, 2019 
1,090,000 
March 15, 2020  
1,100,000 
September 15, 2020 
1,115,000 
March 15, 2021  
1,130,000 
September 15, 2021 
1,145,000 
March 15, 2022  
1,160,000 
September 15, 2022 
1,175,000 
March 15, 2023  
1,190,000 
September 15, 2023 
1,205,000 
March 15, 2024  
1,220,000 
September 15, 2024 
1,230,000 
 
Page  16
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Section I, 
paragraphs 3.15 through 3.20, and Section IV of, and Appendix 2 to, the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May 2004 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding 
in accordance with the provisions of Section II and paragraphs 3.14 and 3.15 of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and the following additional procedure: 
 
Domestic Preference
.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto, providing for domestic preference in the 
evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.  
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $2,500,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national competitive 
bidding in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.3, 3.4, 3.14 and 3.15 of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and the following additional procedures: 
 
(a) 
The two-envelope procedure shall be used for bids for works and goods 
provided that the two envelopes are opened in public at the same time. 
 
(b) 
Prospective bidders shall be allowed a minimum of 30 days from the date 
of the invitation to bid to submit bids and invitation to bid shall so specify. 
 
(c) 
The contract shall be awarded to the bidder having submitted the lowest 
evaluated responsive bid. 
 
Page  17
-
15
-
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Guidelines. 
 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultant
s’ and Road
Laboratories’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of quality and cost in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of 
consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may 
comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Single Source Selection
.
The contract for services under Part B(i) of the Project, 
which meets the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for single 
source selection, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be entered into with CNER, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraph 5.4, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
 
4. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments to be performed by road 
laboratories under Part A of the Project, which the Bank agrees meet the requirements of 
paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 
3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
A. Prior 
Review
.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the 
Borrower, the following prior review procedures shall apply: 
Page  18
-
16
-
1. Goods 
and 
Works
(a) 
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines shall apply to each contract for works 
 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,500,000 or more procured on the basis of 
international competitive bidding, and to each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more.   
 
(b) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract to be 
procured on the basis of direct contracting:  (i) prior to the execution of the contract, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract for 
its approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Bank’s approval shall have 
been given; and (iii) the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(h) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(c) 
The prior review procedures referred to in the preceding sub-
paragraphs (a) and (b) shall apply to the first contract for works entered into by each DPE 
on the basis of national competitive bidding.  
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services Provided by Firms and Road Laboratories
(a) 
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to each contract for consultants’ 
services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more.   
 
(b) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to the contract for 
consultants’ services provided by CNER under Part B (i) of the Project to be procured on 
the basis of single source selection: (i) the terms of reference shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its prior review and approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the 
Bank’s approval shall have been given; and (iii) the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to the contract. 
 
(c) 
The prior review procedures referred to in the preceding sub-
paragraphs (a) and (b) shall apply to the first contract for consultants’ services entered 
into by each DPE under Part A of the Project. 
 
(d) 
The terms of reference for each contract for consultant’s services shall be 
subject to the Bank’s prior approval. 
 
(e) 
The first contract for consultants’ services awarded on the basis of 
quality-and cost-based selection shall be subject to the Bank’s prior approval.  
 
Page  19
-
17
-
3. 
Consultants’ services provided by individuals
For each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review 
and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given. 
 
B. Post 
Review
1. 
With respect to each contract for goods, works or services (other than 
consultants’ services) not governed by Part A of this Section, the post review procedures 
set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines shall apply. 
 
2. 
With respect to each contract for consultants’ services not governed by Part A of 
this Section, the post review procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  20
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program 
 
A.  
Project Coordination and Implementation
1. 
At the central level
,
responsibility for overall project coordination, progress 
monitoring and implementation shall be vested with DRCR. In implementing the Project, 
DRCR shall be guided at all times by the processes and procedures contained in the 
Project Implementation Plan.  
 
2. 
At the regional and provincial levels
,
the Project shall be implemented in 
accordance with the processes and procedures contained in the Project Implementation 
Plan. Project coordination and implementation shall be ensured by, respectively, DREs 
and DPEs, which shall each designate qualified staff responsible for the financial, 
administrative and accounting management of the Project.  
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, at all times, implement the EMP, the Environmental 
Assessment Procedures and the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework in 
a
manner satisfactory to the Bank, and shall not amend or waive any provision of said 
Plan, Procedures or Framework without the Bank’s prior agreement. 
 
B. 
Part A of the Project
1. 
The Borrower shall, not later than ninety (90) days following the twelve (12) 
months period commencing at the Effectiveness Date and, thereafter, for every 
subsequent twelve (12) month period until completion of the Project, provide the Bank, 
for its review and approval, with progress reports prepared in accordance with 
environmental indicators set forth in the Environmental Assessment Procedures and 
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, not later than December 31 of each Fiscal Year until 
completion of the Project, submit to the Bank for its review a report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia: (a) the program of civil works for 
the construction of rural roads for the subsequent twelve (12) month period, including 
confirmation that the proposed program: (i) is technically and financially viable, 
(ii) includes the economic rate of return or cost effectiveness indicator and (iii) complies 
with the EMP, the Environmental Assessment Procedures and the Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Policy Framework; (b) results on the use of the Environmental Assessment 
Procedures and the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework, including, 
where appropriate, a copy of the applicable environmental assessment study and the land 
acquisition plan; (c) confirmation that (i) the rural roads retained for construction 
activities have been selected within prior approved PPRRs and in accordance with the 
participatory process described in the Project Implementation Plan; and (ii) appropriate 
budgetary allocation has been provided to ensure the maintenance of said roads; and 
Page  21
-
19
-
(d) where applicable, for municipal or non-classified local rural roads, the Specific 
Provincial Agreement.  
 
3. 
No civil work or construction activity shall be carried out unless the Bank shall 
have first received the information referred to in the preceding paragraph 2.  
 
4. 
At the end of each Fiscal Year, the Borrower and the Bank shall review the 
performance results of the implementation of the program of civil works described in the 
report referred to in the preceding paragraph 2. 
 
C. 
Part B of the Project
1. 
The Borrower shall submit to the Bank, not later than December 31, 2006, a 
study, on the basis of terms of reference agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, on 
the improvement of local rural roads management.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause DRCR to strengthen its capacity in monitoring and 
evaluating the impact of the Borrower’s overall rural roads program on accessibility to 
rural roads and, to this end, shall cause DRCR, not later than June 30, 2005, to enter into 
an agreement with CNER, on the basis of terms of reference agreed between the 
Borrower and the Bank. 
 
D. Mid-Term 
Review
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about March 31, 2007, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by May 31, 2007, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Page  22
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of MAD 35,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of 
MAD 15,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions  shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of EUR 7,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
Page  23
-
21
-
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  24
-
22
-
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
