                                      Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR00002016



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IBRD-47470)



                                         ON A

                                        LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 31 MILLION
                      (US$ 36.86 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                            KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                                        FOR A

                            RURAL ROADS PROJECT



                                  December 8, 2011




Sustainable Development Department
Maghreb Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                   (Exchange Rate Effective December 8, 2011)
                                Currency Unit =
                            MAD 1.00 = US$ 0.12
                             US$ 1.00 = MAD 8.34 MAD


                                 FISCAL YEAR
                                 July 1 – June 31


                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AFD      French Development Agency
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CFR      Caisse pour le Financement Routier
CNER     National Center for Road Study and Research
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
DPET     Provincial Office of the MPWT (Direction Provinciale de l’Equipement et des Transports)
DR       Directorate of Roads (Direction des Routes)
DRET     Regional Office of the MPWT (Direction Régionale de l’Equipement et des Transports)
EIB      European Investment Bank
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
FSR      Road Fund (Fonds Spécial Routier)
IRI      International Roughness Index
IERR     Internal Economic Rate of Return
MDG      Millennium Development Goals
METP     Ministry of Equipment and Transport (Ministère de l’Equipement et des Transports)
NPRR-1   First National Program of Rural Roads
NPRR-2   Second National Program of Rural Roads
NPV      Net Present Value
RPF      Resettlement Policy Framework
SPA      Specific Provincial Agreement



                               Vice President:   Inger Andersen
                             Country Director:   Neil Simon M. Gray
                              Sector Manager:    Patricia Veevers-Carter
                         Project Team Leader:    Abdelmoula Ghzala
                            ICR Team Leader:     Abdelmoula Ghzala
                                                       KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                                                       RURAL ROADS PROJECT




                                                                        CONTENTS
Data Sheet ..................................................................................................................................................... ii
  A. Basic Information ................................................................................................................................. ii
  B. Key Dates .............................................................................................................................................. ii
  C. Ratings Summary .................................................................................................................................. ii
  D. Sector and Theme Codes ..................................................................................................................... iii
  E. Bank Staff ............................................................................................................................................ iii
  F. Results Framework Analysis ................................................................................................................ iii
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .............................................................................................. iv
  H. Restructuring (if any) ............................................................................................................................ v
  I. Disbursement Profile .............................................................................................................................. v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design .......................................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ......................................................................... 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................................................... 9
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................................................13
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................................................13
6. Lessons Learned ......................................................................................................................................15
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................................15

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................................................16
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ...............................................................................................................17
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..............................................................................................19
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......................................24
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results .........................................................................................................26
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ..............................................................................26
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..............................................27
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ...............................................60
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ....................................................................................................61




                                                                                i
                                              Data Sheet

A. Basic Information
Country:            Morocco           Project Name:        MA-Rural Roads
Project ID:         P082754           L/C/TF Number(s): IBRD-47470
ICR Date:           December 8, 2011 ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument: SIL               Borrower:            GOVERNMENT OF MOROCCO
Original Total      USD 36.86M        Disbursed Amount: USD 43.06 M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:     USD 36.86M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Directorate of Roads of the Ministry of Equipment and Transport
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: N/A

B. Key Dates
      Process             Date                  Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/11/2003       Effectiveness:            06/21/2005           06/21/2005
Appraisal:            04/26/2004       Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/29/2004       Mid-term Review:          03/20/2007           12/20/2007
                                       Closing:                  06/30/2010           06/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                             Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                          Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                     Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                 Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                      Ratings                    Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:                Satisfactory         Government:                    Satisfactory
                                                      Implementing
Quality of Supervision:          Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
                                                      Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                          Overall Borrower
Performance:
                                Satisfactory          Performance:
                                                                                     Satisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance          Indicators           QAG Assessments (if any)         Rating
 Potential Problem Project at
                                         No          Quality at Entry (QEA):                None
any time (Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any time
                                         No          Quality of Supervision (QSA):          None
(Yes/No):
 DO rating before
                                    Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:




                                                     ii
D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                       Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                         3                       1
Roads and highways                                                       97                      99

Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Injuries and non-communicable diseases                                    33
 Rural services and infrastructure                                        67                    100

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                         At ICR                                 At Approval
Vice President:                Inger Andersen                        Christiaan J. Poortman
Country Director:              Neil Simon M. Gray                    Theodore O. Ahlers
Sector Manager:                Patricia Veevers-Carter               Hedi Larbi
Project Team Leader:           Abdelmoula Ghzala                     Mohammed D.E Feghoul
ICR Team Leader:               Abdelmoula Ghzala
ICR Primary Author:            Mohammed D.E Feghoul


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project's development objective is to increase rural populations' access to roads, especially in
the more disadvantaged provinces, by supporting a national program of road improvements and
through strengthening institutional capacity.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                                                               Formally      Actual Value
                                                           Original Target
                                                                               Revised       Achieved at
                Indicators                Baseline Value Values (from approval
                                                                                Target      Completion or
                                                             documents)
                                                                                Values       Target Years
Main PDO Indicators

 National Rural Roads Accessibility      45% (in 2002)
                                                            67% (in 2010)                    70% (in 2010)
  Index (NRRAI)                           50% (in 2005)

 Accessibility differential              0.38 (in 2002)
                                                             0.60 (in 2010)                  0.63 (in 2010)
  Indicator(ADI)                          0.43 (in 2005)
 Improvement in Quality Inter-city       No Baseline Surveys carried out in 2010 on six roads have
  passenger transport service reflected      value    shown that costs for passenger transport have
  in higher service frequency, more                   decreased on average by about 40%. Additional
  comfortable vehicles, or lower rates.               surveys are scheduled on more roads as part of
                                                      an impact evaluation study to be completed by
                                                      the end of 2012.
 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)         No Baseline M&E system                          M&E System
  system working                             value    operational and                     operational and
                                                      used during                         used during
                                                   iii
                                                             implementation             implementation
 Dissemination program implemented        No Baseline M&E results                      Yearly Reports
                                              value    disclosed to                     disclosed to
                                                       stakeholders during              stakeholders for
                                                       implementation                   2007, 2008, 2009
                                                                                        and 2010
 Study on the Strengthening of            No Baseline Study Completed                  Study Completed
  Municipal Road Management                   value                                     as part of a
  completed                                                                             maintenance
                                                                                        strategies study
                                                                                        covering all road
                                                                                        networks
 Training Environment and Social          No Baseline Training sessions                Training sessions
                                              value    held for Directorate             held for
                                                       of Roads Staff                   Directorate of
                                                                                        Roads Staff


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                                         Original Target    Formally Actual Value Achieved
                                           Baseline
                Indicator                                 Values (from       Revised    at Completion or
                                            Value
                                                      approval documents) Target Values   Target Years
Component One : Rural roads
     Kilometers of roads improved under
                                              0               6,000                           6,529
      the overall NPRR-2
     Kilometers of roads improved under
                                              0                625                             520
      the project


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

           Date ISR                                                                  Actual Disbursements
No.                                 DO                                IP
           Archived                                                                     (USD millions)
  1      08/27/2004            Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                           0.00
  2      03/28/2005            Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                           0.00
  3      06/19/2005            Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                           0.00
  4      11/01/2005            Satisfactory                Moderately Satisfactory                    1.86
  5      03/21/2006            Satisfactory                Moderately Satisfactory                    2.20
  6      09/22/2006            Satisfactory                Moderately Satisfactory                    4.22
  7      12/05/2006            Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                           4.94
  8      05/30/2007            Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                           5.54
  9      12/07/2007            Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                           6.56
 10      05/06/2008            Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                          15.46
 11      10/03/2008            Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                          22.97
 12      05/02/2009            Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                          31.33
 13      11/07/2009            Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                          36.98
 14      06/12/2010            Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                          39.73
 15      12/26/2010            Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                          42.55
 16      06/08/2011            Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                          42.55



                                                      iv
H. Restructuring (if any)

There was one amendment to the Loan Agreement (June 16, 2010) to reallocate the original funds
under categories “Goods? and “Unallocated?, as well as, the balance remaining under category
“Consultants‟ and other services? to category “Works? and to extend the closing date of the Loan
from June 30, 2010 to June 30, 2011. This allowed full disbursement of the loan with no change
to the categories objectives and to the overall project objectives

I. Disbursement Profile




                                               v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.       At the time of Appraisal about 19 percent of Morocco‟s population, equivalent to 5.3 million
people, were below the poverty line, and 44 percent, equivalent to 12 million, were considered
economically vulnerable (at or below 50 percent over the poverty line). Overall, 66 percent of the poor
lived in rural areas and disproportionally in isolated areas.

2.      One of the Government‟s priorities noted in its 2020 Rural Development Strategy is to improve
conditions of the rural populations by increasing their access to basic infrastructure and social services.
This objective included also reducing the imbalance between the provinces better off in terms of
accessibility, and those worse-off. In the mid-1990s, the Government launched rural infrastructure
programs targeted at the rural population in power, water and roads.

3.      Rural road accessibility. The Government‟s strategy specifically included improving the rural
population‟s access to all-weather roads. Access in 2002 was low with only about 45 percent of the
country‟s rural population living near an all-weather road. Large differentials existed among provinces in
the population‟s rural road accessibility, ranging from about 75 percent for the better served provinces to
about 20 percent for the more isolated provinces. Population counted as having rural access are those
who live in villages (“douars?) of at least 50 households, and are located not more than one kilometer
away from an all-weather road. This definition takes into account that providing rural access to highly
dispersed populations is not presently affordable; it also takes into account that a large proportion of the
inaccessible rural population lives in mountainous areas, some living at high elevations, which makes
walking and access to basic services and economic opportunities difficult.

4.       Morocco‟s highway system comprised about 57,000 kilometers of classified roads (national,
regional and provincial), a large percentage of which, 44 percent, was unpaved. There was also about
9,000 km of non classified roads, mostly unpaved. In 2005 after the completion of a first National
Program of Rural Roads (NPRR-1) accessibility increased and about 50 percent of the country‟s rural
population lived near an all-weather road --still short of government objectives. To substantially increase
this level over a ten-year period, the Government decided in 2005 to accelerate the pace or rural road
improvements through a second National Program of Rural Roads (NPRR-2).

5.       The second National Program of Rural Roads, that the project supported, aims at increasing the
percentage of rural population that can access an all-weather road to 80% and reducing the accessibility
differential between the more and less accessible provinces. Both goals are essential elements of the
Government strategy to reduce rural poverty and improve equity. The NPRR2 is one of the Government's
key programs for rural inclusion and development, making a major contribution to agricultural market
development, and the provision of health, education and social services to communities. The program's
targets of increased rural accessibility and reduced inequality in accessibility are progressively being
achieved. The World Bank‟s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS of May 2005) supported these goals and
explicitly identified development of rural infrastructure as one of the key priorities to be supported by
Bank operations to assist in alleviating poverty.

6.       The project‟s focus on improving accessibility of the rural population, matched the Bank‟s
interest in promoting a change in the focus and objectives of rural road programs, from that of traditional
physical outputs (such as the length of roads improved) to the number of beneficiaries.


                                                     1
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

7.      The project's development objective was to increase rural populations' access to roads, especially
in the more disadvantaged provinces, by supporting a national program of road improvements and
through strengthening institutional capacity.

8.       The main indicators were:
         (a) A National Rural Road Accessibility Index (NRRAI), which is the percentage of rural
             population that can access an all-weather road. The target for this indicator was to improve
             from 45 percent in 2002 (most recent road inventory) to 67 percent in 2010, (80 percent in
             2015 when the NPRR-2 is completed and 60 percent by the project Mid-Term Review).
         (b) An Accessibility Differential Indicator (ADI), a measure devised for this project that
             quantifies the accessibility gap between the ten provinces (representing about 20 percent of
             Morocco‟s provinces) with the lowest accessibility, and the ten provinces with the highest
             accessibility. The target for this indicator was to improve from 0.38 in 2002 to 0.60 in 2010
             (0.65 in 2015 and 0.50 at Mid-Term).
         (c) A Transport Service Improvement Indicator (TSII), a measure to assess the impact of the
             improved roads on the quality of inter-city transport services for passengers. In order to
             monitor this indicator, a sample of roads had to be selected every year. By the end of the
             project, at least 80 percent of all sample roads that would have been open to traffic for two or
             more years had to show an improvement in the quality of service, reflected in higher service
             frequency, more comfortable vehicles, or lower rates.

9.      Indicators relating to the project‟s institutional development objectives aimed at enhancing the
impact of improved accessibility and strengthening capacity for social and environmental analysis
included:
         (a) An accessibility monitoring system in place, that will generate annual, provincial-level
             reports covering progress in implementing all rural road works, including the number of
             people that have gained road access, kilometers completed and open to traffic, design
             standards, exact location, and other related information, as well as the impact on improved
             delivery, use of social services, and access to markets.
         (b) A dissemination and outreach program, that will cover a number of sub-activities aimed at
             making available public information on rural roads projects to concerned stakeholders, and
             identifying local economic opportunities made possible by improved roads.
         (c) A study completed to improve management capacity of local rural roads in provinces and
             communes.
         (d) Training carried out and its effectiveness in strengthening capacity of the road agency for
             social and environmental assessments.

10.      In order to ensure that maintenance of the overall road network is being done correctly there was
also :
         (a) An indicator measuring the level of funding provided for road maintenance, set at a
             minimum, annually, per kilometer of classified road, equal to the value determined from the
             2004 maintenance budget.
         (b) An indicator on overall road network condition, specifying the percentage of roads in bad
             condition. The target would be 30 percent in 2010, from 35 percent measured in 2003.


                                                      2
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

11.    The project‟s development objectives (PDO) and key performance indicators remained
unchanged during project implementation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

12.     The project main beneficiaries were the rural population. The project supported second National
Program of Rural Roads has as a target to provide access to an all weather road to about 3 million rural
inhabitants representing 23.3% of the 2004 rural population (about 13.4 million). The project through its
financed roads benefited about 105,000 rural inhabitants in 17 different provinces.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

13.     The project had two components:

        (i). Rural roads component. This first component aimed at rehabilitating or upgrading about
             625 km of rural roads retained in the NPRR-2. The roads under the NPRR-2 were chosen
             based on (a) their contribution to improving rural access in a cost-effective manner, or having
             satisfactory economic returns in the case of higher traffic roads, (b) a participatory process
             involving the provinces and the rural municipalities (communes), (c) acceptable design
             standards including for road safety, for crossing villages, and (d) appropriate environmental,
             resettlement and social safeguards.

        (ii). Institutional support component. This second component consisted of consultant services,
              to: (a) develop a system to monitor and evaluate the achievement of accessibility targets and
              execution of the NPRR-2 and disseminate periodic reports on the NPRR-2 progress and
              achievement of targets, in order to facilitate sectoral integration and strengthen participation
              of local governments and communities; (b) formulate specific proposals that would help
              prepare for an eventual take over by provinces and communes of the management of the local
              rural roads; and (c) strengthen the capabilities of the DoR for social and environmental
              assessments.

1.6 Revised Components

14.     The above-mentioned two project components were not revised during project implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes

15.     There was one amendment of the Loan Agreement to reallocate the original funds under
categories “Goods? and “Unallocated?, as well as, the balance remaining under category “Consultants‟
and other services? to category “Works? and to extend the closing date of the Loan from June 30, 2010 to
June 30, 2011.

16.     The reallocation of proceeds allowed the rehabilitation of a higher share (above 80%) of the 625
km of rural roads that constituted the project component 1and led to the disbursement of the full loan
amount by its closing date. The works incurred cost overruns due unanticipated increases in the costs of
key inputs (mainly oil, bitumen, and construction materials). The reduction of the loan amount allocated
to consultants‟ services was made possible by the Borrower‟s decisions to: (i) use their own budget to
fund selected activities, particularly those related to the formulation of proposals for the management of

                                                      3
local rural roads by the provinces and communes, and (ii) benefit from a grant of the European
Investment Bank (EIB) to strengthen the capabilities of the Directorate of Roads for social and
environmental assessments. The reallocation of the small amount initially allocated for the “Goods?
disbursement category (40,000 Euros) resulted from the Borrower‟s confirmation that there was no need
to buy any additional office equipment or cars for supervision activities.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Soundness of Background Analysis and Project Design

17.     A Quality Enhancement Review (QER) was conducted for this project. It concluded that
increasing rural road accessibility had to be the overriding project‟s development objective and concurred
with the relevance of the project design and components.

18.      The background analyses for the project was sound and adequately took into account both the
country and sector contexts at the time of preparation and appraisal. Rural development was one of the
key objectives of the government. Programs aimed to facilitate access to rural infrastructure and services
were required to help meet this objective. The government Second National Program of Rural Roads
(NPRR-2) supported by the project and launched in 2005 aimed at providing access to roads to most of
the rural population by 2015; this horizon has since been advanced to 2012. Given its good knowledge of
the country‟s road sector built over a series of successful operations, the Bank was well placed to support
the Government second National Program of Rural Roads.

19.      The project took a broad view of Morocco‟s needs for rural roads and accessibility, and provided
a framework for the development of rural roads, with a global view of rural accessibility focusing on the
beneficiary population, an assessment of the NPRR-2 financial requirements, road design and
maintenance strategies, and participation of communities and local governments in the selection of
priority roads. The project took also a program approach to help attract the funding required to complete
the program‟s financing, and make it possible for the government to reach its accessibility targets.

20.     The project stems from the Government first National Program of Rural Roads (NPRR) and was
adequately built on lessons from Bank supported rural roads projects elsewhere, and drew upon the
experiences of other donor-supported rural road projects in Morocco. Here, it is worth mentioning the
rural roads project in the northern region financed by the Agence Française de Développement (AFD)
through a loan reimbursed by the Road Fund (Fond Spécial Routier - FSR) which was instrumental in
advancing the establishment of the Caisse pour le Financement Routier (CFR) in 2004. The purpose of
the CFR is to mobilize, through borrowing, additional resources to those of the FSR and the national
budget, in order to accelerate the implementation of NPRR-2.

21.     Two lessons noted in the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the last highway project
(Loan 3901, closed June 30, 2001) were taken into account in the formulation of the project. The first
lesson was the need for rural roads projects to define objectives based on accessibility. The project had
accessibility as its main focus. The second lesson was the difficulties of carrying out monitoring and
evaluation (M&E), hence the special attention paid to this function. A monitoring and evaluation system
was developed and put in place from the launching of the project.




                                                    4
Assessment of Risks

22.     The main risks identified and assessed during project preparation were adequately mitigated,
particularly those related to the NPRR-2 financing, the ownership by the provinces and communes of the
selected rural roads, and the implementation of the institutional component.
        (i).   Timely completion of the NPRR-2 financing. The financing plan of the NPRR-2, which the
               project financed in part, was not complete at appraisal. Detailed analyses carried out during
               project preparation: (a) validated the priority assigned to the NPRR-2 along with its social
               and economic benefits, (b) confirmed the relevance of its strategic directions, including the
               financing plan and the vital role assigned to the CFR for mobilizing additional resources,
               and (c) found the adopted technical standards, environmental and social procedures to be
               sound. The positive conclusions of these analyses provided comfort to several key
               cofinanciers and led to the confirmation of their financial contributions as well as to an
               early satisfactory completion of the NPRR-2 financing plan.
        (ii). Ownership by the provinces and communes of the selected rural roads. The risk for
              disagreement about road priorities was mitigated through specific provincial agreements
              signed by the Ministry of Equipment and Transport in charge of the implementation of the
              NPRR2 with each province after consultation of all concerned communes and local
              authorities. The inventory, together with the pre-identified program and the selection
              criteria used, were presented in each province to the local authorities (elected
              representatives and officials of the provinces and communes) and to the local communities.
              This allowed them to effectively participate in the planning process and make a final
              selection of the roads to be included in the provincial programs of priority rural roads. In
              addition, the specific agreements commit the local governments to provide the right-of-way
              whenever necessary, contribute to the financing of the selected roads, and guarantee their
              future maintenance. The roads retained under the project were all selected from the roads
              confirmed with the provinces and listed in their respective specific provincial agreement.
        (iii). Adequate attention to the implementation of the institutional component. At the onset of
               the project there was a risk that the Directorate of Roads (DoR) would be overwelmed by
               the launch of the PNRR2 and its significant number of rural roads sub-projects to prepare
               and supervise and would not devote sufficient attention to the project institutional
               component. To mitigate this risk, the project gave priority to the launch of the critical
               institutional activities, particularly (a) the development of a monitoring and evaluation
               system to report on the performance of the NPRR2, and (b) the preparation of a manual for
               rural roads design and appraisal, taking into account the specificities of rural road
               subprojects including their environmental and social aspects.

Adequacy of Participatory Processes

23.     Systematic participatory planning at the communal and provincial levels was a new approach
which had been piloted under the first National Program of Rural Roads (NPRR1). Consultations were
held during a full year at the onset of the project in all provinces with communal authorities and
representatives of local communities (“associations?) to entrust the communes with responsibility for
selecting the priority rural roads to be retained in the second National Program for Rural Roads and agree
on their contribution to their construction. The communes agreed to contribute to the construction of the
selected roads by financing 15% of their cost, securing rights of way when needed and committing to the
maintenance of the local rural roads (unclassified roads). The results of the participatory planning were
documented in a specific provincial agreement between each province and the Ministry of Equipment and
Transport in charge of the implementation of the NPRR2.


                                                     5
2.2 Implementation

24.      The Directorate of Roads remained committed to the project from its start and succeeded in
overcoming a few delays faced during its first implementation years. These delays were related to: (a) the
establishment and staffing of the dedicated unit for the management of the second National Program of
Roads; (b) the launch of the preparation of the manual for appraisal and design of rural roads; (c) the
mobilization of all the provincial offices of the Directorate of Roads for the efficient operation of the
monitoring and evaluation system developed for the NPRR-2; and (d) the initiation of the reflection on
how best to prepare for the maintenance of the non classified rural roads.

25.      Program Management Unit. After the launch of the project the Directorate of Roads realized that
it would not effectively manage a program of the size and importance of the NPRR2 without a dedicated
unit for a close implementation monitoring. It then established a Program Management Unit staffed by
qualified engineers and succeeded to mobilize a team of international technical assistants funded by the
European Investment Bank as part of its financing of the NPRR-2.

26.     Manual for Appraisal and Design of Rural Roads. The review of the detailed designs of the first
selected rural roads led to the conclusion that a manual was needed to ensure that appropriate technical
standards are complied with by all rural roads projects. The manual for appraisal and design of rural
roads was prepared and disseminated to all provincial offices of the Directorate of Roads and consultancy
firms involved in the NPRR2.

27.     Operation of the Monitoring and Evaluation System (M&E). The Center for Roads Studies and
Research (CNER) to which the development and operation of the NPRR2 monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) system was assigned had to spend more time than anticipated to train and mobilize all provincial
offices of the Directorate to timely collect the required data and properly report on implementation
progress. After a validation of an accessibility baseline based on the results of a national population
census carried out in 2004, and on-site training in all provinces, the CNER succeeded starting in 2007 to
issue yearly reports on rural roads accessibility and progress of the NPRR2.

28.     Maintenance of the Unclassified Rural Roads. For the sustainability of the NPRR-2 investments,
the Borrower had to ensure that the local rural roads (communal and non-classified) are properly managed
and maintained after their construction. To that end the Directorate of Roads had to launch a study at the
outset of the NPRR-2 to establish a diagnosis and propose adapted alternatives for an effective
management and maintenance of the local rural roads by the communes and provinces. After an initial
attempt to launch such a study restricted to the maintenance of the local rural roads, the Directorate of
Roads decided to include it in a maintenance strategies study covering all road networks successfully
completed in 2010.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

29.      The project monitoring and evaluation system was well established and was primarily focused on
a rural road accessibility indicator defined as the percentage of population living within one kilometer
from an all-weather road calculated at the provincial and national levels. The M&E system included also
an indicator measuring the accessibility gap between the ten provinces with the lowest accessibility, and
the ten provinces with the highest accessibility, and surveys to report on transport services improvements.

30.      The rural populations counted as having rural access are those who live in villages (douars) of at
least 50 households, and are located not more than one kilometer away from an all-weather road. This
definition takes into account that providing rural access to highly dispersed populations is not presently
affordable; it also takes into account that a large proportion of the inaccessible rural population lives in

                                                     6
mountainous areas, some living at high elevations, which makes walking and access to basic services and
economic opportunities difficult.

31.     The design of the M&E system benefited from the field surveys of rural road conditions and
accessibility carried out by the Directorate of Roads for the first National Program of Rural Roads
launched in 1995 and used a rural road accessibility database updated in 2005 including demographic and
road network information for each of Morocco‟s provinces.

32.    Yearly reports including maps were prepared starting from 2007 on rural road accessibility for all
provinces and nationwide.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard Compliance

33.     The project was rated Category B. Compliance with OP4.01 on environmental assessment is
found satisfactory and no environmental safeguard issues arose during implementation.

Environmental Safeguard

34.      Environmental considerations were an integral part of the design and construction of the selected
rural roads in accordance with an operational manual on environmental procedures prepared and reviewed
at appraisal, including an environmental screening checklist and a framework environmental management
plan (document listed in Annex 9).

35.      The use of the screening checklist allowed the identification of : (a) rural roads having only
minimal or short term impacts on the environment, with no significant adverse impact on communities or
important resources and addressed through the implementation of a limited environmental assessment
including the preparation of a site specific environmental management plan (EMP) and the incorporation
of mitigation measures in the contract documents according to the typical examples provided in the
environmental procedures; and (b) rural roads with moderate environmental impacts limited to the sites
and with no significant adverse impact on communities or important resources which were subjected to a
limited environmental assessment including the preparation of a site specific EMP. Eligible subprojects
were screened according to the approved environmental assessment processes. Environmental issues
addressed during the implementation of project were mainly construction-related and limited to the roads
sites; these included borrow area operation and redevelopment, controlling erosion and slope stabilization,
as well as disposal of wastes and other construction material.

36.     Adequate environmental monitoring was performed during construction of rural roads by the
provincial and regional directorates of roads and visits from an environmental specialist from the Program
Management Unit in charge of the NPRR-2. Also the manual prepared for design and appraisal of rural
roads projects includes a section on environmental assessment and monitoring.

37.     The project implementation benefited from a sufficient environmental awareness among the staff
of the Directorate of Roads including in its provincial offices. The technical assistance team funded by
the European Investment Bank (EIB) as part to its support to the NPRR2 delivered training sessions on
environmental management of road projects to improve the Directorate of Roads environmental capacities
and carried out field visits focusing on environmental aspects.




                                                    7
Social Safeguard

38.      Compliance with OP4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement was satisfactory. Works carried out
remained within the existing rights of way or required small tracts of land for necessary realignments. A
disclosed Resettlement Policy Framework defined the land acquisition and compensation required for
Rural Roads projects throughout the Project areas consistent with both Moroccan law and Bank safeguard
policies. When necessary, local communities were eager to voluntarily donate small tracts of land for
rural roads because of the dramatic opportunities they bring. However the cases of voluntary donations
while reported and evidenced were not properly documented by the Directorate of Roads and its
provincial offices and the Project Management Unit did not dedicate sufficient attention to record keeping
and reporting on social safeguards-related matters.

Procurement

39.     Procurement management is considered to have been satisfactory and in compliance with Bank
procedures and as set out in the Loan Agreement. Specific NCB bidding documents were approved by
the Bank at the project onset and adopted by all provincial and regional directorates of roads entrusted
with the implementation of the selected eligible rural roads. A few delays have been noted during
supervision missions with recommendations made by the Bank to address them. No issues of Fraud and
collusion (F&C) were detected or uncovered during implementation.

Financial Management

40.     Financial management is considered to have been satisfactory and in compliance with Bank
procedures and as set out in the Loan Agreement. Budgeting, accounting, flow of funds, annual year-end
financial reporting and submission of audit reports were found acceptable by Bank supervision missions.
Submission of Interim Financial Reports was initially delayed, but has improved during the last two
years. The internal control system was adequate, but the internal audit function was not yet established
and the Inspection Générale des Finances has identified deficiencies in financial information system
although these weaknesses were not material.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

41.     The Directorate of Roads of Roads remains mobilized and committed to:
           complete the implementation of the NPRR2 by the end 2012 to increase the access to an all-
            weather road to 80% of the rural population; a target it is likely to achieve with a slight delay;
           secure the maintenance of the unclassified rural roads constructed under the NPRR-1 and
            NPRR-2 in accordance with the action plan prepared by the inter-ministerial committee
            entrusted with addressing the issue of the sustainability of the NPPR2 investments; and
           contribute to the preparation of a follow-up program of rural roads to be implemented
            primarily by the provinces with its technical support to further increase the percentage of the
            rural population with access to an all-weather road above the 80% threshold.




                                                     8
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

42.      The Project development objectives, design and implementation are fully consistent with the
current development priorities of the Government. Improving access of rural dwellers to basic transport
infrastructure is among the key goals of the government‟s 2020 Rural Development Strategy and has been
adopted by the Bank Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for the period FY10-13 under its second pillar
aiming to support the government‟s objective to enhance access to and quality of service delivery for all
citizens.

43.      Project objectives were clearly relevant for Morocco's development. Poverty in Morocco is
mostly rural. Rural living is made especially difficult by isolation, a result of poor roads, difficult
topography and rains and flood that often interrupt traffic. A study by the Operations Evaluation
Department in 1996 (Morocco: Impact Evaluation Report-Socioeconomic Influence of Rural Roads) that
assessed the impact of rural roads improved in Morocco and more recent impact evaluations carried out
after the completion of the first National Program of Rural Roads and during the implementation of the
NPRR2 confirmed the importance of improving rural access. These impact evaluations found significant
impacts on improved accessibility to, and quality of, services in health and education; major gains in girl's
enrollment in primary education; farmers benefiting from lower transport cost to markets, reduced cost of
inputs such as fertilizers and pesticides and reduced risk of roads closures, leading to more efficient
production and higher-value composition of output. Therefore, improving rural roads should significantly
help improve conditions of the rural poor.

44.     Through its support to the NPRR-2, the Bank is contributing, together with the government and a
number of other donors, to the gradual extension of the rural network coverage to increase rural
populations‟ access to all-weather roads. In addition, the Bank and other donors are supporting the
government to ensure sustainable maintenance of the unclassified rural roads by facilitating the setting up
of an agreement between the provinces, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry
of Equipment and Transport on an appropriate plan to ensure that maintenance is carried out and is
appropriately funded.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

45.      The project was instrumental in the preparation and the launch of the second National Program
of Rural Roads (NPRR2) it aimed to support. The NPRR-2, while continuing the development of rural
roads initiated under previous programs introduced a number of improvements based on the lessons
learned from the first national Program of Rural Roads (NPRR-1). The main features of the Second
Program are: (a) a focus on accessibility; (b) strong participatory planning at the provincial level; (c)
sound technical, economic, social and environmental standards; (d) diversified financing, including
borrowing by the Caisse de Financement Routier (CFR) established in 2004 and which purpose is to
mobilize resources to accelerate the program‟s implementation-- and contributions by provinces,
communes and local communities; (e) attention to the preservation of rural road assets, especially of the
local rural roads by the communes and provinces; and (f) appropriate monitoring and evaluation
arrangements including a broad dissemination of the program‟s implementation and results.

46.     The project development objective related to the increase of the percentage of rural population
that can access an all-weather road by supporting a national program of rural roads (the NPRR2) and
through strengthening institutional capacity has been achieved. The evidence of this achievement is
presented bellow using the retained performance indicators:


                                                     9
        (a) The percentage of rural population that can access an all-weather road increased from about
            50 percent in 2005 to 70 percent in 2010 against a target of 67 percent. At the end of 2010 a
            rural population of about 1.9 million had access to an all weather road constructed under the
            NPPR-2.
        (b) The accessibility differential between provinces measured by the ratio of the accessibility of
            the ten less served provinces above the one of the ten best served provinces has been reduced
            (from a ratio of 0.43 in 2005 to a ratio of 0.63 in 2010 against a target of 0.60).
        (c) Transport services on the completed roads have improved with higher service frequency,
            more comfortable vehicles, or lower rates. Surveys carried out in 2010 on a sample of
            completed roads open to traffic for more than two years have shown that costs for goods and
            passenger transport have decreased on average by about 40%.

47.    Regarding the project‟s institutional development objectives aimed at enhancing the impact of
improved accessibility and strengthened capacity for social and environmental assessments, several
advancements have been achieved:
        (a) An accessibility monitoring and evaluation system was developed. It is operated by the
            Directorate of Roads with the support of its Center for Road Studies and Research (CNER)
            since 2008 to produce yearly reports for all provinces and at the national level on progress in
            implementing the NPRR-2, including the number of the rural populations that have gained
            road access, kilometers completed and open to traffic, maps with planned and completed
            roads, as well as the impact on improved delivery and use of social services, transport costs
            and access to markets. These yearly reports are made available for local authorities in all
            provinces and for public consultations at the Regional and Provincial Directorates of
            Equipment and Transport.
        (b) A manual for design and appraisal of rural roads was prepared and made available to all
            Regional and Provincial Directorates of Equipment and Transport and qualified consultants
            to ensure appropriate and cost effective designs and adequate environmental and social
            assessments and economic analyses.
        (c) Several training workshops were held to reinforce the capacity for social and environmental
            assessments of both the Directorate of Roads (including its provincial and regional offices)
            and qualified consultants associated to the implementation of the NPRR2.

48.     Addressing the issue of maintenance of the unclassified rural roads has also advanced with the
constitution of an inter-ministerial committee composed by representatives of the Directorate of Roads,
the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Finance to finalize a series of measures to secure sufficient
financial resources and appropriate administrative arrangements for the sustained maintenance of the
unclassified rural roads retained in the NPRR2.

49.     Although the rural roads program's main objective was the increase of accessibility, an indicator
on overall road network condition was retained to ensure that maintenance of the overall road network is
being done correctly and will not suffer from the priorities given to the NPRR2 (national rural roads
program) and addition of other new roads (expressways). During the last 10 years, the condition of the
national classified roads has deteriorated due to inadequate evolution of the resources allocated to their
maintenance. The deterioration was particularly pronounced since 2004 with the percentage of roads in
poor condition increasing from 35% to 39.7% in 2010. Since 2000, the Government has given priority
and allocated significant resources to improving access to an all-weather road for the rural population
through two successive national programs of rural roads, and developing a 1,500-Km motorways
network. In the meantime, the evolution of the resources allocated to the maintenance of the classified
roads did not match the considerable increase of both the length of paved roads (from 32,000 km in 2000

                                                   10
to 41,000 in 2010) and the volume of traffic (from about 44 million in 2000 to 77 million vehicle -
kilometers/day in 2010). To address this critical issue, the Directorate of Roads completed a study on road
maintenance strategies and on the basis of its conclusions is finalizing a National Program of Road
Rehabilitation to clear the backlog of road maintenance and improve the characteristics and level of
service of the main classified roads. This program (planned now to be supported by the Bank under the
national road asset management and network modernization), which would be implemented over a period
of five years, would consist of the maintenance and rehabilitation of the classified roads,
including widening/upgrading of the country‟s main roads (that is, those roads, in addition to motorways,
that constitute the backbone of the classified road network).

3.3 Efficiency

50.     Cost-benefit analyses were carried out at appraisal and at completion using the Road Economic
Decision Model (RED) developed by the World Bank for the economic evaluation of investments and
maintenance alternatives for low-volume roads. The RED model adopts the consumer surplus approach
to estimate project benefits that are comprised of road user costs (vehicle operating costs, passenger time
costs, and accident cost) savings, which are estimated using road user costs relationships from the
Highway Development and Management Model (HDM-IV).

51.      At appraisal an economic analyses was performed for the whole second National Program of
Rural Roads (NPRR-2) supported by the project and the 12 roads selected for its first year totaling about
185 kilometers, and their internal economic rates of return (IERRs) were respectively 20 percent and 30
percent.

52.      Higher costs by about 40% (when expressed in US$ equivalent) were incurred due to
unanticipated substantial increases in the costs of key inputs (specifically, oil-based and energy intensive
inputs, including fuel, asphalt and cement) that occurred between appraisal and contracts signing. At
completion and based on these actual higher costs, ex-post economic evaluations for the 31 project funded
roads totaling about 520 kilometers estimated their rates of return with results ranging from 12.7 percent
to 57.9 percent with global net present value of MAD824.7 million (equivalent to US$104.4 million) and
only one road (P1002 from Tamri to Taba in the Agadir-Ida Outanane Province) with an IERR of 10
percent for which the traffic is still building-up and will very likely allow to pass the IERR threshold of
12 percent.

53.     Also economic analysis was also performed in 2009 for the whole NPRR2 at its mid-term
implementation on the basis of updated estimated costs (MAD 14.436 billion, US$ 1.750 billion
equivalent) taking into account an increase of about 28 percent. The evaluation performed for a period of
15 years assuming a discount rate of 12 percent showed that continued to have a satisfactory IERR of 17
percent; with a global net present value of US$357 million.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

54.      The overall project outcome rating is satisfactory based on the combined assessment of
relevance, achievement of its development objectives, and efficiency. The Project development
objectives, design and implementation are fully consistent with both the development priorities of the
Government and the 2010 CPS. Its achievements met the stated targets, and its efficiency supported by a
satisfactory ex-post economic return.




                                                    11
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

55.      The project identified poor and isolated communities as its primary beneficiaries building on rural
roads impact evaluations and stakeholder surveys conducted during the first National Program for Rural
Roads which confirmed that key effects of investment in rural roads are found in four main areas. In
transport, improved roads mean less time to reach markets and services, reduced costs, and increased
quality and frequency of services. In agriculture, they mean increased overall levels of agricultural
activity and a land-use shift by farmers from low-value cereals toward higher-value fruits and orchards. In
health and education, improved roads have resulted in doubled enrollment in primary education over ten
years and a significant increase in visits to primary health care facilities s and clinics. The quality of
education and health services also improved, as greater accessibility made it easier to recruit teachers and
medical staff. Improved roads also have an effect on gender inequality: enrollment of girls in primary
education increased significantly more than that for boys; women gained the most in the increased
number of visits to health services; and the welfare of women has improved from the introduction of
butane gas for cooking made possible by better roads (which allowed them to stop the daily two-hour
chore of collecting firewood) and from increased employment opportunities.

56.      Beneficiaries of the improved roads are the users of services, especially villagers accessing clinics
and other health services, students attending schools, and people accessing community services. Providers
of services benefit because they can introduce new services, save in operating costs, and increase
frequency of services. Producers, especially farmers, benefit both from better access to fertilizers,
pesticides, and extension services, and from better conditions for the marketing of their produces.
Providers of social services, notably health and education, benefit because better accessibility makes it
easier to recruit and retain personnel (nurses, doctors, and teachers) and to get supplies of medicines and
school materials. Nonusers also benefit: the transformation of the agricultural economy, together with
improved supply of domestic inputs such as butane, allow the rural population, especially women, to
make better use of time, including obtaining on-farm and off-farm employment.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

57.     The Project helped introduce a number of improvements that contributed to enhancing the
Directorate of Roads capacity and advancing institutional changes when preparing and implementing an
important investment program, particularly stressing the critical roles of (i) a substantial participatory
planning of investments involving all key stakeholders at all levels; (b) a well conceived and effectively
operated monitoring an evaluation system; (c) sound technical, economic, social and environmental
standards; and (d) an early attention to the preservation of the planned investments, especially those
involving the communes and provinces.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

None

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not Applicable




                                                     12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low or Negligible

58.     The risk to the development outcome is assessed as Low or Negligible.

59.      The sustainability of the constructed rural roads is rated likely as their maintenance requirements
are (a) included in the budget of the Directorate of Roads for the maintenance of the classified roads, and
(b) will be met by the communes, provinces and regions for the unclassified and communal rural roads in
accordance with the action plan established by the inter-ministerial committee entrusted with addressing
the issue of their maintenance including allocation of needed resources.

60.      The Directorate of Roads (DoR) is also preparing a road sector development plan based on four
pillars: (i) placing maintenance at the core of DoR‟s priorities; (ii) undertaking a roads reclassification
after their rehabilitation to keep under the DoR‟s jurisdiction the main roads and transfer to the regions,
provinces and communes the roads servicing local or rural traffic to accompany the government
decentralization program; (iii) adding new capacity on strategic missing links for a regionally balanced
economic development; and (iv) renewing the Directorate of Roads business processes including
assistance to the regions and provinces for the management, development and maintenance of their roads.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

61.      Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated ‘satisfactory’. The project preparation was
efficient and helped the Borrower finalize the preparation of its national program of Rural Roads with the
benefit of shared strategic directions and use the thorough and complete analyses documented in the
Project Appraisal Document to secure others donors‟ contributions to the NPRR-2 financing. A Quality
Enhancement Review (QER) was conducted prior to appraisal. It concluded that increasing rural road
accessibility had to be the overriding project‟s development objective and concurred with the relevance of
the project design.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

62.     Bank supervision, including oversight of procurement, financial management and safeguards is
rated satisfactory.

63.      The project had two successive task team leaders with a properly ensured transition; the former
TTL (retired) stayed involved in the project as a Supervision Consultant. There was sound and
professional collaboration between the Bank and the Directorate of Roads throughout the project
implementation through continuous interactions. This allowed particularly the Bank to assist in the
establishment of a dedicated unit to manage the overall rural roads program, the improvement of its
reporting and monitoring and evaluation arrangements, and in the extension of the Loan closing date to
compensate for implementation delays due to external factors. Progress and ratings were adequately
documented in the aide memoires and candidly reflected in the Implementation Status Results and
Reports (ISRs). The supervision budget was adequate and effectively used.

                                                    13
64.      Procurement and financial management specialists participated in supervision missions and
contributed to the overall effort by a systematic and comprehensive review of procurement and financial
management aspects. An environment specialist (consultant) performed two dedicated supervision
missions including field visits in several provinces. Albeit during the last two years, a social development
specialist reviewed the projects aspects, and reported on the overall compliance with the Bank social
safeguard and disclosed Resettlement Policy Framework and highlighted the need for the Directorate of
Roads to reinforce its capacity for monitoring and reporting.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

65.     Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory in light of the above comments.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

66.      The Government performance in supporting project preparation and implementation is rated
satisfactory. The second National Program of Rural Roads supported by the project was based on an
appropriate strategy and benefited from a sustained engagement of the Ministry of Equipment and
Transport (MoET) particularly its involvement in the participatory planning that preceded the validation
of the rural roads retained under the NPRR2 and their recording in specific agreements signed with all
provinces. The MoET remained committed to the compliance with the NPRR-2strategic directions stated
at the project onset. It also secured the Ministry of Finance support to the update of the financing plan of
the NPRR2 and the advancement of its targeted completion date to 2012 instead of the initial target of
2015.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

67.     Implementing agency‟s performance is rated as „satisfactory‟. The project met its targets and
has achieved its objectives. These achievements are the results of a committed and effective Directorate
of Roads, including its provincial offices, its Center for Road Studies and Research (CNER) and the
Program Management Unit (PMU).

68.     After a slow progress at the launch of the Project due to the delayed establishment and staffing of
the PMU, revision of detailed designs and validation of the monitoring and Evaluation with the CNER,
implementation improved and kept its satisfactory rating up to project closing. The PMU made also
appreciable efforts during the last two year to improve its record keeping and reporting on social
safeguards-related matters.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

69.     Overall Borrower Performance is rated satisfactory in light of the above comments.




                                                    14
6. Lessons Learned

70.     In a country like Morocco, providing access to an all-weather road to the rural population
requires first programs to be implemented by the Directorate of Roads and its provincial directorates
with a priority given to rural roads connecting to the network of classified roads and for the
establishment of a platform for planning, designing and implementing rural roads along with an effective
monitoring and evaluation system including impact evaluation. The first National Program, which
focused on the construction and rehabilitation of classified rural roads to provide access to an all-weather
road to 50 % of the rural population, was followed by the NPRR2 prepared on a the basis of a
participatory planning to provide a similar access to 80% of the rural population (at the end of the
NPRR2) through a significant length of non-classified rural roads. The achievements of these two
programs managed by the DoR were prerequisites for initiatives by the regions and provinces for
decentralized rural roads programs based on an active participation of the local communities to reach a
level of accessibility beyond the threshold of 80% of the rural population. Gradual implementation of a
participatory approach was key to its incorporation in the planning process.

71.      Implementing a national investment program requires the establishment of a dedicated and well
staff unit at the onset of its launch. At the launch of the NPRR2, the DoR was confronted to several
coordination and reporting issues that were only effectively addressed after the establishment of a
Program Management Unit staffed with qualified engineers and empowered to work at par with all DoR‟s
departments and provincial directorates.

72.      An adequate monitoring and evaluation system including well-defined and measurable indicators
plays is key role for a successful program. One key factor of success of the NPRR2 is its Monitoring and
Evaluation (M&E) system build upon the measure of accessibility to the rural population to an all-
weather road. This well defined and measurable indicator was well understood an internalized by all
stakeholders after the dissemination of yearly accessibility reports to all provinces.

73.      Well stated technical standards are essential to the quality and sustainability of infrastructure
investments. The preparation and dissemination a manual for design and appraisal of rural roads projects
played a critical role and helped ensure quality and conformity for the detailed designs prepared by
different and numerous consultants. The manual also integrated lessons learned from technical audits of
the rural roads constructed under the first national program of rural roads after their first operation years,
particularly of their drainage system.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

74.      The Directorate of Roads has prepared and submitted its own implementation completion and
results (enclosed in Annex 7). The Implementing Agency's ratings are in line with the World Bank ICR's
ratings.

75.      The Borrower's comments received on the ICR generally concur with the ICR team's findings.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not Applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not Applicable

                                                     15
                               Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                             Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest
                                       Appraisal Estimate                                           Percentage of
              Components                                     Inc. Contingencies      Estimate
                                         (USD millions)                                               Appraisal
                                                               (USD millions)      (USD millions)

 Component 1: Rehabilitation and
                                              38.620                 41.980            50.220         119.63%
 upgrading of rural roads
 Component 2: Institutional Support            1.250                  1.360              0.527         38.77%
                Total Baseline Cost           39.870
 Physical and Price Contingencies              3.470
                Total Project Costs           43.340                 43.340            50.747         117.09%
 Front-end fee IBRD                            0.370                  0.370              0.155
        Total Financing Required              43.710                 43.710            50.902         116.45%



(b) Financing

                                           Type of                                Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                                            Appraisal Estimate
             Source of Funds             Cofinancing                                Estimate          Appraisal
                                                              (USD millions)      (USD millions)
 Borrower                                                                 6.85             7.842          114.48%
 International Bank for
                                                                        36.86              43.06          116.82%
 Reconstruction and Development
                                                                        43.71             50.902         116.45%




                                                   16
                                  Annex 2. Outputs by Component

1.     The project consisted of two components and the following outputs were delivered under each of
the components.

Component 1: Road rehabilitation and upgrading

2.      A total of 520 kilometers of rural roads were completed (31 links in 17 provinces) for a total cost
of MAD 451.9 million (equivalent to US$ 57.2 million). The 31 completed rural roads are listed in the
table below.

                                                                                        Length    Completion cost at
       Province        Road #                            Link
                                                                                         (km)      completion (DH)
                   1    P1006   RN1-RN8                                                  18.735      13,189,533.17
Agadir-Ida
                   2   P1000A   Taba – Imouzzer                                          29.439      12,281,142.13
Outanane
                   3    P1002   Tamri – Taba                                             26.700      23,456,253.65
                                                                                                     11,401,475.98
Azilal             4    R302    Imi N'Ifri - Aït Blal                                    27,560
                                                                                                     14,820,000.00
                   5   P3337    Bir Nsar – Khatouat (Hors PNRR2)                          7.700       5,978,223.66
Benslimane
                   6   P3333    Ain Madnat-S.Sbaa                                        13.670       9,551,854.82
Casablanca         7   P3019    Sidi Hajjaj - Raoudat                                     3.500       2,639,129.25
Chefchaouen        8    NC      Bni Ahmed - Bouqara                                      16.400      22,151,544.13
                        NC      Toubelkhir – Tassila                                     25.680      25,431,639.67
Chtouka-           9
                        NC      Toubelkhir - Tassila - RP1013 (bretelle hors PNRR2)       1.300       6,505,596.72
Inezggane
                  10    NC      Aouguenz – Idaougnidif                                   20.500      18,887,171.82
                  11   P5004    Aïn Bouali – Hamria                                      10.665
Fès               12   R716     Fes - El Hajeb                                            6.227      24,491,851.00
                  13   P5019    RR503 - RP5006                                            4.739
Kénitra           14   P4260    El Houarta (RP4270) - RN4                                21.626      16,703,400.10
Larache           15    NC      Béni Arouss- Tagzert- Tazrout- Bousserouass              17.861      15,176,046.67
Marrakech                                                                                19.600      17,714,424.00
                  16   P2038    Assif Al Mal - Imindounite par Tasskourt
(Chichaoua)                                                                              14.000      11,967,900.00
                  17   P7034    Moussaoua - Oulad Chialikh                               10.104       7,372,264.52
                  18   P7069    Souk El Gour- Maria                                       9.500       8,450,100.00
Meknès
                                                                                                     15,391,848.78
                  19   P7027    Agouray (RP7025) - RR712                                 21.600
                                                                                                     15,972,050.00
                  20    NC      RR610 - Trougout – Souani                                 9.283       5,021,276.13
Nador
                  21    NC      RR610 - M' Hajer - Sidi Hssaïn                           18.007      19,898,239.44
                  22   P1500    Vallée Toudgha – Tinghir                                  8.118       8,887,394.08
Ouarzazate                                                                                            6,941,995.55
                  23   P1504    Boumalne- Ikniouene                                      18.500
                                                                                                      8,278,681.14
                  24   P2306    Safi-Jemaa Shim                                          11.500
                                                                                                     15,631,189.45
Safi              25   P2304    Dar Si Aissa - El Arbaa Rguibat                          11.200
                  26   P2310    Tnine Farâa- RP2333                                      13.000     11,785,799.48
Sefrou            27   P5016    Laanoucer – Tazouta                                      26.300     18,532,404.61
                  28   P1727    Tafraouten – Imoulass                                     8.750     12,039,840.93
Taroudant              P1737    Ouzioua - Toubkal (PK 5+832 -- 34+746)                              14,792,004.46
                  29                                                                     28.914
                       P1737    Ouzioua - Toubkal (PK 34+746 -- 70+526) – structures)               11,828,484.08
                  30   P1917    Ighrem - Zagour (Hors PNRR2)                             28.865     10,753,709.85
Tiznit
                  31   P1927    Ait Mansour - Afella Ighir (Hors PNRR2)                   9.500      7,979,380.47
       TOTALS                                                                           519.043    451,903,849.74



                                                        17
Component 2: Institutional support

3.      Under the institutional support component several studies and trainings were carried out,

           An accessibility monitoring and evaluation system was developed. It is operated by the
            Directorate of Roads with the support of its Center for Road Studies and Research (CNER)
            since 2008 to produce yearly reports for all provinces and at the national level on progress in
            implementing the NPRR-2, including the number of the rural populations that have gained
            road access, kilometers completed and open to traffic, maps with planned and completed and
            roads, as well as the impact on improved delivery and use of social services, transport costs
            and access to markets. These yearly reports are made available for local authorities in all
            provinces and for public consultations at the Regional and Provincial Directorates of
            Equipment and Transport.
           A manual for design and appraisal of rural roads was prepared and made available to all
            Regional and Provincial Directorates of Equipment and Transport and qualified consultants to
            ensure appropriate and cost effective designs as well as adequate environmental and social
            assessments and economic analyses.
           Several training workshops were held to reinforce the capacity for social and environmental
            assessments of both the Directorate of Roads (including its provincial and regional offices)
            and qualified consultants associated to the implementation of the NPRR2.

4.      Addressing the issue of maintenance of the unclassified rural roads was also advanced with the
constitution of an inter-ministerial committee composed by representatives of the Directorate of Roads,
the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Finance to finalize a series of measures to secure sufficient
financial resources and appropriate administrative arrangements for the sustained maintenance of the
unclassified rural roads retained in the NPRR2.

.




                                                   18
                           Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


1.       This annex repeats the economic analysis carried out during appraisal using the completion costs
and updated traffics for the overall national program of rural roads (NPRR2) supported by the project and
for the 31 rural roads totaling about 520 kilometers financed by the project.

THE SECOND NATIONAL RURAL ROADS PROGRAM (NRRP-2)

2.      The NRRP-2 consists of 1,058 rural road subprojects for a total length of 15,560 kilometers. The
estimated cost of the program has been revised to take into account the road works executed between
2005 and 2010. This economic analysis concerns the entire NRRP-2, based on its updated estimated cost
of MAD 14.427 billion (equivalent to US$ 1.826 US$ billion).

Methodology used for economic analysis

3.       Two different approaches are commonly used to evaluate the economic feasibility of rural road
projects: (a) for low-volume roads (which generally have traffic above 30–50 vehicles per day), a cost-
benefit analysis (cost benefit analysis) was chosen, with a calculation of the investment‟s economic rate
of return(ERR) and net present value (NPV). This approach is justified by the fact that these roads serve
not only to improve rural accessibility, but also to complete the road grid in the country; (b) for very low-
volume roads (which handle less than 30–50 vehicles per day), a cost-effectiveness analysis was applied.
Most of those roads aim at reducing the isolation of rural populations and linking them to basic
infrastructures and social and economic services (for example, schools, health centers, village markets,
and the like).

4.       Cost-benefit analysis (cost benefit analysis). The cost-benefit analysis was done according to the
roads economic decision (RED) model developed by the World Bank for the economic evaluation of
investments and maintenance alternatives for low-volume roads. The RED model adopts the consumer‟s
surplus approach to estimate project benefits that are comprised of road user costs (vehicle operating
costs, travel time costs and accident costs) savings, which are estimated using road user costs
relationships from the highway development and management model (HDM-4). It is generally agreed
that the investments on each road subproject should yield an ERR higher than 12 percent to be considered
acceptable.

5.       Cost-effectiveness analysis. A cost-effectiveness analysis of very low-volume roads was done by
calculating the total investment cost per beneficiary person. By nature, these roads will serve the
country's most isolated populations and therefore have low population/kilometers ratios. Cost-
effectiveness analysis incorporate beneficiaries (people living along roads included under the program),
and indirect beneficiaries (people living along other roads connected to the project road and who will use
the project road to gain access to social centers and economic services). A new global analysis of roads to
be improved under NRRP-2 has demonstrated that about 3 million people would benefit directly and
about 760,000 people indirectly from roads under the program, representing a total population of nearly
3.76 million people, including persons living in douars of less than 50 households. Considering only
persons living in douars of more than 50 households, at appraisal in 2005, it was estimated that a total
population of about 3 million will benefit from the program. For very low-volume roads, it was agreed
with the Directorate of Roads at appraisal that US$ 490 per beneficiary is a reasonable maximum cost-
effectiveness analysis threshold target for roads in the NRRP-2. To take into account the increased costs
of the program, this threshold is update at US$620.



                                                     19
Basic data used in the RED model

6.     Maintenance costs. In the context of the study of maintenance strategies for the Moroccan road
network, the CNER evaluated annualized maintenance costs for paved and unpaved roads, by traffic
range.

7.      Road user costs. Economic road user costs were updated to reflect 2008 costs taking into account
the inflation between 2005 and 2008 (10 percent), the increase in GDP per capita, in current costs,
between 2005 and 2010 (23 percent), and the increase in fuel cost between 2005 and 2010 (12 percent for
diesel and 14 percent for gasoline). Vehicle operating costs were then evaluated for different vehicle
types and roughness levels, as can be seen in table 3.

8.       The annual traffic growth was estimated to be five percent for all vehicles, based on past trends.
The overall network traffic utilization has increased from 2003 to 2007 by 5.4 percent per year to reach in
2007 60.41 million vehicle-kilometers (Provincial road traffic increased by 6.7 percent per year). The
vehicle fleet has increased from 2003 to 2006 by 4.4 per year. The generated traffic was estimated
assuming a price elasticity of demand equal to one. This is a conservative assumption of the generated
traffic based on empirical evidence in developing countries.

Economic analysis of the NRRP-2

9.       An overall economic evaluation of the NRRP-2 was done using the RED model on the basis of
the final list of rural roads to be improved under the program, the road works already executed in phase 1
and the updated cost estimates for phase 2. Table 1 presents the MRRP-2 road works length and financial
costs per network type. The NRRP-2 program represents a total length of 15,427 kilometers of roads, of
which 9,640 kilometers will be upgraded. The 2010 estimated total cost of the program is about MAD
14,417 million, of which 76 percent is committed for upgrading works. On average, the cost of works
under the NRRP-2 currently stands at about MAD 0.589 million per kilometers for rehabilitation and at
MAD 1.142 million per kilometers for upgrading (paved). This represents an increase in unit costs of
road works in relation to the 2005 appraisal estimates in the order of 24 percent for upgrading works and
45 percent for rehabilitation works.

                             Table 1 - NRRP-2 Road Works Program by Network Type

                             Network Type           Upgrading       Rehabilitation     Total
                             National                      128               150           278
                             Regional                      356               131           487
           Length (km)       Provincial                   5,076            2,569         7,645
                             Non Classified               4,080            2,937         7,017
                             Total                        9,640            5,787        15,427
                             National                        97               50           147
                             Regional                       397              113           510
           Cost
                             Provincial                   5,223            1,506         6,729
           (million MAD)
                             Non Classified               5,293            1,738         7,031
                             Total                     11,010              3,407        14,417




                                                     20
10.      The first phase of the NRRP-2 program represents road works that amount to 39 percent of the
total program length and 39 percent of the total program estimated costs, as show on table 2 below.

                                    Table 2 - NRRP-2 Road Works Program by Phase

                                     Phase            Upgrading      Rehabilitation       Total       Percent
                                     Phase 1             4,760              1,211         5,971        39%
           Length (km)               Phase 2             4,881              4,575         9,456        61%
                                     Total               9,640              5,787        15,427       100%
                                     Phase 1             4,914                706         5,620        39%
           Cost (million MAD)        Phase 2             6,096              2,701         8,797        61%
                                  Total          11,010                     3,407        14,417       100%
           Phase 1: road works executed from 2005 to 2008

11.     Although the NRRP-2 program represents a total length of 15,427 kilometers of roads, the
program‟s economic analysis was carried out on a total length of 14,913 kilometers. The remaining 514
kilometers of roads (3 percent) that were not analyzed are located in the southern areas of Morocco and
therefore serve nomadic populations that could not be surveyed by DoR's deconcentrated offices. These
roads were nevertheless included in the NRRP-2 in the interest of full country-wide road coverage and
social cohesion. The economic analysis considered a matrix of representative road classes by traffic
range, as shown on table 3 below.

                               Table 3 - NRRP-2 Road Works Program Evaluated with RED

                         Traffic (vehicles per day)      Upgrading      Rehabilitation        Total        Percent
                         < 30                               1,103               1,351         2,454           16%
                         30 < <50                           4,998               3,115         8,114           54%
                         50< <100                           1,410                 489         1,899           13%
     Length (km)
                         100< <250                          1,448                 484         1,932           13%
                         >250                                 474                  40           514            3%
                         Total                              9,434               5,479        14,913          100%
                         < 30                               1,084                 646         1,730           12%
                         30 < <50                           5,484               1,892         7,376           53%
     Cost                50< <100                           1,803                 334         2,137           15%
     (million MAD)       100< <250                          1,775                 261         2,036           15%
                         >250                                 546                  20           565            4%
                         Total                             10,692               3,154        13,845          100%

12.       Cost-Benefit Analysis. The evaluation was done for a period of 15 years and adopting a discount
rate of 12 percent. The evaluation shows that the program has an economic rate of return of 17 percent;
with a global net present value of MAD 3,130 million (see table 4). Sensitivity analyses were run to
assess the impact of increased investment costs and or lower benefits for road users. As table 9 below
indicates, the ERR drops to 13 percent when costs increase by 20 percent; and falls to 13 percent if
benefits are 20 percent lower than estimated. A combination of the two scenarios results in a marginal
economic rate of return of only 10 percent. The switching value analysis shows that for the ERR to be
exactly 12 percent; costs would need to increase by 29 percent or benefits to drop by 23 percent. These
results indicate a satisfactory economic justification for the NRRP-2.



                                                            21
                      Table 4 - NRRP-2 Program Net Present Value and Economic Rate of Return

                                             Length (km)      Base Cost (M MAD)        NPV (M MAD)            ERR (%)
 Global NPRR-2 Program                         15,427               14,417
 Program Evaluated with RED                    14,913              13,845                   3,130              17%


                             Table 5 - Program Sensitivity Analysis and Switching Values

                                                                     Sensitivity ERR       Switching Values
          (a) Cost +20%                                                   13%
          (b) Benefits - 20%                                              13%
          (c) Costs +20%, Benefits -20%                                   10%
          Cost increase for ERR to fall to 12%                                               1.29 times
          Benefits decrease for ERR to fall to 12%                                           0.77 times

13.      The evaluation shows that, as expected, very low volume roads, with traffic lower than 30
vehicles per day, yield an ERR less than 12 percent and the roads with high ERR are those that handle a
traffic volume higher than 50 vehicles per day, or those on which the current road condition is very poor,
thus resulting in the highest benefits for users in connection with the planned rehabilitation or upgrading
works (see table 5).
                                       Table 6 - NRRP-2 ERR Per Traffic Range

                          Traffic Range                         Road Work
                        (vehicles per day)              Upgrading    Rehabilitation           Total
                               < 30                         1%               5%
                             30< <50                       13%               16%
                            50< <100                       15%               17%
                           100< <250                       25%               28%
                              >250                         52%               57%
                              Total                                                           17%

14.      Cost-Effectiveness Analysis. For very low-volume roads, which, as shown in table 5 above, do
not meet the economic return criteria (i.e., ERR >12%), a cost-effectiveness analysis was carried out.
This analysis covered 2,454 kilometers of roads (16 percent of the total program length) representing a
cost of MAD 1,730 million (12 percent of the total program cost). These roads serve a population of
263,208 people (see table 7 below). This analysis shows that 61% of these roads meet the selected
criteria in terms of cost-effectiveness (e.g., a per-beneficiary cost below US$490). On the other hand,
there are 966 remaining kilometers of roads that do not meet cost-effectiveness criteria.

                                  Table 7 - NRRP-2 Program Beneficiary Population

                                                                       Length                 Cost            Beneficiary
                                                                                                              Population
                                                                   (km)         (%)    (M MAD)        (%)      (persons)
Roads with ERR > 12%                                               12,459        84%       12,115      78%     3,232,452
Roads with ERR < 12%                                                2,454        16%        1,730      11%       263,208
Roads with ERR < 12%, but pass cost-effectiveness analysis          1,488        10%          948       6%       192,822
Roads with ERR < 12%, but fail cost-effectiveness analysis            966         6%          782       5%        70,386
Total NPRR-2 evaluated with RED                                    14,913       100%       15,576     100%     3,495,660

                                                         22
     ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF THE 31 ROADS FINANCED BY THE PROJECT

     15.      The table below presents the results of the economic analysis of the 31 rural roads financed by the
     project (totaling about 520 kilometers).

                                                                                  Comple-
                                                                                                 Daily                             Rural
                            Road                                                  tion Cost                  NPV
                                                                         Length                Average                          Population
              Province     Numbe                     Link                          per Km                   (million   ERR
                                                                          (km)                  Traffic                           served
                              r                                                     MAD                       dh)
                                                                                              Vehicle/day                      (inhabitant)
                                                                                   Million
1    Agadir-Ida Outanane   P1006    RN1-RN8                                18.7      0.670           250      31.74    28.9%         7,009
2    Agadir-Ida Outanane   1000A    Taba - Imouzzer                        29.4      0.385           250      86.77    50.4%         1,810
3    Agadir-Ida Outanane   P1002    Tamri - Taba                           26.7      0.873           120      16.67    10.7%         3,048
4    Azilal                R302     Imi N'Ifri - Aït Blal (Pavement)       27.6      0.916           250      34.14    21.2%       19,889
5    Benslimane            P3337    Bir Nsar - Khatouat                     7.7      0.769           250      11.37    25.2%         3,724
6    Benslimane            P3333    Ain Madnat-S.Sbaa                      13.7      0.691           250      22.46    28.1%         1,410
7    Casablanca            P3019    Mohammedia - Raoudat                    3.5      0.728           400       8.72    42.6%         2,148
8    Chefchaouen            NC      Bni Ahmed - Bouqara                    16.4      1.373           250      13.55    14.1%       12,494
9    Chtouka- Inezggane    NC (1)   Toubelkhir - Tassila-P1013             27.0      1.190           250      25.75    16.3%           450
10   Chtouka- Inezggane     NC      Agouguenz - Idaougnidif                20.5        954           250      24.39    20.3%           868
11   Fès                   P5004    Aïn Bouali - Hamria                    10.7      1.349           250       9.00    14.4%         1,890
12   Fès                   R716     Fes - El Hajeb                          5,6      1.349           400       7.54    23.0%         2,305
13   Fès                   P5019    RR503 - RP5006                          4.7      1.349           250       3.95    14.4%           815
14   Kénitra               P4260    El Houarta (RP4270) - RN4              21.6      0.761           150      19.35    15.3%         1,628
                                    Béni Arouss- Tagzert- Tazrout-
15   Larache                NC                                             17.9      0.915           150      13.29    12.7%         2,360
                                    Bousserouass
                                    Assif Al Mal - Imindounite par
16   Chichaoua             RP2038                                          33.6      0.863           150      26.51    13.5%         4,435
                                    Tasskourt
17   Meknès                P7034    Moussaoua - Oulad Chialikh             10.1      0.782           150       8.80    14.9%         2,896
18   Meknès                P7069    Souk El Gour- Maria                     9.5      0.792           250      13.60    24.5%         1,846
19   Meknès                P7027    Agouray (RP025)- RR712                 21.6      0.739           250      33.15    26.2%         3,407
20   Nador                  NC      RR610 - Trougout - Souani               9.3      0.535           400      31.48    57.9%         2,071
21   Nador                  NC      RR610 - M'Hajer - Sidi Hssaïn          18.0      1.482           250      13.79    13.1%         2,740
22   Ouarzazate            P1500    Vallée Toudgha - Tinghir                8.1      1.084           250       8.50    17.9%       14,032
23   Ouarzazate            P1504    Boumalne - Ikniouene                   18.5      1.447           250      46.96    43.4%         3,248
24   Safi                  P2306    Safi-Jemaa Shim et                     11.5      1.661           350      27.64    41.1%         1,565
25   Safi                  P2304    Dar Si Aissa - El Arbaa Rguibat        11.2      0.661           200      15.38    23.5%         1,413
26   Safi                  P2310    Tnine Farâa- RP2333                    13.0      0.834           250      17.70    23.3%         2,590
27   Sefrou                P5016    Laanoucer - Tazouta                    26.3      0.679           250      43.98    28.6%         1,037
28   Taroudant             P1727    Tafraouten - Imoulass                   8.8      1.363           250       7.29    14.2%         1,987
29   Taroudant             P1737    Ouzioua - Toubkal (Lot n° 1)           28.9      0.542           250      60.49    35.7%         4,511
30   Tiznit                P1927    Ait Mansour - Afella Ighir              9.5      0.797           250      13.53    24.3%           784
31   Tiznit                P1917    Ighrem - Zagour                        28.9      0.257           250    127.23     37.7%           643
               TOTAL                                                     519.7       0.802                                        105,218




                                                                    23
     Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                        Responsibility/
              Names                          Title                  Unit
                                                                                          Specialty


Lending
Rodrigo Archondo-Callao        Sr Highway Engineer                ECSS5     Economic Analysis
Meryem Benchemsi               Consultant                        MNCMA      Financial Management
Meskerem Brhane                Sr Urban Spec.                     EASIN     Social Safeguard
Mohammed D. E. Feghoul         Consultant                         MNSTR     TTL
Abdelghani Inal                Consultant                         MNSSD     Highway Engineer
Hernan Levy                    Consultant                         EASCS     Economist
Randa Jean Nemer               Consultant                       MNSIF - HIS Environment
Andreas Wildt                  Consultant                         OPCPR     Procurement

Supervision/ICR
Abdelmoula Ghzala              Lead Infrastructure Specialist     MNSSD     Team Leader
Anas Abou El Mikias            Sr Financial Management Spec.     MNAFM      Financial Management
Rodrigo Archondo-Callao        Sr Highway Engineer                ECSS5     Economic Analysis
Meryem Benchemsi               Consultant                        MNCMA      Financial Management
Meskerem Brhane                Sr Urban Spec.                     EASIN     Social Safeguard
Hocine Chalal                  Regional Safeguards Adviser       MNACS      Environment and Social Safeguard
Fatou Fall                     Social Development Specialist.    MNSSO      Social Safeguard
Mohammed D. E. Feghoul         Consultant                        MNSTR      Highway Engineer
Abdelghani Inal                Consultant                        MNSSD      Highway Engineer
Abdoulaye Keita                Senior Procurement Specialist     MNAPR      Procurement
Christine Leger                Consultant                        MNCMA      Environment
Hernan Levy                    Consultant                        EASCS      Economist
Jerome Leyvigne                E T Consultant                    MNSSD      Economist
Pierre Prosper Messali         Sr Financial Management Spec.     MNAFM      Financial Management
Alaleh Motamedi                Senior Procurement Specialist     OPCPR      Procurement
Thouria T. Nana-Sinkam         Temporary                         OPCOS      ACS
Tonle Josephine Ngou Mawamba   Senior Executive Assistant        AFTHD      ACS
Moctar Thiam                   Country Manager                   AFMMR      Rural Development




                                                     24
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
            Stage of Project Cycle                                                        USD Thousands
                                              No. of staff weeks
                                                                              (including travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                                                                    17.61
  FY04                                                                                   233.12
  FY05                                                                                     1.89
  FY06                                                                                     0.00
  FY07                                                                                     0.00
  FY08                                                                                      0.00
                                     Total:                                              252.62
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                                                                      0.00
  FY04                                                                                      0.00
  FY05                                                                                     93.28
  FY06                                                                                     56.38
  FY07                                                                                     60.23
  FY08                                                                                     59.94
  FY09
  FY10                                                                                   210.30
  FY11
                                     Total:                                              480.13




                                                   25
       Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


                  Not Applicable




Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


                  Not Applicable




                       26
             Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES

1.      The project achieved its stated development objects. This is the result of the coordinated efforts
of all concerned parties: Ministry of Economy and Finance, namely the Budget Directorate; the
Directorate of Roads along with its Program Management Unit (PMU), Regional and Provincial Offices
and the Centre National d’Etudes et de Recherches Routières (CNER); and the Bank Project Team.

2.      A total of 31 rural road links in 17 provinces representing 520 kilometers were completed. They
represent 84 percent of the set target of 625 kilometers due to incurred costs which higher than the
estimates.

Key Performance Indicators
3.      The project development objectives of increased and regionally balanced rural accessibility and
improved transport services have been achieved as measured by the following key performance
indicators:
           (a) The percentage of rural population that can access an all-weather road increased from about
               50 percent in 2005 to 70 percent in 2010 against a target of 67 percent.
           (b) The accessibility differential between provinces has been reduced with a ratio of 0.63 in 2010
               against a target of 0.60.
           (c) Transport services on the completed roads have improved with higher service frequency,
               more comfortable vehicles, and lower rates. First results from surveys carried out in 2010 on
               a sample of completed roads open to traffic for more than two years have shown that costs for
               goods and passenger transport have decreased on average by about 40%.

Institutional Development Indicators
4.      A monitoring and evaluation system was developed to measure rural accessibility and
implementation progress of the PNRR2. It is operated by the Directorate of Roads with the support of its
Center for Road Studies and Research (CNER). Yearly national and provincial reports on the PNRR2
progress and level of accessibility to rural roads were produced. The system used a GIS platform to
produce maps with all planned and completed rural roads.

5.       The accessibility and PNRR2 Progress reports were disseminated to the local authorities and
sectors in charge of the provision of basic services (such as health and education) to help them adjust
their plans1 and services delivery to contribute to achieving an integrated rural development

6.      Reinforcing its capacity was a constant objective of the Directorate of Road. Several training
sessions and workshops were held covering various topics including social and environmental
assessments as well as economic analyses (using the Bank HDM-IV tool).

7.       The issue of maintenance of unclassified rural roads has been included in the scope of a study
commissioned by the Directorate of Roads on maintenance strategies for all road networks. It is also
being addressed by an inter-ministerial committee consisting of the Directorate of Roads, the Budget
Directorate of the Ministry of Finance and the General Directorate of Local Authorities of the Ministry of
Interior. Specific actions have been retained as triggers for the release of a budgetary support from the
European Union targeting rural development.

1
    Such as the Initiative Nationale pour le Développement Humain (INDH)

                                                             27
8.       The condition of the classified roads deteriorated due to inadequate evolution of the resources
allocated to their maintenance. The deterioration was particularly pronounced since 2004 with the
percentage of roads in poor condition increasing from 35% to 39.7% in 2010. The evolution of the
resources allocated to the maintenance of the classified roads did not match the considerable increase of
both the length of paved roads (from 32,000 km in 2000 to 41,000 in 2010) and the volume of traffic
(from about 44 million in 2000 to 77 million vehicle -kilometers/day in 2010). To address this critical
issue, the Directorate of Roads completed a study on road maintenance strategies and on the basis of its
conclusions is finalizing a National Program of Road Rehabilitation to clear the backlog of road
maintenance and improve the characteristics and level of service of the main classified roads.

Institutional Impacts
9.      A manual for design and appraisal of rural roads was prepared and made available to all
Regional and Provincial Directorates of Equipment and Transport and qualified consultants to ensure
appropriate and cost effective designs, adequate environmental and social assessments and proper
economic analyses.

10.    Implementation Arrangements of the PNRR2. The arrangements made for the implementation of
the NPRR2 were appropriate and enabled its successful execution. The creation of the Caisse pour le
Financement Routier (CFR) and the establishment of the Program Management Unit were timely. The
CFR, created in 2004, is now a well established, lean and effective agency and succeeded to fund over
80% of the overall NPRR2. The PMU established in 2006, plays a pivotal role in ensuring an effective
management of the program, including its monitoring and evaluation.

11.     A central role was assigned to the CNER. Through the development and operation of a
performing NPRR2 monitoring and evaluation system, the CNER is now well positioned to continue
playing an important role in supporting the Directorate of Roads evaluating and assessing impacts of road
projects as well as reporting on their implementation progress.

12.     Rural Roads Database. The CNER populated an extensive rural roads database, which will be
very useful for monitoring the condition of the rural roads over time and researching on design of low
volume roads in the Morocco context.

13.      Participatory planning and signing of provincial agreements. Rural roads retained in the NPRR-
2 were selected through a participatory planning process underpinned by a rigorous inventory of pre-
identified rural roads at the provincial level. In all provinces, local authorities (elected representatives and
officials of the provinces and communes) and to the local communities participated in the planning
process. A total of 16 regional agreements and 48 provincial agreements were signed to record selected
rural roads along with the local authorities‟ obligations, particularly their financial contributions (15
percent).

14.     Environmental and Social Safeguards. Social and environmental considerations were taken into
account in the design and construction of the rural roads in accordance with the approved frameworks for
environmental and social safeguards.

15.     Standard bidding documents for the PNRR2. Un Standard Bidding Document for works was
prepared at the program‟s onset to ensure consistency and rigorous compliance with the set procurement
arrangements. It also helped raise the awareness of both contractors and design consultants for adequate
environmental preservation and monitoring.




                                                      28
16.      Independent Audits. The NPRR2 benefitted from the findings of regular audits by the General
Inspection of the Ministry of Finance (Inspection Générale des Finances), as well as technical audits
carried out by independent consultants to comply with financiers requirements.

Socio-economic Impacts
17.     A first impact evaluation study was carried out in 2010. It covered six rural roads completed in
2008 and selected from six different regions. Transport costs decreased by 45% for passengers and 42 %
for goods. School enrollment increased from 67% to 78%), notably for girls. The number of visits to
heath facilities increased by 39% with a remarkable 80% increase for visits by women.

SUSTAINABILITY

18.      The Directorate of Roads is in charge of the maintenance of the classified rural roads. Regarding
the non-classified rural roads an inter-ministerial committee composed by representatives of the
Directorate of Roads, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Finance was constituted to prepare
adequate measures for their maintenance. Also the sustainability of the unclassified rural roads has been
retained as disbursement condition with specific triggers for a budget support grant from the European
Union aiming at improving rural accessibility. The disbursement triggers include in particular (a) the
classification of the non-classified rural roads as communal roads, and (a) the approval of a maintenance
strategy including secured financing.

SIGNIFICANT CHANGES AND KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION

19.      There were no significant changes apart from one amendment of the Loan Agreement to
reallocate the original funds under categories “Goods? and “Unallocated?, as well as the remaining
balance under category “Consultants‟ and other services? to category “Works? and to extend the closing
date of the Loan from June 30, 2010 to June 30, 2011.

20.     The project‟s implementation overcame few difficulties, namely: (i) responding during
construction to local communities demands for additional works to improve traffic safety or provide
accesses to their properties; (ii) financing of the relocation of utility networks presents in the roads right
of way, which were not budgeted for; (ii) completing design of retaining structures in the situation of
unstable terrains; and (iv) adjusting road signage to unanticipated higher traffic.

OVERALL RATING AND ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

21.     The overall project outcome is rated as satisfactory based on the following justifications: (i) the
project development objectives were achieved; (ii) its design and implementation complied with the
approved environmental and social safeguards; (iii) its institutional and implementation arrangements
were adequate and mitigated the risks identified at appraisal; and (iv) rigorous compliance with the
approved fiduciary arrangements.

22.     The Bank performance is rated as satisfactory on the basis of its effective contributions to all the
project phases and the dedication of the team in charge of the project.

23.    The performance of the Directorate of Roads (including the Program Management Unit and the
Regional and Provincial offices of the Ministry of Equipment) is also rated as satisfactory




                                                     29
LESSONS LEARNED

24.   Several lessons were learned, including:
      (i). appropriate institutional and implementation arrangements play a critical role for a
             successful project;
      (ii). inclusion of capacity building in well selected areas has a valuable place in a good project;
      (iii). entrusting the Directorate of Roads with the implementation of a national program such as
             the NPRR2 by turned out to be a judicious and effective decision compared to a
             decentralized implementation by the provinces; and
      (iv). Team work is vital.




                                                  30
                                      ROYAUME DU MAROC
                         MINISTERE DE L’EQUIPEMENT ET DES TRANSPORTS
                                          DIRECTION DES ROUTES

                                         Unité de Gestion du PNRR2
                                            PRET NO. 4747-MA
                                   RAPPORT D’ACHEVEMENT ET DE RESULTATS




1 LE PROJET, SON CONTEXTE ET SES OBJECTIFS DE DEVELOPPEMENT
1.1 Contexte à l’évaluation du Projet
1.2 Objectifs initiaux et indicateurs
1.3 Composantes initiales
1.4. Adaptation et changements importants.
2. PRINCIPAUX FACTEURS AYANT UNE INCIDENCE SUR LA MISE EN ŒUVRE ET RESULTATS
2.1 La genèse du projet
2.2 Sauvegarde environnementale et sociale.
2.3 Mise en œuvre
2.4 Pérennisation des réalisations/phase suivante
2.5 Suivi et évaluation:
3. REALISATION DES OBJECTIFS ET RESULTATS
3.1 Pertinence des objectifs, design et mise en place
3.2 Efficacité et utilisation des fonds
3.3 Analyse économique
3.4 Notation et justification
3.5 Autres résultats obtenus :
4. RISQUES POSSIBLES POUR LES RESULTATS OBTENUS
5. EVALUATION DE LA PERFORMANCE DE LA BANQUE ET DE L'EMPRUNTEUR
5.1 Performance de la Banque
5.2 Performance de l’Emprunteur
6. ENSEIGNEMENTS TIRES DU PROJET




                                                        31
1. LE PROJET, SON CONTEXTE ET SES OBJECTIFS DE DEVELOPPEMENT

Contexte à l’évaluation du Projet

Contexte national
Lors de l‟évaluation du projet, en 2004, près de 19% de la population marocaine, soit 5,3 millions de
personnes, vivaient au-dessous du seuil de pauvreté, et 44% soit 12 millions de personnes étaient
considérées comme économiquement vulnérables (à ou au-dessous de 1.5 fois le seuil de pauvreté). La
pauvreté était essentiellement rurale : près d‟un Marocain sur quatre était pauvre en milieu rural comparé
à un sur dix en milieu urbain. Au total, 66% des pauvres vivaient en zones rurales.

La stratégie 2020 de développement rural du Maroc est d‟améliorer les conditions de vie de la population
rurale en augmentant son accès aux infrastructures de base et aux services sociaux. Cette politique inclut
la réduction des écarts en matière d‟accessibilité entre les provinces les moins bien desservies et celles les
mieux desservies.

Contexte sectoriel
La stratégie du Gouvernement inclut spécifiquement l‟amélioration de l‟accès de la population rurale à
des routes praticables par tout temps. Cet accès était faible en 2004, seulement 44% de la population
rurale du pays vivait près d‟une route praticable toute l‟année. Un premier Programme National de Routes
Rurales (PNRR1), lancé en 1995 a permis une première amélioration de la situation en portant
l‟accessibilité à 50% en 2005. Par ailleurs, de larges différences d‟accessibilité de la population rurale
aux routes rurales existaient entre provinces, variant de 75% pour les mieux desservies à 20% pour les
provinces les plus enclavées. La population considérée comme ayant un accès à la route est celle qui vit
dans un village (douar) d‟au moins 50 foyers et situé à moins d‟un kilomètre d‟une route praticable par
tout temps.

Les problèmes identifiés du secteur sont : (a) qualité et densité inadéquates du réseau routier ; (b) faible
accessibilité aux routes rurales ; (c) manque de vision globale des routes rurales au niveau provincial ; (d)
part importante du réseau routier sous la responsabilité de l‟administration centrale ; (e) gestion
centralisée des routes et manque de capacité au niveau des communes ; (f) financement minimum de
l‟entretien routier ; et (g) insuffisante sécurité routière.
Le projet vise à traiter les problèmes sectoriels suivants :
        (i). augmenter les niveaux d‟accessibilité aux routes rurales dans toutes les provinces;
        (ii). retenir une approche globale du désenclavement à l‟échelle de la province fondé sur une
               démarche de planification à caractère participatif et ascendant, supporté par un travail
               préalable rigoureux d‟inventaire et de pré-identification de programmes provinciaux de
               développement de routes rurales;
        (iii). préparer des réponses appropriées pour une gestion effective des routes rurales locales.

1.2.    Objectifs initiaux et indicateurs

L‟objectif de développement du projet est d‟augmenter le niveau d‟accès des populations rurales aux
routes, notamment dans les provinces les plus défavorisées, par l‟appui à la réalisation d‟un programme
national d‟amélioration et de construction des routes rurales ainsi qu‟à des mesures renforçant les
capacités institutionnelles.




                                                     32
Les principaux indicateurs sont:
        (a) Un indice national d‟accessibilité aux routes rurales (INARR) qui représente le pourcentage
            de la population rurale ayant un accès à une route praticable par tous temps. L‟objectif de cet
            indicateur est de passer de 50% en 2004 à 80% en 2015 à l‟achèvement du PNRR2 ;
        (b) Un indicateur de différentiel d‟accessibilité (IDA), une mesure conçue pour ce projet pour
            mesurer la différence d‟accessibilité entre les dix directions provinciales ayant les niveaux
            d‟accessibilité les plus bas et les dix directions provinciales ayant les niveaux les plus
            élevés ; l‟objectif pour cet indicateur est de passer de 0,43 en 2001 à 0,60 en 2010, avec 0,50
            à mi-parcours du projet, et 0,65 en 2015.
        (c) Un indicateur d‟amélioration des services de transport (IAST) qui mesure l‟impact des routes
            améliorées sur la qualité des services de transport public inter-villages des personnes. Pour
            suivre cet indicateur, un échantillon de routes sera sélectionné chaque année. A la fin du
            projet, au moins 80% des routes de l‟échantillon qui auront été ouvertes au trafic depuis au
            moins deux ans doivent montrer une amélioration de la qualité de service, avec des
            fréquences plus grandes de desserte, des véhicules plus confortables ou des prix de transport
            plus bas.

Les indicateurs relatifs aux objectifs de développement institutionnel visant à rehausser l‟impact de
l‟amélioration de l‟accessibilité et renforcer les capacités pour les évaluations sociales et
environnementales incluent :
        (a) la mise en place d’un système de suivi de l’accessibilité, qui produira des rapports annuels
            par province sur les progrès de tous les projets de routes rurales, incluant entre autres les
            kilomètres terminés et ouverts à la circulation, les standards, la localisation exacte, le nombre
            de personnes ayant bénéficié de l‟accès et autres informations pertinentes ;
        (b) un programme de dissémination et d‟information qui couvrira les activités visant à mettre à
            la disposition des parties concernées et du public des informations sur les projets de routes
            rurales;
        (c) une étude pour améliorer les capacités de gestion des routes rurales locales par les
             communes; et
        (d) la formation réalisée et ses résultats en matière de renforcement des capacités de la DR dans
             les évaluations sociales et environnementales.

En vue de garantir que l‟entretien de tout le réseau routier est fait correctement, il y aura aussi :
        (e) un indicateur sur le niveau de financement effectif de l‟entretien routier, fixé à un montant
             minimum annuel par kilomètre de route du réseau classé égal à celui calculé sur la base du
             budget d‟entretien 2004; et
        (f) un indicateur sur l‟état du réseau routier, spécialement le pourcentage de routes en mauvais
             état. L‟objectif serait de 30% en 2010, à partir des 35% mesurés en 2003.

1.3.    Composantes initiales

Le projet vient en appui à la réalisation du second programme national de routes rurales PNRR-2 (qui fait
suite au PNRR-1 qui a permis la réhabilitation, l‟amélioration ou la construction d‟environ 11.230 km de
routes sur une période de 10 ans (1995-2005) et a fait passer le niveau d‟accessibilité des populations
rurales aux routes praticables en tous temps à 50%).

Le PNRR-2, tout en poursuivant le développement du réseau de routes rurales engagé au titre du PNRR-1,
vise à faire passer ce niveau d‟accessibilité à 80% à l‟horizon de 2012. Il se distingue par plusieurs


                                                      33
améliorations fondées sur les enseignements tirés de la mise en œuvre du premier programme. Les
principales caractéristiques du PNRR-2 sont ainsi : (a) un accent mis sur l'accessibilité ; (b) une
planification s‟appuyant sur une démarche participative dans laquelle les collectivités locales (régions,
provinces et communes) ont pris entièrement part à la sélection des projets de routes rurales ; (c)
l‟adoption de standards techniques, économiques, sociaux et environnementaux pertinents et adaptés au
contexte de routes rurales à faible trafic ; (d) des financements diversifiés, comprenant notamment les
contributions des collectivités locales et les emprunts contractés par la Caisse pour le Financement
Routier (CFR), établissement public créé pour mobiliser les ressources additionnelles nécessaires à
l‟accélération de la réalisation du programme ; (e) une attention particulière accordée à la préservation et
à l‟entretien du patrimoine de routes rurales et plus spécialement à celui des routes rurales locales par les
communes et les provinces ; (f) la promotion d'opportunités de développement économique local pour
renforcer les bénéfices apportés par la route ; et (g) des modalités de suivi et d‟évaluation appropriées,
accompagnées d'une diffusion large des progrès de la réalisation et des résultats du programme.

Aussi, le présent projet qui vient en appui au PNRR-2, a permis de poser les bases de ce programme et il
s‟est conformé à sa Lettre de Cadrage, de par ses principales composantes, à savoir :
        (1) La réhabilitation et/ou la reconstruction d‟environ 625 kilomètres de routes rurales faisant
            partie du second programme national de routes rurales (PNRR2) ; et
        (2) Un appui institutionnel pour :
            a. développer un système de suivi et d’évaluation de l‟atteinte des objectifs (impact sur
               l‟accessibilité) et de la mise en œuvre du PNRR2 (y compris les routes améliorées en
               dehors du programme) à l‟échelon provincial et communal ; et disséminer des rapports
               réguliers sur l‟avancement des réalisations du programme ainsi que sur ses résultats en
               termes d‟accessibilité afin entre autres de faciliter l‟intégration des opérations de
               développement rural et de renforcer la participation des autorités et communautés
               locales ;
            b. formuler des propositions concrètes pour valablement préparer une prise en charge
               effective et durable des routes rurales locales par les communes et provinces ; et
            c. renforcer les capacités de la DR pour les évaluations environnementales et sociales des
               projets routiers.
        Cette composante (2) comprend également des identifications par les Directions Provinciales de
        l‟Equipement et des Transports (DPET) d‟opportunités de développement économique local qui
        résulteront de l‟amélioration de l‟accessibilité, et pour une sélection d‟entre elles, une assistance
        aux communautés locales pour leur concrétisation avec l‟appui d‟agences spécialisées.

Concernant la composante « Réhabilitation et reconstruction de 625 kms de routes rurales », lors de
l‟évaluation, la DR a fourni une liste de 12 routes qui seraient améliorées lors de la première année du
projet. Leur longueur totale était de 184,5 km et leur coût total de 14 millions de $US. Le TRE global de
ces routes est de 30% et toutes les routes avaient un TRE supérieur à 12%. La liste des projets de la
première année est donnée au tableau ci-après :




                                                     34
                                                                            Longueur Trafic Coût moyen au     VAN         TRE
                  Province                        Route
                                                                               km     V/j km (MDh/Km )      Million Dh     %
        Agadir-ida outanane          RN1-RN8                                   24.0   200            0,6       42,60         61
        Azilal                       Imi N'Ifri-Ait Blal                       27.5   150         0,857        14,82         19
        Benslimane                   Ain madnat-S.Sbaa                         14.0   200         0,628        25,00         58
        Meknès                       Moussaoua RP 7024                         10.0   105         0,832         5,56         24
        Ouarzazate                   Boumaine-Ikniouene                        20.0    45         0,616         0,93         17
        Safi                         Safi-Youssoufia                           13.0    45         0,640         0,93         16
        Safi                         Dar si Aissa-El arbaa Rguibate            13.0    45         0,640         0,93         16
        Safi                         Tnine Faraa-RP2333                         9.0    45         0,640        12,04         16
        Taroudant                    Tafraouten-Imoulass                        9.0   175         0,800         1,85         41
        Benslimane                   Bir Nsar-Khatouat                          7.0    70         0,628         5,56         21
        Tiznit                       Ait Mansour-Afella Ighir                  10.0    75         0,340         4,63         38
        Tiznit                       Igrem-Zagour                              28.0    75         0,377        13,89         37
                                                                                               0,712 (a)
        Total/Moyenne                                                        184.5    103                       13.9         30
                                                                                               0,626 (b)
                    (a)   : Coût unitaire moyen y compris le coût des ponts d’Azilal.
                    (b)   : Coût unitaire moyen non compris le coût des ponts d’Azilal.

1.4.           Adaptation et changements importants.
Le projet a connu les adaptations et changements suivants :
       a) Réallocation des fonds du projet
La Direction des Routes a introduit, en date du 27 janvier 2010, une demande de réallocation du montant
du Prêt afin de réaffecter à la catégorie « Travaux » un montant de 3.445.000 Euros constitué des reliquats
non susceptibles d‟être utilisés au titre des autres catégories. En effet, le montant affecté à la catégorie
« Fournitures et équipement » a été annulé car tous les items prévus par cette catégorie ont été supportés
par la DR.

La catégorie « Services de Consultants » devait couvrir : 1) le développement du système de suivi et
d‟évaluation de l‟atteinte des objectifs (impacts sur l‟accessibilité) et de la mise en œuvre du PNRR2, 2)
la formulation de propositions concrètes pour préparer une prise en charge effective et durable des routes
locales par les communes et provinces, 3) le renforcement de la capacité de la Direction des Routes pour
conduire les évaluations environnementales et sociales des projets routiers. La 1 ière tâche a été confiée au
CNER et couverte par le prêt ; les 2ième et 3ième tâches ont été supportées par les fonds propres de la
Direction des Routes.

La Banque Mondiale a donné son accord en juin 2010. En conséquence, le montant du prêt de 31 millions
d‟euros a été réalloué aux différentes catégories de dépenses conformément au tableau suivant :
                                                        Affectations du montant du Prêt
                                            Taux de         Affectation initiale du    Réaffectation du        Réaffectation du
             Catégorie de dépenses       Financement          montant du prêt          montant du prêt         montant du prêt
                                          Par le Prêt             (en euros)              (en euros)              (en DH) (*)
  Travaux                                   85 %                     27.000.000              30.445.000              342.810.700
  Fournitures et Equipement                100 %                         40.000                       0                        0
  Service de Consultants                    70 %                      1.300.000                 400.000                4.504.000
  Commission d‟ouverture                                                310.000                 155.000                1.745.300
  Non affecté                                                         2.350.000                       0                        0
  TOTAL                                                              31.000.000              31.000.000              349.060.000
       ( )
       * Taux de change appliqué : 1 € = 11,26 Dhs.


                                                                     35
Cette réallocation s‟est avérée nécessaire vu l‟augmentation des coûts des travaux due à la flambée des
prix du pétrole et dérivés ainsi que des mastères premières, ajoutée à la faible concurrence dictée par le
nombre réduit d‟entreprises routières face à l‟ampleur du programme à réaliser.

       b) Extension d’une année
Sur demande de la partie marocaine, la Banque Mondiale a donné son accord pour la prorogation de la
date de clôture dudit Prêt, prévue pour le 30 juin 2010, pour une période supplémentaire d‟une (01) année,
soit pour le 30 juin 2011. L‟extension de la date de clôture avait pour objectif de pouvoir finaliser les
travaux du projet. En effet, cette prorogation était justifiée par :
          les conditions climatiques exceptionnelles qui ont prévalu durant les années 2007, 2008 et 2009,
           et qui ont contraint l‟ajournement de certaines opérations du Prêt, engendrant un léger risque de
           dépassement de la date de clôture ;
          Le léger retard enregistré au niveau de la formulation de la demande de réallocation des fonds du
           Prêt ;
          La nécessité de disposer d‟un délai suffisant (soit écoulement de 2010 en entier) pour l‟exécution
           des conventions avec le CNER pour le suivi du PNRR2 pour les années 2008, 2009 et 2010, et
           qui ont fait l‟objet d‟accord avec la mission de supervision de la Banque Mondiale en septembre
           2009 ;
          L‟achèvement des travaux sur les opérations qui étaient en cours, spécialement celles qui venaient
           de démarrer et dont le lancement était tributaire de l‟aboutissement de la demande de réallocation.

       c) Adaptation du linéaire
Le linéaire du PRR1, initialement estimé à environ 620 kms devient finalement 519,043 kms de routes
rurales. Il est à noter que lors de l‟évaluation du projet, le linéaire total envisagé n‟a pu être estimé que de
façon approximative (« environ 620kms »), car à ce moment, seuls les projets de la première année (pour
un total de 184,5 kms) étaient clairement identifiés. Les projets restants devaient encore être sélectionnés
et l‟estimation de leur coût était forcément approximative.

2. PRINCIPAUX FACTEURS AYANT UNE INCIDENCE SUR LA MISE EN ŒUVRE ET RESULTATS

2.1.       Qualité au début du Projet.

Les investissements routiers retenus dans le cadre du PNRR-2, que le projet appuie, l‟ont été en suivant
un processus participatif inédit au Maroc, tant par son ampleur que par la qualité de sa mise en œuvre.

Dans la phase de préparation du Programme, une concertation élargie et approfondie a été menée avec les
Collectivités Locales afin de définir les projets de routes à inscrire dans les Programmes Provinciaux de
Routes Rurales (PPRR) qui, réunis, constituent le PNRR-2.

Des inventaires et programmes pré-identifiés ont été, dans un premier temps, préparés par la Direction des
Routes, en étroite coordination avec ses services déconcentrés. En effet, une étude a été réalisée en 2002
pour évaluer les besoins en routes de désenclavement et a permis d‟inventorier un réseau de 48200 km de
pistes rurales dont 23910 km classées et 24290 km non classées. Le diagnostic effectué dans le cadre de
cette étude a montré que 20% des pistes inventoriées étaient impraticables et 20% connaissaient des
coupures de circulation qui dépassaient 30 jours par an. L‟inventaire a servi de base à la préparation des
programmes préliminaires de routes rurales à construire ou à réhabiliter dans chaque province.




                                                       36
Les Programmes Provinciaux de Routes Rurales préliminaires ainsi identifiés reposaient sur deux
analyses distinctes:
        (a) la première, aux niveaux national et provincial, fondée essentiellement sur des critères de
            contribution à l‟amélioration de l‟accessibilité, avec priorité accordée aux routes qui
            desservent le plus grand nombre de personnes, ainsi qu‟à celles qui réduisent l‟écart entre les
            provinces ayant les taux d‟accessibilité les plus bas et celles où ces taux sont les plus élevés;
            et
        (b) la deuxième, prenant en compte des critères de connectivité des réseaux routiers classés.

Les inventaires et programmes préliminaires provinciaux accompagnés des critères de sélection établis
pour toutes les provinces ont été présentés, lors de conseils régionaux et provinciaux, aux autorités locales
et élus pour leur permettre de participer pleinement au processus de planification, de confirmer leurs
priorités en matière d‟aménagement local, et d‟arrêter la liste des routes à inscrire aux programmes
provinciaux de routes rurales définitifs.

La consolidation des programmes provinciaux à l‟échelle nationale a permis de constituer le deuxième
Programme National des Routes Rurales (PNRR-2). Celui-ci, ainsi finalisé, comprend 1058 opérations
pour 15560 km de routes rurales, dont 8752 km classés et 6808 km non classés, avec 9730 km proposés
pour des travaux de construction et 5830 km pour des travaux d‟aménagement.

Les conseils (régionaux et provinciaux) ont également permis de valider les dispositions d‟exécution du
PNRR-2, les conditions de participation au financement et l‟engagement de prise en charge de l‟entretien
des routes locales par les collectivités concernées.

A noter que les collectivités locales participent au financement du programme à hauteur de 15%.

Le processus de consultation aujourd‟hui achevé peut être considéré comme une réussite, tant en terme
d‟organisation que de résultats. L‟aboutissement de ce processus a été la signature de conventions cadres
et spécifiques avec les Collectivités Locales. L‟ensemble des conventions cadres (16 au total) et des
conventions spécifiques (59 au total) ont ainsi été signées respectivement au niveau régional et au niveau
provincial.

2.2.    Sauvegarde environnementale et sociale.

La sauvegarde environnementale et sociale constitue sans aucun doute un facteur ayant une incidence
majeure sur la mise en œuvre du Programme. Cette contrainte du projet est relativement nouvelle pour
l‟ensemble des acteurs concernés, que ce soient les cadres de l‟administration ou ceux des entreprises et
des bureaux d‟études. C‟est là que réside la difficulté principale car les habitudes bien ancrées sont
tenaces.

Cependant, les différentes missions d‟expert environnemental dépêché sur les chantiers ont montré que
les résultats obtenus sont dans l‟ensemble satisfaisants. Les experts ont pu ainsi constater :
   - Le respect des tracés existants pour les routes du projet. Ce respect a permis de manière concrète la
       limitation des volumes de remblai et de déblai. Cette limitation se traduit par une diminution des
       emprunts et des dépôts de matériaux qui seraient susceptibles de contribuer à la perte de sol et de
       végétation naturels, ainsi qu‟à une augmentation de l‟érosion pluviale ;
   - La limitation des abattages d‟arbres de plantations ou utilitaires ;
   - La limitation des destructions de barrières, enceintes, clôtures et autres délimitation ou protection
       de terrains privés ;
   - L‟évitement de destructions de bâtiments d‟habitations ou de service ;

                                                     37
  -    L‟aménagement d‟accès aux habitations des riverains ;
  -    La conservation des plantations en bordure de route ;
  -    La protection des habitations construites en contrebas de la route dans les zones montagneuses,
       habitations qui deviennent ainsi vulnérables aux ruissellements générés par le drainage de la route ;
  -    La préservation et la protection des infrastructures hydrauliques et des réseaux transportent l‟eau
       d‟irrigation soit par voie de canalisations aériennes (« seguias »), soit de canalisations souterraines
       (« khettaras »).

Dans le domaine social, les procédures concernant la libération des emprises, les expropriations et
dédommagements, etc. ont pu être systématisées et la mise en exécution des projets a été également liée à
cet aspect uniquement social et non d‟ordre juridique.

Bien que les projets retenus au PNRR2 suivent pour la plupart le tracé d‟anciennes pistes ou routes
existantes et de ce fait ne suscitent pas beaucoup de cas d‟expropriation de terrains, l‟accent mis sur
l‟obligation de respecter certaines procédures en matière sociale propres à certains bailleurs de fonds a
permis de sensibiliser les agents chargés de la mise en exécution du Programme à cet aspect des choses.
Des avancées dans ce domaine ont pu être relevées :
      Les dégâts de surface sont dûment constatés et une fois que la décision de règlement du
       montant de l’indemnisation est prise, et afin d’éviter tout litige future avec
       l’entreprise chargée d’effectuer les travaux, les DRET/DPET veillent à la
       formalisation du paiement par le biais d’un acte de désistement signé par le
       propriétaire concerné ;
      Lorsque le tracé croise, ne serait-ce qu‟un ruisseau, pérenne ou saisonnier, l‟entreprise de travaux,
       sur instructions des DRET/DPET, procède à la pose de buses et garantit ainsi l‟écoulement dans la
       direction d‟origine (l‟eau pouvant servir à l‟abreuvement du bétail, à la lessive…) ;
      Les déblais ne sont déposés sur un terrain qu‟avec le consentement expresse du propriétaire, et
       comme il s‟agit souvent de terre végétale, les déblais sont étalés gracieusement dans un sens
       avantageux pour le propriétaire (comblement de ravines, épaississement de la couche arable,
       réduction de la pente…) ;
      Lorsque la libération d‟emprise entraine des dégâts de surface tels que l‟arrachage d‟arbres, et bien
       que le propriétaire soit indemnisé, des instructions sont données à l‟entreprise pour préserver le
       système racinaire et replanter les arbres en dehors de l‟emprise ;
      Les nuisances sonores sont minimisées à travers la limitation de vitesse des engins utilisés par
       l‟entreprise de travaux ;
      Les nuisances dues aux poussières sont également prises en compte et un arrosage des abords
       habités est également imposé aux entreprises, etc.…

2.3.    Mise en œuvre

La mise en œuvre du Projet a rencontré un certain nombre de problèmes :

Concertation avec les populations. Il a été remarqué sur certaines opérations que les populations
riveraines étaient intervenues de manière informelle sur la route postérieurement à la construction de
celle-ci. Les interventions constatées concernaient par exemple la mise en place des dispositifs de sécurité
routière plus ou moins mal conçus, des aménagements à titre personnels etc. Ceci a quelque peu perturbé
le déroulement des travaux et il serait rentable de recueillir l‟avis des populations, non seulement avant le
lancement de l‟opération, mais également à l‟issue des travaux, peu avant la réception des travaux.

                                                     38
Gestion des réseaux existants. En zone d‟habitats assez denses (traversée de douars), les réseaux (eau
potable, électricité, téléphone) sont denses et peuvent être très difficilement identifiés lors de la réalisation
des études. La gestion des déplacements de réseaux (conduites, poteaux, etc.…) s‟effectue au moment de
la réalisation des travaux et nécessitent la coordination avec les institutions concernées (ONE, ONEP,
IAM ou encore les communes). Cette coordination est indispensable pour d‟une part assurer la continuité
du service et permettre l‟avancement des travaux. La gestion de ces déplacements de réseaux est
fréquemment soulevée comme une contrainte forte car la prise en charge de ces travaux ne relève pas du
financement des travaux de la route.
Lutte contre l'érosion. La lutte contre l‟érosion constitue une source d‟occupation majeure des projets en
zone accidentée. Nombre d‟opérations ont été réalisées en zones de collines ou de montagnes, et ont
nécessité des terrassements plus ou moins importants ayant dégagé des talus de remblai ou de déblai,
d‟autant plus vulnérables à l‟érosion qu‟ils sont dénudés. A ce niveau, des dispositifs antiérosifs tels que
des enrochements, des gabions, où, dans les portions les plus fragiles, des murs de soutènement ont du
être étudiés et mis en place. De même, dans les zones de relief, même modéré, la concentration des eaux
pluviales par les ouvrages de drainage transversal (buses et dalots) peut générer une forte érosion
régressive en aval des exutoires. Pour limiter ces impacts négatifs, des systèmes de dissipation d‟énergie
(enrochement, gabions, dalles de béton) ont été installés.
Réalisation de la signalisation verticale. La transformation d‟une piste en route permet d‟augmenter le
volume de trafic et la vitesse de circulation. Ces deux éléments contribuent à diminuer la sécurité des
usagers et des populations situées à proximité, en particulier dans les zones sinueuses, à forte pente où à
proximité des écoles ou des habitats. La mise en œuvre systématique au moment de la réalisation des
travaux d‟une signalisation verticale adaptée permet de réduire ce risque et assure également le
changement de « statut » de la route qui passe donc de piste à route.

3. REALISATION DES OBJECTIFS ET RESULTATS.

3.1.      Atteinte des objectifs.

L‟objectif du projet est d‟augmenter le niveau d‟accès des populations rurales aux routes, notamment
dans les provinces les plus défavorisées, par l‟appui à la réalisation d‟un programme d‟amélioration et de
construction des routes rurales ainsi qu‟à des mesures renforçant les capacités institutionnelles.

La concrétisation et la réalisation du projet résultent de la conjugaison de l‟effort de tous les Intervenants :
la Mission du Chef de Projet à la Banque, le Ministère de l‟Economie et des Finances du Maroc
(notamment la Direction du Budget), la Direction des Routes (l‟ensemble des Divisions et spécialement
l‟UGP PNRR2), les DRET/DPET locales et les Trésoriers locaux.

Les objectifs du projet sont largement atteints.

       a) Objectif de développement rural et indicateurs clés.
Le linéaire du PRR1, initialement estimé à environ 620 kms devient finalement 519,043 kms de routes
rurales, répartis comme suit :




                                                       39
                                               Liste des opérations du PRR1 – 30 juin 2011

                                                                                                                Population       Taux
                                                                             Long.    Nature
    DPET/DRET       N° Route                       Liaison                                    Coût final (DH)    desservie d’accessibilité
                                                                             (km)     Travaux
                                                                                                                (habitants) de la province
                     P1006     RN1-RN8                                       18,735     C        13189533,17          7009
  Agadir-Ida
                    P1000A     Taba – Imouzzer                               29,439     C        12281142,13          1810      68,0%
  Outanane
                     P1002     Tamri – Taba                                  26,700     C        23456253,65          3048
                                                                             27,560 C (Chaus)    11401475,98
  Azilal              R302     Imi N'Ifri - Aït Blal                                                                 19889      63,5%
                                                                                    C (O.A)      14820000,00
                     P3337     Bir Nsar – Khatouat (Hors PNRR2)               7,700     C         5978223,66          3724
  Benslimane                                                                                                                    91,5%
                     P3333     Ain Madnat-S.Sbaa                             13,670     C         9551854,82          1410
  Casablanca         P3019     Sidi Hajjaj - Raoudat                          3,500     C         2639129,25          2148      92,7%
  Chefchaouen         NC       Bni Ahmed - Bouqara                           16,400     C        22151544,13         12494      37,4%
                      NC       Toubelkhir – Tassila                          25,680     C        25431639,67
  Chtouka-                     Toubelkhir - Tassila - RP1013                                                           450
                      NC                                                      1,300      C        6505596,72                    63,4%
  Inezggane                    (bretelle hors PNRR2)
                      NC       Aouguenz – Idaougnidif                        20,500      C       18887171,82           868
                     P5004     Aïn Bouali – Hamria                           10,665      C                            1890
  Fès                R716      Fès - El Hajeb                                 6,227      C       24491851,00          2305      91,0%
                     P5019     RR503 - RP5006                                 4,739      C                             815
  Kénitra            P4260     El Houarta (RP4270) - RN4                     21,626      C       16703400,10          1628      84,1%
  Larache             NC       Béni Arouss- Tagzert- Tazrout- Bousserouass   17,861      C       15176046,67          2360      56,1%
  Chichaoua                                                                  19,600      C       17714424,00
                     P2038     Assif Al Mal - Imindounite par Tasskourt                                               4435      56,6%
  (ex Marrakech)                                                             14,000      C       11967900,00
                     P7034     Moussaoua - Oulad Chialikh                    10,104      C        7372264,52          2896
                     P7069     Souk El Gour- Maria                            9,500      C        8450100,00          1846
  Meknès                                                                                                                        86,4%
                                                                                                 15391848,78
                     P7027     Agouray (RP7025) - RR712                      21,600      C                            3407
                                                                                                 15972050,00
                      NC       RR610 - Trougout – Souani                      9,283      C        5021276,13          2071
  Nador                                                                                                                         52,5%
                      NC       RR610 - M' Hajer - Sidi Hssaïn                18,007      A       19898239,44          2740
                     P1500     Vallée Toudgha – Tinghir                       8,118      C        8887394,08         14032
  Ouarzazate                                                                                      6941995,55                    64,2%
                     P1504     Boumalne- Ikniouene                           18,500      C                            3248
                                                                                                  8278681,14
                     P2306     Safi-Jemaa Shim                               11,500      C                            1565
                                                                                                 15631189,45
  Safi               P2304     Dar Si Aissa - El Arbaa Rguibat               11,200      C                            1413      52,2%
                     P2310     Tnine Farâa- RP2333                           13,000      C       11785799,48          2590
  Sefrou             P5016     Laanoucer – Tazouta                           26,300      C       18532404,61          1037      80,4%
                     P1727     Tafraouten – Imoulass                          8,750      C       12039840,93          1987
                     P1737     Ouzioua - Toubkal (PK 5+832 -- 34+746)        28,914      C       14792004,46
  Taroudant                                                                                                                     74,3%
                               Ouzioua - Toubkal (PK 34+746 -- 70+526)                                                4511
                     P1737                                                             C (*)     11828484,08
                               – Ouvrages d’Assainissement
                     P1917     Ighrem - Zagour (Hors PNRR2)                 28,865    C        10753709,85           784
  Tiznit                                                                                                                      72,5%
                     P1927     Ait Mansour - Afella Ighir (Hors PNRR2)       9,500    C          7979380,47          643
      TOTAL                                                                519,043              451903849,74     105218
       (*) La RP 1737 reliant Ouzioua- Toubkal sur 36 km, a été aménagée comme suit:
       Les travaux de terrassement ont été effectués par les moyens de la DPET de Taroudant;
       Les travaux de construction des ouvrages d’assainissement sont réalisés dans le cadre du marché n° TA 01/2010 qui a été approuvé le
        24 mai 2010 ; l’ordre de service de commencement des travaux a été donné le 15 juin 2010, les travaux ont atteint 60% au 30 juin
        2011.

Le linéaire total envisagé lors de l‟évaluation du Projet (620 kms) n‟a pu être atteint dans son entièreté en
raison de l‟augmentation du coût réel des travaux par rapport au coût estimé, comme expliqué
précédemment. Le rapport entre linéaire exécuté et linéaire prévu est de 0,84%, soit une diminution de
16% du linéaire envisagé initialement.

Il est à noter que lors de l‟évaluation du projet, le linéaire total envisagé n‟a pu être estimé que de façon
approximative (« environ 620kms »), car à ce moment, seuls les projets de la première année (pour un
total de 184,5 kms) étaient clairement identifiés. Les projets restants devaient encore être sélectionnés et
l‟estimation de leur coût était forcément approximative.

                                                                       40
Guide de conception des routes rurales
Par ailleurs, le projet visait la réalisation de routes rurales avec des standards techniques de haute qualité.
Dans ce sens, un Guide de conception des routes rurales été réalisé : En vue d‟homogénéiser à l‟échelon
national les standards et les modalités d‟exécution des routes rurales, un Guide de Conception des Routes
Rurales a été conçu spécialement à cet effet (Annexe 4). Ces documents ont été validés et deviennent
maintenant des documents de référence pour l‟exécution des projets de routes rurales de la Direction des
Routes, y compris le PNRR-2. Ceci constitue une avancée notable en matière de standardisation et
d‟homogénéisation des normes des routes rurales et aura des impacts très positifs pour la gestion
administrative, technique et financière du réseau routier.

Les principaux indicateurs de l’atteinte de l’objectif de développement rural retenus dans le
PAD sont les suivants :
     Indice National d’Accessibilité aux Routes Rurales (INARR). Il représente le pourcentage de la
      population rurale ayant un accès à une route praticable par tous temps. L‟objectif de cet indicateur
      est de passer de 50% en 2004 à 80% en 2015 à l‟achèvement du PNRR2 (60% à la revue à mi-
      parcours du projet mi-2007, et 67% en 2010). Effectivement, ce taux a atteint 61,4% en 2007, et
      70,2% en 2010, dépassant de loin les objectifs prévus.
     Indicateur de différentiel d’accessibilité (IDA). Une mesure conçue pour ce projet pour mesurer
      la différence d‟accessibilité entre les dix provinces (représentant 20% des 48 provinces du Maroc)
      ayant les niveaux d‟accessibilité les plus bas et les dix provinces ayant les niveaux les plus
      élevés ; l‟objectif pour cet indicateur est de passer de 0,43 en 2001 à 0,60 en 2010, avec 0,50 à
      mi-parcours du projet, et 0,65 en 2015. Les valeurs atteintes sont de 0,51 en 2007 et de 0,56 en
      2010.
     Indicateur d’amélioration des services de transport (IAST) sur l‟accessibilité) et de la mise en
      œuvre du PNRR2. Il mesure l‟impact des routes améliorées sur la qualité des services de transport
      public inter-villages des personnes. Pour suivre cet indicateur, un échantillon de routes sera
      sélectionné chaque année. A la fin du projet, au moins 80% des routes de l‟échantillon qui auront
      été ouvertes au trafic depuis au moins deux ans doivent montrer une amélioration de la qualité de
      service, avec des fréquences plus grandes de desserte, des véhicules plus confortables ou des prix
      de transport plus bas. L‟IAST est composé de trois indices :
       Indice de déplacement ID : mesure l‟augmentation du nombre de personnes déplacées au
          cours de l‟année n après la construction ou l‟aménagement de la piste ; ID=NPDn/NPDo ;
       Indice de transport IT : composé de deux indices (ITT) et (ITM) qui mesurent respectivement
          la diminution du coût de trajet et la diminution du coût de transport des marchandises ;
          ITT=CTPn/CTPo et ITM=CTMn/CTMo ;
       Indice d‟amélioration des conditions de transport IAT : mesure l‟augmentation des moyens de
          transports publics au cours de l‟année n après la construction ou l‟aménagement de la piste.

        Pour l‟estimation de l‟indicateur IAST, un échantillon de routes du PNRR2 a été sélectionné (au
        moins une route par province) pour effectuer des campagnes de comptage de trafic et des
        enquêtes « transporteurs ». Les enquêtes ont été lancées par le CNER via les DRET/DPET sur 24
        liaisons. A ce jour, les enquêtes sur deux liaisons peuvent être exploitées :
         Evolution du trafic moyen journalier annuel est de 516% sur la RP6326, et de 143% sur la
             RP1004.
         Indice de déplacement est de 172% sur la RP6326, et de 174% sur la RP1002.



                                                      41
(b) Objectifs de développement institutionnel et indicateurs clés.
Les indicateurs relatifs aux objectifs de développement institutionnel visant à rehausser l‟impact de
l‟amélioration de l‟accessibilité et renforcer les capacités pour les évaluations sociales et
environnementales incluent :
Mise en place d’un système de suivi et d’évaluation de l’atteinte des objectifs (impact sur l’accessibilité)
et de la mise en œuvre du PNRR2.
Dans l‟objectif de mieux apprécier l‟apport de la réalisation des opérations du PNRR2, la Direction des
Routes a confié au CNER le développement et l‟exploitation d‟un système de suivi et d‟évaluation. Ce
système permet d‟évaluer, par le biais d‟indicateurs clés définis dans le programme (indice national
d‟accessibilité-INARR, indicateur de différentiel d‟accessibilité-IDA, indicateur d‟amélioration des
services de transport-IAST), l‟amélioration et les progrès apportés par les routes rurales du PNRR2 tant
en terme de réalisation que d‟impact sur les taux d‟accessibilité des populations rurales à la route, et sur
l‟amélioration des services de transport.

Le CNER a développé une plate-forme opérationnelle de recueil des informations et de suivi des
différents indicateurs. Cette plate-forme comprend le système d‟informations géographiques (SIG)
composé de la cartographie de l‟ensemble des provinces qui intègre les douars et les routes du PNRR1,
PNRR2 et les pistes inventoriées dans le cadre de l‟étude des pistes rurales réalisée par la DR en 2002
ainsi que les données aussi bien physiques, sur le patrimoine routier du pays, que socio-économiques, sur
les douars et les populations rurales. L‟utilisation pratique de la base de données se fait tant à l‟échelle du
pays qu‟à l‟échelon des provinces.

Les principales fonctions du système sont les suivantes :
   (a) calcul automatique des taux d‟accessibilité de la population rurale au réseau routier à tous les
       niveaux administratifs et par catégorie de route ;
   (b) mise à jour des données alphanumériques et cartographiques concernant le réseau routier et le
       PNRR2 pour l‟ensemble des provinces ;
   (c) suivi des états d‟avancement d‟exécution des opérations du PNRR2 ;
   (d) édition des rapports d‟état d‟avancement d‟exécution du PNRR2 par province, par région et à
       l‟échelon national ;
   (e) édition des cartes routières d‟état d‟avancement du PNRR2 par province, par région et à l‟échelon
       national ;
   (f) mise à jour automatique des tableaux de bord relatifs à l‟état d‟avancement des opérations du
       PNRR2 ;
   (g) traitement et exploitation statistiques des données relatives aux routes et aux pistes de
       désenclavement (PNRR1, PNRR2, pistes inventoriées, etc.) tels que les données socio-
       économiques, les indicateurs de développement, l‟évolution du trafic, l‟évolution des coûts de
       transport ;
   (h) calcul automatique des indicateurs d‟évaluation du PNRR2 (INARR, IDA et IAST) par province,
       par région et à l‟échelon national ;
   (i) estimation automatique des écarts entre les objectifs prévisionnels et les réalisations sur tous les
       plans : populations desservies, retard dans l‟exécution des opérations, coût de réalisation, etc. ;
   (j) édition des rapports annuels de désenclavement provinciaux, régionaux et à l‟échelon national;
   (k) édition des fiches synoptiques paramétrées du réseau routier ;
   (l) réalisation des requêtes thématiques.



                                                      42
Le système de suivi et d‟évaluation, ainsi développé, a permis de produire des rapports annuels par
province sur l‟avancement d‟exécution des projets routiers, avec l‟état d‟avancement physique des
opérations entamées ainsi que le niveau d‟accessibilité de la population rurale dans la province à la fin de
chaque année et autres informations pertinentes avec cartes de localisation.

Programme de dissémination et d’information.
Les rapports produits par le système de suivi et d‟évaluation sont largement diffusés que ce soit du côté
des collectivités locales pour les informer sur l‟état d‟avancement de la réalisation du programme et les
inciter à s‟acquitter du versement de leurs quotes-parts, ou du côté des autres départements sectoriels pour
les informer sur les projets routiers entamés par le Département en vue d‟une éventuelle concertation pour
l‟élaboration de projets de développement intégré.

L‟Initiative Nationale pour le Développement Humain (INDH) - initiée par le Roi en 2005-, dans sa
1ière phase (2006-2010), visait, dans sa composante rurale, à alléger la pauvreté dans les zones rurales, et a
ciblé les communes les plus pauvres (403 communes rurales en application du seuil de 14%) et a financé
des activités qui appuient l‟accès aux infrastructures et aux équipements et services sociaux de base.

La plupart de ces communes, situées en milieu rural, ont également été privilégiées dans le cadre du
PNRR-2. Un effet démultiplicateur important en matière de développement économique et social devrait
naturellement résulter du lancement simultané du PNRR-2 et de l‟INDH dans les communes concernées.

En effet, 192 sur les 403 communes inscrites à l‟INDH ont déjà bénéficié du PNRR1, 286 sur les 403
communes inscrites à l‟INDH soit 71% bénéficient du PNRR2, 333 sur les 403 communes inscrites à
l‟INDH soit 83% ont bénéficié des 2 programmes ; La Direction Générale des Collectivités Locales s‟est
même engagée à prendre en charge les quotes-parts des communes inscrites dans l‟INDH.

Un autre programme, dans le cadre de la 2ième phase de l‟INDH, vient d‟être lancé en 2011 par le
Ministère de l‟Intérieur en partenariat avec l‟Equipement et Transports, la Santé, l‟Agriculture et Pêche
Maritime et l‟Education pour améliorer les conditions de vie des populations de certaines zones
montagneuses ou enclavées, la réduction des disparités en matière d‟accès aux infrastructures de base,
d‟équipements et de services de proximité (pistes rurales, santé, électrification, eau potable) ; le volet
pistes rurales concerne 220 km pour desservir une population de 750.000 habitants répartis sur 1050
douars.

Par ailleurs, il est à noter que les Directions Provinciales concernées par l‟exécution du PRR-1 ont pu
identifier des opportunités de développement qui ont résulté de l‟amélioration de l‟accessibilité,
notamment dans le domaine touristique ou socio-économique. A titre d‟exemple, la route provinciale
n°1927 reliant Ait Mansour à Afella Ighir dans la province de Tiznit a permis le développement
touristique de l‟Oasis Ait Mansour . Dans la province de Ouarzazate, la route provinciale n°1500 reliant
la vallée Toudgha à Tinghir a été bénéfique pour le site touristique de la vallée Toudgha : plusieurs
auberges ont été construites, des centres de formation pour les femmes rurales ont vu le jour dans le cadre
de l‟INDH.

Renforcement des capacités des cadres de l’administration.
Renforcer la capacité des cadres de la Direction des routes dans la gestion routière a été un souci constant
de l‟administration : des séminaires, colloques ont été organisés de manière régulière, sans compter les
réunions plénières, annuelles, semestrielles ou trimestrielles des cadres de la Direction des Routes pour
harmoniser les points de vues et échanger leurs expériences.



                                                     43
L‟assistance technique a apporté de manière significative son appui à l‟effort de formation en élaborant le
Plan de formation des cadres de la Direction des Routes et en assurant elle-même, outre la formation sur
le tas assurée en permanence par ses experts lors de leur intervention, plusieurs sessions de formation des
cadres de la Direction des Routes sur des sujets pointus, notamment :
          Formation à la Gestion de Réseaux Routiers (HDM-4)
          Formation à la Gestion Environnementale des Projets Routiers
          Formation au Système de Gestion informatique

Entretien des routes rurales non classées.
Dans le but d‟améliorer les capacités de gestion des routes rurales locales par les communes, le projet
prévoyait initialement la réalisation d‟une étude afin de définir les modalités pratiques et règlementaires à
mettre en œuvre, ainsi que les crédits à mobiliser pour assurer une gestion et un entretien futurs et
adéquats des routes locales du PNRR-2. Cette étude devait fournir, aux collectivités locales, les outils
pratiques nécessaires pour (i) évaluer les besoins futurs et options de financement des routes ; (ii)
organiser la gestion de l‟entretien et développer des partenariats dans ce sens avec les services
déconcentrés de l‟Etat (principalement les DPE) ; et (iii) contractualiser l‟entretien au secteur privé en
fonction de la formule la mieux adaptée au contexte local (marchés pluriannuels d‟entretien, marchés de
réhabilitation et d‟entretien). Ces outils institutionnels, organisationnels, financiers et techniques devaient
ainsi offrir aux collectivités locales les bases nécessaires pour assurer l‟entretien des routes locales du
PNRR-2 et ainsi pérenniser les investissements auxquels elles auraient en partie participés
Notant les difficultés à lancer une telle étude, la Banque avait fait savoir au gouvernement qu‟elle n‟avait
pas d‟objection à ce que la DR renonce à cette étude, à condition qu‟elle s‟engage à mobiliser un groupe
de travail, pour préparer un rapport sur la gestion des routes locales avant la fin juin 2008.
Par la suite (début 2009), la DR a inclu la problématique de la gestion et de l‟entretien des routes rurales
locales dans l‟étude qui était en cours sur les stratégie de maintenance des réseaux routiers,
La Direction des Routes du Ministère de l‟Equipement s‟est rapprochée de la Direction Générale de
Collectivités locales (DGCL) du Ministère de l‟Intérieur et la Direction du Budget du Ministère des
Finances pour la constitution d‟un comité interministériel qui sera chargé de proposer des mesures
concrètes à mettre en œuvre pour une prise en charge graduelle, mais résolue de la gestion (classement)
et de l‟entretien des routes rurales non classées. Ledit comité interministériel a été effectivement
constitué, la dernière réunion a eu lieu le 08 septembre 2011.
Par ailleurs, une convention financière a été signée le 29 décembre 2010 avec l‟Union Européenne pour
aide budgétaire destinée au financement d‟un programme de désenclavement des populations isolées
défini en conformité avec les critères et approche arrêtés pour le PNRR2.
La pérennité des routes rurales communales ainsi que le renforcement du rôle et des capacités des
communes ont été retenus comme conditions de décaissement de l‟aide budgétaire de l‟Union
Européenne. Six indicateurs ont été retenus :
   
   
       routier communal est validée par une commission interministérielle formée par le Ministère des
       Finances (MEF), le Ministère de l‟Intérieur (MI) et le Ministère de l‟Equipment et des
       Transports (METT)
   
       réseau routier communal est adoptée par le Gouvernement
   
       ressources financières pérennes et d‟un dispositif institutionnel de mise en œuvre

                                                     44
                                                                                              provinces
         des régions de Tanger-Tétouan, Taza-El Hoceima-Taounate, Souss Massa-Draa intègrent un plan
         de gestion du réseau routier communal.
                                                              -Tétouan, Taza-El Hoceima-Taounate, Souss
         Massa-Draa font partie de groupements de collectivités locales ou sont signataires de
         conventions de partenariat ou de coopération regroupant les communes de chaque province et
         ayant pour objet la gestion et l‟entretien du réseau routier communal.
Un premier rapport d‟avancement sur la prise en charge de l‟entretien des routes rurales locales a été
élaboré en octobre 2011.
             Plan d’action visant à pérenniser les investissements réalisés sur les routes rurales non classées
 Phase                                                                              Entités
                                        Actions                                                            Avancement
  N°                                                                               concernés
         Constitution d‟un comité interministériel composé de                                  Le comité est constitué (MET,
     1   représentants du MET et du MI-DGCL et éventuellement du                   Comité      MI et MEF). La dernière réunion
         Ministère de l‟Economie et des Finances                                               a eu lieu le 08 septembre 2011
         Etat des lieux des routes rurales non classées aménagées ou
         construites
            Détermination du linéaire global concerné par province et
     2                                                                                DR       Action réalisée
              par région issu du PNRR1 et du PNRR2
            Inventaire des autres routes construites ou aménagées
            Etat de ce réseau
         Pratiques actuelles pour l’intervention sur les routes non
         classées
            Inventaire du matériel de TP existant chez les régions, les            DGCL
              provinces et les communes rurales
     3      Aperçu sur les crédits réservés aux pistes rurales
            Aspects institutionnels
                                                                                   Comité
            Les partenariats
I           Réflexions sur l‟apport du MET : l‟assistance technique et                        Le rapport a apporté des
                                                                                      DR
              les interventions d‟urgence.                                                     éléments sur l‟expérience passée.
         Quels besoins en matière d’entretien courant et
         périodiques ?                                                                DR       Action réalisée
     4      Outils d‟aide à la décision à mettre en place ?
            Approche des besoins d‟encadrement de la gestion, de
                                                                                   Comité
              matériel et de financement
         Quel cadre mettre en place pour la gestion des RRNC :                                 Matrice fixant les objectifs et les
            Modernisation de la gestion locale                                     DGCL       modalités de performances
     5      Mutualisation des moyens et intercommunalité                                      utilisés dans le cadre du
            Contractualisation Etat – collectivités locales                                   programme d‟appui au
                                                                                   Comité
            Contrats de performances via des entreprises locales                              budget/appuis budgétaire
         Validation par le Comité et les SGG :
            Du plan d'action conjoint pour aboutir à l'adoption d'une             Comité/
     6        stratégie d'entretien du réseau routier communal                      SGG
            Du plan d‟action et des livrables
        De la nécessité d’un débat autour de la question :                         DR/CF
                                                                                               Séminaire 19 sept 2011
           Revue à mi-parcours                                                    R/ BM
II 7
           Organisation d‟une table ronde et d‟un atelier regroupant
                                                                                   Comité      Mars 2012 à convenir avec UE
            l‟ensemble des acteurs concernés au niveau régional
        Validation finale de la stratégie incluant les modalités de
II                                                                                 Comité/
    8 mise en œuvre de l'entretien et de financement du réseau
 I                                                                                  SGG
        routier communal à adopter par le Gouvernement
Comité= DR/CFR/DGCL/DB


                                                            45
Entretien des routes rurales classées.
L‟entretien des routes classées entre dans le cadre des plans quinquennaux élaborés par la Direction des
Routes. Les interventions sont programmées en fonction de l‟état de dégradation de ces routes.

En vue de garantir que l‟entretien de tout le réseau routier est fait correctement, le projet a prévu les deux
indicateurs suivants:
     un indicateur sur le niveau de financement effectif de l‟entretien routier, fixé à un montant
        minimum annuel par kilomètre de route du réseau classé égal à celui calculé sur la base du budget
        d‟entretien 2004; et
     un indicateur sur l‟état du réseau routier, spécialement le pourcentage de routes en mauvais état.
        L‟objectif serait de 30% en 2010, à partir des 35% mesurés en 2003.

Ces deux indicateurs sont traités ci-dessous.
        Evolution du réseau routier. Au lendemain de l‟indépendance, le réseau routier revêtu était de
         10348 km. En 2010, le linéaire du réseau routier revêtu a atteint 40984 km répartis en : 9738 km
         de routes nationales ; 9510 km de routes régionales et 21745 km de routes provinciales.
                        1990       1995    2000         2004            2005      2006     2007    2008      2009      2010
         Réseau
                       29310      30420   32049        35026        35026        35026   38545     38545    40056      40984
         revêtu (Km)

         Le réseau a connu une évolution importante grâce aux deux programmes des routes rurales de
         1995/2005 (PNRR-1) et 2006/2012 (PNRR-2). En effet, le linéaire de routes construites entre
         1995 et 2010 (16 ans) est la moitié de ce qui a été réalisé entre 1956 et 1995 (40 ans).

        Evolution des montants alloués à la maintenance du réseau des routes classées. Le budget alloué
         à la maintenance et à l‟adaptation du réseau routier est relaté dans le tableau ci après :
                                                                                                          En Million de Dirhams
                                                  2004          2005            2006      2007      2008       2009       2010

         Maintenance des routes                   762           630             652       789       936        1117       1100
         Reconstruction des O.A                   145           130              87       170       140        240        190
                        Total Maintenance         907           760             739       959       1076       1357       1290
                               Voies Express       0                0            4         28        20        180        230
                       TOTAL                      907           760             743       987       1096       1537       1520

         Ce tableau montre l‟évolution croissante des budgets alloués à la maintenance routière et à son
         adaptation depuis 2007, l‟année qui a connu le démarrage du Programme Restructurant Prioritaire
         (PRP).

        L’allocation moyenne par kilomètre de route classée est utilisée comme indicateur sur le niveau
         de financement effectif de l’entretien routier. Son évolution est donnée par le tableau suivant :
                                                  2004          2005            2006      2007      2008       2009       2010
                                                                                                    1 076      1 357      1 290
         Budget Maintenance (KDh)              907 000         760 000         739 000   959 000
                                                                                                     000        000        000
         Réseau revêtu (Km)                    35 026          35 026          35 026    38 545    38 545     40 056     40 984
         Allocation moyenne par
                                               26 000          22 000          21 000    25 000    28 000     34 000     31 000
         kilomètre (Dh/Km)

                                                               46
        En 2004, l‟allocation moyenne par kilomètre de route classée était de 26 000 Dh/Km ; cette
        allocation a baissé durant les années 2005 et 2006 ; en 2007, avec le démarrage du PRP, cet
        indicateur a commencé à se redresser ; puis il a continué à progresser ostensiblement pour
        dépasser le seuil des 26 000 Dh/Km ; en 2010, il a atteint une valeur de 37 000 Dh/Km.

Evolution de l’état du réseau routier classé. Le tableau ci après relate l‟état ISU du réseau routier classé
et revêtu depuis 1990 :
          Année (*)       1990      1992       1994        1996   1998   2000   2002   2004   2006   2008   2010

        A+B (%)           53,3      56,4       61,8        63,1   64,7   66     64,7   64,5   59,9   54,2   54,3

        C+D (%)           46,7      43,6       38,2        36,9   35,3   34     35,3   35,5   40,1   45,8   45,7
        (*) Le relevé visuel est réalisé tous les 2 ans.

Le pourcentage de routes classées revêtues en mauvais état (C+D(%)) est utilisé comme indicateur sur
l‟état du réseau routier. L‟objectif du projet est d‟avoir 30% en 2010 à partir des 35% mesurés en 2003.
Cet objectif n‟a pas été atteint ; les justifications sont fournies comme suit :

L‟état ISU (A+B) du réseau routier a connu deux phases d‟évolution :
1990 – 2000 : Phase de progression évaluée à 1,3 point par an
2000 – 2010 : Phase de régression évaluée à 1,17 point par an.

Cette régression peut s‟expliquer par :
-     la mise en œuvre du programme de voies express qui est un grand consommateur de budget et qui
     partage les mêmes rubriques que celles de la maintenance routière, ceci a affecté sérieusement la
     maintenance du réseau routier et notamment les routes provinciales ;
- Les saisons hivernales 2008/2009 et 2009/2010 qui ont connu des chutes de pluies exceptionnelles
     causant des dégâts importants du réseau routier ;
- L‟agressivité du trafic qui connait une augmentation considérable pendant les dix dernières années.

Malgré l‟ampleur des précipitations et l‟agressivité des intempéries qu‟a subies le réseau routier pendant
les saisons hivernales 2008/2009 et 2009/2010, les efforts déployés par le Ministère de l‟Equipement et
des Transports en matière de maintenance routière ont permis d‟améliorer de façon significative
l‟indicateur de l‟état des routes nationales de 5,1 points (l‟état bon à acceptable est passé de 55,6 % en
2008 à 60,7% en 2010), sachant que celles-ci drainent à elles seules 50% du volume global de la
circulation, à savoir 35 Millions véh.Km/j.

Evolution de la circulation. Le trafic est donnée importante qui intervient dans toutes les étapes d‟un
projet routier, depuis son étude de faisabilité, jusqu‟à son exploitation en passant par ses études de
conception technique et de dimensionnement de structures de chaussées. A cet effet, la maitrise de ce
paramètre, de son évolution et sa composition est indispensable.

Ainsi, la Direction des Routes a mis en place depuis les années soixante-dix, un système de comptage
routier afin de répondre à ce besoin.

En 2009, la circulation routière a été recensée sur 20132 Km de routes et autoroutes revêtues, répartis
comme suit :
    915,2 Km d‟autoroutes ;
    9187 Km de routes nationales ;
    6387 Km de routes régionales ;
    3643 Km de routes provinciales.

                                                                    47
      En 2007, cette circulation a été évaluée à 60,41 Millions de véhicules. Kilomètres par jour, soit une
       augmentation de 8,40 % par rapport à 2006.
      En 2008, cette circulation a été évaluée à 66,01 Millions de véhicules. Kilomètres par jour, soit une
       augmentation de 9,27 % par rapport à 2007.
      En 2009, cette circulation a été évaluée à 70,18 Millions de véhicules. Kilomètres par jour, soit une
       augmentation de 6,32 % par rapport à 2008.
      En 2010, cette circulation a été évaluée à 77,18 Millions de véhicules. Kilomètres par jour, soit une
       augmentation de 9,97 % par rapport à 2009.

Le tableau ci après relate l‟évolution de la circulation depuis 1995.
                                                            Circulation
                                      Année
                                                       Millions Véh. Km / j
                               1995                          33,90
                               1996                          35,43
                               1997                          36,38
                               1998                          39,02
                               1999                          41,58
                               2000                          43,55
                               2001                          46,12
                               2002                          47,59
                               2003                          48,87
                               2004                          52,77
                               2005                          54,88
                               2006                          55,73
                               2007                          60,41
                               2008                          66,01
                               2009                          70,18
                               2010                          77,18

La circulation a connu une évolution importante. Sa croissance a presque atteint deux chiffres en 2010.
Ceci incite la DR à adapter le réseau routier par la mise en œuvre des programmes autoroutiers, de voies
express et d‟élargissement des routes étroites.

3.2.     Efficacité et utilisation des fonds.
Les points suivants montrent l’utilisation efficace du prêt :
        - Introduction d‟une demande de réallocation du montant du prêt au profit de la catégorie travaux
          à hauteur de € 30.445 millions ;
        - imputation au prêt de toutes les opérations retenues dans la description du projet et munies
          d‟une non-objection de la Banque pour l‟adjudication de leurs marchés ;
        - L‟exécution des conventions avec le CNER pour le suivi du PNRR 2 dans des conditions
          satisfaisantes.
        - Le lancement et l‟achèvement des travaux au niveau des deux liaisons en retard (une à cause
          d‟une résiliation et l‟autre pour des besoins d‟études poussées).
        - L‟achèvement de certaines opérations en cours qui se sont vues ajourner vu les conditions
          climatiques exceptionnelles ayant prévalu durant les années 2007, 2008 et 2009.




                                                     48
3.3.    Analyse économique.

La Direction des Routes a confié au Centre National d‟Etudes de Recherches Routières (CNER) l‟étude
de rentabilité économique des projets de routes rurales du prêt 4747 via la convention n°5/2011.
L‟objectif y assigné est de calculer les taux de rentabilité internes de ces projets en utilisant le modèle
techno-économique HDM4.

Le coût global de ce prêt s‟élève à 503 millions de dirhams pour financer la réalisation de 32 projets de
routes rurales totalisant 519 km répartis sur 17 provinces.

 Hypothèses de calcul
 Taux d‟accroissement géométrique annuel du trafic retenu est de 6%. Les volumes de trafic
   enregistrés actuellement sur les routes du prêt 4747 varient de 120 à 400 véhicules par jour.
 Taux d‟actualisation : 10%
 Les données nécessaires ont été extraites du système de suivi et d‟évaluation du PNRR2 ou
   recueillies auprès de l‟UGP et des DRET/DPET concernées.
 Les effets exogènes ne seront pas pris en compte dans le cas de cette étude pour manques de données
   d‟entrées quantifiées à savoir sur les émissions des véhicules, consommation d‟énergie, bruit,
   avantages pour les populations desservie par la route…
 La modélisation des projets a consisté en l‟amélioration des pistes existantes : Amélioration des
   caractéristiques géométriques (Tracé en plan, profil en long et profil en travers), construction de corps
   de chaussée, etc.
Afin d‟évaluer la rentabilité économique des projets, ceux-ci ont été comparés à une alternative de base
qui représente l‟option « sans projet » qui correspond à un reprofilage des pistes consistant en des
traitements localisés, sans effet sur l‟amélioration de l‟uni, au prix de 65DH/m2. Pour les projets,
l‟alternative « avec projet» a porté sur la construction ou l‟aménagement des pistes accompagnés des
travaux d‟entretien courant consistant sur des rebouchages de nid de poule au prix retenu de 30DH/m2et
des travaux hors chaussées au prix de 1000DH/km par an.
Le tableau ci-dessous donne les résultats de la dite étude : Taux rentabilité interne (TRI), Valeurs
Actualisées Nettes (VAN) de chaque projet du prêt et de l‟ensemble considéré comme un seul projet.




                                                    49
                        Tableau : Indicateurs de l’évaluation économique des projets du prêt 4747 : VAN et TRI

                                                                           Natu
                                                                             re                    Trafic VAN               Population
                                                                   Longue
       DPET/DRET      N° Route                Liaison                       des     Coût/km        TMJA (millions   TRI      desservie
                                                                   ur (km)
                                                                           trava                    (*)   dh)                  (Hab)
                                                                           ux (*)
Agadir-Ida Outanane     P1006    RN1-RN8                              18,7    C      669 855,94      250    31,74   28,9%        7 009
Agadir-Ida Outanane     1000A    Taba - Imouzzer                      29,4    C      385 025,74      250    86,77   50,4%        1 810
Agadir-Ida Outanane     P1002    Tamri - Taba                         26,7    C      872 609,82      120    16,67   10,7%        3 048
                                 Imi N'Ifri - Aït Blal (corps de
Azilal                  R302                                          27,6    C      916 176,38      250    34,14   21,2%       19 889
                                 chaussée)
Benslimane              P3337    Bir Nsar - Khatouat                    7,7   C      768 704,20      250    11,37   25,2%        3 724
Benslimane              P3333    Ain Madnat-S.Sbaa                    13,7    C      690 707,37      250    22,46   28,1%        1 410
Casablanca              P3019    Mohammedia - Raoudat                   3,5   C      728 407,67      400     8,72   42,6%        2 148
Chefchaouen              NC      Bni Ahmed - Bouqara                  16,4    C     1 373 380,85     250    13,55   14,1%       12 494
Chtouka- Inezggane     NC (1)    Toubelkhir - Tassila-P1013 (1)       27,0    C     1 190 089,00     250    25,75   16,3%         450
Chtouka- Inezggane       NC      Agouguenz - Idaougnidif              20,5    C      953 839,54      250    24,39   20,3%         868
Fès                     P5004    Aïn Bouali - Hamria                  10,7    C     1 348 912,25     250     9,00   14,4%        1 890
Fès                     R716     Fes - El Hajeb                         5,6   C     1 348 913,25     400     7,54   23,0%        2 305
Fès                     P5019    RR503 - RP5006                         4,7   C     1 348 914,25     250     3,95   14,4%         815
Kénitra                 P4260    El Houarta (RP4270) - RN4            21,6    C      760 977,56      150    19,35   15,3%        1 628
                                 Béni Arouss- Tagzert- Tazrout-
Larache                  NC                                           17,9    C      915 169,61      150    13,29   12,7%        2 360
                                 Bousserouass
                                 Assif Al Mal - Imindounite par
Chichaoua              RP2038                                         33,6    C      863 125,00      150    26,51   13,5%        4 435
                                 Tasskourt
Meknès                  P7034    Moussaoua - Oulad Chialikh           10,1    C      782 099,06      150     8,80   14,9%        2 896
Meknès                  P7069    Souk El Gour- Maria                    9,5   C      792 405,59      250    13,60   24,5%        1 846
Meknès                  P7027     Agouray (RP025)- RR712              21,6    C      739 446,76      250    33,15   26,2%        3 407
Nador                    NC      RR610 - Trougout - Souani              9,3   C      535 489,98      400    31,48   57,9%        2 071
                                 RR610 - M'Hajer - Sidi Hssaïn
Nador                    NC      (2)                                  18,0 C (2)    1 482 165,00     250    13,79   13,1%        2 740

Ouarzazate              P1500    Vallée Toudgha - Tinghir               8,1   C     1 083 607,88     250     8,50   17,9%       14 032
Ouarzazate              P1504    Boumalne - Ikniouene                 18,5    C      447 020,28      250    46,96   43,4%        3 248
Safi                    P2306    Safi-Jemaa Shim et                   11,5    C      661 095,32      350    27,64   41,1%        1 565
Safi                    P2304    Dar Si Aissa - El Arbaa Rguibat      11,2    C      661 095,32      200    15,38   23,5%        1 413
Safi                    P2310    Tnine Farâa- RP2333                  13,0    C      833 588,78      250    17,70   23,3%        2 590
Sefrou                  P5016    Laanoucer - Tazouta                  26,3    C      678 582,05      250    43,98   28,6%        1 037
Taroudant               P1727    Tafraouten - Imoulass                  8,8   C     1 362 854,39     250     7,29   14,2%        1 987
Taroudant               P1737    Ouzioua - Toubkal (Lot n° 1)         28,9    C      542 405,40      250    60,49   35,7%        4 511
Tiznit                  P1927    Ait Mansour - Afella Ighir             9,5   C      796 613,24      250    13,53   24,3%         784
Tiznit                 P1917 (3) Ighrem - Zagour (3)                  28,9    C      257 451,82      250   127,23   37,7%         643
         TOTAL                                                       519,7           802 464,33                               105 218

(1) : Les deux projets Touebkhir -Tassila (25,7 km) et Toubelkhir - Taissila-RP1013 constituent une seule liaison, ils ont été
traités comme un seul projet
(2) : Le projet RR610- Mhajetr- Sidi Hssain a été considéré comme un projet de construction parce que les travaux de
construction de chaussée vont démarrer incessamment (Marché déjà approuvé)
(3) : Le projet Igherm Zagour RP1917 a été analysé seulement comme une construction du corps de chaussée (mêmes
caractéristiques géométriques que la piste aménagée)
(*) C : construction neuve (Route revêtue)
    A : Aménagement de piste (Terrassements, OA et couche de déglaisement)
TMJA : Trafic moyen journalier annuel après la mise en circulation
La plupart des projets présentent un TRI supérieur au taux d’actualisation 10% (12 projets avec un TRI compris entre 10% et
20% ; 13 projets avec un TRI compris entre 20% et 30% ; et 7 projets avec un TRI dépasse 30%).



                                                                   50
                                              Sous-projets de la première année
                          Evaluations économiques au début du projet et après achèvement des travaux
                                                          A la date d’Evaluation du Projet                Après Achèvement du Projet
                                                                      Coût                                         Coût
 DPET/ DRET                  Liaison                                            VAN                                          VAN
                                                   Long.     Trafic Estimatif           TRE       Long.   Trafic Estimatif             TRE
                                                                              (Millions                                    (Millions
                                                   (km)      (V/J) du Projet             %        (km)    (V/J) du Projet               %
                                                                                Dh)                                          Dh)
                                                                     (MDh)                                        (MDh)
Agadir-Ida
                RN1-RN8                            24,0       200      14,40      42.60      61   18,7     250     13,19     31,74     28,9
Outanane
Azilal          Imi N'Ifri - Aït Blal (Route+OA)   27,5       150      24,00      14.82      19   27,6     250     26,22     34,14     21,2
Benslimane      Bir Nsar - Khatouat                 7,0        70      4,40       5.56       24    7,7     250      5,98     11,37     25,2
Benslimane      Ain Madnat-S.Sbaa                  14,0       200      8,80       25.00      58   13,7     250      9,55     22,46     28,1
Meknès          Moussaoua - Oulad Chialikh         10,0       105      8,32       5.56       17   10,1     150      7,37     8,80      14,9
Ouarzazate      Boumalne - Ikniouene               20,0        45      12,32      0.93       16   18,5     250     15,22     46,96     43,4
Safi            Safi-Jemaa Shim et                 13,0        45      8,32       0.93       16   11,5     350      7,82     27,64     41,1
Safi            Dar Si Aissa - El Arbaa Rguibat    13,0        45      8,32       0.93       16   11,2     200      7,82     15,38     23,5
Safi            Tnine Farâa- RP2333                 9,0        45      5,76       12.04      41   13,0     250     11,79     17,70     23,3
Taroudant       Tafraouten - Imoulass               9,0       175      7,20       1.85       21    8,8     250     12,04     7,29      14,2
Tiznit          Ait Mansour - Afella Ighir         10,0        75      3,40       4.63       38    9,5     250      7,98     13,53     24,3
Tiznit          Ighrem - Zagour (*)                28,0        75      10,56      13.89      37   28,9     250     10,75    127,23     37,7
   TOTAL                                           184,5              131,80     128.71      30   179,2            135,72


3.4.         Notation et justification.

L‟évaluation globale du projet est satisfaisante, elle est justifiée par l‟analyse effectuée ci-avant sur:
    L‟atteinte des objectifs généraux du Projet : tous atteints.
    La conception du Projet qui à répondu aux exigences de l‟environnement dans lequel il a été
       exécuté et de la pertinence de son intégration dans le PNRR2.
    Le montage institutionnel d‟exécution qui, avec l‟évolution de l‟environnement politique et
       administratif, a permis de palier aux risques identifiés à l‟évaluation.
    Une exécution conforme au cadre d‟évaluation et une utilisation des fonds optimale suivant
       les règles administratives et fiduciaires de la Banque.

En plus et à travers le don et les différentes missions de la BM, une équipe du CNER a été constituée et
formée dans le domaine de la conception et l‟exploitation des systèmes de suivi d‟évaluation des
programmes des projets routiers. L‟expérience capitalisée à travers l‟analyse des projets du prêt 4747,
sera bénéfique pour la gestion, le suivi et l‟évaluation des programmes futurs similaires.

3.5          Autres résultats obtenus.

Impacts socio-économiques
Une étude faite par le bureau d‟études CID en mars 2010 portant sur 6 projets routiers du PNRR2 dans 6
régions et achevés depuis 2008 a cependant donné des résultats très encourageants, ce qui laisse supposer
un impact socio économique très positif à l‟achèvement du PNRR2 :
            Le trafic journalier a été en moyenne multiplié par 5 grâce à la réhabilitation des routes (le trafic
             de véhicule léger a été multiplié par 9)




                                                                      51
                                                      Avant PNRR2       Après PNRR2
    300
                                                                                                                    251
    250

    200                                                                                   169
    150

    100                    70                              84
                                                                                  29                        41
    50            17                              9
     0
           Véhicules de transport rural               VP                          TMJ normal                 TMJ souk


   Le coût de transport des passagers et des marchandises a diminué en moyenne de 45% et 42%
    respectivement
                                                                         Avant PNRR2                         Après PNRR2
          Coût transport passager                                          1 Dh/km                           0,56 Dh/km
          Coût transport marchandises                                   6,28 Dh/T/km                        3,63 Dh/T/km

   Les durées de coupures de la circulation ont diminué d‟environ 90% :
    6,33 jour/an             1,83 jour/an
   Le taux de scolarisation des enfants en âge de scolarisation a gagné en moyenne 11 points
    67%                                         78%

   Le pourcentage des filles dans les écoles est plus important dans la situation avec projet (44%)
    que dans la situation sans projet (40%)
              60%                                 Sans projet       Avec projet
                                                                                                  54%
                                                                                     50%
                                          47%                      47%            48%
              50%
                           45%                                  45%                                          44%
                                     43%
                                                                                                39%       40%
              40%
                       34%
                                                  29%
              30%
                                                       24%

              20%


              10%


               0%
                        Agadir      Beni Mellal   Meknes        Oujda             Rabat          Safi     Moyenne




   Les consultations aux centres de santé dans la situation avec projet sont supérieures de 39% à
    celles de la situation sans projet
                                                                             Nombre de consultations
                       DRET                           Sans Projet                      Avec Projet                  Evolution
      Agadir                                                    2858                               3541                 24%
      Beni Mellal                                               9422                              13190                 40%
      Oujda                                                     7420                              10600                 43%
      Safi                                                      8250                              11550                 40%
             Moyenne                                            6987                               9720                 39%


                                                                       52
        Les visites des femmes aux centres de santé ont augmenté de 80%

        Les surfaces cultivées et les rendements ont augmenté grâce à un meilleur accès des machines
         agricoles, des engrais et des semences sélectionnées ainsi qu‟aux services d‟assistance
                                 Augmentation des surfaces cultivées        Augmentation des rendements
          Céréales                               36,4%                                 25%
          Légumes                                53,8%                                11,4%
          Maraîchages                             5,8%                                 3,6%
          Plantations                            16,7%                             9,6% à 47,2%

        Grâce au PNRR2, l‟élevage a bénéficié :
          D‟un meilleur débouché commercial
          D‟un meilleur accès aux coopératives de lait
          D‟un meilleur accès aux services vétérinaires
         Dans la situation avec projet, le cheptel est supérieur en moyenne de 34,5% par rapport à la
         situation sans projet
                  Le nombre d‟ovins a augmenté de 23,7%
                  Le nombre de bovins a augmenté de 45,1%
                  Le nombre de caprins a augmenté de 31,4%

        Les conditions de vie ont été améliorées. Le taux des maisons en dur a progressé :
                                                         Taux des maisons en dur
                DRET                  Sans Projet             Avec projet                 Evolution
               Agadir                      65%                     80%                     +23%
             Béni Mellal                   67%                     89%                     +33%
              Meknès                       25%                     50%                     +100%
               Oujda                       31%                     41%                     +33%
               Rabat                       17%                     61%                     +259%
                Safi                      100%                     100%                     0%
              Moyenne                     51%                      70%                     +38%
        Les revenus mensuels par ménage a passé de 2107 Dh à 2919 Dh, soit 39% d‟augmentation
        La consommation mensuelle a passé de 1713 Dh à 2326 Dh, soit 36% d‟augmentation
        Les prix des produits de base ont baissé en moyenne de 14,3%
                             Prix en Dh                       Sans Projet           Avec Projet
                Sucre (2kg)                                            13,33                   12,00
                Huile (1l)                                             16,58                   14,67
                Thé (250g)                                             13,67                   11,75
                Farine (25kg)                                         164,50                  136,50
                Gaz (petite bouteille)                                 12,45                   11,00
                Gaz (grande bouteille)                                 44,95                   41,50
                            Total panier                              265,48                  227,42

Impacts institutionnels.

       Montage institutionnel
Le montage institutionnel mis en place pour le PRR1 et le PNRR2 est une réussite. Les entités
administratives créées ex nihilo spécialement pour l‟exécution du PNRR2 comme la CFR et pour le suivi
du PNRR2, comme l‟UGP se sont révélées efficaces et parfaitement adaptées aux besoins.

                                                         53
     Création de la CFR
La CFR est actuellement une entité bien assise avec 14 agents dont 7 cadres. Elle possède un
organigramme, un statut du personnel et a signé une convention avec l‟Etat. Elle dispose d‟un manuel de
procédures ainsi que d‟un système d‟information et remplit pleinement son rôle comme défini par les
textes organiques. Elle devient l‟interlocuteur attitré de la dizaine de bailleurs de fonds participant au
Programme, s‟affirme comme « l‟emprunteur » et constitue donc un élément indispensable au montage du
financement des investissements routiers.

     Création de l’UGP
Crée en 2006, l‟UGP constitue le guichet unique qui doit jouer le rôle :
-     d‟interface entre les services extérieurs (DRET/DPET) et la CFR
-     de synthèse des informations relatives au PNRR2 avec la préparation de tableaux de bord
      d‟avancement pour les gestionnaires

L‟UGP comprend actuellement 8 agents dont 3 cadres et est épaulée d‟une mission d‟assistance technique
financée par la BEI. A ce jour, L‟UGP joue parfaitement :
     son rôle d‟interface entre les différents intervenants au PNRR2, que ce soit les DPET, les
        bailleurs de fonds, la CFR ou les autres services de l‟état concernés.
     son rôle de guichet unique concernant les demandes informations consolidées relatives au
        PNRR2.

     Affirmation du rôle du CNER
Le CNER (Centre National d‟Etudes Routières) est un service décentralisé de la Direction des Routes
avec des responsabilités précises en matière d‟études et de recherche routières. Il continue à assurer ce
rôle, notamment en ce qui concerne le PNRR2, mais n‟est pas pour autant totalement impliqué dans la
mise en exécution de ce programme. Cette sage répartition des tâches permet de maintenir les attributions
du CNER en dehors des fluctuations du projet et d‟avoir à tout instant une vision objective sur le
développement du projet.

     Négociations et signatures des conventions
La mise en place des conventions relatives à l‟élaboration et l‟exécution du PNRR2 signées par les
communes rurales, les provinces et les ministres concernés constitue une nouveauté et une avancée
notable dans le processus de préparation, de financement et de gestion du réseau routier. Les négociations
concernant les conventions puis leur signature ont permis une « appropriation » des projets de routes
rurales, sinon par les populations rurales, au moins par les autorités et représentants de ces populations.

     Les audits
En raison de la multiplicité des bailleurs de fonds, ce projet connaît un nombre élevé d‟audit détaché par
de nombreux organismes participant au Programme, sans compter les contrôles administratifs et
financiers internes de la Direction des Routes :
         Audit annuel des Inspecteurs des Finances détachés par le Gouvernement,
         Audit annuel faite par la Cour des Comptes dans le cadre des ses attributions,
         Audit annuel administratif et financier fait par un bureau d‟audit privé financé par la Banque
             Mondiale
         Audit annuel technique par un bureau d‟audit privé financé par la Banque Mondiale



                                                    54
Ces audits ont permis de corriger certains erreurs et manquements. Les multiples audits mis en place pour
suivre l‟exécution du PNRR2 donnent à ce projet un visa de bonne gouvernance favorable à son image et
facilite la recherche de son financement.

     Dossier d’Appel d’Offres type
Un Dossier d‟Appel d‟Offres type a également été établi à l‟intention des DPET qui confectionnent les
DAO pour le PNRR2. Cette approche constitue également une avancée très positive dans l‟amélioration
du processus de passation des marchés routiers et facilite la gestion des marchés routiers par les cadres
territoriaux.

Il convient de remarquer qu‟à cette occasion, les clauses visant la préservation et le respect de
l‟environnement ont été introduites ce qui a permis d‟instaurer une certaine culture de l‟environnement
chez les cadres des entreprises privées ainsi que ceux des bureaux d‟études.

     Outils de gestion informatique
Grâce à l‟appui institutionnel du PRR1, le CNER a également mis au point une base de données collectant
les informations techniques et socio économiques relatives aux opérations du PNRR2 qui permettent une
évaluation et des analyses poussées dans le domaine économique et de la recherche routière. Cette base
constitue un appui de valeur à la recherche routière, notamment celle concernant les routes rurales à faible
trafic.

L‟UGP a également mis en place une application informatique de suivi et de gestion des opérations du
PNRR2, depuis la mise en étude de l‟opération jusqu‟à la réception des travaux, en passant par les
différentes phases d‟études, l‟établissement des DAO, la passation des marchés, l‟exécution des travaux et
les paiements. Cet outil a permis la production des tableaux de bord permettant un suivi rapproché de
l‟état d‟avancement du PNRR2 par région, par DPET, par province et par opération.

4.      RISQUES POSSIBLES POUR LES RESULTATS OBTENUS.

4.1     Risques des objectifs.

Le présent projet a été lancé pour appuyer le PNRR2 qui a pour objectif d‟atteindre un taux d‟accessibilité
de la population rurale de 80% à son achèvement.

Le PNRR2 a été effectivement lancé avant l‟achèvement du présent projet et a permis d‟assurer sa
continuité, avec un plan de financement assuré par la création de la CFR.

A la date de clôture du Prêt, le taux d‟accessibilité national était de 70,2%, donc les 80% prévus seront
probablement atteints à l‟achèvement du PNRR2.

Ainsi, le risque de non atteinte de l‟objectif d‟accessibilité est négligeable.

4.2     Pérennité du Projet.

Le niveau de service recherché : route à caractère d‟assurer un faible trafic pour lequel il est accepté un
maximum de linéaire pour un développement futur (reprise de tracé, mise à niveau d‟ouvrage d‟art pour
passer d‟une durée de coupure de dix jours à un niveau de viabilité en temps normal). Il faut savoir que le
changement climatique est bien une réalité constatée au Maroc comme dans d‟autres pays. Il a des
impacts nuisibles sur les infrastructures routières et par conséquent sur la pérennité de la circulation :
coupure de routes et dégradation de chaussée et d‟ouvrages hydrauliques.

                                                       55
La rigueur des saisons hivernales 2008/2009 et 2009/2010 a mis le réseau routier marocain à rude
épreuve. Plus de 109 points de coupure en 2008/2009 et 272 points de coupure en 2009/2010 (hors
coupures par la neige) ont été enregistrés dans différentes régions du Maroc alors que le nombre de points
de coupure moyen annuel est d‟habitude de l‟ordre de 30 points. Ces coupures sont dues essentiellement
aux crues d‟oueds, glissements de terrains, éboulis ainsi que déversements des barrages, provoqués par les
fortes précipitations.

Les dégâts ayant affecté le réseau routier lors desdites saisons ont affecté les différents types de routes
(voies express, routes nationales, routes régionales et routes rurales) et ont touché les différentes
composantes de la route, à savoir :
        dégradations d‟ouvrages d‟art (OA) : départs des remblais d‟accès, dégradation partielle ou
           totale d‟OA, affouillements, …
        dégradations de plates-formes : glissements de terrain, sapements de chaussées, départ des
           confortements, ravinements, départ des ouvrages d‟assainissement,
        accélération de la dégradation des chaussées : fissurations, épaufrures, déformations, nids de
           poules,…

Ces réparations concernent :
        Le traitement des glissements
        La confection des murs de soutènement
        Le traitement des chaussées
        La construction des ponts, dalots et radiers en béton
        La construction des déviations locales près des ponts détruits
        Le rétablissement des remblais d‟accès

Les mobilisations budgétaires opérées par le MET d‟une part et la politique d‟entretien et de maintenance
adoptée, d‟autre part, ont permis la pérennité de la circulation sur le réseau structurant et collecteur en
accordant la priorité aux travaux de réparation des dégâts enregistrés sur ces axes.

Ceci étant, il faut signaler que l‟accélération de la dégradation des chaussées a dépassé le rythme de
mobilisation des crédits notamment pour les routes de proximité.

L‟entretien des routes classées à la charge de l‟Etat entre dans le cadre des plans quinquennaux élaborés
par la Direction des Routes. Les interventions sont programmées en fonction de l‟état de dégradation de
ces routes.

Pour les routes non classées réalisées dans le cadre du PNRR2, La problématique de leur entretien
demeure entièrement posée dans la mesure où les collectivités locales n‟ont pas pour leur majorité les
moyens financiers nécessaires pour le faire et que le FSR est de plus en plus affecté dans sa capacité
d‟intervention en la matière du fait qu‟il prend en charge le financement des travaux, le service de la dette
de la CFR et ses frais de fonctionnement.

Une commission tripartite représentant le Ministère de l‟Equipement et des Transports (DR), le Ministère
des Finances (DB) et Ministère de l‟Intérieur (DGCL), a été mise en place pour réfléchir aux problèmes
de pérennisation des investissements pour les routes non classées. Un plan d‟action a été déjà établi et
approuvé par cette commission.

Par ailleurs, une convention financière a été signée le 29 décembre 2010 avec l‟Union Européenne pour
aide budgétaire destinée au financement d‟un programme de désenclavement des populations isolées
défini en conformité avec les critères et approche arrêtés pour le PNRR2.

                                                     56
La pérennité des routes rurales communales ainsi que le renforcement du rôle et des capacités des
communes ont été retenus comme conditions de décaissement de l‟aide budgétaire de l‟Union
Européenne. Six indicateurs ont été retenus :
    Composition du réseau des routes communales des communes rurales est arrêtée
    Un Plan d‟Action conjoint pour aboutir à l‟adoption d‟une stratégie d‟entretien du réseau routier
       communal est validée par une commission interministérielle formée par le Ministère des Finances
       (MEF), le Ministère de l‟Intérieur (MI) et le Ministère de l‟Equipment et des Transports (METT)
    Une Stratégie incluant les modalités de mise en œuvre de l‟entretien et de financement du réseau
       routier communal est adoptée par le Gouvernement
    Mise en œuvre d‟un mécanisme pérenne d‟entretien du réseau routier communal dote de
       ressources financières pérennes et d‟un dispositif institutionnel de mise en œuvre
    Les Plans communaux de Développement (PCD) des communes qui relèvent de 12 provinces des
       régions de Tanger-Tétouan, Taza-El Hoceima-Taounate, Souss Massa-Draa intègrent un plan de
       gestion du réseau routier communal.
    Les Conseils Provinciaux des Régions Tanger-Tétouan, Taza-El Hoceima-Taounate, Souss
       Massa-Draa font partie de groupements de collectivités locales ou sont signataires de conventions
       de partenariat ou de coopération regroupant les communes de chaque province et ayant pour objet
       la gestion et l‟entretien du réseau routier communal.

Un premier rapport d‟avancement sur la prise en charge de l‟entretien des routes rurales locales a été
élaboré en octobre 2011.

5.        EVALUATION DE LA PERFORMANCE DE LA BANQUE ET DE L'EMPRUNTEUR.

5.1       Performance de la Banque.

La concrétisation et la réalisation du Prêt 4747 MOR octroyé par la BIRD (Banque Mondiale) résultent de
la conjugaison de l‟effort de tous les Intervenants : la Mission Chef de Projet à la Banque, le Ministère de
l‟Economie et des Finances du Maroc (notamment la Direction du Budget), la Direction des Routes
(l‟ensemble des Divisions et spécialement l‟UGP PNRR2), les DRET/DPET locales et les Trésoriers
locaux.
     La Banque a assuré un fort soutien technique dans l‟identification du Projet et l‟évaluation socio
        économique des opérations retenues.
     Le lancement du Projet Prêt 4747 MOR a permis le renforcement des capacités de la DR à travers
        la mise en place de l‟UGP PNRR2.
     Dans l‟ensemble, les demandes de décaissement et de réalimentation du Fonds de Roulement
        étaient traitées dans des temps normaux par les Services concernés de la BM et ne recevaient pas
        des rejets, et ce au mérite des vérifications faites par la Direction du Budget (MEF) et des
        Services de la DR (DPP).

Management des modifications :
L‟Equipe de la Banque Mondiale a été très réactive lors de l‟introduction des demandes de :
         Augmentation du linéaire et ajout de certaines brettelles pour des opérations initialement
          identifiées (ex : DPET Chtouka).
         Réaffectation des montants des catégories du Prêt survenue en 2010.



                                                    57
En effet et suite au bon système de suivi et d‟évaluation du Projet Prêt 4747 MOR, l‟Equipe de la Banque
Mondiale et l‟UGP PNRR2 ont constaté, en 2010, la nécessité d‟opérer une réaffectation des montants
des catégories du Prêt, pour assurer un déboursement intégral du prêt.
Dans ce sens, la Direction des Routes a procédé à:
    (i) introduire une demande de réallocation du montant du prêt au profit de la catégorie travaux à
         hauteur de € 30.445 millions ;
    (ii) imputer au prêt toutes les opérations retenues dans la description du projet et munies d‟une non-
         objection de la Banque pour l‟adjudication de leurs marchés ;

La Banque Mondiale a répondu favorablement à cette demande (Annexe 1 : Demande de réaffectation).

Prorogation du délai de clôture du Prêt survenue en 2010. Idem, et en réponse au léger risque constaté sur
le décaissement de la totalité du Prêt au 30 juin 2010, la DR a présenté une demande de prorogation du
délai d‟une année afin de disposer du temps nécessaire pour :
    (i) L‟exécution des conventions avec le CNER pour le suivi du PNRR 2 pour les années 2008, 2009
          et 2010, dont l‟accord de la Banque Mondiale pour le lancement a été donné à fin 2009.
    (ii) Le lancement et l‟achèvement des travaux au niveau des deux liaisons en retard (une à cause
          d‟une résiliation et l‟autre pour des besoins d‟études poussées).
    (iii) L‟achèvement de certaines opérations en cours qui se sont vues ajourner vu les conditions
          climatiques exceptionnelles ayant prévalu durant les années 2007, 2008 et 2009.

Egalement, la Banque Mondiale a répondu favorablement à cette requête (Annexe 2 : demande de
prorogation du délai d‟une année).

La conjugaison des deux derniers points a permis l‟exécution du Projet dans la sérénité et les taux de
décaissement seront de 100 % vers la fin de 2011.

Management de la Clôture du Prêt.
Suite à la demande de l‟Emprunteur, L‟Equipe de la Banque Mondiale a animé – le 16 mars 2011 – avec
l‟Equipe DR un atelier sur les modalités et dispositions en vigueur pour la clôture des Prêts BM.

Cette demi journée a connu un franc succès avec la participation des cadres de la DR (Central,
Territorial), des cadres de la Direction du Budget (MEF), des Consultants et Experts de la BM
(Recommandation de la journée en Annexe 3).

5.2     Performance de l’Emprunteur.

Sur l‟exécution du Prêt 4747 MOR, l‟évaluation de la performance de l‟emprunteur est satisfaisante sur
tous les plans, à savoir :
         - Maitrise des procédures de la BM dans la préparation des dossiers de financement des
             opérations inscrites sur le Prêt ;
         - Maitrise des procédures de la BM dans la passation des marchés des opérations inscrites sur
             le Prêt ;
         - Maitrise de l‟exécution et du suivi physique des opérations ;
         - Bonne exécution financière des opérations et leurs décaissement à la fin de la durée du Prêt
             tel que prorogé ;
         - Bonne capitalisation sur les best practices au niveau du montage des Projets, leurs suivis et
             évaluations.



                                                   58
6.      ENSEIGNEMENTS TIRES DU PROJET.

L‟exécution du PRR1 (Prêt 4747 MA) a permis de tirer les enseignements suivants :

6.1     L’importance du montage institutionnel.

Le montage institutionnel se révèle essentiel pour la réussite d‟un projet.

Toutes les entités responsables à mobiliser dans le cycle d‟exécution d‟un projet doivent être au préalable
clairement identifiées et il est nécessaire de s‟assurer qu‟elles disposent de tous les moyens nécessaires
pour assumer pleinement le travail qui leur est destiné.

En dehors des acteurs classiques de l‟exécution du projet comme les services du Ministère de
l‟Equipement, la Direction des Routes, les CERET, le CNER, il est à souligner la création de la CFR pour
la gestion des problèmes relatifs au financement du projet et aux décaissements et surtout celle de l‟UGP
pour être un guichet unique, une interface indispensable entre l‟agence d‟exécution et les nombreux
partenaires de ce projet complexe.

La création de l‟UGP, a facilité les flux d‟information, la coordination avec touts les intervenants dont les
bailleurs de fonds et les autres partenaires, tant au point de vue avancement consolidé au niveau national
qu‟au point de vue gestion des aspects environnementaux et sociaux ainsi que des relations avec les
collectivités locales.

6.2     L’importance du renforcement des capacités.

Le problème de renforcement des capacités est aussi d‟importance primordiale, surtout pour les projets
ayant reçu quelques innovations dans leur structure et dans leur processus d‟exécution. Le PRR1, avec
des exigences nouvelles en matière de respect de l‟environnement et du cadre social, nécessite une
sensibilisation et une formation des cadres exécutant pour pouvoir se conformer à ces exigences.

     La gestion centrale ou la décentralisation.
Ce problème mérite toujours d‟être débattu à l‟occasion de l‟exécution d‟un projet complexe, comprenant
de nombreux volets et exécuté par une multitude de services éparpillés sur l‟ensemble du territoire d‟un
pays. Chaque solution a ses avantages et inconvénients. La solution adoptée pour le PRR1 semble donner
des résultats satisfaisants : c‟est une solution hybride, à savoir :
 - Décentralisation au niveau technique et administratif de l‟exécution des travaux,
 - Centralisation au niveau financier et reporting,
 - Coordination des partenaires grâce à une entité nouvelle, l‟UGP.

Cette solution ne peut pas cependant être généralisée automatiquement à d‟autres structures
administratives car elle découle plutôt d‟une optimisation des avantages qu‟offre l‟organisation
administrative existante au sein de la DR.

     La nécessité d’un travail en équipe.
Le travail en équipe est une nécessité absolue pour la réussite d‟un projet. L‟esprit d‟équipe qui a prévalu
tant au niveau des DRET/DPET, des CERET et des INFRA des services territoriaux qui ont été impliqués
dans l‟élaboration et le financement du Projet qu‟au niveau des cadres de l‟administration centrale et ceux
de la Banque ont permis au Programme d‟avancer sans heurt et sans entrave majeure. Tous les problèmes
rencontrés ont pu ainsi être résolus dans un climat de satisfaction mutuelle car des difficultés réelles ont
pu être vaincues.

                                                     59
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

                        NOT APLLICABLE




                               60
                        Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


   Project Appraisal Document
   Minutes of the Quality Enhancement review
   Aide- Memoires
   ISRs
   Environmental Monitoring plan and Resettlement Policy Framework (Plan de Gestion
    Environnementale et Sociale - PGES, et Cadre d’acquisition des emprises et de réinstallation)
   Progress Reports and Audit Reports
   Accessibility Reports
   Impact evaluations
   ICR Highway VI Project
   Maintenance strategies study
 Agreement with the European Union dated December 2010 (appui budgétaire pour un
    programme de désenclavement rural)




                                              61
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 33316
                14°                                 12°                                      10°                                            8°                                                     6°                                                       4°                                                      2°
36°                                                                                                                                                                                     TANGER                                                                     Mediterranean               Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TETOUAN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AL HOCEIMA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NADOR
                                                                                                                                                                             LARACHE                                                                                                                                                     To Alger
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CHAOUEN
                             MOROCCO                                                                                                                                                            Ksar el Kebir                                                                                                      Ahfir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Berkane
                 RURAL ROADS PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OUEZZANE                                       Aknoul                                                  OUJDA
                                                                                                                                                               Souk el Arbo du Rharb                                 Rhafsai                                                 Saka
                           MOTORWAYS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Taourirt
                           NATIONAL ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                TAOUNATE
                                                                                                                                                                                              SIDI                                                                                                 Jerada
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Guercif
                           OTHER CLASSIFIED ROADS                                                                                                                  KENITRA                   KACEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TAZA                                                    Ain Bini                                 34°
                           RIVERS                                                                                                                             SALE                                                                                                                                                  Mathar
                                                                                                                                                         RABAT                                                   MEKNES                                                             Debdou
                           ELEVATIONS ABOVE 1,000 METERS                                                                                                                       Tiflet                                             FES

                           SELECTED TOWNS                                                                                               MOHAMMEDIA                                                                                      SEFROU
34°
                                                                                                                                                                                             Khemisset
                           NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                   CASABLANCA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IFRANE
                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                  Ben Slimane         Rommani                    AZROU
                                                                                                                                                                                               Oulmes                                    Boulemane
                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY (APPROXIMATE)                                                    Azemmour
                                                                                                             EL JADIDA                 BERRECHID                                                                                                 Missour

                                                                                                          Jarf Lasfar                                       Benahmed
                                                                                                                                         SETTAT                              OUED                           Khenifra




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       To Laghouat
                                                                                                                           Sidi                                              ZEM
                                                                                                                          Smail                                                                                                     Midelt                                                                              Bouârfa
                                                                                                                                                         KHOURIBGA
                                                                                                                              Sidi                            Fkih
                                                                                                                            Bennour                           ben
                                                                                                                                                  El Borouj  Salah                  KASBA-TADLA

                                                                                                                                                                                   BENI MELLAL                                                                                                                                                               32°
                                                                                                   SAFI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Figuig
                                                                                                                          Youssoufia                                                                                                                              Boudenib
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    To Bechar
                                                                                                           Chemaia                                     EL KELAA                                                         ERRACHIDIA
                                                                                                                                                          DES            Azilal
32°                                                                                                                                                    SRARHNA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Goulmima
                                                                                                                                                              Demnate
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Tinerhir
                                                                                                      Chichaoua                           MARRAKECH                                                                                                Erfoud
                                                                                 Essaouira
                                                                                                                                                                                              Boumalne
                                                                                                       Imin
                                                                                                      Tanout        Amizmiz
                                                                                                                                                            OUARZAZATE
                                                                                   Tamanar


                                                                                                           Argana

                                                                                                                                            Tazenakht                    Agdz
                  ATLANTIC            OCEAN                                                                                                                                        Zagora
                                                                                       AGADIR                  TAROUDANNT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    30°




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AR
                                                                                                                  Irhem




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N
30°                                                                                                                                                                                                                     U
                                                                                                                                  Tata                                                                            BO
                                                                                                                                                                                                        E
                                                                                                                                                                                               AT
                                                                                  TIZNIT
                                                                                                                                                                           OXIM
                                                                                                            Tafraoute
                                                                                                                                                                     APP R
                                                                         Ifni        Bou
                                                                                   Izakran


                                                                     Goulimine


            CANARY
            ISLANDS                                                                                                                                                            0              25             50         75           100 Miles                                                                                                               28°
             (Spain)                                                       Oued
                                                           Tan-Tan                                                                                                                                                                                                              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                               0        25      50          75     100 Kilometers                                               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
28°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.


      14°        Tarfaya                12°                                      10°                                              8°                                                    6°                                                           4°                                                            2°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    JUNE 2004
