Domt Of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
AX/ 2'.ry CY
Report No. P-4267- CY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$20.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
FOR A
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
March 27, 1986
IThis document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
|of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984             October 1985
Currency Unit              Cyprus Pounds (CE)                C£
US$1            =              CE 0.59                     CE 0.57
C£ 1            =              US$1.70                     US$1.75
Fiscal Year = Calendar Year
ABBREVIATIONS
GDP   - Gross Domestic Product
ICB   - International Competitive Bidding
KFAED - Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
LCB   - Local Competitive Bidding
MCW - Ministry of Communications and Works
PWD   - Public Works Department



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:     Republic of Cyprus.
Loan Amount: US$20.0 million.
Terms:        Fifteen years, including three years grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project
Description:  The proposed project aims to establish a transport planning and
policy framework, implement a sustainable and cost effective
highway maintenance system, upgrade priority highways, and
further improve highway safety. It comprises a four-year time
slice of the highway rehabilitation, strengthening and
maintenance program and includes upgrading of the
Larnaca-Nicosia Road, continuation of rural road improvements,
procurement of highway maintenance, safety and traffic survey
equipment, and consultancy services to assist in studies on
highway and transport sector planning, road user charges,
regional traffic control, and road safety measures. The Bank
loan will provide financing for: (a) road rehabilitation and
strengthening; (b) periodic maintenance; (c) procurement of
equipment; and (d) consultancy services. Benefits lie
primarily in institution building associated with the
implementation of effective highway maintenance and pavement
management, the preparation of a transport sector strategy and
further development of project evaluation. The project would
lead to savings in pavement reconstruction and in vehicle
operating costs and reductions in traffic accidents. There are
no unusual risks but allowance has been made in project
implementation for delays in the major construction components.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
theiofficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-it-
Estimated Project Costs: 1/
Local      Foreign        Total
- ---- (US$ Million)-
Capital Costs
Construction and Improvement                     12.36         10.11         22.47
Rural Road Improvement                            3.75          3.06          6.81
Rehabilitation and Strengthening                  7.50          6.14         13.64
Periodic Maintenance                              2.86          3.50          6.36
Equipment                                         0.09          1.55          1.64
Technical Assistance                              0.27          0.82          1.09
Base Cost                                  26.83         25.18         52.01
Routine Maintenance                               3.00          1.00          4.00
Contingencies
Physical                                     2.68          2.52         5.20
Price 2/                                     6.37          5.75        12.12
Total Cost                                 38.88         34.45         73.33
Financing Plan                                   Local       Foreign        Total
(US$ Million)
Bank                                              -            20.00         20.00
KFAED                                                          10.56         10.56
Government                                       38.88          3.89         42.77
Total                                     38.88         34.45         73.33
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY         FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93
-(US$ Million)
Annual                          1.20   4.80   4.80   4.80   2.90   1.20   0.30
Cumulative                      1.20   6.00  10.80  15.60  18.50  19.70  20.00
Rate of Return:   44 percent
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5983-CY, dated March 27, 1986
Map: No. IBRD 19432R.
1/  Cost estimates do not include import duties and taxes from which the
project is exempt.
2/  Price escalation for local costs estimated at 6 percent.  Price escalation
for foreign costs estimated at 7 percent, 1986, 1987; 7.5 percent, 1988;
7.7 percent, 1989; 7.6 percent, 1990; and 4.5 percent thereafter.



956S
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS FOR A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Cyprus for the equivalent of US$20.0 million to help
finance a Fourth Highway Project.  The loan will have a term of fifteen years,
including three years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The
Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development is expected to participate in.
financing the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The last economic report on Cyprus (No. 5522-CY) was circulated to
the Executive Directors in July 1985. Its contents are reflected in this
part. In view of the de facto partition of the island following the events of
1974, it has not been possible to assess fully the economic situation and
prospects of the whole island. Hence the analysis provided in this and other
parts of this report relates only to the Government-controlled part in
southern Cyprus. The Basic Country Data are provided in Annex I.
3.       General Background.  Cyprus has a long history of good economic
performance characterized by high growth, low unemployment, price stability
and external balance. This good performance has continued in the southern
part of the island, which remains under the Government's control, after the
events of 1974. The economy recovered rapidly from a severe recession created
by the post-1974 dislocations when one-third of the labor force was
unemployed, and full employment was again achieved by the end of 1978. Rapid
economic recovery is attributable to appropriate and timely Government
policies and strong positive response by the private sector. In particular,
when private domestic demand was severely depressed in the immediate aftermath
of 1974, expansionary budget policy, external capital, and a major expo,rt
drive played key roles in reactivating the economy. Although rapid growth put
considerable pressures on prices and the balance of payments, inflation rate
was modest by international standards and the balance of payments deficit
remained manageable.
Recent Developments and Short-term Outlook
4.       Growth of gross domestic product (GDP) has slowed down to 5.5 percent
in 1984 and 3.5 percent in 1985, compared to an average of over 6.1 percent
during 1978-83. This slowdown was due partly to full capacity in certain
sectors and to the recent world economic recession, which adversely affected
some export markets. The latter caused unemployment to rise somewhat from 2.1
percent in 1980 to about 3.0 percent at end-1984. Reflecting declining
inflation in Cyprus' main trading partners and lower domestic wage demand due
to easing full employment pressure, inflation as measured by the consumer
price index declined from 13 percent in 1980 to 6.0 percent in L984.



- 2 -
5.       The Government's expansionary fiscal policies, which were
instrumental in economic reactivation, have proven difficult to curb, even
though their economic justification has long ceased. As a result, the overall
budgetary deficit has remained high, at $114 million (8.1 percent of GDP) in
1980 and $144 million (6.7 percent of GDP) in 1984. They have been financed
mainly by external and domestic borrowing; grants from Greece covered about 15
percent of the deficits over the past three years. The Government is aware
that the current unsatisfactory public finance situation is a result of both
expenditure and revenue problems and has attempted to tackle it from both
aspects. Its attempts to curb the growth in expenditures, however, have not
been successful for two main reasons: (i) civil servants' salaries have long
been indexed to inflation and attempts to do away with full indexation have
met strong resistance from labor unions; and (ii) proposals to reduce
subsidies for grain production and imported animal feed have not been accepted
by Parliament. The Government, therefore, has been focusing its attention on
raising revenues, which have been relatively low by international standards;
tax collection in Cyprus, including social security contributions, averaged
less than 20 percent of GDP in 1982-84. Excise taxes on selected consumer
goods were increased in 1985. A Government proposal to adopt a value added
tax was recently rejected by Parliament. The Government is presently
considering a package which combines the value added tax with some tax
reductions to enhance its chances of passage upon resubmission to Parliament.
6.       With continued high public sector deficits and strong private sector
demand, imports continued to expand rapidly. Although exports of services,
especially tourism, continued to expand, the surplus in the services account
was not sufficient to cover the deterioration of the trade account. As a
result, the cur::ent account deficit in the balance of payments increased to
about $206 million in 1984 from $176 million in 1982. These deficits have
been more than covered by continued large capital inflows both from private
investment and by public borrowings. As a result, both international reserves
and external debt have risen. At the end of 1984, foreign exchange reserves
stood at $661 million (5 months of imports), a healthy growth from $407
million (4.3 months of imports) in 1981. At the same time, external debt has
risen from $424 million (25 percent of GDP) in 1981 to $836 million (39
percent of GDP) in 1984. The debt service ratio, however, remained relatively
low at just over 11 percent in 1984.
7.       Preliminary data show that the public finance situation and the
balance of payments have not improved in 1985. The budget deficit remains the
same as in 1984 (in terms of GDP, it declined from 6.4 percent to 5.9
percent), despite increased tax revenues resulting from adoption of new tax
measures mentioned in para. 5, necessitating additional borrowings, both
internally and externally. As regards the external account, goods exports
have stagnzted but exports of services continue to show healthy growth.
Imports have also continued to grow, but mainly due to a one-time importation
of aircraft by Cyprus Airways. As a result, another large current account
deficit is indicated for 1985.
Medium-Term Prospects
8.       The Fourth Emergency Economic Action Plan (1982-1986), which calls
for a GDP growth rate of about 4.0 percent per year is based on a continuing
shift in development strategy toward medium-scale, higher technology, more
capital-intensive investments; consolidation of small factories into larger



-3-
units, to realize economies of scale; and export and tourism as the major
engines of growth. In addition, increased emphasis is put on the promotion of
international services, e.g. off-shore banking, consultancy and professional
services, to cater to Middle Eastern and North African markets.
9.       The strategy of promoting investment in, and export of, higher
quality products and services is appropriate. The Plan's target of a
4 percent CDP growth is within the country's potential and the investment
program is sound. Indicators for the first four years of the Plan period show
that growth target is being achieved. Sustaining growth and stability to the
end of this Plan period and beyond, however, depends on adequate policies to
reduce budget deficits and generate some public savings and to increase
private manufacturing investment.
10.      Considerable efforts have been made to increase government revenues
as shown by the increase in tax revenues/GDP ratio from 15 percent in 1980 to
22 percent in 1984. To reduce the budget deficit, however, the Government
needs to raise tax revenues further by: (i) closing tax loopholes; (ii)
strengthening tax administration and auditing procedures; (iii) raising
penalties for tax evasion; and (iv) introducing a value added tax. These
measures should be complemented by a slow-down in the growth of current
expenditures, particularly of civil servants' salaries, and reduction of
subsidies for grain production and imported animal feed. The declining trend
in wage increases is a favorable factor for private manufacturing investment.
However, to promote such investment Cyprus needs also to: systematically
gather and disseminate technological information; establish contacts with
foreign firms and promote joint ventures; explore the availability of
licenses, technical know-how agreements and marketing arrangements; arrange
projects for finance and implementation; and provide extension services.
11.      Cyprus will continue to need an increasing inflow of foreign capital
to help finance the necessary restructuring of its economy. However, since
access to long-term concessionary bilateral and multilateral support is
expected to become increasingly limited, most future public external borrowing
will have to come from commercial sources, either in the form of export or
suppliers' credit, or commercial bank loans. In spite of continuing political
uncertainties, Cyprus' recent experience in mobilizing external financing from
such sources has been encouraging. It successfully raised eurrdollar
borrowings of $30 million in late 1977, $50 million in 1978, $48 million in
July 1980, $85 million in September 1981 and $70 million in July 1982. The
country has also begun to attract significant export and suppliers' credits.
These forms of external borrowing are indicative of the probable future trend.
12.      The Bank's efforts to date have been directed towards encouraging
Cyprus not only to diversify its sources of official aid, but also to use Bank
projects as catalysts to attract other external support, including cofinancing
with commercial banks. Commercial bank cofinancing was arranged in 1980 in
connection with the Third Cyprus Development Bank Project (Loan 1744-CY);
substantial suppliers' credit and a eurocurrency loan for the Power
Transmission and Distribution Project (Loan 1873-CY) in 1980; a loan from the
Kuwait Fund for the Third Highway Project (Loan 2128-CY) in 1982; a loan from
the European Investment Bank for the Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project (Loan
1658-CY) in 1982; and loans from the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
and the European Investment Bank for the Southern Conveyor Project (Loan
2386-CY) in 1984.



13.      Cyprus' external debt has so far remained relatively low, because of
the past policy of financing development from internal resources and the
availability of substantial levels of grant aid from Greece and the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (ranging from $36 million to $59
million per year since 1974), as well as the continuing high inflow of
remittances by Cypriots settled abroad. Total long-term public debt
outstanding and disbursed was $769 million as of December 31, 1984 (36 percent
of GDP). Public debt service was about 10 percent of goods and non-factor
services in 1984. However, given the increasing reliance on commercial
financing, debt service is projected to reach 15 percent of exports of goods
and non-factor services in the next few years, a ceiling set by the Government
for the Fourth Plan (1982-86). The Bank's share in total debt outstanding and
disbursed declined from 51 percent in 1975 to about 10 percent at the end of
1984, while its share in debt service declined from 47 percent in 1975 to
11 percent in 1984. Thus, the Bank's exposure, once quite high, has now
declined to a more normal level and is expected to continue to decline
further. Given this background and the Government's record of economic
management, the country continues to be creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CYPRUS1'
14.      Bank lending to Cyprus began in 1963.  As of September 30, 1985, 25
loans totalling $234.2 million (net of cancellations) were made; of this,
about $176.7 million was held by the Bank. The main areas of concentration
have been infrastructure (power, sewerage, highways and ports), industry
through the vyprus Development Bank, agriculture and water resource
development. A summary statement of Bank loans to Cyprus as of September 30,
1985 is provided in Annex II.
15.      The events of 1974 had a substantial impact on some of the on-going
Bank-financed projects, as well as on planned operations. In particular, the
sewerage project in Famagusta, which lay entirely in the area controlled by
the Turkish Cypriots, and the Nicosia-Morphou highway, the alignment of which
coincided with the cease-fire line. The Famagusta Sewerage Project was 90
percent complete when construction was interrupted and could not be
commissioned in the absence of a political settlement. The undisbursed
balance of the loan was, therefore, cancelled. Construction of the
Nicosia-Morphou highway was suspended after only one month of work and the
unutilized balance of about $3.6 million transferred to the Second Highway
Project. The Nicosia Sewerage Project, which straddled the Greek Cypriot and
Turkish Cypriot areas of Nicosia, was also incomplete. However, as a result
of the initiative of the UNDP and the Bank, cooperation between the two
communities on this matter was engendered and a formal agreement to complete
the project reached in September 1978. The project was completed in 1980 and
continues to benefit both communities. As regards planned operations, a
number of projects under study, or contemplated, before 1974, which were
intended to benefit directly both communities, could not be pursued because of
the de tacto division of the island. The Bank, together with UNDP, continues
to explore areas where cooperation appears possible, although substantial
progress may have to await a political settlement.
1/ Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report (P-3367-CY,
dated March 4, 1985) for the Agricultural Research and Extension Project,
which was approved by the Executive Directors on March 28. 1985.



-5-
16.      Disbursement performance with regard to Bank operations in Cyprus
is generally satisfactory and compares favorably with experience
elsewhere. Disbursements on the Southern Conveyor Project (FY84) are
expected to accelerate as works are progressing rapidly. Similarly,
disbursements on the Third Highway Project (FY82) are expected to pick up
as the loan is now fully committed. On the Fruit arnd Vegetable Export
Project (FY81), however, disbursements have been slower than anticipated.
This is mainly due to delays in the appointment of a marketing consultant
and difficulties experienced by the Government in formulating improved
marketing arrangements agreeable to the private sector exporters of fruit
and vegetables. The Energy Conservation Project (FY83) and the Limassol
Sewerage and Drainage Project (FY84) have also been slow disbursing.  The
Government has requested some changes in the content of the Energy
Conservation Project, while the Limassol Sewerage and Drainage Project has
experienced delays related to the sewage treatment plant site. It is
expected that a solution of these issues will lead to improved
disbursements.
17.      The Bank continues to support activities leading to higher
productivity and exports and providing essential infrastructure justifiable
in the context of the whole island. Within this overall context, Bank
lending has made a substantial contribution towards assisting Cyprus to
recover from the 1974 events, especially in acting as a catalyst to
mobilize external sources of long-term financing. The Government
recognizes that given the relatively high per capita income in Cyprus, Bank
lending has continued so far because of the special circumstances
prevailing in the country, and can be expected to taper off gradually in
the medium-term. Bank lending is expected, therefore, to focus
increasingly on critical projects of a complex and innovative nature that
aim at removing major sectoral constraints. These have included such
projects as the FY84 Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resources
Development, which will integrate and transfer scarce water resources
between different basins in the country; an Agricultural Research and
Extension Project that would promote future agricultural development by
helping to put in place needed research and extension facilities; and
projects such as the FY84 Limassol Sewerage and Drainage Project, the
proposed project, and a similar one planned for the city of Paphos that aim
to develop Cyprus' sewerage systems in order to meet the expected shortages
in sewerage services in major urban areas that are beginning to pose a
health hazard and undermine Cyprus' important tourist industry. Future
projects would include the second phase of the Southern Conveyor Water
Resources Development Project, a project to promote investment in higher
technology manufacturing, and a project in the transport sector with the
objective of developing sector-wide institutions and procedures to
establish a self-sustaining, economically viable transport planning,
implementation and management system.
18.      IFC's first investment in Cyprus was in a cement company in 1972.
The company has since become a leader in the country's successful export
drive. IFC has also invested in an asbestos cement pipe plant, a tourist
hotel, and the Cyprus Investment and Securities Corporation, and is
currently exploring opportunities Eor further investment in the island. As
of September 30, 1985, original gross commitments totalled $5.8 million, of
which $2.0 million are still held by IFC. A statement of IFC investments
in Cyprus is given in Annex II.



-6-
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
19.      Cyprus' transport system is crucial to the efficient management of
its limited domestic resources. For instance, early-season high value
agricultural produce, much of which is perishable, requires both a good
rural road network and export transport facilities to maintain quality and
to benefit from early-season markets; the important tourist industry
requires both good air and road transport; and a good transport system is
essential to the continued development of Cyprus as a center for the
Mediterranean entrepot trade. The Government's current transport sector
policy objective is to achieve a well balanced transport industry in order
for the sector to effectively contribute towards economic growth in
critical resource areas. This need for balance was particularly pronounced
following the events of 1974 that resulted in significant disruptions to
the transport sector. The Government, of necessity, emphasized
rehabilitation through relatively short-term emergency works. Since 1982,
however, there is a shift in Government focus from the earlier remedial
measures to the development of a longer-term strategy focussing on high
priority projects emphasizing the preservation and upgrading of the
existing infrastructure, and a longer-term approach to development projects
and institutional reforms.
20.      The transport system as a whole is efficiently managed and
provides adequate freight and passenger services mostly operated by the
private sector. Nonetheless, some of the infrastructure has reached
capacity point and requires upgrading or replacement if serious problems
are to be avoided. This applies to substantial parts of the road system
and to some facilities at the Larnaca International Airport and the major
port of Limassol. These problems are being actively addressed by the
Government; those in the roads subsector, particularly maintenance, will be
the focus of the proposed project. At the same time, the Government
recognizes the need for planning and for the development of an integrated
approach to transport planning which presently exists only in the case of
the rural road improvement program financed under the Third Highway Project
(Loan 2128-CY). Thus, preparation of a comprehensive Transport Sector
Master Plan is included under the proposed project. The Plan would cover
five years of detailed and ten years of indicative programs of investment,
maintenance and institutional development. To assist in preparing the Plan
consultants would be employed in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
21.      Ports and Airports.  Following the closure of Nicosia
International Airport in 1974, Larnaca International Airport was developed
rapidly as a replacement. While some improvements have been undertaken in
accordance with a master plan prepared in 1977, about 70 percent of the
buildings are still temporary. Although aircraft parking areas, the single
2,750 meter runway and a parallel taxiway under construction are adequate
for the foreseeable future, other facilities have not kept pace with the
traffic increases and there are, consequently, capacity problems. These
problems are likely to increase as several large international carriers
have proposed to transfer their transit operations from Beirut to Larnaca.
Another airport, at Paphos, about 150 kms to the west, which opened in late
1983, has aircraft movement facilities built to international standards but
passenger handling takes place in modified warehouses. Although the
airport is likely to grow as tourism in the Paphos region increases, it is
unlikely to take much passenger traffic from Larnaca. Paphos has,
nonetheless, attracted agricultural and horticultural air freight from



-7-
Larnaca as much of this traffic originates in the Paphos hinterland.
Cyprus is served by about 30 international airlines operating scheduled
services. The national carrier, Cyprus Airways Led., operates profitably.
It is the Government's aim that profit earning entities such as this be
self reliant in financing their development objectives.
22.      With the exception of certain specialized cement, oil and
fertilizer operations, the ports of Limassol and Larnaca handle nearly all
of Cyprus' import and export traffic. Limassol port serves over 70 percent
of general cargo, 60 percent of the passengers and 80 percent of the
containers handled by both Limassol and Larnaca. Uncertainties arising
from the situation in Lebanon and the development of container facilities
at Limassol have resulted in the emergence of Cyprus as an important center
in the East Mediterranean transit trade. Transit traffic is Liable to
fluctuE e as the political and security situation in Beirut changes.
Transit traffic is also a highly competitive business and, with
developments in other ports of the region, Cyprus will have to upgrade the
operations at Limassol port to improve or to maintain its share of this
traffic. In addition, the tariff structure and system of calculation is
not appropriate to modern shipping operations and income has declined.
Consequently the system is currently being analyzed by the Cyprus Ports
Authority Commercial Department and will be revised to ensure adequate
income and competitiveness with other ports in the region.
The Roads Subsector
23.      Road transport is responsible for all domestic movements of people
and freight. It is mostly in the hands of the private sector. Trucks are
operated mainly by individual owner-operators but with a few companies
operating small fleets of up to ten vehicles. A private bus company
operates profitably in Nicosia and there are also two relatively new but
less successful government-promoted bus companies in Limassol and Paphos.
One bus line operates between Nicosia, Limassol and Paphos. A unique
system of about 1,000 owner operated buses serve the outlying villages and
are based in the villages they serve. Currently two studies are underway,
financed under the Third Highway Project (Loan 2128-CY), to examine the
possible rationalizing of rural bus services and to suggest ways in which,
if any is needed, such rationalization should be implemented. There are
also eight-passenger taxis which ply between cities.
24.      There are approximately 160,000 motor vehicles in Cyprus.  The
present level of vehicle ownership is significantly higher than in other
countries in the region and is comparable to many countries in Western
Europe. Traffic congestion and road safety (the fatal accident rate being
nearly thrice that of the United Kingdom) have become serious problems.
Traffic studies completed under previous Bank-assisted highway projects
have resulted in the implementation of some remedial measurcs and further
measures to ease traffic are included in the proposed project. Studies on
road safety had also been included in previous projects and further
measures are included under the proposed project.
25.      Cyprus has about 10,600 kms of roads, of which about 6,000 kms are
bitumen surfaced. Main routes and those carrying high traffic volumes
(2,100 kims in all) are surfaced. The remainder of the network is made up
of district, forestry or municipal roads, many of them gravel surfaced and
carrying only small amounts of traffic. Vehicle overloading is common in



-8-
Cyprus despite legislation setting maximum axle loads. The Government is
now operating a permanent weighing station on the Nicosia-Limassol Road in
an effort to control overloading and arrangements are being made to operate
this at all times. Nevertheless, agreement was obtained at negotiations
that the Government would at all time strictly enforce axle load
legislation; to that end, under the present project, agreement was likewise
obtained that two permanent weighbridges serving the Nicosia-Limassol
highway would be in operation by December 31, 1987, and one permanent
weighbridge serving the Larnaca-Nicosia highway would be in operation by
December 31, 1989 and that at least four portable weighbridges be operated
by December 31, 1987 to cover the entire road network.
The Institutional Framework
26.      Responsibility for highway administration is shared between the
Public Works Department (PWD) of the Ministry of Communications and Works
(MCW); the District Administration under the Ministry of the Interior; the
Forestry Department under the Ministry of Agriculture; and the
Municipalities. The PWD is responsible for the main highways, the District
Administration for lowe; category roads, the Forestry Department for forest
roads, and the Municipalities for local streets and roads falling within
their jurisdictions. In the PWD, the office of the Chief Engineer is
responsible for planning, design, construction and maintenance of the main
highways. Under the control and supervision of the Chief Engineer, five
District Engineers carry out highway maintenance and force account
construction within their respective districts.
27.      While planning in the roads subsector has been increasingly
undertaken within the PWD, it has to date been characterized by project
selection rather than medium-term integrated planning. The proposed
project is comprehensive, covering most highway needs for 1986-90, and thus
provides a framework for a highway plan which will be progressively
developed and extended during project implementation through the
preparation of a Transport Sector Master Plan and a joint Government-Bank
annual review process. About 75 percent of the proposed highway
construction, rehabilitation and maintenance components during the project
period has been subjected to economic evaluation and found to be
economically justified. The remaining 25 percent consists of roads in
refugee housing areas, self-financing housing estates, industrial estates
and small municipalities for which municipal authorities and improvement
boards contributed funds. Although this type of works will probably
decrease during the next few vears as the demographic situation stabilizes,
the introduction of simplified evaluation techniques for such works will be
addressed during the proposed project. The proposed Transport Sector
Master Plan will provide a rational framework for the evaluation of future
proposals.
28.      Highway design standards are satisfactory and the PWD has adequate
facilities to carry out most design work. Consultants are employed for
larger road construction projects. Major road construction work is
normally undertaken by contract while small improvements and works are
carried out by force account. The proposed project seeks to examine the
advantages of increased use of contracts in all these activities. There is
an adequate construction and civil contracting industry in the country.
Performance of local contractors under Bank-financed projects has generally
been good.



-9-
29.      Improved road maintenance is the principal institutional objective
of the proposed project. Although a Five-Year (1982-86) Road Maintenance
Plan has been developed, inconsistency in budget support for highway
mailatenance and PWD's lack of technical capability to specify and carry out
main enance works-which in turn led to ineffective us2 of available
funds- )hampered the achievement of Plan objectives. Correction of these
deficiencies is a major thrust of the proposed project with the provision
of a special three-man headquarters maintenance unit and the appointment of
a senior highway maintenance technician to each District in accordance with
Phase II of the Highway Maintenance Management System being undertaken
under the ongoing Third Highway Project. The Government has recognized the
need for adequate budget allocations. With improved road maintenance as
its principal institutional objective, the proposed Fourth Project will
assist with the long term planning and technical improvement of road
maintenance. During negotiations agreement was reached that upon
completion of Phase II of the Highway Maintenance Management System, by
March 31, 1988. The recommendations of Phase II, as agreed with the Bank,
would be used to form the basis of annual physical and financial
maintenance programs.
30.      The Government regulates public passenger and freight transport
under the Motor Transport Regulation Law (1964) and amendments thereto.
The Law is administered by the semi-independent Licensing Authority and by
the Licensing Department in MCW. The Government controls fares and
schedules for public transport routes and approves schedules of urban and
inter-urban buses. It also exercises direct control over the import of
buses, and indirect control over trucks through regulation of entry into
the road haulage industry. These controls and regulations are administered
flexibly and encourage competition within the transport industry.
Bank Involvement in the Transport Sector
31.      The Bank has participated in five previous projects in the
transport sector. These were: First Highway Project (Loan 904-CY), Second
Highway Project (Loan 1344-CY), Third Highway project (Loan 2128-CY), which
is ongoing and is expected to be completed in December 1986; First Port
Project (Loan 628-CY), and Second Port Project (Loan 1540-CY). The Kuwait
Fund for Arab Economic Development (KFAED) participated in parallel
co-financing in the Second and Third Highway Projects and has indicated its
firm intention to co-finance the proposed project. The First Highway
Project was amended to take account of the events of 1974 and, with the
exception of part of its studies component, was combined with the Second
Highway Project which included construction of the new Nicosia-Limassol
Road and studies which assisted in the preparation of the Third Highway
Project and Secend Port Project. A combined Project Completion Report has
been prepared for the First and Second Highway Projects, and one for the
Second Port Project is under preparation. Although contractual problems
delayed the implementation of the Second Highway Project, it satisfactorily
met both its physical and institutional objectives. The ongoing Third
Highway Project has as its main objectives the improvement of about 200 km
of rural roads, studies of road maintenance needs and institutions,
implementation of a road maintenance management system, feasibility studies
for improved road links between Nicosia and Larnaca, Larnaca by-pass and
the Larnaca-Airport link, Limassol-Paphos Road, traffic management needs in
Limassol and the rationalization of public passenger services.



- 10 -
32.      Not only have the physical achievements of the projects been
successful, they have also merved as a basis for a continuing policy
dialogue and institution building that has resulted in the Government's
adoption of a number of important measures such as: (a) the use of
rigorous technical and economic evaluation of proposed projects, as
demonstrated in its routine application of feasibility studies to proposed
highway projects; (b) review of road user charge policies including the
preparation of appropriate legislation; (c) establishment of a sound
revenue base for financing maintenance and development through commercial
charging policies at ports and airports; (d) adoption of a pavement
management system that will not only lower highway reconstruction costs but
also improve the cost effectiveness of maintenance and reduce transport
costs; and (a) the use of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in
procuring a wide range of goods and services, and adoption of more
effective procurement evaluation procedures, which will reduce contractual
delays and difficulties. The proposed project will continue to support
these developments.
PART rv - THE PROJECT
33.      Project History.  The proposed project was prepared by the
Government with the assistance of consultants and was appraised in
September-October 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from
February 24 - 28, 1986 with a Government delegation led by Mr. Linos
Shacallis, Director General, Ministry of Communications and Works. A Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 5983-CY, dated March 27, 1986) entitled "The Republic
of Cyprus: Staff Appraisal Report, Fourth Highway Project", is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of
the loan and project are summarized in the Loan and Project Summary and in
Annex III. A map of the project area is attached.
34.      Proiect Obiectives.  The overall objective of the proposed project
is the continued development of a highway system, integrated with the total
transport sector, which will support the achievement of the Government's
economic objectives. This objective would be accomplished through: (a)
the establisbment of a rational planning and policy framework and
methodology for the transport sector, including institutional development
of the Department of Highways in the Ministry of Communications and Works;
(b) the introduction of a sustainable and cost effective pavement
management and highway maintenance system; (c) the upgrading of priority
low strength and low capacity highways; and (d) the undertaking of a
highway safety program.
Project Description
35.      The project is based on the Government's highway development and
maintenance program and aims to build upon previous highway projects in
Cyprus and to consolidate gains made in those projects, while further
contributing to the country's transport sector objectives. Particular
emphasis would be placed on rehabilitation and strengthening, and periodic
maintenance.
36.      The project includes:
(a)    rehabilitation and strengthening of a folr year time slice of
substandard pavements;



- 11 -
(b)    highway improvement schemes, including the Larnaca-Nicosia Road,
the Larnaca-Kophinou Road and a Rural Road program;
(c)    a four year time slice of an improved routine and periodic
maintenance program;
(d)    equipment and materials to assist in implementing the above; and
(e)    provision of consultancy services to specifically undertake
highway and transport sector planning studies, including
preparation of a transport master plan, a study of road user
charges, a study of regional traffic control and the study and
implementation of road safety measures.
The proposed Bank loan would finance all of the foreign exchange cost
during 1986-90 of: (a) rehabilitation and strengthening of substandard
pavements; (b) rural road improvements; (c) periodic maintenance; (d)
highway maintenance, safety and traffic equipment and materials; and (e)
studies and technical assistance, including preparation of a transport
sector master plan, highway safety, regional traffic control, assistance in
pavement management implementation and general technical assistance.
37.      Road Rehabilitation and Strengthening.  Recent studies of the
FWD-administered road network indicated that over 40 percent of the system
requires either rehabilitation or strengthening in order to correct
failures or to be brought to a maintainable standard. The first year of
the Government's rehabilitation program (1986-87) totalling 41.7 kms of
roads has been prepared according to a methodology acceptable to the Bank.
This and subsequent years' programs (1987-90) included in the proposed
project, as well as the proposed budgetary allocations for capital and
recurrent costs, will be prepared annually and submitted to the Bank for
review and comment by June 30 of each year. The Bank's comments will then
be taken into account by the Government in carrying out its road
rehabilitation and strengthening programs. This arrangement was agreed at
negotiations.
38.      Highway Improvement and Rural Road Program. The proposed
improvement to the main road linking Nicosia with Larnaca is based on a
major feasibility study completed under the Third Highway Project. The
Government has placed high priority on the construction of this road which
links the capital with the country's third largest town and its
international airport. The new Nicosia-Larnaca Road will be built to a
four-lane standard. Its design has taken into account the lessons learned
on the Nicosia-Limassol Road concerning traffic volumes and axle loadings
and pavement design has been amended to provide adequate strength to avoid
premature deterioration and early rehabilitation needs.
39.      The project also provides for improvement of about 100 km of rural
roads, which, together with the 200 kms targeted for improvement under the
ongoing Third Highway Project, would be sufficient to support the potential
development of Cyprus' rural economy. As with the road rehabilitation and
strengthening, annual programs, including proposed budgetary allocations
for capital and recurrent costs, will be prepared by June 30 of each year
for review and comnent by the Bank, and the Bank's comments will be taken
into account in carrying out the programs.



- 12 -
40.      Routine and Periodic Maintenance.  With the substantial investment
made in the improvement and upgrading of the highway system under the
previous three highways projects, it has become increasingly important to
develop and implement an efficient routine and periodic maintenance system
that will preserve these large investments. Towards this end, the project
provides for a routine and periodic maintenance program to cover about 864
kms of the country's highway network. The first year's program has been
identified and prepared. The rest of the program will be prepared
annually, from June 1988 onwards, in the light of road condition surveys
planned for 1986 and the Phase II maintenance management system being
undertaken under the ongoing Third Highway Projects that is expected to be
completed in March 1988 (para. 29).
41.      Consultants' Services.  While the PWD has an adequate competency
in most day to day engineering skills, it presently lacks the numbers and
specialities of personnel capable of providing a modern self-sustaining
highway planning and maintenance management system. Adequate support is,
therefore, needed at this critical time to help ensure that sufficient
capacity in highway planning and implementation will be developed to
undertake the future range of planning and management duties required.
Thus about 130 manmonths of consultant services are proposed under the
project to provide necessary support, particularly in: (a) providing
advice on matters including supervision of construction, the use of local
materials in pavement design, the design of pavement strengthening
overlays, highway maintenance by contract and techniques of highway
maintenance; (b) preparation of a transport sector master plan that would
include a review of road user charges and sector financing; (c) the study
and implementation of highway safety measures; and (d) the study of
regional traffic control and data collection. Terms of reference for these
consultancy services have been drafted and final agreement on them and on
employment of consultants in accordance with Bank Guidelines was obtained
during negotiations.
42.      Road User Charges.  Present levels of road user charges are
adequate to cover both recurrent and capital highway expenditures.
Nevertheless, the Government has decided to undertake a review of road user
charges to ensure a more equitable distribution of charges among different
types of users. In this connection, it aims in particular to consider
modifications of the present road user charges, particularly vehicle
taxation measures, to keep pace with inflation and to appropriately reflect
effects on Cyprus' highways by the different classes of vehicles.
Agreement was obtained at negotiations on the implementation of appropriate
measures based on this review, by December 31, 1988.
43.      Engineering.  The highway maintenance and rehabilitation program
has been developed by PWD with the assistance of consultants employed under
the Third Highway Project. Similarly, the road connections between Larnaca
and the new Nicosia-Limassol highway have been studied and designed by
consultants according to internationally accepted engineering standards and
evaluation methodologies and using sound design criteria. Rehabilitation
and strengthening works have been designed by PWD staff using methodologies
established and used under the Bank-assisted Second and Third Highway
Projects. Detailed engineering and contract documents will have been
completed for all major engineering components by March 1986 and the first
year's program (1986-87) for rehabilitation, strengthening and periodic
maintenance have been prepared with the resources of PWD.



- 13 -
Proiect Costs and Financing
44.      Total project cost is estimated at $73.3 million of which $34.5
million would be in foreign exchange. Physical contingencies are estimated
at $5.2 million and price contingencies at $12.1 million. Project cost
estimates are based on October 1985 price levels. Construction cost
estimates are based on quantities from the final engineering design, and on
unit rates derived from current construction contracts and from cost factor
inputs in the case of maintenance works.
45.      The proposed Bank loan of $20.0 million would finance about 58
percent of the foreign exchange component or about 27 percent of the total
cost. Part of the remaining balance of foreign exchange costs of $14.5
million would be met from a loan of about $10.6 million from the Kuwait
Fund for Arab Economic Development (KFAED), leaving an estimated foreign
exchange gap of about $3.9 million. The Bank and the KFAED would each
finance separate, economically self-reliant project components. KFAED is
expected to finance mainly the construction of the Nicosia-Larnaca Road.
The signature of the KFAED loan agreement would be a condition of
effectiveness. The Government has confirmed that it would finance all
local costs, and would undertake to cover any shortfall in the foreign
exchange component.
Project Implementation
46.      The special project coordinating unit established under the Third
Highway Project will be retained under the proposed project. The unit will
submit quarterly progress reports on the project starting December 31,
1986. The designation of the senior coordinator for the unit will be a
condition of loan effectiveness. The project is expected to be completed
by mid-1992. The project implementation schedule provides for a total
construction time of 63 months. PWD will be responsible for construction
supervision with the assistance of consultants. The project covers four
such annual review cycles for periodic maintenance commencing in 1986, and
three annual cycles for strengthening and rehabilitation commencing in
1987. It is proposed to carry out most of the periodic maintenance and
rehabilitation by contract, with PWD continuing to be responsible for
routine maintenance and pavement repairs.
47.      The two main studies, consisting of a transport master plan and a
regional traffic control study, are expected to be completed within the
first two years of the project. Technical assistance for construction
supervision and special studies are spread over the whole implementation
period of the project.
Procurement
48.      Contracts for road rehabilitation and strengthening as well as
maintenance, traffic survey and safety equipment that would be financed by
the Bank would be awarded after International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines. However, smaller items of special
equipment, up to a maximum of $500,000 in total, may be procured through
procedures acceptable to the Bank on the basis of evaluation and comparison
of quotations from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines. The works would be geographically grouped in lots to make the
contracts attractive to larger contractors, and contractors would be



- 14 -
prequalified to undertake either single or several lots. The periodic
maintenance civil works contracts which are small and scattered throughout
the country would be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. Technical assistance for the
various project items would be provided by qualified consulting firms or
individuals as appropriate and would be engaged in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines for the use of consultants. All procurement
documentation will be reviewed by the Bank before being issued. However,
for periodic maintenance works, this will be confined to a review of
standard bidding documents and of procurement programs. Prior to contract
award, and with the exception of those for periodic maintenance works, all
proposed contracts together with the bidding analysis will be subject to
Bank review. Periodic maintenance works contracts will be subject to post
review.
49.      Non Bank-Financed Components.  KFAED-financed items would be
procured in accordance with that agency's procurement regulations. Routine
maintenance totalling $4 million will be carried out by force account
initially but may gradually be taken over by local contracting firms.  The
project's procurement arrangements, as they relate specifically to the
utilization of the proceeds of the loan, are sulmnarized in the table below:
Procurement Table
(US$ Million) 1/
Procurement Method          Total
Project Elements                        ICB      LCB      Other      Cost
1. Road Works:
Larnaca-Nicosia Road               26.82                         26.82
Larnaca-Kophinou                    2.90                          2.90
Rural Roads Improvements            9.05                          9.05
(4.07)                        (4.07)
Rehabilitation-Strengthening       18.05                         18.05
(8.12)                        (8.12)
Periodic Maintenance                         8.45                 8.45
(4.65)              (4.65)
2.  Equipment for Hwy. Maintenance      1.68               0.50       2.18
& Hwy. Safety/Traffic Control    (1.60)    -         (0.47)     (2.07)
3.  Technical Assistance                                   1.45       1.45
_____  ____     (1.09)      (1.09)
Total Cost 2/                 58.50     8.45      1.95      68.90
(13.79)   (4.65)   (1.56)    (20.00)
1/ Figures in parenthesis indicate loan proceeds.
2/ Only includes capital costs and excludes recurrent costs (Routine
Maintenance).



- 15 -
Disbursements
50.      Disbursements from the Loan Account for the estimated foreign
exchange component will be made against standard documentation, to the extent
of 45 percent of total expenditures for the 1987-89 rehabilitation and
strengthening programs and rural roads; 55 percent for the periodic
maintenance program; 95 percent for highway maintenance and highway traffic
and safety equipment; and 75 percent for consultancy services.
51.      The proceeds of the Bank loan will be disbursed through a special
account to be established by the Government at the Central Bank of Cyprus on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. After effectiveness, and upon
receipt and approval of a withdrawal application, the Bank will make an
initial deposit of $1,200,000, approximating four months of estimated
expenditures financed by the Bank. Disbursements would be made against
statements of expenditures for all expenditures against contracts whose value
is the equivalent of $100,000 or less.
52.      Accounting and Audit.  Accounting, financial control and auditing
procedures are well established in Cyprus. The Accountant General is
responsible for the management and supervision of all accounting operations
and for the receipt of disbursement of revenues. All Government expenditures
are audited and periodically reported upon by the Auditor General, an
authority entirely independent of the Government. The Government would
provide the Bank with audits on the project accounts (including statements of
expenditures) not later than six months after the end of its fiscal year.
53.      Environmental Impact.  The project should lead to environmental
improvements, especially in diverting traffic away from the villages between
Larnaca and Nicosia and away from the crowded and congested center of
Larnaca. With the considerable pressure on the ecological system of Cyprus
brought about by the permanent population and the large tourist industry, the
Bank has suggested that all project and subcomponent preparation pay careful
attention to the environmental impact of road construction and improvement.
The terms of reference for the proposed road studies, especially relating to
rural roads, will include an environmental impact analysis.
Project Benefits and Risks
54.      The first three highway projects financed by the Bank in Cyprus
largely involved lending for the construction or improvement of discrete road
sections on arterial routes, and improvement of important regional and
secondary roads, with the object of inducing more rapid economic development
of outlying and relatively less developed areas. The focus of the present
project would be to consolidate the gains and preserve the investments made
in these previous highways projects.
55.      The proposed construction and improvement of Larnaca-Nicosia Road
would provide a link with the capital and the country's third largest town, a
major agricultural and tourist area, the country's second port and the
Larnaca International Airport. Larnaca-Kophinou Road would provide better
road connections between several growing commercial and agricultural centers,
better access to the country's international airport from the major city of
Limassol, and localized improvements on the specific road construction
components under the project.



- 16 -
56.      The rehabilitation, strengthening and periodic maintenance
components comprise the main focus of the project. The project aims to
institutionalize these vital components to preserve the large investments
made in the construction and improvements of Cyprus' highway network. The
rural road improvement program under the project would provide for a more
efficient transport of commodities especially agricultural produce consisting
of fresh fruits and vegetables.
57.      The institutional development components of the project would assist
the Ministry of Communications and Works in establishing a strong, in-house
highway maintenance capability that would be responsible for highway
rehabilitation and maintenance in the years to come. Major benefits lie in
the institutional developments that will lead to a balanced and self
sustaining system of pavement management and a medium term planning framework
for the sector that will relate sectorial expenditures to the country's
resources and economic and social needs.
58.      The proposed project should not be prone to any unusual risks.  A
large part of the project is in the form of time slice financing of a program
of highway rehabilitation, strengthening and periodic and routine
maintenance. Technically none of the components are difficult and adequate
supervision will be available. All reasonable problems have been taken into
account in the risk analysis. The overall economic rate of return from the
project's construction and periodic maintenance components is estimated at 44
percent, excluding road accident savings. The rate of return on the routine
maintenance component has not been calculated but probably exceeds 100
percent based on experience derived from other studies. The proposed project
remains economically viable, tested against: (a) a 20 percent increase in
costs; and (b) a 33 percent time delay in project completion. The cost
increase would lead to about a 13 percent reduction in the ERR for the major
components. The delay in project completion (apart from benefits being
foregone) would lead to increased benefits in the opening year, due to
continued traffic growth, which would more than compensate for the small rise
in construction cost.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
59.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 27, 1986
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-17-                                 (Page I of 6)
T A I L C 1^
CtPII                  - SmAL c  i.tCICTORS DATA  SmT
c;13w0                               REFER   cR0N   (tM lTD AVERAS 
"6OST                    C     ROS UCNT UTDIAE) /b
igGo/b ~   b   UCWT  b           t DLC WCOM              trosTRA
196/h  soa_ mSIAM/             nimw  NC.                  MuT foaia
AM t a Sq. o)
TOTAL                                9.3         9.3        9.3
AGRICOLTtIRAL                        5.3         5.3        5.3
0F PR CAPITA (D)                                    .       360.0              2144.3                   11062.9
*UTOUISRWTIOB PS CAPITA
(KILOCANS OF OIL EQUIVA6LET)       546.0       930.0     1444.0             1119.6                   4991.3
ruvtATUn AM TrIAL STAWUSTEC
POPULATIONNI.D-TKAA CTHOSMOS)    573.0         615.0      655.0
URBAN POPULATION CZ OF TOTAL)       35.6        40.B       48.2.              47.5                     76.7
POPUATION PROJECTONS
POPUUTXON IN TEAR 2000 (KILL)                             0.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                              0.9
POPULATIO  fIW                                            1.3.
POPULATION DENStT
PER SQ. KM.                       61.9        46.5       70.8 4.7                                  140.B
PER SQ. KM. ACR. LAND            tOB.        137.1      121.7              166.9                    522.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTUIRE CZ)
0-14 YRS                         36.7        30.9       24.4               31.2                     21.3
15-44 Ts                          57.3        59.0       65.0               61.5                     6646
65 AND ABOVE                       5.9         9.9       10.2                7.2                      12.0
POPULATION CROITH RATE CZ)
TOTAL                              1.5         0.7        0.5                1.6                      0.6
URBAN                              3.3         2.1        1.8                3.7                       1.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TINUS)        25.8       19.7        21.2               23.4                     13.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TIIOUS)       10.5         9.6        6.4                8.9                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCrtON RATE              1.7         1.2        1.1                1.5                      0.9
FAMILT PLAMNING
ACWTORS. ANNUAL (TCUS)
USERS CZ OF HARRIED  1S0)                                                                            71.1
FMl AMND RlrIOl
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
1969-71-I0D)                        64.0       91.0        93.0              109.1                    107.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES Ct OF REQIREENTS)       101.0       124.0      135.0              131.5                    132.9
PROTEINS (GUANS P  DAT)           49.0       6.0        106.0               92.4                    201.0
OF WIICH AINDAL AND PULSE        30.0       40.0        51.0 Ic            34.5                     61.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          1.7         1.7        0.9                4.7                      0.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECrT AT ILRTH (TEARS)       66.7       70.9        75.0               U'.2                     75.5
INFANT tORT. RATE (PER THOUS)      29.9        27.5        17.0               53.3                      9.9
ACCESS TO SAFE MATER (CPOP)
TOTAL                             26.2        95.0      100.0 Id            70.2
lURAN                             67.5       100.0      100.0 7             69.4
RURAL                              7.1       92.0       100.0 7d            57.0                      -.
ACCESS TO EXCIET0 DISPOSAL
(I oF POPUlATION)
TOTAL                              *-        95.0         ''                59.6
URBUN                              ..        100.0        .6. 5.9
RURAL                              ''        92.0 4' '7.6
POPULATION PEl PHYSICIAN          1470.0     1250.0      1120.0 Id          1070.6                    553.2
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           1160.0 le   590.0       360.0 71           769.5                    166.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL BeD
TOTAL                            220.0       190.0      190.0 if           326.3                    IZO.9
URBAN                            Z30.0 1e   250.0       260.0 7r           201.9                    143.2
RURAL                           3320.0 11   3170.0     4800.0 7;          4519.7                    778.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        16.2                           20.0                     17.6
Bm1in
AVERASE StZE OF HOUSEWLD
TOrAL                              4.0        ..
URAN                               4.0
R7RAL                              3.9        ..          ..                 .                        .
AVERAGE HO. OF PERSONSIROOI
TOTAL                              1.5        ..
UlRBN                              1.3         1.0
RURAL                              1.6        ..
PERCECTAGE OF DUELLINOS W1T ELECT.
TOTAL                             43.1        ..          .                  .
URUB                              90.4        ..
RURAL                             21.5        ..



ANNEX I
(Page 2 of 6)
T A B L E 34
CYPUS                  - SOCIAL CIDICATORS DATA SNHET
CIs                                  REFERENCE GRPS CUCRNTED A'ES     fa
MOST                    C00SI RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
UCENT            RDDLE INCOME              XNDURTAL
19GOlt!    1970d!! 2ESTZN   b             CUROVE CRKET ECONOMIES
AUSTED CNlOUJLLIM   RATIOS
PRIM7t  TOTAL                    102.0        86.0 /h    64.0 Ifh    S   101.9                        101.2
KAUL                  103.0        67.0 7Ei    63.0              106.2                     102.6
INHALE                100.0        U8.O7ir    65.0 71'W           97.5                     102.4
5SraWU  : TOTAL                   47.0        54.0 Ih    66.0 if b           37.5                     87.1
VL.E                   55.0        57.0 7i+f      o 66. it"       64.9                      80.3
v.wLS                  39.0        S2.0 7i     66.0 It.b          60
VOCATOW.L CZ or SECONDAIT)           3.5        10.3 &W     11.3 /f.h          21.0                     18.4
PUPTL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           34.0        30.0 Ih    21.0 /f h           25.1                      16.7
SECOIAK!                          24.0        21.0 7      16.0 It            19.1                      11.6
PASSENE  CAsTU5onAxD POP            47.6        90.2       149.6 /d            54.2                     366.3
ADIO RECEIVERS/TBOUSAID P0?        148.3       271.5       620.2              170.7                    1093.2
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND 7OP            2.0        79.7       136.6              149.3                     492.3
NZVSPANR ("DAILT GENERAL
XNTMtEST') CIRCLRTIOW
PER THOUSAND POPULATION           123.9       110.6       117.6               97.0                     320.4
CINEA AINMUL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA T      .4         9.9         ..                 2.7                       3.3
TOTAL  1A03 FORCE (THOOS)          237.0       258.0       297.0
FEMALE (PERT)                     33.3        33.6        34.6               36.3                     36.2
AGRIcULTURE (PERCENT)             42.0        38.6        26.5 /d            40.8                       6.2
IDST  (PERCENT)                   27.1        27.7        26.7 r             23.3                      37.7
PARTICIPATION IJATE CPERCENT)
TOTAL                             414.        42.0        45.3               43.1                     46.0
MALA                              56.1        56.4        60.0               S5.1                     59.5
FEMAL                             27.2        27.9        31.4               31.4                     32.7
rCNgOMC DEPENmDC  RATIO             1.0         1.0         0.8                0.9                      0.7
INCOME DI
PCEN? OF ?RIVATE INCOME
%ECLIVED bT
HIGHEST 5  OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..        12.1 /i
HICET 20S OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..        39.4 7!      ..                 ..                      43.1
LOW       2020? OF OUSEHOLDS                   7.9 7                          *                        S.4
LOWEST 4ox O SHOSEHOLDS             ..        19.6 7!      ..                 ..                       16..
FO MTARGE GOMM
ESTIMATED ABSOLU   POVERTY INCO.E
LEVML (CUSS PER CAPITA)
RURAL                              ..          .         376.7 /C
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
RAN                                ..          ..        746.7 Ic
RURAL                              ..          ..        512.7 7..
ESTMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVMTY INCOME LEVEL (2)
URAL                               ...
MOr AVAILABLE
TOT APPICABL
1 0 T I S
/a  TM group averages for each indicator are population-welghted ar1th_etic sCTD. Coverage of coantriea
mug the indceator. depends aon availhbIity of date and Ls not uniform.
lb   Unleas otherwise noted. 'Data for 1960" refer to any yer bet.men 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" between
1969 ar.S 1971; and d4ta for "ynt Racent Eatluet    betwen 1981 and 1983.
Ic   1977; fd 1980;  . 1962; If 1978; Ij 1972; /b Exclsding Turkiash moools; Li 1966. urban wily.
JIUE. 1985



ANNEX I
-19-                       (Page 3 of 6)
DEFINITONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Nate:Although the datamaedrawn f   sauas eneally judged the nia authoritativeandreliable.it should alsobhenoted that they ia) no! heinlcrnationidlly
comparablee because of the lack of standardized definitions and concepts umed by differen countines in colmlecig the dait- The diets are, nonetheles, useful in
describe orders of nmagnitude, indicate trends. and characterize certain mrajor differences between countuies.
The mrerrnce group siar (I I the sanme country group of the subj etmcunty and (2) a country group with somewhat higher average income than the country
group of the subject cunty (septrfor-High Income Oil Eapwtere' goup where MiddleIncormeNorthbAfrica and Middle  at-is chosenbecause orstronger
~  so,o.eltual 1ilni1e). tn ie reference group data the averages are popublaion weighted arithmetic means for each iadicator and shown only when nuajority
ofihecountrins asgouphaadataforthatindicator. Sinwtciicoverageofcouatriesusiong theindicators depends on the availability of data andisnotluniform.
caution mustbe exrcsedinreldatigaveragesof oneidictor tto another. Theseaverage areonlyuieful in companng the value f oseindicator ata ttme among
fth country and refierene grouips
AREA (thousand sq.kmj)                                               Crude Birth Rite (per theussaad)- Number of live births in the year
Teotal-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;    per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                           Crude Death Rate (per shousand) - Number of deaths in the year
Agrieabural-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or        per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 19113 data.
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to    Gnat Reprodmetioa Raze-- Average number oF daughters a woman
lie fallkw. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                                will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates: usually five-year averages. ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at curren t            in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prics. ealculated by same conversion method as World         Jis,.if Plaamaiag--Acceprars. Asia! (rhausmadsjl  - Annual numn-
Rank Atlas (1981-83 basis); 1983 data.                               ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of natioinal
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparet                        family planning program.
consumnption of commercial primary energy (coal and ligtnite.        Famtaly Plsnnuing-flers rpercent of married womsen)i- The percen-
petrolum, natural gas and hydro-. nuiclear and gcothermal cia>       tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of con traception- Women
1982 data.                                                          of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTCS                                       groups.
Totul Popxdarhio, Mid- Year (thousads)mf-As of July I: 1960. 1970.   FOOD AND NUTRITON
and 1983 data.
UrhmPopuatia   (porem  f toal)  Rati  of  rbanto ttal laMexoefFood ProdwctionPer Capita (1969-71 =100)  Index of per
pourbtPaation  u (iffe ent    ofe end-nRtion   of urban ara   afeto totpal  capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
popuatin: iffren deiniion ofurbn aeasmayaffct oinar- excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.          include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Populatio  Prvjectlion                                               which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and ten are
Popularion in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.       excluded); they comprise cereals, root crops. puises. oil seedsi.
made for eachi economy separately. Starting with information on      vegetables fruits nuts. sugarcarie and sugar beets, livestock, and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates, mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggregate produiction of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. thewe pranwmtr        on national average produwcer price weights. 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized    1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.                  PerCapita Supply of Caloriespe-rcetof-eqairenzetsj  Comput-
Stationary- population-is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-    ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
ferility rates have simultaneously remained at replacemnent level   tion. imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction ratc= 1). In such a population, the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also      food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population     estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing ID percent for
rate to replacement level,                                           waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momentum--Is the tendency for population growth to        Per Capita Supply of Prenei.(grams per day)  Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacemrent-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of foocd is defined
achieved: that is, even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. RequireMeCntS for all CoUntries established by USDA
unity. T'he momentum of a population in the year : is measured as    provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total pr'otein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in   day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, rof which I10 grams
the year t. given the assumnption that fertility remiains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of'
ment level from year f onward. 1985 data.             .75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Populatio en s,                                                      average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third Woirld Food
Per .rq.kn.--Mid-ycar population per square kilometer (100 hec-      Supply: 1961. 1970 and 19112 data.
tares) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                     Per Capita Protean Supply ron,Aninmal nd Plse  Protepin supply
Per srqkmn. agriczthural laid-.Computed as above for agricultural    of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per da3. 196 1-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                                1970 and 1977 data.
Popuaaltion Age Structure (paceea)-Children (0- 14 years). work-     Child (agesl1-4) Death Rare (per rhou.sadj  Numbertof deaths or
ingage(15-64years).andretired(65years.andover)aspercentage           children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. an  1983 data.                   group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Population Greivh Rate (percenr)--renal--AnnuaI growth rates of      from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.         HEALTH
Popalrima Growth late (percenti)-nerhan-Annual growth rates          L4er Erpeeancpy at Birth (years) - Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data,          infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality For all people



~ 20 -                          ANNEX  I
-(Pae 4 of 6)
at the time of of Its birth wen to stay the amme throughout lu lifr;  PlpItl- r Ral.o - prbiary, and secondary-Total studenu en-
1960 1970 and 1983 data.                                       rolled In primary and mecondry level. divided by numbers of
lan' M onelh  Rot (per Uhousend)-Number or infants who die    teschen in the corresponding levels.
before reacIng one year of age per thouumd live births In a give
yar 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                   CONSUMPTION
Ac. Ste Sjfr Wber (prce  of p.pfutduu-4re4l, wran  et Piaaeer CmrJ (par lAmed populudeo)-Passiemgr car. com-
rwul--Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reagonasle  prise motor cars seting less than eight persons; exdudes ambul-
accss to safe water suppy  cndudes treted surfe wate  or        sus, hear  and military vehicls.
untreated but uncontamninated water such u that from protected  RAeo Receiven (per tahosandpoplarionj-All types of receive
boreholes springs nd sanitary wells) as percentag  of their rpecZ  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
tive populations. In an urbau area a publc fountain or *tndpo t  excludes un-licensed receiven in countries and in years when
ocated not more than 200 meters from a horn may be con d        regstrtion of radio sets wss in effect data for recent yea  may
as eing within reasonable access of that house. In rur  a       not be comparabl  ince mo cMountrie abolishdrlcentsing
reasoble acees would iuply that the houewife or member of the
bouelhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  rVReceves (Per thuesupapsulo a-TV recivers for broadcast
in fetching the family s water needs                            to general public per thousand population; excludes unliensed TV
Accr  so Extrad Dispos  (peret of papaledu)--total. mria        receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
ad ral-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) srved by     in effet
exct  dispol s percentages of their respective populations      NeUSWV Cunee (per ths eand populaton) --hows the aver-
Excret disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or  age circulation of 'daily general interest newspaper' defined - a
without treatment, of human exeret and wate-water by water-     periodical publication devoted primrily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be "daily" if it appears at east four times a week.
APpledma per Physlode-Pbpulation divided by number of prc-      Cheme Auwel Anedmac per Capia per VeeY-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
P.palee per Nusin Person-Population divided by number or        drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
prcticing male and female graduate nurses, aistant nurse
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                       LABOR FORCE
0 per  NWd AtA4edt l ra, --  rur-puation                        Total Labor Farce (thbuads)-Economically active persons. in-
(total, urban. and rural) divided by their respective number of  eluding anned forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in public and prvate, geneal and s leied  students, etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments  various countries are not comparable; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishrments prov-  k   (percent)-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not induded. Rural hospitals,  force.
however, indude halth and mredicl centers not pennanently staffed  Agricare (perceur) -Labor force in fanning. forestry. hunting
by a physicin (but by a medical assistant, nurse, midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient acconunodation and provide a imited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                          Industry (perceJt)-Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
Adessos per Hospital Bd-Total number of admissions to or        facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.        force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Paac*uaiou Roe (perceutfl-toed. mal, andfienale-Participation
HOUSING                                                         or activity rates are computed as total, male, and female labor force
Aerag  ze Sa  of H ehol (p u per oscha     dJ--ture   rin,.     as perccntages of total, malk and female population of all ages
ndrura-A  household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main mcals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Average Number of Persoas per Reoo--total, art, and rurl-       Ecoemi Depeukeuy Ratio- -Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural      65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15464).
occupied conventional dwellings respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                  INCOME DISTRIBtITION
Percentage of Dwa  with Elecaricilp-ta0ef, urba, antd rat-      Percentage of Totda Dsposab  lcorw (both in cah and kid)-
Conventional dwellings with elecricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban, and rural dwellings respectively,         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjusted Enroiin Retios                                         The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
prtnary sdhool - toud. sale and femae-Gross total, male and    levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primary levd as prcentages of  Estimated Absolute Povery Income Levl (USS per capita )-urban
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income kvel
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years, others do not. Ie  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countrics with universal  Enwmare Rettive Powerty fcome Level( USS per c a)--arbn
education. gross cnrolhnent may exceed 100 percent since some   and rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils arx below or above the country's standard primnary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                            derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Seaondry school - total. male amdfemk-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at Icast four years of approved pi-  Estimated Population Below Absoute Poverty lIcome Lrevl (per-
mary mistruction; provides general vocational or teacher training  cenr)--urhba and rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of agr correspond-  who are -absolute poor.-
ence courses are S rally exduded.
Vocatonal Enrolneni (percent of secondary)-Vocational institu-            Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical. industrial. or odter programs which operate   Economic Analysis and Projections Depanment
independendy or as departments of secondary institutions.                               June 1985



- 21 -
(Ti; 5 of 6)
mm -  16c DmAUR0j
G6S NAIXIDML PE=  IN 1984                                                        UM& LnE ar   a1 (z  enstatioa)
US Million   PFmtt                                  19794             19g
orP at lkrmt Prie                   2,1N.7       100.0                                  86                5.8
GCsa Doonie  1weat                    723.4       33.1                                 -3A                6.2
own N.tibtsl Savirg                  46L8         22.1                                 -5.8               5.6
Curreit Aountz Balame                -205.7        9.4                                -77.5              16.0
ESqorts of Good, ES                1,23L7        56.4                                  9.6              12.1
lorto of Gods, NiS                 1,515.7       69.4                                  3.3              12.1
Owur, tAt RAD ERU        r IN 1983
Vahue Added             labor Fame                     VA. Per Uorker
Ushbd~~~Boam Foe                                 VJL Per
WU  Million  Feait       sz lba
Agiculture                              184.9      9.7          43.4      18.2                4,260      53.1
h-mtry                                 6365       33.3          64.9     27.3                9,807      122.2
serices                               1,089.5     57.0          97.0      40.7               11,232     140.0
Unalocated 2/                           -          -            32.8      13.8                -           -
TOtal/ergme                         1,910.8    100.0         238.1    1M0O                  8,025      1L.0
el 
CE MiUlion    P      ot of MPl
_94         L94  1982-4
lwrent Receipts                 338.0        26.8   25.7
fuL    Expltuxe                 35L.6         27.9   26.4
Oirznt SupluS                   -13.6         -Ll   -1.2
Capital Expendiums               52.6         4.6    4.5
External Assitsare (net)         515           4.1    2.0
KGET. COW= AN) 0EDCES
1978    1979     1990      1981     1982       1993        1984
MOillion Oprus   axds 0htatdiig End Peiod)
Moey ad Qnsi Haney               363.3    433.5   501.1    600.2    707.9        791.1       899.4
Back Credit to Riblir Sector      3L0      49.6     76.2    89.7      87.7       111.7       s8.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector    292.9    356.7   406.7    462.4    543.0        609.5      683.9
Money and Qiasi Mney as Z of GlP    7L1    69.3    66.6      69.8     711         72.4        71.4
Retail Price Idex (1977 - 100)     L074    L760    L335    L479    L574            L654       1.753
Ana=l Percentage a-Vs in
Retail Price Index                 7.4      9.5     13.5    10.8       6.4         5.1        6.0
Baik Credit to Public Sectr (net)   49.6   60.0    53.6      32.0    -2.2         27.3        4.7
Bank Credit to Private Swxtor     17.9    21.9      13.5     14.3     17.4        12.2       12.2
1/ Refie to the area under Gr'errmit's coatwol only.
2J lDCles  loyuet, v = .plye3 in iBritish   ,   fereio  organzatios e in ocher rwtries.
EMiC
Jamay 19s6



- 22 -
(UW- 6 of 6)
CS     - 70M oAw A  ChW           
BULAN  OF PAIN=E                                                                    IZAIM MM              (AWIA  1981-83)
1978     198D     1982     1983     194                                   H million     b
_iiii-wS)                        _                                                  -
ouprtaf Mods & M'S         571.1    954.6   1,028.4 1,056.0  1,231.6             aQtbizg                69.4         19.2
bqota of Qad & Ws          831A4  1,319.3   1.29.0 L,350.7  1L515.7              *OtkMa                 30.3          8.4
Rmace (mp (eficit  -)  260.3   -364.7    -269.6  -29.7   -284.1                 Ebtke                   32.3          9.0
Citm                   23.6          6.5
itezet h1t3 (Aet)           -4.3     -3.4     -15.1    39.1   -42.1             pLrtlm w                23.0          6.4
Ihoiu       Rinhem          44.5     58.1      55.4    86S5      86.5           Paper Pw&acts           15.2          4.2
Othe FNecw       t  (net)    0.3      9.6      17.9    -5A        -             Civrette                15.1          4.2
Net 2mufer                  22.5     32.5      35.3    46.2      34.0           All other     dities   151.9         42.1
mlaue an m Oeu Acut  -197.3  -287.9   -176.1  -B06.5   -605.7                     3btal                360.8        100.0
DiMct Nbzip lzesnt          57.1     85.0      00.4    68.4      68.0           ECENIL ME, Eai    31. 1964
lit W.T lboudz              65.7    10L7      146.2    74.3    153.4
78.1    13L9      202.7   148.8    215.3            Ibblic Debt, incndizg o wuateed     769.0
ti4ztim                  12A4     30.2      56.5    67.5      61.9           Ntia-Giamed Ptivate Debt             67.0
Sdb-%Xzl               -74.5   -74.2        50.5   -63.8     15.7             Total 0ttamig ad Disbursed        836.0
cical Q_n.                  45.0     40.8      35.9    27.9      10.0
Other Capital (net)         21.4     25.1       9.0    28.5      19.4           DM' TEIa  R       }arE    19FI4
Other 7x. n.e.               7.0     32.7      18.3    12.5       -
Timw in lw   ()             -1.1    +24.3    +113.7    -5.3    +36.1            Pblic Debt, inclding jamzteed        10.4
NlrQmaGnteBd Pdiate Ddt              LO
Eje  an Relted Materials                             1n1.                                             4I1
1!qFiocta                 83.0    222.6     246.3   227.8       -
Of kiich  ltm          83.0    222.6      246.3   227.8      -               NWflF/  1ENlll  (N   984) Oillim IU$)
Cf Uydi Ftln             -        -          -                -                 I=      MA
RB   Cu EKt OuItamiag and Dinbuusl   78.1    -
=1dibluied                98.9    -
ere 192-64                             98 964         Ou tmat i , isludiiog
Uhdiiuased             177.0    -
UtI.00 - CE0.53              WSAM.O - CEO59
a.ao - uSh.90                CEL.O - US$l.70
J8aauy 19B6



- 23 -
ANNEX II
(Page 1 of 2)
*        A. CYPRUS - STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS!/
(As of September 30, 1985)
*                                                              ----US$ Million--
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan
Number   Year    Borrower      Purpose               Bank         Undisbursed
Sixteen loans fully disbursed                        120.0
1658     1979    Republic of Water Resources
Cyprus       Development            11.0              3.7
1988     1981    Republic of Fruit and Vegetable
Cyprus       Export                 14.0             12.5
2128     1982    Republic of Highways III            12.2              10.0
Cyprus
2279     1983    Republic of Khrysokhou Irrigation
Cyprus                              16.0             10.2
2286-    1983    Republic of Energy Planning and
2287             Cyprus        Conservation           10.2              9.7
2386     1984    Republic of Southern Conveyor
Cyprus       Project for Water
Resources Develop-
ment                27.0              26.1
2411     1984    Republic of Limassol Sewerage
Cyprus       and Drainage           16.8             16.8
2509 2/  1985    Republic of Agricultural
Cyprus       Research and
Extension              7.0               7.0
Total                                      234.2              96.0
of which has been repaid                  57.5
Total now outstanding                      176.7
Amount sold                  2.29
of which has been repaid  2.29
Total now held by Bank                     176.7
Total undisbursed                                            96.0
1/  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
2/  Not yet effective.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
(Page 2 of 2)
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1985)
--Amount in US$ Million--
Year            Obligor            Type of Business      Loan     Equity      Total
1972    Cyprus Cement Company          Cement             2.3        0.5        2.8
1977    Cyprus Pipes Industry          Construction
material           0.5       0.2         0.7
1983    Dome Hotel                     Tourism            1.8       0.3         2.1
1983    Cyprus Investment and         Money and
Securities Corporation      Capital Markets    -          0.2         0.2
Total gross commitments                          4.6        1.2         5.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                           3.4        0.4         3.8
Total commitments now held by IFC                 1.2       0.8         2.0
Total undisbursed                                           0.04        0.04



- 25 -
ANNEX III
(Page 1 of 2)
CYPRUS - FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare project: 12 months
(b) Agency which prepared project                  : Ministry of
Communications and Works
(c) Project first presented to Bank                : June 1984
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission                 : September 1985
(e) Completion of negotiations                     : February 28, 1986
(f) Planned date of effectiveness                  : August 1986
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness:
1.  Signing of a loan agreement between the Kuwait Fund and the Republic of
Cyprus (para. 45).
2. Appointment of a Senior Coordinator for the Project Implementation Unit
(para. 46).
Measures to be taken by the Borrower include:
(i)    to strictly enforce axle load legislation, inter alia through
permanent and portable weighbridges included in the project (para.
25);
(ii)    to employ consultants in accordance with Bank Guidelines to
undertake studies on highway safety and regional traffic control
and to prepare a transport sector master plan (including a review
of road user charges) and to provide special technical services
(para. 41);
(iii)   to prepare the draft annual rural road improvement, highway
maintenance, road rehabilitation and strengthening program
according to criteria and methods acceptable to the Bank (para.
37-39);



- 26 -
ANNEX III
(Page 2 of 2)
(iv)    to prepare annual maintenance programs from June 1988 onwards
based upon recommendations of the Phase II Highway Maintenance
Study expected to be completed by March 1988 (para. 40); and
(v)    to undertake a review of road user charges to ensure a more
equitable distribution of charges among different types of users
(para. 42).
)~~~~~~~~~



3AW3                              3.SWw
CYPRUS
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
WW   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~731W
-     Lemmas G  Nremal. Road
Atha                       . '-   Hard Surlce Rom% 2or. .ras
-   Haid Surface Roads.I Ions
FAMAGUSTA            rrar aa i
AO,  to yiaho                                     Asc                                           R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..s, Rual RMadck lmgruvuiments
d Limbama lypas (2120 - CY)
.5  Kambas                                                                                 N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Picosia. Uwassal Road (1344-CYJ
N.:', Pal                                                                                           Lrrssd . ) \   2art J62S MO'S-cv)
35                                                                                    Pn.m                                             Lartocia Par t ' a 5 X iv4Oi
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a~c S.,, 'm                                                                  =. =r.__
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                           ~~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ !1 .  srw  ;v, Mao Cities
Pbro no nayla         Ar~                                                                                     atba
Moliru  ra                                                 how~~~~~~~~~~~Prini Ces-lk  Line*
is                         lakhof' *io s  Saa                                                                      u   i 
K                           EL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~O~~~~~~I  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   '~1    ?.i  P e    r r7' p"   (7 r7-. r'U 
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f rdAir as"sabd aa nwtlw alsly
33W                     ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~33*W                                                3I'



-



