Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7226UA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 300 MILLION
TO
UKRAINE
FEBRUARY 24, 1998
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS/EXCHANGE RATES
(as of February 18, 1998)
Currency Unit   =    Hrivnya
US$1             =    1.9541 UAH
UAH              =   US$ 0.5117
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director: Paul J. Siegelbaum
Sector Director: Lajos Bokros
Team Leaders:    Alan Roe/Marie-Renee Bakker



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BRD              -     Bank Resolution Department
BSD              -     Bank Supervision Department
CAS              -     Country Assistance Strategy
CPAR             -     Country Procurement Assessment Report
EBRD             -     European Bank For Reconstruction and Development
ECU              -     European Currency Unit
EDAL             -     Enterprise Development Adjustment Loan
EDP              -     Export Development Project
EFF              -     Extended Fund Facility
ESW              -     Economic And Sector Work
EU/TACIS         -     European Union Program of Technical Assistance for the CIS
EXIM             -     State Export-Import Bank of Ukraine
FSAL             -     Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
FSP             -      Financial Services Project
FSR              -     Financial Sector Review
FSU             -      Former Soviet Union
GDP             -      Gross Domestic Project
GNP             -      Gross National Product
Gosbank         -      Former USSR State Bank
IAS             -      International Accounting Standards
IBRD            -      International Bank For Reconstruction and Development
IFC             -      International Finance Corporation
IMF              -     International Monetary Fund
JEXIM           -      Japanese Export-Import Bank
KBV             -      Karbovanets (Former Ukrainian Local Currency)
MOE             -      Ministry Of Economy
MOF             -      Ministry Of Finance
MPP             -      Mass Privatization Program
MU              -      Monitoring Unit
NBU              -     National Bank Of Ukraine
SBA             -      Standby Arrangement
SMEs            -      Small And Medium Sized Enterprises
SPF             -      State Property Fund
SSCM            -      Securities and Stock Market Commission
STF             -      Systemic Transformation Facility
TA              -      Technical Assistance
TOR             -      Terms of Reference
UAH             -      Hrivnya (Ukrainian Local Currency)
UBPR            -      Unified Bank Performance Report
USAID           -      United States Agency for International Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



UKRAINE: FINANCLIL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan Summary                                 .............................................i
INTRODUCTION  ..............................................1
I.    THE ECONOMY ...............................................
IL    THE COUNTRY'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM .............................................                   10
]m.  THE PROPOSED LOAN .............................................                                  11
Rationale and Objectives ..............................................11
Benefits and Risks .............................................                          12
Coordination with the IMF and Project Sustainability ............................................. 13
Board Conditions, Tranche Triggers and Supervision ............................................. 14
Implementation .............................................                             21
Financial Arrangements .............................................                     22
Environmental Impact .............................................                       22
IV.  RECOMMENDATION .............................................                                    22
ANNEXES
Annex 1    Key Economic Indicators
Annex 2    Status of Bank Group Operations and Status of IFC Operations
Annex 3    Timetable of Key Processing Events
Annex 4    Memorandum on Financial Sector Development Policy
Annex 5    Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Annex 6    Country at a Glance
Annex 7    Donor Assistance in Financial Sector Development in Ukraine
Annex 8    External Financing
TABLES
Table 1      Overview of Banking Sector Structure, January 1, 1998
Table 2      Ukraine Monetary Survey, 1995-1997
FIGURES AND BOXES
Box 1        Landmarks of Financial Sector Development in Ukraine
Figure 1    Nominal Interest Rates, 1993-1997
Figure 2    Real Interest Rates, 1994-1997



UKRAINE: FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Ukraine
Amount:                     US$300 Million
Terms:                      Single Currency Loan, at the Bank's standard US$ LIBOR-
based interest rate, with a proposed 5-year grace period and a
20-year maturity.
Commitment Fee:             0.75% percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60
days after signing, less any waiver.
Objectives and Description:   The main objective of the loan is to underpin Ukraine's
macroeconomic reform program with a comprehensive set of
policy measures intended to strengthen the financial sector,
with a special emphasis on the banking system. The loan
would reinforce the reform measures being undertaken under
other Bank adjustment and investment operations by
positioning the banking system to play a lead role in financing
the investment needs of all sectors of the economy,
particularly the newly emerging private sector.
Benefits:                   The implementation of structural reforms in the banking
system will reinforce Ukraine's stabilization and other
structural reforms by helping to ensure that a growing part of
total lending is made by better-capitalized banks. By taking
explicit measures to reduce the risks which banks are allowed
to accept, the loan will also help to make a possible crisis in
the banking system  less likely.  Finally, the up-front
strengthening of banks and the elimination of bad lending
practices should reduce the size of the eventual claims on the
Government budget if and when banks fail, and so will have a
positive fiscal benefit in the longer term. The positive effect
on Government saving may also be accompanied by improved
private savings performance as confidence in banks increases.
Risks:                      A general risk facing all adjustment operations in Ukraine is
that the macroeconomic stabilization is still fragile and a
resurgence of high inflation fueled by the inability to fund
large budget deficits cannot be ruled out. Such a development
could lead to further repressive pressures on the banks, which
could undermine many of the positive changes, which the loan
seeks to advance.  A more specific risk relates to the
complexity of many of the component issues and the relatively
i



limited technical depth in the NBU and elsewhere to champion
particular  policy   measures  through  to  effective
implementation. A third risk is that the institutional structures
for implementing this loan are poorly developed especially
where they involve active cooperation between different
agencies of Government. This risk is particularly significant
in those areas of the loan where some short-term fiscal cost is
required to deliver improvements supported by the regulatory
authority for banks. Finally, there is the possibility of the loss
of policy commitment due to a lack of consensus between
different constituencies of the Ukrainian administration.
Schedule of Disbursement:    Three tranche disbursement, the first immediately after loan
effectiveness (expected in March 1998); the second and third--
provided the macroeconomic framework remains satisfactory-
-when the policy actions specified in this document have been
implemented (expected in December 1998 and June 1999,
respectively).
Rate of Return:             Not Applicable
Poverty Category:           Not Applicable
Project ID Number:          UA-PE-40560
The World Bank Financial Sector Team (comprising Marie-Renee Bakker, Ragini Dalal, Angela
Prigozhina, Lalit Raina, Alan Roe, and Martin Slough--ECSPF) wishes to thank the Ukrainian
authorities, and in particular, their counterparts in the Presidential and Government
Administrations, Ministry of Finance, the State Property Fund, and the National Bank of
Ukraine, for their collaboration in preparing the proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Loan.
The Team would also like to thank their colleagues in the International Monetary Fund's Ukraine
Team for their collaboration and to express its gratitude to the Peer Reviewers of this operation,
Messrs. David Scott, FSD and Gerhard Pohl, ECSPF; and to Paul Siegelbaum, ECC 11, and
Marcelo Selowsky, ECAVP, for their overall guidance and support.
ii



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
LOAN TO UKJRAINE
Introduction
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan to Ukraine for US$300 million to support the Government's
financial sector reform program. The loan would be at the Bank's standard US$ LIBOR-based
interest rate with a maturity of 20 years, including five years grace.
I. THE ECONOMY
Background
2.    Although Ukraine has enjoyed considerable success in the monetary aspects of
stabilization since the hyperinflation of 1993 and 1994, this stabilization rests on weak
foundations. Reasonable price stability was achieved in 1996, with inflation settling at less than
three percent per month in the last half of that year. Inflation in 1997 was only about 16 percent
as compared to over 10,000 percent in 1993. This success on the inflation front enabled the
authorities to introduce the new currency--the Hrivnya (UAH)--in September of 1996 and to
stabilize the nominal exchange rate quite successfully thereafter. Unfortunately, stabilization in
Ukraine has been based almost exclusively on monetary restraint and cash management, without
sufficient structural reform to achieve a sustainable fiscal balance and restore growth. As a
consequence, the economy's real productive performance has been very poor.  Since
Independence in 1991, Ukraine's economy has not seen even one year of positive growth.
Official statistics show a decline in real GDP of 3.2 percent in 1997 -- the eighth year in a row
that GDP has gone down. This trend spans all major sectors, and the overall cumulative decline
in the formal sector now exceeds 60 percent since Independence.
3.    The structural reform program in support of the macroeconomic stabilization effort has
enjoyed moderate successes. Price structures are now largely liberal, as is foreign trade. The
privatization of small- as well as medium- and large-scale enterprises has proceeded at a
satisfactory pace since the end of 1994.
4.    Today, the major challenge facing Ukraine is how to restore the confidence of its
financiers, domestic and international, as well as multilateral. Plainly, a program of broad and
deep structural reforms is needed to do this, complementing a dramatic fiscal austerity program
to deal with the immediate fiscal pressures. The Government recognizes this need. The
proposed loan, together with the simultaneously presented Second Enterprise Development
Adjustment Loan (EDAL II), are intended to support the Government's efforts to achieve this
goal.
1



The Situation In The Financial Sector
Sector Structure
5.     The financial sector in Ukraine consists of a complex mass of mainly small, unregulated,
and inexperienced organizations operating as banks, trust funds, insurance companies, pension
funds, commodity dealers, credit unions, and broker/dealers. However, the banks, which are the
main subject of this present operation, still dominate the sector in terms of total assets and the
volume of business transacted. They are also heavily involved, through subsidiary companies
and in other ways, in many of the more significant investment trusts, brokerages, and other
capital market institutions.
6.     Before the liberalization brought by Perestroika in 1989, the Ukrainian "banking" sector
was merely comprised of various Ukrainian departments of the USSR Gosbank, including the
Ukrainian branches of the savings bank and the foreign trade bank. Although specialized by
function, these "banks" were little more than channels either for the allocation of credit resources
determined by central planners in Moscow or, in the case of the savings bank, for the collection
of household savings deposits, also for centralized reallocation. At that time, they used few if
any of the conventional skills of modem commercial banks and, in particular, had little need to
make evaluations of credit proposals, manage assets and liability structures, or concern
themselves with risk management.
Box 1: Landmarks of Financial Sector Development in Ukraine
Till 1998                           Banking in Ukraine as departments of the USSR Monobank system.
1989-91                             Liberalization allows creation of first commercial banks in FSU.
1990                                Reorganization of USSR Gosbank into 5 specialized banks.
March 1991                          Law on Banks and Banking Activity creates two tier banking
structure.
December 1991                       Independence of Ukraine creates independent state banks.
October 1991                        Establishment of first stock exchange.
September 1992                      Karbovanets established as temporary substitute currency.
December 1992                       Ukraine quits ruble zone and establishes separate monetary policy.
February 1993                       Ukrainian Interbank Currency Exchange created.
January 1994                        National Electronic Payments System created.
1995                                First treasury bills issued.
September 1996                      Currency reform and introduction of the Hrivnya.
7.     As of late-1997, there were about 230 organizations registered as banks by the National
Bank of Ukraine (NBU). Twenty-one of these banks are in various rehabilitation programs
organized by the NBU and a further 44 are earmarked for liquidation. Despite the rapid growth
of the newly created private banks during the last few years, the five Former Soviet Union (FSU)
specialized banks continue to dominate the Ukrainian banking system, although in all cases they
have evolved new methods of operation, new products, and better qualified management in line
with the needs of the market economy. They are the Prominvest Bank-the industrial bank;
Bank Ukraina-the agricultural bank; Ukrsots Bank-the social sector bank; the State Export-
Import Bank (EXIM}-the foreign trade bank; and Oschadny Bank-the savings bank. These
banks are all seeking to develop as universal banks and have not been required to maintain the
earlier limitations on their functions. The last two of these banks are still wholly Government-
2



owned, while Prominvest Bank, Bank Ukraina, and Ukrsots Bank  are notionally private with a
minority ownership stake held by the Government.
8.       The data in Table 1 confirm  the continued domination of the state-owned and fonner
state-owned components of the banking system  3.  However, a great deal has changed and is
changing. In the period from 1990 onwards through 1993, permissive laws on bank entry
encouraged the establishment of more than 250 new private banks, most of which were initially
set up with very little capital, often to service the banking needs of narrow groupings of state-
owned enterprises in the productive sectors. Table I indicates that by the beginning of 1998 the
more successful top-layer of these new banks had significantly eroded the market share of the
state and former state banks.
Table 1: Overview of Banking Sector Structure: January 1,19984
Name of Bank          Statutory       Total
Capital        Capital       Total Assets     Total Lending   Profit for Year  Deposits
(min UAH)      (min UAH)   (min UAH)          (min UAH)         (min UAH)    (mln UAH)
State/Former State-
Owned Banks (except
Exim):                     295.62        1531.88        10746.76        3442.24           259.46        1591.76
Share of Total               20.9%        45.9%           47.6%           47.2%             28.2%         51.2%
Private Banks w/
Share Capital
greater than 20 min
UAH:                       276.53        573.81         5774.27          1681.97          260.12         668.27
Share of Total               19.6%         17.2%          25.6%           23.1%             28.2%         21.5%
Private Banks w/
Share Capital
greater than 6 min
UAH/less than 20
min UAH:                   430.70        739.05         3992.37          1411.81          278.48        526.14
Share of Total               30.5%        22.2%           17.7%            19.3%            30.2%         16.9%
Private Banks w/
Share Capital less
than 6 min UAH             323.36        395.14         1513.50          582.29             98.91       248.85
Banks w/ 100%
Foreign capital              88.01         94.56         554.11          178.72             24.21         75.56
Share of Total                6.2%          2.8%            2.4%            2.4%             2.6%          2.4%
Totals                    1414.22       3334.44        22581.01         7297.03           921.18        3110.58
(in min UAH):
Totals (in miln USD)        725.2        1709.9          11580           3742.1            472.4        1595.2
These three banks are corporatized, claim to be almost wholly private, but in fact are owned and controlled mainly by state-
enterprises and their employees. All these banks are large, continue to be unified nationally and, while in most cases seeking to
become more universal, continue to have dominance in their specialized markets. They all retain some monopoly power and until
recently achieved wide margins, part of which were dissipated in lending to loss-making enterprises for "social" reasons. In varying
ways, most of these large banks remain encumbered by explicit or implicit obligations to the state which undermines their
commercial roles (Ukreximbank is an exception).
2 Initially in 1992, these banks were corporatized in a spontaneous fashion with large state enterprises acquiring the majority stakes
in the banks which serviced their particular sectors. But in 1993, the Govemment ordered that all state-enterprise shares in these
banks be transferred to the Ministry of Finance. This transfer was avoided by the banks through a variety of devices whereby the
shares were transferred to the employees of the client enterprises and to the employees of the banks themselves. This has left the
effective govemance fragmented and ineffective.
3 Fuller detail on the make-up of an earlier version of Table I is in the Ukraine Financial Sector Review, Report No. 14526 UA.
"Ukraine: Financial Sector Risks," January 1, 1998.
3



9.     Other important changes have occurred with the transition. First, increases in minimum
capital requirements have slowed the creation of new banks by ending the virtually costless entry
into the sector.5 Beginning in February 1996, the NBU acquired the full authority to license
banks. Through 1996 and 1997, it carried out a re-licensing process for existing banks and
thereby subjected many of these to more demanding conditions for continued operation. The
more successful of the new entrants have no difficulty in meeting these conditions but the
process is having the effect of shaking out the more marginal banks. This is clearly a very
positive development for the general health and stability of the sector.
10.    Second, the extreme inflation of the period through 1995 has sharply reduced the real
magnitudes of bank liabilities, assets, and capital, which is evidenced by the relatively small
USD amounts in the table. It is true that during the two years of relative stability to 1997, the
USD magnitudes shown in Table 1 approximately doubled.6  However, Ukraine, like most
countries in the FSU, still has a total banking sector the size of which is equivalent to about one
medium-sized Western bank. Although many banks do carry a significant amount of non-
performing loans on their balance sheets, the problem this creates is not large either in absolute
terms or relative to the country's GDP (not greater than 2% of GDP). The additional capital
sums needed to underpin the present level, or increased levels, of banking activity are relatively
small and some of the longer established banks are demonstrating the ability to build new capital
to compensate for their bad debt overhangs.
11.    As the large debt erosion occurred, savers have had to accept large losses in the real
values of their savings. Credibility in, and respect for, banks has been diminished as a
consequence. This is of particular relevance for the savings bank in view of its continued
dominance of the total, now much reduced, of household deposits. The bank's large branch
network and staffing (60,000 persons) is not commensurate with its present business volume. Its
aspirations to develop as a universal bank are also questionable. However, since the bank is well
placed in terms of its broad national coverage, its restructuring as a lower cost organization
capable of offering improved services and products to its traditional clients is one essential
element of the strategy for achieving a recovery of household savings.
Sector Performance
12.    Banking system performance itself merely reflects performance in the real economy. In
Ukraine, the large decline in real output in the formal economy, the rising importance of
informal business, and very high inflation through 1995 were clearly damaging from this point of
view. In particular, the near hyperinflation from 1992 and through the early months of 1995 (20
percent per month) resulted in highly negative real rates of interest which favored bdrrowers but
discouraged lenders (see Figure 2). This, in turn, caused a substantial decline in the volumes of
real credit in the system just when high inflation was also encouraging a significant shortening of
credit maturities. Nonetheless, most of the banks established during the period of excessively
liberal entry from 1991 to 1994 survived during the latter period on the strength of high margins
on domestic currency business, profits earned from foreign exchange speculation, and from other
opportunities created by inflationary distortions. However, the improved macroeconomic
5From January 1, 1997, all banks were required to have at least ECU 500,000 of capital; from July 1, 1997, ECU 750,000; and from
January 1, 1998, ECU I million. These represent the latest of several increases in the minimnum capital since 1993.
6 Nomina UAH magnitudes have not kept pace with inflation but have nonetheless grown fast enough to outpace the limited
nominal devaluation of the exchange rate.
4



stability achieved from end-1994 to late-1997 reduced lending margins and eliminated some of
the easier routes to profitability.7 The fiscal stresses of end-1997 and the pressures on the banks
associated with their, by then, large holdings of Treasury Bills served to intensify this squeeze on
banks. These factors together have initiated and perpetuated the shake-out of the more marginal
banks already mentioned and have placed a high premium on sound banking as the basis for
long-term survival.
13.     Interest rates in Ukraine are now mainly market determined although the NBU maintains
some administrative influence through its control of its own refinancing rate, which has become
the main reference rate in the system. Until recently, there was a strong statutory link between
the NBU refinance rate and bank lending rates, but this has now been removed. Even where
there is continued direction of credit by the Government, the information available suggests that
this credit is now on-lent at rates at least equal to the refinance rate. This is given some support
by the fact that the average lending rates of banks through much of 1995-97 were higher than the
refinance rate (see Figure 1).
Figure 1: Nominal Interest Rates (Quarterly, Ql 1993 - Q3 1997)
35
30
25
15.
{s0
n                 a                  mt   V   )  m       O xO    q: %   1.  r-  r-
0%i  0%  0%  0%i  0%  0%  0%  0%i  0%i  0%  0%  0%  0i  0%   c   0%  0%  0%  0%
.  Comm. Banks Nominal Interest on Credits (Weighted Average)
Comm. Banks Nominal Interest on Deposits (Weighted Average)
Nominal NBU Refmance Rate
7The banks' spread between the monthly weighted average lending and deposit rate of interest fell from 6.6 percent in the first
quarter of 1995 to 2.7 percent in the second quarter of 1997. The banks offset this in part by allowing an increase in the loan to
deposit ratio from 88 percent in the first quarter of 1995 to 107 percent in the second quarter of 1997. This increase in the loan to
deposit ratio helped to reduce the immediate liquidity squeeze created by declining interest margins.
5



14.    Although nominal interest rates were trending down for much of 1995, 1996, and
through mid-1997, inflation declined somewhat faster. From October 1997, interest rates rose
again to much higher levels (almost 50 percent in some Treasury Bill auctions) in response to the
extreme difficulties of financing the fiscal deficit after the collapse of financial markets in parts
of East Asia. Hence, real interest rates on bank loans, already positive in 1994, remained
generally positive through most of 1995, 1996, and 1997 (see Figure 2). Deposit rates were also
slightly positive in real terrns in most months of 1995 and 1996 but negative through the last
months of 1995 and early 1996. These occasionally negative returns to depositors combined
with the continued volatility of inflation, caused expected inflation to remain higher than
measured inflation and, together with the exceptionally poor growth performance of the
economy, helps to explain the banking system's poor record on deposit mobilization. A
summary of some of the more general movements of the main indicators of financial sector
activity can be found in Table 2.
Figure 2: Real Interest Rates (Quarterly, Q3 1993 - Q3 1997)
30
%   20 - -
10
20°-   ,      ,, I,   I_,ll_WI_.l_I
10 
-30
-40
% quarterly
93Q3   94Q1   94Q3   95Q1   95Q3   96Q1   96Q3   97Q1   97Q3
Real Interest Rate on Credits
Real Interest Rate on Deposits
- NBU Real Refinance Rate
15.    These data indicate that the stabilization achieved in the period 1995 through end-1997
and the generally positive real rates of interest during that period were not sufficient to achieve
much recovery in the scale of banking sector operations although a few individual banks
performed quite well. In particular, both the domestic money supply and its local currency
component remained low relative to GDP. Similarly, on the assets side of the account, the total
of domestic non-government credit relative to GDP remained low after falling sharply in earlier
years. By end-1997, credit outstanding to non-governmental organizations was still the
equivalent of only 10 percent of GDP of which only 6.3 percent was in the form of local
currency credits. The intensified pressures on banks caused by the fiscal stresses in late-1997
and early- 1998 made it even more difficult for them to support the credit needs of the enterprise
sector. At the same time, inter-enterprise arrears and arrears of payments to the Government had
grown to become far more important sources of financing than bank credit.8
a In the early part of 1993, the outstanding commercial bank credit to the non-government sectors easily exceeded payments arrears.
By early 1994, inter-enterprise arrears were twice or even three times higher than total bank credit. By the end of 1996, inter-
enterprise arrears totaled UAH 73 billion (payables) or UAH 48 billion (receivables), as compared to only about UAH 7 billion of
6



16.    From a purely statistical point of view, it seems likely that the low level of banking
activity shown in Table 2 may continue or even fall further. In particular, the 1997 NBU
regulation on loan classification and loan loss provisions in banks, and the introduction of
International Accounting Standards (IAS) in January 1998, will likely increase such provisions
to almost US$1 billion equivalent (twenty times the amounts historically recorded in the
Ukrainian accounts), consequently reducing bank capital and lending capacity.
Table 2: Ukraine: Monetary Survey 9
1995           1996          1997 (est.)
UAH.D   UAH  GaP -               A   GD. 
Net domestic   7,773   14.3  10,302   12.8   14,098   15.0
assets
Netdomestic   9,863   18.1   13,611   16.9   17,873   19.0
credit                     _ _ _ _   _ _ _          _ _ _
Net credit to    3,989    7.3    5,974    7.4    8,500    9.0
Gov't      _ _ _    _ _ _  _ _  _
Credit to    5,873   10.8   7,636    9.4    9,373    10.0
Nongov't
In domestic    3,402    6.2   4,719    5.9    5,909    6.3
currency
In foreign    2,471    4.5   2,917    3.6    3,464    3.7
currency
Broad Money   6,930   12.7   9,363   11.6   12,021   12.8
Hrivnya broad   5,353    9.8    7,646    9.4   10,405   11.1
money
Foreign      1,577    2.8    1,717    2.1    1,616    1.7
Currency
Deposits
17.    Reform definitely has begun in the sector, notwithstanding this pessimistic background.
In particular, the better banks have rapidly understood the essential requirements of banking in a
non-inflationary environment and have been active in seeking advice and new partners to meet
these requirements. All the state and former state banks shown in Table 1 are now involved in
one way or another with foreign technical partners. Bank Ukraina and Ukrsots Bank are working
under technical assistance arrangements established as precursors to the Bank's planned
Financial Services Project (FSP).  Prominvest Bank is participating  in an institutional
development program designed to qualify it for access to an EBRD credit line. In the context of
the Bank's Export Development Project (EDP), which was approved by the Board in November
1996, EXIM is working in a twinning arrangement with the JEXIM Bank of Japan. Finally, the
savings bank has received support from various donors for its first IAS audit, the preparation of a
strategic restructuring plan, and management training. Within the tier of larger private banks
shown in Table 1, seven to eight banks are benefiting from institutional development programs
arranged by EBRD in the context of its Small and Medium Sized Enterprise (SME) line of credit
outstanding bank credits. In August 1997, the figure was UAH 93 billion in payables and UAH 66 billion in receivables as
compared to approximately UAH 12 billion in outstanding credit.
9
For 1995 and 1996, the figures in this table represent UAH equivalents, as the UAH was only introduced in late-1996.
7



operation which was approved in 1994. Although these arrangements are still in their
preliminary stages, and some may fail to produce results, almost no bank of any real significance
is now without external assistance and guidance of some sort.
18.   Banks generally have tried to be more flexible in their portfolio and other decisions as
circumstances have changed. In some periods, this has helped to protect their earnings and
reduce their risk exposures. For example, the exposure of banks to lending activities diminished
through 1996 as the profitability of this business declined and the associated risks, as measured
by the incidence of non-performing loans, became greater. This was particularly true of FOREX
lending which declined from over 30 percent of bank portfolios in 1995 to less than 20 percent
by end-1996. In November 1997, very stringent restrictions on open foreign exchange positions
intensified this trend. Also in 1996, most banks began to invest in Treasury Bills as the
availability and yield of such investments made them increasingly attractive. By end-1996, 19
percent of the aggregate portfolio was in investment vehicles and Treasury Bills where the
banks, at least temporarily, could enjoy high yields (approximately 30 percent at that time) on
the safest of their assets. This trend continued through end-1997. The total Treasury Bill
holdings of banks amounted to UAH 930 million by early 1997 and grew rapidly through
September of the same year. Thereafter, the fiscal funding stresses of October 1997, and the
rapid upward movement of Treasury Bill rates associated with this problem, caused at least
temporary new problems for some banks as the liquidity of the instrument diminished and large
capital losses were locked into their balance sheets. If these immediate difficulties can be
overcome, banks in general will continue to upgrade their operations to recognize that future
earnings are becoming more and more dependent on the delivery of financial services and less
dependent on the margins on traditional lending. Those banks that have been able to make such
a switch are already improving their risk and earning profiles.
19.   Additionally, the mismatch between the current size of the banking sector and the
evidently growing need for more and better banking services as the private economy expands,
has created a large potential for new investment in the Ukrainian financial system. Those local
banks that emerge from the current shakeout as serious banks with reasonable cost structures and
management are expected to attract additional capital to consolidate and expand their operations.
Furthermore, the consolidation, the continuation of monetary stability, and further banking sector
reforms undertaken by the authorities should constitute a powerful magnet for significant
volumes of foreign investment in the sector, the first installments of which are already evident.
Although there are currently only six fully owned foreign banks in Ukraine and fourteen joint
ventures, there is visible interest from many more foreign banks. Initially, this is expected to be
manifest in the licensing of some of the large Russian banks which already have well developed
client networks involving Ukrainian business. They alone could significantly change the
competitive environment in the sector.
20.   In spite of the obvious setbacks associated with the post October 1997 fiscal crunch, a
further basis for cautious optimism derives from the performance of some of the banks
previously thought of as possible sources of systemic distress. Prominvest Bank, for example,
which is the largest and arguably the most problematic of the former state banks, seems to have
remained solvent and profitable through the first two years of relative inflation stability in spite
of a large overhang of bad loans from the previous years. It has achieved this by virtue of a very
strong position in the country's payments system, and due to conservative lending policies in
which the successes of its many healthy clients in key defense and other industrial sectors have
cross-subsidized the losses on outstanding loans to less healthy enterprises. Bank Ukraina has
8



made major changes in the staffing and organization of its credit departments in response to the
weaknesses detected by its technical assistance partners. Neither Prominvest Bank nor Bank
Ukraina can be assessed as financially strong, especially after the problems of October 1997,
which are yet to be reflected in the results of bank audits and on-site examinations. But, neither
do these banks now succumb as readily to the political pressures for directed lending as once was
the case, though those pressures certainly remain.
21.   Similarly, the rehabilitation and closure of marginal banks has been achieved without the
systemic damage that might have seemed likely before the event. In part, this is because the
majority of banks which have exited the system have been small, or because the larger banks
amongst them, such as Inko Bank and Grado Bank, have collapsed while they were still small in
absolute terms. The limited success in deposit mobilization has been a bonus from this point of
view; few if any of the departing banks had been entrusted with significant amounts of
household deposits to lose.
22.   In short, there is some reason to be hopeful that the consolidation in banking which is
now beginning can lead to the emergence of banks which are larger, more robust, and more able
to provide a broad range of financial services. While the consolidation process itself imposes
costs on the system, these costs will be small if consolidation is achieved in large measure while
the majority of banks are so tiny and so little involved in mobilizing deposits from the public.
The small size of the present system--relative to the incipient demand for banking services--is
also a strong inducement for new investment and new entry from banks that observe the growing
unmet demand. This is evident, for example, in the early Ukrainian Eurobond issues and the
associated need for reliable depository, clearing and settlement, and other services associated
with these issues.
23.   From the perspective of Government policy, the priority is the continuation of sound
monetary policy and a liberal economic environment that encourages active foreign involvement
in the financial as well as in productive sectors. Beyond this, there is a need for measures which
will reinforce the stronger banks through more informative accounting, better tax arrangements
as regards the provisioning of bad loans, and a more reliable regulatory environment sustained
by a technically adroit central bank. Good banks have nothing to fear and much to gain from
transparent accounting, serious loan provisioning, and competent bank supervision. These same
measures will also serve to sustain the consolidation process and give the signal to weak banks
that they have little future.
9



II. THE COUNTRY'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
24.   The proposed FSAL is Ukraine's first adjustment operation in the financial sector, and
one in a series of adjustment operations designed to support the Government's program of
stabilization and structural reform  begun in October 1994.  It addresses several of the
acknowledged weaknesses of the Ukrainian banking sector, and lays the groundwork for the
improved arrangements in domestic banking necessary to support other components of economic
reform.
25.   The Bank's first adjustment operation in Ukraine was a Rehabilitation Loan for US$500
million approved in December 1994 and fully disbursed by the end of 1995. This was followed
by an Enterprise Development Adjustment Loan (EDAL I) for US$300 million approved on June
27, 1996; an Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan for US$250 million approved on October 17,
1996; and a Coal Sector Adjustment Loan for US$300 million approved on December 11, 1996.
26.   The reform program supported by the FSAL is directed mainly at the banking sector.
Complementary institutional and regulatory reforms for capital market institutions are supported
through EDAL I and EDAL II with further influence coming from the reform of pensions to be
included in one of a series of Public Administration Reform Loans currently under preparation.
The program acknowledges the extremely small size of the Ukrainian banking sector; the fragile
and transitional situation of most of its component banks; and the, as yet, inadequate institutional
capacity and skills in the NBU to provide adequate regulation of the sector. The program seeks
to address these problems in order to increase the safety and capacity of the sector.
27.   Three main types of reform will be supported by the FSAL.
*  Legal Framework for Banking Activity. These include, above all, those
measures necessary to confirm the authority of the NBU itself not only for
monetary stability in a macroeconomic sense, but also for the safety of the
banking sector. These actions call mainly for the adoption of the new draft
Law on the NBU, now before the Parliament, and for a new Law on Banks
and Banking Activity.
*  Informational and Regulatory Basis of Banking. These include the reform
of accounting arrangements for banks; improved definitions of major
concepts such as "capital" for prudential purposes; and improved NBU
procedures for the supervision of banks and interventions in problem banks.
*  Structure of the Sector. These include the further steps needed to liquidate
marginal banks, as well as decisions about the future role of the savings bank,
and the appropriate role, during the transition, of institutions such as deposit
insurance.
28.   The specific measures which the Government intends to take to give effect to the
strategy of reform are summarized in its Memorandum on Financial Sector Development Policy
(Annex 4). These measures are detailed below with, in each case, a brief explanation of the
motivation for their inclusion and phasing. An overview can be found in the Policy Matrix
(Annex 5).
10



III. THE PROPOSED LOAN
Rationale and Objectives
29.   Both the 1996 CAS and the 1998 CAS Progress Report (to be presented to the Executive
Directors with the proposed operation) identify strengthening the financial sector as one major
component contributing to strengthening the private sector, a key objective of the Government's
reform program. The FSAL has been designed in close coordination with the IMF's ongoing
Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) and planned Extended Fund Facility (EFF), and it will disburse in
parallel with funds from the other adjustment loans listed above, including the simultaneously
proposed EDAL II.
30.   The financial sector reform  program  does entail significant fiscal costs to the
Government, as is evidenced by the budgetary impact associated with the introduction of tax
deductibility of loan loss provisioning, the repayment of Government guaranteed/directed loans
on the balances of the three former state banks (Prominvest Bank, Bank Ukraina and Ukrsots
Bank), the costs (including those for the bank's first ever IAS audit) associated with the
restructuring of the savings bank, and the creation of a viable deposit insurance scheme. The
proposed loan will also provide a significant proportion of the external balance of payments
support necessary to achieve the macroeconomic targets defined later in this section and, at the
same time, help to mitigate the direct budgetary costs of the financial sector reform program
envisaged.
31.   The proposed FSAL does not contain a technical assistance component. However,
relevant and complementary technical assistance to banks is contained in the Bank's EDP
already under implementation and the planned FSP, as well as in a comprehensive set of parallel
operations financed and implemented by other donors. The Bank's FSAL played a key role in
coordinating these donor programs by providing a policy framework for financial sector reform
and development. (Details of this technical support are provided in Annex 7).
32.   Implementation of the policy reforms reflected in this loan began during loan
preparation, which started with an identification mission in May 1996, and progress is already
evident. A set of comprehensive appraisal, negotiations and Board presentation conditions have
already been met (see Annex 5 for details), and the second and third tranche will be disbursed
based on satisfactory implementation of the conditionality described below. The NBU will be
the main implementing agency for the project, but other agencies of Government including the
Ministry of Finance have an important part to play in implementing the reforms.
33.   The broad outlines of the strategy on which the reform program for the financial sector is
constructed emanate from the Bank's Financial Sector Review (FSR) completed in June 199510
and continually refreshed subsequently.  This strategy involves both bottom-up direct
institutional strengthening of individual banks or groups of banks (EDP, FSP and EBRD's SME
line of credit operation), and top-down pressures on bank performance by developing an
improved legal framework, bank accounting reform to support improved regulation and
supervision, a framework for the restructuring of banks, and specific restructuring actions in a
sub-set of banks once the capacity and skill base of the NBU is sufficiently strengthened to
enable it to play a lead role in this area (FSAL).
10 Ukraine, Risks and Transitions: A Review of the Financial Sector, (in 2 volumes), Report No. 14526 UA, June 30, 1995.
11



34.   Lessons learned from Previous Bank Involvement: The FSAL is the first adjustment
loan in the financial sector in Ukraine. Experience from FSAL-type operations in other countries
in the region has shown that a sound financial sector policy framework, with the core objective
of strengthening the banking system, is an essential prerequisite for financial sector
development. The Financial Institutions Development Loan and Enterprise and Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan in Poland, and the Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan in
Romania have demonstrated that strengthening the legislative authority and mandate of the
central bank, supported by enhanced supervision capacity including on-site and off-site
monitoring and enforcement powers, is necessary to instill banking sector discipline and to
underpin reforms. In addition, parallel policy and regulatory development in the areas of prudent
commercial bank capital and lending guidelines, accounting reform and tax deductibility of loan
loss provisions have, in tandem with central bank institutional development, created the
necessary environment and laid the foundations for a healthy banking sector. These efforts have
to be followed by initiating the portfolio restructuring of troubled banks, including liquidation as
necessary. The overall delivery of technical assistance and greater absorptive capacity of the
recipient country is ensured by extensive coordination of supportive bilateral donor efforts. All
of these lessons have been incorporated in the FSAL design and have formed the basis for the
development of the policy matrix for this operation.
Benefits and Risks
35.   Benefits: The implementation of structural reforms in the banking sector will reinforce
Ukraine's stabilization and other structural reforms by helping to ensure that a growing part of
total lending is made by the better capitalized banks. By taking explicit measures to reduce the
risks which banks are allowed to accept, the loan will also help to make a possible crisis in the
banking sector less likely. Better and stronger banks in turn will be an important element in
supporting the restructuring of newly-privatized enterprises and ensuring that there is a rising
volume of credit available for the investment needs of such enterprises as well as for newly-
created private businesses. In this way, the loan will complement other Bank operations which
are focused more directly on the enterprise sector. Finally, the up-front strengthening of banks
and the elimination of bad lending practices should reduce the size of potential claims on the
Government budget if and when banks fail, and so will have a positive fiscal benefit in the longer
term. The positive effect on Govermnent saving may also be accompanied by improved private
savings performance as confidence in banks increases.
36.   Risks:  A general risk facing all adjustment operations in Ukraine is that the
macroeconomic stabilization is still fragile and a resurgence of high inflation fueled by large
budget deficits cannot be ruled out. Such a development could lead to further repressive
pressures on the banks, which could undermine many of the positive changes that the loan seeks
to advance. This concern has been intensified by the post October 1997 fiscal financing
problems which contributed both directly to the liquidity and other pressures on certain banks,
but which also elicited certain policy responses not entirely helpful to bank soundness.
37.   A more specific risk relates to the complexity of many of the component issues and the
relatively limited technical depth in the NBU and elsewhere to champion particular measures
through to effective implementation. This risk has been lessened somewhat by the NBU's
commitment during loan preparation to strengthen its management team, especially in the Bank
Supervision Department, and by the favorable reaction that has elicited from other donors
12



notably, the IMF, USAID, and EU/TACIS, to commit additional technical personnel to assist the
local technical staff. This will ensure that there will be a sound underpinning of external advice
and training in all major areas of the loan, such as accounting reform, bank resolution and bank
liquidation, to back up the policy commitment. This will not eliminate this particular problem
but it should reduce it to acceptable proportions.
38.   A third risk is that the institutional structures for implementing this loan are poorly
developed, especially where they involve active cooperation between different agencies of
Government. This risk is particularly apparent in relation to those areas of the loan where some
short-term fiscal cost (Ministry of Finance) is required to deliver improvements supported by the
regulatory authority for banks (the NBU). Previous Bank adjustment projects have demonstrated
the difficulty of extracting local currency budget funds to support particular aspects of the reform
program. This risk is mitigated by the loan's design, with some of the issues which require
substantial budgetary outlays--the introduction of tax deductibility of loan loss provisions and
the audit of the savings bank--having been fulfilled as pre-Board conditions. However, the issue
arises also in relation to the reduction of the stock of Government guaranteed or directed loans
on the books of the three former state banks, the establishment of a viable system of deposit
insurance and the obvious costs to be incurred in a fully viable restructuring program for the
savings bank.
39.   Finally, there is the possibility of the loss of policy commitment due to a lack of
consensus between different constituencies of the Ukrainian administration. The relationship
between the Government and the Parliament remains an uneasy one and the upcoming
Parliamentary elections (March 1998) further enhance the existing uncertainty in this respect.
Elected representatives (MPs) have sometimes tended to regard the banks as exploitative and
well-endowed organizations, which, far from being as fragile as the FSAL's design assumes, are
indeed robust, and in little need of assistance. Other MPs are deeply suspicious of the NBU and
are unwilling to accord it the independence of action which the project regards as necessary to
deliver sectoral reform. Others again see the banks as having a clear-cut role to provide soft
credits to state-owned enterprises and to fulfill other social objectives. They could resist the
restraint on banking activity that is an implicit early consequence of the proposed reforms. The
only mitigation to these political risks is through the building of strong technical capacity in the
NBU, and through the insistence on legal reforms which will indeed provide the NBU with a
reasonable degree of independence of action to drive through the reforms which the loan seeks to
support.
Coordination with the IMF and Project Sustainability
40.   The project has been developed in close coordination with the IMF program in Ukraine
and is backed by conditionality in the IMF's ongoing SBA and planned EFF. Additionally, the
IMF and the Bank have been cooperating closely in supporting the NBU's efforts to strengthen
bank regulation and supervision, as evidenced -by a recent decision to place a semi-permanent
IMF advisor in the NBU's Bank Supervision Department who will coordinate the efforts of
several other donor-financed advisors already on-site. The Bank's own "top-down/bottom-up"
approach to lending for financial sector reform will further ensure project sustainability.
13



Board Conditionas, Tranche Triggers and Supervision
(i) Measures Implemented Before Board Presentation
41.   Maintain a Program to Ensure Macroeconomic Stability. The authorities remained
broadly in compliance with the IMF Stand-By Arrangement approved on August 25, 1997, as
subsequently modified.
*  the consolidated budget deficit for 1997 was UAH 5.19 billion which is higher
than the program target of 4.31 (4.5 percent of GDP), but was the subject of a
waiver;
*  the NBU's Net Domestic Assets during 1997 was below the program target of
UAH 7.190 billion;
* the cumulative build up of international reserves through 1997 at US$240.7
million exceeded the program target;
*  the increase in base money during 1997 amounted to UAH 2.177 million as
against an indicative program target of UAH 2.090 billion;
- the 1997 growth of non-concessional external debt amounted to US$894 million
which was substantially below the program target; and
-  the stock of budgeting arrears on wages, pensions, and social benefits was at end-
1997 UAH 2.614 billion which was below the program ceiling of UAH 2.700
billion.
42.   Maintain Interest Rate Policy to Ensure Mainly Free and Positive Real Rates. Through
1997, both deposit and lending rates were largely free and both remained broadly positive in real
terms. During the last six months of 1997, the average commercial bank lending rate was 3.43
percent and the average deposit rate was 1.4 percent (both rates are in real terms). The only
substantive change is that in September 1997, an NBU directive abolished the statutory link
between the NBU refinance rate and commercial bank lending rates. As is clear from the 1996
data shown in Figure 2 above, the previous existence of this link had not prevented the
achievement of positive real rates on bank credits in the average.
43.   The NBU Conversion to LMS. By late-1996, the NBU had created separate Controllers
and Statistics and Reporting Units--the former to be responsible for all the NBU accounting and
financial controls. Central Operations of the bank is the key to the IAS conversion since it
accounts for 85-90 percent of all NBU transactions. For Central Operations, the General Ledger
was completed on an IAS basis by end-1996 and the consolidated balance sheet by April 1997.
Central Operations transferred fully to an IAS basis of accounting by late- 1997. The conversion
will roll out to the NBU branches in the 26 other oblasts throughout 1998.
44.   Commercial Bank Reporting to the NBU  The process of rationalizing the 70 or more
reporting forms formerly required of the commercial banks is almost completed and a small set
of new forms, all on an IAS-compatible basis, were formally accepted by way of an NBU decree
on May 30, 1997. The new forms were mandated for use by the commercial banks beginning
January 1, 1998.
14



45.   The Commercial Bank Conversion to LAS. A new IAS-based Chart of Accounts based on
a mixture of Czech, Russian and Belorussian experience was finalized in May 1997 and
approved by international experts at the end of May. The NBU gave it official approval in July,
and it began to be piloted immediately. A coding system to enable some banks to adapt to IAS
via coding amendments and additions to the Gosbank system has been designed to avoid delays
which might otherwise occur due to software difficulties including the affordability of Western
software packages. EU/TACIS and USAID programs are in place to assist banks to make the
conversion, and the changeover occurred on January 1, 1998 as anticipated.
46.   Improve Arrangements for Loan Loss Provisioning. Measures that have been taken
toward improving arrangements for loan loss provisioning include the following:
* on September 29, 1997, the NBU Board approved a new regulation (No. 323)
on loan-loss classification and provisioning including arrangements to
incorporate the financial condition of borrowers into the classification.
* Parliament approved a new Corporate Income Tax Law including a revised
Article 12 dealing with the tax treatment of loan loss provisions, which
became effective on July 1, 1997. This new Article provides for tax
deductibility for specific loan losses, but not for general loan loss provisions.
It requires banks to make immediate provision for "lost" loans but defines an
explicit phase-in period up to July 1999 for remaining classified loans. Banks
can provision up to 40 percent of their loans (including guarantees and other
off balance sheet commitments) and benefit from tax deductibility on all such
provisions. This percentage applies till end-1999. This arrangement means
in practice that the serious underprovisioning of the Ukrainian banks should
be substantially corrected by mid 1998. The phase-in is designed to soften
the losses of budget revenue associated with this change.
47.   Reorganize and Strengthen Bank Supervision in NBU  In June 1997, the Board of the
NBU endorsed detailed proposals for reorganizing the Bank Supervision Department as
proposed by its resident Technical Advisory Team and the Bank. This reorganization is
designed to focus the work on the "process" of supervision involving all the component
elements of the information and interventions available to the NBU.  By way of
implementation, the NBU has:
* appointed a new senior manager at the level equivalent to Vice-Governor and
reporting directly to the Governor;
* established an advisory team, including resident foreign experts, to help the
new manager with the definition and transition to the new organization;
* has initiated programs for on-site inspections for three large banks that are
considered to be facing difficulties.  Two of these examinations are
completed; and
* agreed arrangements with the Securities and Stock Market Commission
(SSMC) for supervising the securities business of banks.
15



48.   As a condition for Board presentation, the NBU Board approved a consolidated strategy
document for the Bank Supervision Department (BSD) with the following elements:
*  the further development and refinement of the legislative and regulatory
framework for bank supervision;
*  the implementation of a supervisory process which reviews the activity of
banks on a consolidated basis;
*  the assessment of the effectiveness of the measures taken and thereafter
making necessary changes in the supervisory process;
*  the creation of a uniform  management information system  for bank
supervision;
49.   Improve Off-Site Surveillance of Banks. An improved version of NBU's core prudential
regulation, Regulation No. 10, was adopted in December 1997 responding to the criticism of
previous prudential standards.  Among other things, this regulation introduces a revised
definition of bank capital that is consistent with new loan-loss provisioning arrangements, and
strengthens the procedures for controlling the insider and connected lending of banks including
their direct exposure to investments in non-financial businesses. Improvements include the
following:
-  five capital regulations, all of which are in accordance with BIS norms;
*  seven risk regulations;
-  three regulations of bank open FX positions; and
-  three weighted FX position regulations
50.   These improvements are expanded upon in detail in paragraph 13 of the Memorandum
on Financial Sector Development Policy.
51.   Develop a Unified Bank Performance Report and Early Warning System. In addition to
the improvement in prudential regulations already noted, the NBU has developed an early
warning system, a Uniform Bank Performance Report (UBPR), as well as quarterly reporting
forms that summarize the information of the financial performance of all the commercial banks.
As a result of the conversion to IAS, the off-site department has started to revise the UBPR and
other reporting forms to comply with IAS. The UBPR includes current as well as time series,
ratio, and other information about each bank as well as comparisons with similar banks. The
early warning system displays lists of banks showing unfavorable trends or falling below
acceptable thresholds. Necessary staff training is being provided. The early warning reports
will be reviewed regularly by the Vice-Governor responsible for banking supervision as a basis
for redirecting the efforts of the off-site inspectors and the enforcement teams as necessary. In
addition, financial analysis was prepared to help scope the on-site examinations of the three
large former state banks, which began with the Bank Ukraina examination in May 1997.
52.   Improve Arrangements for On-Site Examination of Banks.  On-Site Inspection
Guidelines were developed and approved in 1996. These guidelines provide for inspecting
banks on the basis of a CAMEL rating system. Throughout 1997, the NBU implemented a
program of regional training on the on-site inspection guidelines based on CAMEL ratings.
16



These guidelines are mandatory for use by the bank supervision inspectors during on-site
examinations.  Additionally, the NBU has prepared programs of priorities for on-site
examinations of banks for the next two years.  These programs specify the scope of
examinations to be undertaken, the degree of branch coverage which is required, and the
contents and level of detail expected in examination reports. At the present time, detailed work
is focused on larger banks, particularly Prominvest Bank, Bank Ukraina, and Ukrsots Bank.
The examination of these banks, with inputs from foreign experts, was initiated, and in some
cases completed, between June and December 1997. The NBU is committed as part of this
reform program to have completed on-site inspections of banks accounting for 60 % of total
bank assets by the end of 1998.
53.   Improve Licensing (Entry) Procedures for Banks.  Since early 1996, the NBU has
obtained full responsibility for this function and has finalized the criteria which banks need to
meet to obtain and retain licenses. A detailed system of graduated licenses is in place and is used
actively to restrict banks from activities where their competencies are in question. During 1996,
the NBU put 45 of the country's 229 banks into various categories of restricted license,
rehabilitation, closure, or liquidation.
54.   To bring the statutory capital of the Ukrainian commercial banks up to international
standards, the NBU intends to continue its work aimed at raising banks' minimum statutory
capital requirements, including for problem banks and the banks that will be unable to comply
with the requirements for increased statutory capital.
55.   Establish Enforcement Capacity and Procedures (including Exit) to Address Problem
Banks. In September 1996, the NBU established a specialized Bank Resolution Department
(BRD) within the BSD and progressively increased its staffing to 23 persons. By September
1997, the NBU had signed specially designed Enforcement Resolutions for three banks, which
were drafted with the assistance of external advisers. Subsequently, Enforcement Resolutions
have been signed for another 21 banks in the BRD which are subject to rehabilitation. For all
other banks in the BRD, a decision has been taken that they need to be liquidated. A timetable
for the liquidation of these banks has been developed and specific action steps for its
implementation have been agreed upon as second and third tranche conditionality. A new Law
on Banks and Banking Activity, which concretizes NBU power in relation to bank liquidation,
has been prepared by the NBU, will be reviewed by foreign experts in the near future and is
expected to be submitted to the Parliament by mid 1998. The caseload of the BRD will transfer
from the current method (based on off-site assessment) to a new method (based on on-site
examinations). Supervisory profiles will be developed for all banks remaining under the
surveillance of the BRD.
56.   Take Action to Assess the Capacity and Define the Role of the Savings Bank. These
actions include the following:
* Detailed terms of reference for a three-stage program of audit, including
diagnostic review were finalized and agreed with the Savings Bank and the
Ministry of Finance in May 1997. The Government appointed an authorized
person to manage the contractual arrangements for the audit in April 1997,
bidding documents were issued, and an audit contract was signed with Price
Waterhouse in July 1997. Audit results for end- 1996 year were completed by
October 1997.
17



*  Pending the results of the audit, the NBU has restricted the license of the
bank to prevent further exposure to corporate lending.
*  The Prime Minister signed a draft of the Decree establishing a Supervisory
Council (headed by the Minister of Finance) for the Savings Bank on May 13,
1997. This condition is vital to fill the vacuum of strategic decision-making
that previously has held back any progress with reform of the Savings Bank.
57.   As a condition of Board presentation, the Savings Bank's management and the newly
created Supervisory Board have agreed on a concept paper outlining the main elements of a
strategic restructuring plan. Agreement on the implementation of specific elements of this plan
by second and third tranche has been reached.
58.   Government-directed loans made byformer state banks. As a condition of negotiations,
and as a key element of the rehabilitation of the larger banks, a schedule has been developed
identifying the amount of Government directed loans (those guaranteed or lent against
documented Government instruction) and the timetable for their repayment. As a condition of
Board presentation, this action was supported by the issuance of a Cabinet of Ministers
resolution to ensure the actual implementation of this schedule.
59.   Property Swap. Under a 1995 Presidential Decree, the three former state banks were
forced to issue shares to the Government in exchange for the title to the Government-owned
building they were occupying. As a condition of negotiations, the State Property Fund, holding
these shares on behalf of the Government, has developed a plan for their divestiture, including a
detailed timetable and a description of the sales methods to be used. This plan envisages full
divestiture of the remaining state shares in the three banks by the end of 1998. The plan has been
formally adopted and is already under implementation.
60.   Establish Intervention Mechanisms to Prevent Systemic Spillover from  Illiquidity
Problems in Larger Banks. In response to prospective liquidity problems in several larger banks,
the NBU as a condition of9Board presentation developed a special vigilance program to limit the
dangers that this might otherwise cause in the banking system as a whole. This program includes
*  an NBU Board Resolution to establish contingency planning for large bank
failures as an identifiable NBU activity with its own working group together
with an agreed timetable for the finalization of detailed contingency
arrangements.
*  the presentation to the Bank of a paper summarizing present NBU emergency
procedures to deal with sudden and unexpected problems in larger banks, and
the identification of the main weaknesses in these existing procedures.
*  an NBU commitment to recruit appropriate short-term external advice to help
it review existing procedures and define necessary improvements.
*  the establishment of a working group on contingency planning.
18



61.   Make Preparations for the Introduction of Deposit Insurance. The NBU has abandoned
plans for a deposit insurance scheme to be mandatory for all banks. Instead it has commissioned
in-depth technical assistance to support the preparation of a soundly funded scheme which will
exclude banks which do not meet certain basic standards of reporting and soundness.
(ii) Measures To Be Completed Prior To Second Tranche Release
62.   The Macroeconomic Environment for the Financial Sector.  The authorities will
maintain a macro-economic framework consistent with the program as deternined on the basis
of indicators agreed upon by the Government and the Bank and will achieve progress in carrying
out this program. Interest rates will remain largely free and generally positive in real terms.
63.   The Legal Framework for Banking Activity. Achieve passage of the "Law on The
National of Bank of Ukraine" in the Parliament to ensure the reasonable independence of that
bank. The draft Law was approved in first reading in October 1997.
64.   The Government will submit a new Law on Banks and Banking Activity to the
Parliament which will include specific and detailed arrangement for all substantive interventions
in banks presently authorized by NBU Regulation 11511. These arrangements will include the
definition of procedures and authority for the conservatorship and the liquidation of banks.
65.   The revised deposit insurance law will be finalized and approved by the NBU Board
(including exclusions, administrative arrangements, pay-out procedures and a means of funding
such a scheme), and submitted by the Government to Parliament.
66.   Improve Arrangements for Loan Loss Provisioning The NBU shall require banks to fully
provision in their books all loans classified as "loss" without regard to tax deductibility.
67.   On-Site Examination of Banks. On-site inspections in banks accounting for 60 percent
of total bank assets will have been completed and reports will be available.
68.   Improve Licensing (Entry) Procedures for Banks. All banks not meeting the higher
minimum statutory capital requirements applicable from January 1, 1998 will have had their
licenses removed, seriously restricted, or will have been put into liquidation, as the case may be.
69.   Restructure the Savings Bank The following sub-set of the components in the agreed
strategic restructuring plan will have been implemented:
*  the registration of the savings bank as a joint stock company with 100 percent
of the shares owned by the state;
*  the strengthening of the credit function, including the establishment of
appropriate loan approval ceilings for the bank's branches;
*  the restructuring of its loan portfolio, and
*  the finalization of a detailed plan for the creation of a treasury function.
1As of February 1998, NBU Regulation No. 115 has been re-named Regulation No. 38.
19



70.   Specific Interventions in Former State Banks. The NBU shall review the performance of
the bad loan workout departments of the three former state banks and take appropriate measures
to improve their recovery of bad loans.
71.   Government  Guaranteed/Directed  Loans.      Repayment  of  Government
guaranteed/directed loans on the balances of the three former state banks will have been
implemented as per the applicable Cabinet of Ministers Decree. Additionally, the Government
will take appropriate measures to reduce the stock of Government guaranteed/directed loans on
the books of these three banks to UAH 125 million.
72.   Problem Banks. The Govermment will approve a liquidation manual, initiate a program
for the training of relevant personnel, and initiate procedures for liquidation of no less than
three insolvent banks as pilot liquidations. EU/TACIS has already confirmed assistance in this
program, which is slated to begin in September 1998.
(iii) Measures To Be Completed Prior To Third Tranche Release
73.   The Macroeconomic Environment for the Financial Sector.  The authorities will
maintain a macro-economic framework consistent with the program as determined on the basis
of indicators agreed upon by the Government and the Bank/IMF and will achieve progress in
carying out this program. Interest rates will remain largely free and generally positive in real
terms.
74.   The Legal Framework for Banking Activity. The new Law on Banks and Banking
Activity will be adopted by the Parliament and signed by the President. The new Law will
include specific and detailed arrangement for all substantive interventions in banks presently
authorized by NBU Regulation 115. These arrangements will include the definition of
procedures and authority for the conservatorship and the liquidation of banks.
75.   Deposit Insurance. Parliament will adopt the Law on Deposit Insurance, and the
authorities will implement the deposit insurance scheme called for in the Law. The Ministry of
Finance will ensure that sufficient Government funding for the new scheme is available as
evidenced by inclusion of proper allocations for this purpose in the Government budget, before
the scheme is operationalized.
76.   Government Guaranteed/Directed Loans. The Govermment will have taken appropriate
measures to reduce the stock of Government guaranteed/directed loans on the books of the three
former state banks to UAH 100 million.
77.   Improve Arrangements for Loan Loss Provisioning. The NBU shall have required banks
to fully provision classified loans in accordance with the timetable in Regulation 323, and
confirm this through on-site inspections.
78.   Restructure the Savings Bank The following sub-set of the components in the agreed
strategic restructuring plan will have been implemented:
* the initiation of the rationalization of the branch network;
* the operationalization of the treasury function, and
20



* the finalization of an information technology strategy, a product development
and marketing strategy, and a human resource development policy.
79.   Problem Banks. The NBU's BRD will have initiated the relevant administrative and
other (including judicial) procedures as applicable for the liquidation of at least half of the total
number of insolvent banks in the BRD caseload.
Implementation
80.   Administration of the loan will be the responsibility of the FSAL Monitoring Unit (MU)
located in the Ministry of Finance. The MU's main responsibility will be to monitor, in
conjunction with the NBU, the implementation of the Loan program and provide progress reports
to the Government and the Bank every three months after Board approval. The progress reports
will contain an evaluation of the progress made on the policy reform program and will indicate
progress made towards fulfilling tranche release conditions. These reports will be sent to the
Bank every three months in English. The MU will also assist periodic Bank supervision
activities, and prepare Ukraine's contribution to the Project Completion Report within six months
of the closing date. The Project Manager will be located in the Ministry of Finance.
Financial Arrangements
(i) Disbursement
81.   Once the loan is approved by the Board of the World Bank, the Government will open
and maintain a Special Deposit Account at the NBU. Upon Bank notification of tranche release,
the Government will submit a simplified withdrawl application, against which the Bank will
disburse the Loan proceeds into the Deposit Account. The Project Manager will be responsible
for submitting to the Bank the simplified Application for Withdrawal form upon receiving
clearance from the Bank that all conditions have been met for a tranche release. If after deposit
in this account, the proceeds of the loan are used for ineligible purposes as defined in the Loan
Agreement, the Bank will require the Government either to (a) return that amount to the account
for use for eligible purposes or (b) refund the amount directly to the Bank, in which case the
Bank will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the loan.
82.   The proposed FSAL proceeds will be disbursed against satisfactory implementation of
the adjustment program, including compliance with stipulated tranche release conditions and
achievement of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework. Disbursements will not be linked to
any specific procurement actions or imports; hence, evidence thereof will not be needed to
support disbursement requests. Procurement requirements are not relevant to the planned
tranched disbursements. Loan funds will not, however, be eligible for certain purposes as noted
above.
(ii) Reporting and Auditing
83.   The Project Manager in the Ministry of Finance will maintain records of Loan activities,
disbursements, and such other files as may be appropriate for audit purposes. The Borrower
shall arrange for periodic audits of the project, as indicated by the Loan Agreement and
supplementary Bank communications on audits. The Bank retains the right to require an
independent audit by auditors acceptable to the Bank.
21



Environmental Impact
84.   In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD
4.01, Annex E), the proposed operation has been placed in category "U" and does not require an
environmental assessment.
IV. RECOMMENDATION
85.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio K. Koch-Weser
22



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
Ukraine - Key Economic Indicators
Actu21              Estimate        Projected
Indicatar             1993   1994   1995    1996   1997    1998    1999   2000
iNational lCCOUOt5
(as % GDP at current
markiet prices)
Gross domestic product               100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculture                         20.0   13.2   12.1    10.5        ..
Industry'                           34.1   39.1    34.2    31.2       ..       ..      .. 
Services'                            38.3   30.4   34.6   39.1        ..
Total Consumption                     6412   68.1   76.5    79.7   83.8    82.4    82.0    81.7
Gross domestic fLxed                  24.3   23.5   23.3    20.S   19.3    19.1    18.7    18.5
invescnent
Gover-unent inves=t                    ..      ..     ..      ..      ..
Privace investment                                     ..          ..      ..      ..
(includes increase in
stocks)
E'xports (GNIFS)b                     25.9   35.4   47.1    45.5   40.4    40.0    39.1    38.6
Impor.s (G}NFS)                       26.2   38.6   50.2   47.9   45.3    43.3    41.5    40.6
Gross domestic savings                35.8   31.9   23.5   20.3    16.2    17.6    18.0    18.3
Gross national savings                  ..   31.7   22.7   20.2         ..
MIdemorandum items
Gross domestic product              32,731  36,756  37,008  44,007  48,207  51,427  55,190  58,733
(USS miilion at currtmt
prices)
Gross national product per           2,380   1.910   1,630   1,180      ..
capita (USS, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rmtes
(%, calculated ftam 1995
prices)
Grass domestic product at         -14.2%  -23.0%  -12.2%  -10.0%   -3.0%   -2.0%    0.0%    1.0%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income                  ..      ..      ..  -8.8%   -5.0%    0.7%/   1.0%    1.7%
Real annual per capita
growth races (%, calculated
from 1995 prices)
Gross domestic product at         -14.2%  -22.6%  -11.6%   -9.7%   -2.7%    -1.7%    0.3%    13%
market prices
Total consumption                      ..      ..      ..      ..     ..
Private consumption                    ..      ..      ..      ..     ..
(c23tinued)
23



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
Ukraine - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual              Estimate        Projected
Indicator             1993   1994   1995    1996   1997    1998    1999   2000
Balance of Pavrnents
(USSm)
Exports (GNFS)b                    15,850  14,713  16,436  20,346  19,480  20,569  21,98  22,678
Merchandise FOB                 12,796  12,111  13,647  15,547  14,952  15,951  16,749  17,586
Imports (GNFS)b                   16,755  16,044  17,643  21,468  21,817  22,23  22,920  23,837
Merchandise FOB                 15,315  14,471  15,945  19,343  20,169  20,572  21,189  22,037
Resource balance                    -905  -1,331  -1,207  -1,122  -2,337  -1,6S4  -1,323  -1,160
Net current trnafers                 120    200    200        ..   770       300    225      169
(including ofEcial curnt
transfers)
Current account balance             -854  -1,395  -1,515      ..  -2,163  -2,021  -1.785  -1,747
(after otEcial capital grants)
Net private forei:g direct           200      91    266    526    437        550    589    630
investment
Long-term loans (net)                709  -1,065   -347   -482   -176    -901   1,553   1,108
Official                            307      98    385    241    -93    -619    -525   -208
Private                             402  -1,163    -732   -723    -83    -282   2,078   1,316
Other capital (net, including        -92   2,510    867        ..  2,311   2,327    408    509
errors and ornissions)
Change in resenresd                   37   -141      729    -83   -409        44   -765   -500
tW'emorandum irem.s
Resource balance (% of              -2.8%   -3.6%   -3.3%   -2.5%   4.S%    -3.3%   -2.4%   -2.0%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(1995 prices)
Merchandise exports                 2.7"h  -7.3%    9.8%       ..     ..
(FOB)
Prirary                                           9.9%        *.
Manufactures                                 ..  9.8%         ..     ..
Merchandise imports                25.6%   -7.4%    7.4%       ..     ..
(CIF)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)'
Current revenues                      ..      ..   37.6   36.9   36.9    33.9    31.8   30.7
Current expenditures                   ..     ..   39.3   39.3   41.1    37.9   32.7    31.4
(Condntma
24



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
Ukraine - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual              Estimate        Projected
Indicator              1993   1994   1995   1996    1997    1998    1999   2000
Current account surplus (i)             ..      *.   -1.7   -2.4    -4.3    -4.1    -0.9    .0.7
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure                     ..            3.4      1.1     1.1     1. 1     1.3     1.6
Foreip financing                        ..      ..    2.7    2.1       0.0     0.0
Monetary indicators
M21GDP (at current market               ..      ..   26.2   34.2    44.2    50.1    56S5
prices)
Growth of M2 (%)                        ..      ..     ..   92.9   44.3    27.1    24.0
Private sector credit growth/           ..
total credit growt (h)
Price indices( 1995 =100)
Merchandise export price             123.5  126.0  129.3        ..      ..
index
Merchandise import price             123.5  126.0  129.3        ..      ..
index
Merchandise terms of trade           100.0  100.0  100.0        ..      ..
index
Real exchange rate                   243.7   33.3    4.5        ..      ..
(USSILCU)'
Real interest rates
Consumer price index               5371%  891.1%  376.8%  -94.9%   30.0%    12.0%   10.00%  10.0%
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator                       3334%  954.4%  415.8%   64.1%   15.3%    14.3%   10.0%    8.0%/6
(% erowth rate)
a. If GDP components are estmated at factor cost, a footnoote indicating this fact should be added
b. 'GNFS' denotes 'goods and onLfactor services.'
c. Includes net urequited tfrAzsfem etcluding oflicial capital gants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Should indicate the level of the govannent to which the data refer.
f. 'LCU" denotes "local c;=ecy units.' An incres in USS/LCU denotes appreciation.
25



St:itils of * 1,r1B. i Gcroln   Opelrationis ill Ukraine
IBRD  Loans  nid Il)A  Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Differenice Between
expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                   and actual
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                                                          disbursements a/
Project ID     Credit      Year                Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                                IBRD        IDA      Cancellations   Undisbuirsed       Oriq   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 2
Active Loans
UA-PE-40564  1RD41180    1997   GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE                 COAL SECAL                       300.00        0.00            0.00        150.00      150.00       0.00
UA-PE-44444   IBRD40980    1997   UKRAIIIE                             ELECTRICITY MARKET              245.40        0.00             0.00        169.44      123.89       0.00
UA-PE-44444   IBRD409B1    1997   UKRAINE                              ELECTRICITY MARKET                71.60       0.00             0.00         71.44      123.09       0.00
UA-PE-44851   IBRD41070    1997   S1ATE EXPORT/IMPORT BANK             EXPORT D)EVEL.OPMEIIl             60.00       0,00             0.00         57.69       -?.15      -2.75
UA-PE-44051   IBRD41071    1997   STATE EXPORT/IMPORT BAIJK            EXPORT DEVEl.oPMEIrT              Itl.0U      0.01)            0.00          0.02       -2.15      -2. 15
UA-PE-45940   IBRD40970    1997   UKRAINE                              SOCIAL PROTECT. sUPP               2.60       0.00             0.00          2.60        2.20       0.00
UA-PE-9113     IBRD41030    1997   UKRAINE                             AGRICULTURE SECAI.              300.00        0.00             0.00        150.00      150.00       0.00
UA-PE-35814    IBRD40570    1996   UKRAINE                             E1JTER. DEV. ADJUST.             310.00       0.00             0.00          9.40        1.21       0.00
UA-PE-44110   IBRD40160    1996   GOVERIIMENT OF UKRAINE               COAI. PILOT                       15.91       0.00             0.00         10.47        5.16       0.00
UA-PE-38820   IBRD38650    1995   GOVT. OF UKRAINE                     HYDROPOWER REHAB.                114.00       0.00             0.00        100.96       37.16       0.00
UA-PE-9117    IBRD38910    1995   GOVT. OF UKRAINE                     AGRIC. SEED DEVELOPM              32.00       0.00             0.00         31.11       28.62        .12
UA-PE-9106    IBRp36140    1993   MIHISTRY OF FINANCE, UKRA            INSTI1UTION BUILDINIG             27.00       0.00             0.00         11.61       11.61      11.61
Total                                                                                                1,488.41        0.00             0.00        772.74      631.24       6.23
0~
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed hEBRD and IDA):                 714.12               500.00            1,214.12
of which has been repaid:                   0.00                 0.00                0.00
Total now held by I8RD and IDA:               1,480.41               500.00            1,908.41
Amount sold                                        0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid              :                  0.00                0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                               1 772.74               0.00              772.74
a. Ilitended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal,
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex 02. Preparation of Tiaplelejitationk SunMairy iForm 5903. Followiu.j the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPPI, a letter
based system will be used IHS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U   unsatisfactory, IIU - lighly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements In Project and
Portfolio Pertormance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by thie Operations Infonmation System (01)



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
Ukraine
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Dec-97
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1994/96                Ukraine VC Fund          0.00    3.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.10    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                     0.00    3.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.10    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Cormnitmnent
Loan   Equitv  Ouasi  Partic
1998                   CREDITANSTALT-           5.00    2.36    0.00    0.00
UK
1996                   FUIB                    10.00    6.50    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Comnmitment:          15.00    8.86    0.00    0.00
Generated by the Operations Infonnation System (OIS) on 02/02/98
27



ANNEX 3
UKRAINE: FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Timetable of Key Processing Events
Identification            May 30, 1996
Preparation               October 21, 1996, March 17, 1997
Preappraisal              June 30, 1997
Appraisal                 November 26, 1997
Negotiations              February 11, 1998
Board                     March 19, 1998



ANNEX 4
Page la of II
CABINET OF MINISTERS OF UKRAINE
M  Hrush evsky St., 12/2, Kyiv-008, Ukraine Tel.: (380 44) 293 5227, Fax: (380 44) 293 2093
24 February, 1998                                            No.27-504/9
Translation *fom Ukrainian
Paul Siegelbaum
Country Director for Ukraine and Belarus
The World Bank
Dear Mr. Siegelbaum,
Please find enclosed the Memorandum of the policies for enterprise development and the
Memorandum of the financial sector strategy, which highlight our program of
privatization, capital markets reform, accounting, bankruptcy, deregulation, banking
sector reform.
Provisions of the memoranda confirm the continuation of Ukrainian strategy for the
consolidation of a stable macroeconomic environment, as an important prerequisite of the
economic reform program implementation.
We ask the World Bank to support our enterprise and financial sector reform programs
through the allocation of the Second Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan, in the amount of
US $ 300 million and the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, in the amount of US $ 300
n-fillion.
Sincerely,
Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine
S. Tigipko
29a



24-FEB-98 16:13 FROM: KabminUKR                      ID: 0442933132              PAGE  2
ANNEX 4
Page lb of II
KAEBHET MIHICTPIB                       CABINET OF MINISTERS
YKPA3XHH                                OF UKRAINE
M. Hrushevsky St.. 12/2. Kiyv-008, Ukraine  Tel.: (380 44) 293 5227, Fax: (3S0 44] 293 2091
- 24      ADtoro       19 98         M           27-504/9
,jIupec-ropoai CEiloKoro 6aHKy
no YKcpahli ria 1irinopyci
periOH (Bap-OI i Ccpe1u1b0oYA.A3iF
LiaHoRi I Ioly Cirenh6aymy
TUaHoBHHui naHe HonI Cirems6aym!
g]to B auioY yBarH rtoaaroTcE MeMopay,nyMt npo rIOhiThKy R rariy3i
pOi3aRTKy  ri,AnpHeMCTB  Ta  MeMOpaI.,VYM   rpo  capaTerio  PO3B6(TKY
iHaticosoro ceKTOpy, xi BHCsiTmotoTb Hauy r.porpaMy npKaaT3atWiY,
pe4opM   pRHKiB  xaniTaJy,  6yxrazwrepcfKoro  06JTiKy,  6aHKpyTcTi3a,
,;eperyhsaiY, pe4opNtysaHHl 6aHidBcmcoro ceKTopy.
HaMip, BKmazeHi B MeMopaHmyMax, riiaTBepcyioTb EIp ipOBgmeHHA
Icypcy YKpaiHH Ha 3MiLHeHHA CTa6iJ7Tworo MaKpoeKoHomiMqHoro cepeaomata
3uK BawJlHBOdf nepegyMOBH ycniiIIHoro BTineHHR  nporpaim e!KoHoMNi1HX
pe4opM.                                                              \
rMln 3BepTaeMoci .1o CBitoBoro 6aHKy 3 nlpOXaHHMM niATpiLMaTH Hawy
rrporpamy pe4OpM B raIy3i Po3BHTKy riiArIpPICMCTB Ta 6auKiBcbKor-o ceKTopy
UIJAXOMt Hca,aHHm gpyr<;i YO3HK}X Ha pO3BEITOK niarfpkeMc-rB y pO3Mipi
300 MIIH. AoIapiB CLLIA Ta io3Hm Ha pe4OpMyBaHHSi 4tir-!aHCOBoro ceKIopy B
pO3Mipi 300 MJIH. AOflapin CLUA.
3 noB8roEo
Biue-npem'cpimhdc,rp Y      zc         >               C. Tir-in2co
29b



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 11
Translatedfrom Ulkrainian
UKRAINE: FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Memorandum on Financial Sector Development Policy
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
1.    Ukraine has established and sustained generally sound macroeconomic policies since 1994.
The first agreement with the IMF was concluded in October 1994 and assisted the Cabinet of
Ministers (henceforth the Government) in reducing the fiscal deficit to an estimated 5.4 percent of
GDP by year end 1997 with a cash deficit of 5.8 percent of GDP in the same year. The
complementary World Bank Rehabilitation Loan helped to launch the programs of privatization and
liberalization.  The Government has persevered successfully with tight fiscal and monetary
programs since then and is conunitted to doing so in future. These programs have resulted in
further reductions in the inflation rate to 16 percent in 1997. They have also created the conditions
necessary for the successful introduction of th, national currency - the Hrivnya.  Since its
introduction in September 1996. the Hrivnva itself has showvn a reasonable degree of stability - in
the region of UAH 1.76 = US$ 1 1.89 (Dec. 1996), 1.868 (Sept. 1997), and 1.899 (Dec. 1997) and
is gradually re-establishing the confidence in the local currency which was lost during the era of
high inflation prior to 1994.
2.     Largely due to recent developments in international capital markets. bv the end of 1997 the
prospects for external financing at reasonable terms had deteriorated significantly.  These
developments aggravated the difficult macroeconomic situation in December. as a result of which
the Government had to rely on additional National Bank of Ukraine (NBU) financing of state
expenditures. Nevertheless, the end-December IMF targets on net domestic assets (NDA) and net
international reserves (NIR) of the NBU are estimated to have been observed. Problems in global
financial markets, coupled with internal factors, also created pressures on the Hrivnya. In order to
strengthen the program of economic reforms. the Government has started to exercise better control
over expenditures. To allow more flexibility and to protect the level of reserves, the exchange rate
band has been widened to UAH 1.8-2.25 per U.S. dollar. The NBU will conduct a tight monetary
policy and use interest rate policy to support the band, and closely monitor developments in
monetary aggregates and inflation.
3.    Ukraine's transition to a market economy has also seen a sustained effort to privatize the
majority of the medium and larger enterprises in the economy, and to establish private ownership as
the dominant modality amongst smaller enterprises. Specifically, between January 1995 and
February 1998, a total of 7000 medium and large enterprises had transferred at least 70% of their
shares to private ownership, and more than 8,700 since privatization began in 1992. By the same
date more than 90% of formerly state controlled small enterprises had been privatized.
4.    At the same time, and vith extensive help from the donor communitv, the NBU has made
considerable strides in establishing the basic institutional arrangements for regulating a modern
market oriented banking system to support the rapidly expanding private sector. However, the
stresses on banks associated with the dramatic drop in inflation, and on their client enterprises
associated with privatization and economic recession, have revealed the fragility of many of the
30



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 11
banks' financial conditions and the potential systemic dangers which arise from this. Hence, as a
main component of the next phase of economic reform. the Government and the NBU have
committed themselves to a more intensive program of financial sector reform. This is designed to
consolidate the institutional steps already put in place during the last few years and to take further
specific actions to minimize the likelihood of a major financial crisis in the future.  This
commitment was articulated clearly in President Kuchma's speech to the Verkhovna Rada on
March 20, 1997 and again in a speech to the Cabinet of Ministers on July 22, 1997 as well as in the
Presidential Decree of January 21, 1998 "On Introducing Austerity on Budget Expenditures and
other Government Expenses, and Measures for Ensuring Receipt of Budget Revenues and
Preventing a Financial Crisis". It is in this context that we request World Bank support through the
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL) for a comprehensive program of reforms.
5.     This reform program for the financial sector has a number of main elements. First, it will
provide a stronger legal framework for regulating and supporting banks and in particular, through a
comprehensive Law on the NBU, will clarifv the independent role of the NBU as the responsible
authority for this work. Second, it will put in place accounting and related reforms to ensure that
the quality of the informnation generated. and reported by the banks is not only more transparent but
also compatible with generally accepted international standards. Third, it will improve the quality
of the regulation and supervision of the commercial banks. Finally, it will begin the task of
addressing some of the deep-rooted structural problems of the sector including the existence in the
system of several seriously distressed banks. the treatment of the overhang of bad loans from the
pre-reform period, and the role of major specialized financial institutions, notably the Oshchadnyi
Bank.
Part One: Improving the Legal Framework for Banking
6.     Continued monetary stability, as the main underpinning of a stronger financial sector will
involve continued vigilance by the NBU to prevent excessive money creation as well as an
increasing sophistication of the methods of monetary control which it employs. Greater stability in
banking will also call for more proactive and decisive NBU interventions in problem banks than has
been possible in the past. In the context of these two priorities, the Government and the NBU
recognize that it is essential to promulgate the new Law on the NBU, which confers adequate
authority on the NBU, and at the same time establishes legal arrangements which are compatible
with good international practice, especially those in the European Union. Above all, it recognizes
that past practices whereby the Government attempted to interfere in the day-to day lending and
other activities of the banking system are no longer acceptable and that the NBU Law needs to be
defined in such a way as to make this clear. To this end, as envisaged in the draft Law, the
ambiguity found in earlier drafts about the role and authority of the National Bank's Council would
be removed. In particular, the law would give the Council authority over a limited range of higher
level decisions. and it qualifies the veto which the Council can utilize in relation to some decisions
of the NBU Board.
7.     The draft Law also defines clearly the tight restrictions which now apply to NBU financing
of the state budget at the behest of the Verkhovna Rada. Specifically, with the exception of some
necessary transitional arrangements, the Law also contains provisions that prohibit the NBU from
providing direct credits to finance the expenditures of the state budget. This is in recognition of the
fact that the monetization of budget deficits has been one of the major sources of inflationary
pressures in the past, and now needs to be limited if low inflation is to be sustained.
31



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 11
8.    Finally, the draft Law defines the basic authority of the NBU to intervene in problem banks
(especially Article 68). It is the intention of the Government and the NBU to supplement these
provisions with more detailed articles in the new Law on Banks and Banking Activity which is in
the final stages of preparation, and also with detailed NBU regulations. The Law on the NBU was
given its first reading in the Verkhovna Rada in October 1997 and is expected to be approved by the
end of 1998. The new Law on Banks and Banking Activity will be submitted to the Verkhovna
Rada by end 1998 and is expected to be approved by mid 1999.
Part Two: Making the Information Flows from the Commercial Banks More Reliable
9.    The Government has recognized that the Gosbank accounting system made it impossible to
assess the true financial situation of the NBU itself and the financial health of commercial banks
more generallv. This deficiency of the accounting framework has seriously undermined the work of
bank supervisors, as well as the ability of potential clients of banks to make informed decisions. To
address this deficiency, the NBU has continually implemented a program of development of a new
bank accounting concept (chart of accounts and accounting directives) compatible with
International Accounting Standards (IAS). In July 1997 a first version of the new chart of accounts
for banks and the NBU was prepared. After accounting directives and recommendations on tax
reporting had been issued in the last half of 1997, banks could maintain their accounting records in
compliance with IAS. IAS-based accounting was required of all commercial banks and the NBU by
January 1. 1998. wvhich was proof of the NBU commitment to accounting reform.
10.   This work has been conducted with significant financial support of the IMF, EU-TACIS,
the British Know-How Fund, USAID and the Central Bank of the Netherlands. For exarnple, EU-
TACIS financed consultations on the NBU conversion to IAS, given by the NBU's international
auditors Coopers & Lybrand. In the commercial banking sector 15 selected pilot banks (9 of which
are based in the regions) were given technical advise on accounting and reporting issues by experts
from Price Waterhouse (financed by EU-TACIS for 11 banks in Kyiv, L'viv, Odessa, Illichivsk,
Symferopil, Kharkiv, Dnipropetrovsk, and Chernihiv) and IBTCI (financed by USAID for 4 Kyiv-
based banks). Also, a coordinated training program for trainers and bank and private accountants in
Kyiv and the regions was launched.
11.   The NBU is fully committed to further accounting reform implementation in 1998 and the
inprovement of reporting and accounting procedures for commercial banks and the NBU.
Instructions on accounting procedures and records will be issued by the end of the current year
together with the directives on the preparation of annual reports in compliance with IAS. Report
forms for commercial banks will be further improved in 1998. These activities will be supported by
experts from EU-TACIS, the British Know-How Fund, and the IMF in cooperation with the NBU
through the EU-TACIS pilot bank project launched to meet the needs of the largest Ukrainian
banks. The NBU will verify, through routine on-site inspections of banks, that the IAS accounting
conversion has been correctly implemented, and take appropriate enforcement action against any
bank in non-compliance.
12.   Loan loss provisioning in Ukraine started in 1996 in compliance with the Resolution of the
NBU Board dated January 31. 1996 #20 "On Amendments to the Policy "On Formation Procedure
and Size of Insurance Funds of Commercial Banks'"' However, this work was not systematic, and
loan loss provisions formed by banks did not cover total impaired loans. The percentage of
impaired loans was quite significant at that time and therefore the existing provision amounts were
insufficient to cover potential losses in full. A new Law on Corporate Income Tax was passed on
32



ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 11
July 1, 1997. Under this Law, commercial banks can make loan loss provisions from their expenses
for a transitional period: 40% of aggregate loans - by January 31. 1999, 30% - by January 31,
2001; 20% - from January 1, 2002 onwards. To develop a consistent approach to loan
classification and provisipning in the banking system of Ukraine, the NBU passed a Resolution "On
the Formation and Use of Reserve for Possible Loan Losses of Commercial Banks" # 323 dated
September 29, 1997. The NBU understands the importance of this issue for further stabilization of
the banking system of Ukraine, and therefore, it is committed to the improvement of the existing
regulations for commercial banks in this area. To this end, the NBU has further developed the
policy "On the Formation and Use of Reserve against Possible Loan Losses of Commercial Banks"
in order to adapt it to LAS. The range of operations to be covered by provisions has been increased,
including bills of exchange, factoring, leasing, guarantees, and correspondent accounts. The NBU
Banking Supervision Departnent monitors the formation and use of provisions by commercial
banks on the basis of prudential reports as well as on-site examinations of commercial banks. A
policy on formation and use of provisions against possible losses from operations with accounts
receivable, securities. and investments by commercial banks is to be developed during 1998.
13.   The new language of the Instruction #10 "Commercial Bank Prudential Regulations and
Analysis" was adopted by the NBU Board on December 30. 1997 (Resolution #469). It is
consistent with LAS and sets forth 21 prudential regulations that commercial banks must follow.
Among these there are:
five capital regulations, all based on definitions which are in accordance with Bank of
International Settlements (BIS) norms as follows:
* minimum capital requirement (Hi);
* minimum authorized capital requirement (H2);
* solvency ratio (H3);
* capital adequacy ratio (H4);
*  bank capital category (H5): all banks are subdivided into three categories; a bank
is limited in the amount of any capital distribution depending on its assigned
group; the procedure of capital distribution is set forth in banks' Letters of
Incorporation;
seven risk regulations:
*  maximum exposure per single borrower (H9): borrowers that have the same
founders. shareholders, or partners with more than 35% of qualified interest are
treated as a single borrower for regulatory purposes: the benchmark for H9 is no
more than 25% of bank capital;
* maximum aggregate large credit exposure regulation (H10): the maximum
benchmark for H10 is eight times bank capital:
33



ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 11
* maximum loans and guarantees per single insider (H 1I): the terrns for insider
loans shall not be different from general lending standards: maximum allowed
unsecured loan to a single shareholder (partner) shall not exceed 50% of his/her
equity investment in a bank's authorized capital; the maximum benchmark for
HI I is 5% of bank capital,
* maximum loans -and guarantees to all insiders (H12): the benchmark for this
regulation is no more than 40% of bank capital;
* maximum outstanding interbank loans (H13): the benchmark for this regulation
is no more than 200% of bank capital;
* refinancing ratio (H14): the benchmark for this regulation is no more than 300%
of bank capital: and
*  equity investment limitation (H15): this regulation limits equity investments in
companies and non-state debt to a maximum of no more than 50% of bank capital;
*  three regulations of bank open FXposition, as follows
*  general bank open FX position limitation (H16): It is calculated as a ratio of
bank's general open FX position to bank capital.  The benchmark for this
regulation is no more than 40% of bank capital:
*  long (short) open FX position limitation in each currency (H17): the benchmark
for this regulation is no more than 20% of bank capital: and
* long (short) open FX position limitation in all precious metals (H18): the
benchmark for this regulation is no more than 10% of bank capital,
*  three weighted FXposition regulations, where bank open FX positions in all currencies
are weighted bv a ratio depending on the remaining time to maturity, as follows:
X weighted open FX position (Hl9): the benchmark for this regulation is no more
than 50% of bank capital;
*  long (short) weighted open FX position in convertible currency (H20): the
benchmark for this regulation is no more than 30% of bank capital; and
*  long (short) weighted open FX position in non-convertible currency (H21): the
benchmark for this regulation is no more than 15% of bank capital.
The new version of Instruction # 10 has ceased the validity of old FX Operational Procedures, i.e.
the prohibition for a bank to have an open FX position has been dismissed and uniform consistent
regulations were adopted applicable to all currencies, including precious metals.
34



ANNEX 4
Page 7 of II
Part Three: Improved Bank Supervision and Licensing
14.    In 1995, the NBU started building the bank supervision infrastructure vhich was to be the
basis for the development of methods and procedures, organization, laws and regulations, training
programns, and information systems to ensure efficient and timely bank supervision.  The
development of bank supervision has made significant progress. However, its control over the
stability of the banking system is still insufficient. Considering the need to improve and further
develop bank supervision, the Board of the NBU approved a Resolution "On Stabilization and
Ensuring the Safety of the Banking system in Ukraine and Improvement of Bank Supervision of the
NBU" dated June 9, 1997, #180. The Resolution started the reorganization of the NBU's bank
supervision function. Four new departments were established: Registration and Licensing, Off-Site
Supervision, On-Site Inspections, Problem Bank Resolution, as well as a Division of Bank
Supervision Coordination. This raised the status of the bank supervision function and improved the
decision-making process. To improve bank supervision methods, an Advisory Committee of Bank
Supervision and Regulation headed by the Vice-Governor of NBU responsible for bank supervision
was established. Experts from bank supervision departments work in close cooperation vith
technical advisors financed by USAID. EU-TACIS and other donors. The steps that have been
taken ensure that the NBU meets its goal of an integrated bank supervision system and decision
making process based on the results of all bank supervision departments and control over specific
commercial banks. The NBU Board has approved a strategy to further improve NBU banking
supervision.  The strategy sets priorities %%ith time frames and persons responsible for its
implementation.
15.      In relation to off-site inspection. in addition to the improvement in prudential
regulations already noted, the NBU has developed an early warning system. a Uniform Bank
Perfornance Report (UBPR) as well as quarterly reporting forms which summarize the inforrnation
of the financial performance of all the commercial banks. This information is to be presented both
to the NBU Board and the concerned bank supervision department. As a result of the conversion to
IAS, the off-site department has started to revise the UBPR and other reporting forms to comply
with IAS. The UBPR includes current as well as time series, ratio and other information about each
bank as well as comparisons with comparable banks. The early warning system displays lists of
banks showing unfavorable trends or falling below acceptable thresholds. Necessary staff training
is being provided. The early waming reports will be reviewed regularly by the Vice-Govemor
responsible for banking supervision as a basis for redirecting the efforts of the off-site inspectors
and the enforcement teams as necessary. In addition, financial analysis was prepared to help scope
the on-site examinations of the three large former state banks, which began, with the Bank Ukraina
examination, in May 1997.
16.   As regards on-site inspections, the On-Site Inspection Guidelines were developed in 1996
and approved by the December 30, 1996 Resolution of the Board of Governors of the NBU #344.
These guidelines provide for inspecting banks on the basis of a CAMEL rating system. Throughout
1997. the NBU implemented a program of regional training on the on-site inspection guidelines
based on CAMEL ratings. These guidelines are mandatory for use by the bank supervision
inspectors during on-site examinations. Additionally, the NBU has prepared programs of priorities
for on-site examinations of banks for the next two years. These programs specify the scope of
examinations to be undertaken, the degree of branch coverage which is required, and the contents
and level of detail expected in examination reports. At the present time, detailed work is focused on
larger banks and especially Prominvest Bank. Bank Ukraina, and Ukrsots Bank. The examination
of these banks. with inputs from foreign experts, was initiated, and in some cases completed,
35



ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 11
between June and December 1997. The NBU is committed as part of this refonn program to have
completed on-site inspections of banks accounting for 60 % of total bank assets by the end of 1998.
17.   As regards bank licensing, the NBU since early 1996 has obtained full responsibility for
this function and has finalized the detailed criteria which banks need to meet to obtain and retain
licenses. A complex system of graduated licenses is in place and is used activeiy to restrict banks
from activities where their competencies are in question. During 1996, the NBU put 45 of the
country's 229 banks into various categories of restricted license, rehabilitation, closure, or
liquidation.  The Resolution of the Verkhovna Rada of February 1, 1996, #25/96-BP "On
Implementing the Law of Ukraine On Amendments to the Law of Ukraine On Banks and Banking
Activity" established the following minimum levels of statutory bank capital:
ECU 100 thousand     June 1, 1996
ECU 250 thousand     October 1, 1996
ECU 500 thousand    January 1, 1997
ECU 750 thousand    June 1. 1997
ECU I million        January 1, 1998
18.   Commercial banks had to meet these requirements by the stated deadlines. The banks that
were likelv to have problems meeting these requirements were notified by the NBU in advance.
Subsequent to the deadlines the NBU will close. force the merger or revoke the licenses of banks
that do not meet these requirements. In accordance %Nith this requirement, on January 4, 1998 the
licenses of twvo banks that did not pay and register the required statutory capital were revoked. In
order to bring the statutory capital of the Ukrainian commercial banks up to international standards,
the NBU intends to continue its work aimed at raising banks' minimum statutory capital
requirements. including for problem banks and the banks that will be unable to comply with
increased licensing requirements for the amount of their statutory capital. In addition, in October
1997, the NBU submitted a proposal to the Verkhovna Rada to make amendments to the current
"Law of Ukraine On Banks and Banking Activity" in the section concerned with giving the right to
establish minimum capital requirements for commercial banks to the NBU.
Part Four: Dealing with Problems in Particular Banks
19.     The Government and the NBU are fully committed to work toward a strengthening of the
country's banking system and an improvement in the system's capacity to serve the needs of the
growing private sector, both domestic and foreign-owned.
20.   Bank Restructuring - Establishing the Capacity. Bank supervision has adopted a system
of criteria for defining problems in the financial and credit activity of commercial banks which
includes a listing of indicators based on a CAMEL rating system, which makes it possible to state
that there are problems and higher risks in the activity of certain commercial banks. Within the
bank supervision function of the NBU, the Bank Resolution Department (BRD) has been set up. It
is made up of two units: the Financial Rehabilitation Unit and the Bank Liquidation Unit, and has a
staff of 23 people.
21.    The On-Site Inspections Department together with the BRD plan to take the following
measures:
36



ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 11
*   to conduct on-site examination of the problem banks that have not been examined for
more than txwo vears by the end of 1998;
*   to review banks not currently in the BRD, to determine which banks have problems in
their operations which might warrant transfer to the BRD; this will be done on the
basis of an off-site analysis by September 1998: thereafter the caseload of the BRD
will graduallv switch over fully to an on-site basis of referral.
*   to conduct on-site examinations of the foregoing banks in order to make a decision
whether they should or should not be transferred to the category of problem banks.
22.   By September 1997, the Governor of the NBU has signed specially designed enforcement
resolutions for three banks. These are seen as pilot operations to test the effectiveness of the
procedures of the BRD and increase the familiarity of the BRD staff with those procedures. By
February 1998, the NBU had developed strategies and signed enforcement resolutions for another
20 banks in the caseload of the BRD. Banks unable to achieve satisfactorv performance and
compliance with prudential regulations after a reasonable passage of time will be required to
undergo deeper reorganization. or be liquidated. A detailed procedure manual on the liquidation of
banks has been drafted and the NBU intends to formallv adopt and operationalize this manual by
end 1998. The Law on the NBU and the new Law on Banks and Banking Activity will consolidate
the legal basis for these interventions.
23.  The NBU has established a special working group to prepare an outline of a set of
contingency measures to be applied to the largest banks which pose a systemic threat to the safety
of the banking system. The NBU is committed to designing detailed contingency arrangements to
deal with difficulties in the largest banks. which will include at least four main elements: intensified
on-site inspection designed to obtain all relevant facts about each bank's finances: restrictions on
bank behavior which could cause an overflow of its problems to other parts of the sector: stronger
NBU pressures on each bank to improve its management practices and governance; and explicit
programs to defend and revise the capitalization of each bank but vithout explicit capital injection
from state sources. These arrangements will be in place by end 1998.
24.    The Oshchadnyi Bank. The Government as the sole owner of the Oshchadnyi Bank is
conmmitted to clarifring the structure and role of that bank and heightening the security which the
bank can offer to its millions of depositors. To this end, the Government has created a new
Supervisory Council for the bank to be responsible for the oversight of the bank's management and
for any decisions affecting the future structure and role of the bank. This newv Supervisory Council
came into existence in May 1997. In June 1997, the authorities signed the contract for the first
international audit of the bank. The audit results have established the true financial situation of the
bank, and the Supervisory Council is now assessing altemative possibilities for the future direction
and main product areas of the bank including the need, if anv, for the injection of new capital from
the existing and/or newv private shareholders. In the interim. the NBU has restricted the commercial
activities of the bank in order to limit the risks to depositors. which might be caused by business
activities not supported bv an adequate base of capital. In particular. the bank's license has been
restricted to limit its lending to corporate clients, and its exposure to the interbank market is being
monitored closelv. Bv end 1998 the first elements of the restructunrng of the bank will be put in
place, specifically the registration of the Oshchadnyi Bank as a joint stock company with 100% of
the shares owned by the state. the strengthening of the credit function. including the establishment of
37



ANNEX 4
Page 10 of 11
appropriate loan approval ceilings for the branches; the restructuring of the loan portfolio; and the
finalization of a detailed plan for the creation of a Treasury function. Additionally, by mid 1999 the
following elements of the restructuring of the bank will be put in place: the initiation of the
rationalization of the branch network as described in the concept paper on the strategic development
of the Oshchadnyi Bank; the operationalization of the Treasury function: and the finalization of an
IT strategy, a Product Development, and Marketing strategy and a Human Resource Development
policy.
25.     Former State Banks. In relation to the three large former state banks in the economy -
Prominvest Bank, Bank Ukraina, and Ukrsots Bank - the Government and the NBU have initiated a
program of measures to strengthen their financial health and to insulate them from further pressures
to lend for politicallnon-commercial reasons.  This program  includes. first, a clear set of
arrangements to address the position of these banks in regard to the properties they occupy. A swap
of the state-owned properties they occupy for newly issued state equity stakes in the banks has
recently been finished for two of the three banks; for the third bank this swap will be completed by
end 1998. The Government is now committed to sell off these equity stakes by end 1998. Second,
the Government has defined a program and schedule for the repavment of the banks' loans
guaranteed by the state through the issuance of Treasury Bills of Exchange. For Government-
directed loans that are not guaranteed. appropriate reserves against possible losses are to be formed.
Third, the NBU will assess the perfornance of the bad-loan wvorkout units of these three banks and
take appropriate measures to improve their performance, as required- bv end 1998. Fourth, and as
one main element in its strengthening of its bank supervision efforts, the NBU has programmed the
full on-site examinations of the three banks and has already completed two of these. In all three
banks, these reform efforts will be re-enforced by the ongoing technical assistance to management,
which is being provided by Western experts to at least two of the three banks under Bank/EBRD
guidance. The authorities are committed to supporting such technical support arrangements and
extending their coverage to a larger number of banks. Finally, the Government has agreed to reduce
the stock of debt outstanding on the books of these three banks which is guaranteed by the
Government or any of its agencies to UAH 125 million by end 1998 and UAH 100 million by mid
1999.
Part Five: Deposit Insurance
26.   The Government and the NBU have practically completed the further technical work
necessary to establish a viable Deposit Insurance scheme, including calculations of the funding
needed for viability as well as improvements in the draft Law on Deposit Insurance. By the end of
1998, the revised Deposit Insurance Law will be submitted to the Verkhovna Rada. The
Government and the NBU expect the law to be adopted no later than bv the end of 1999. The
deposit insurance scheme to be created will only be operationalized once the availability of
sufficient funding from the Government budget has been assured.
Part Six: Other Reforms
27.   In addition to these identified and specific areas of structural reform, the Government is
also committed to other reforms designed to produce a stronger and more competitive banking
sector. Some of these will be pursued as possible prior actions for the Extended Fund Facility
(EFF) arrangement, which the IMF and the Government are currently discussing. Furthermore, the
Government and the NBU have recognized that the banking system is still relatively underdeveloped
and could possibly benefit from accelerated foreign bank entry. To this effect, the Government has
38



ANNEX 4
Page 11 of 11
allowed foreign banks to also transact business in Hrivnya since July 1997. The Government and
the NBU will assess the impact of foreign bank presence on the overall banking system's
performance, and consider on the basis of this assessment. the appropriateness of increasing the
current limit of 15% of foreign owned capital as part of total banking system statutory capital.
28.    In support of the financial sector reform program described in this letter, the Government
of Ukraine is requesting a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan from the World Bank in an amount of
US$300 nillion.
World Bank User
.A\ANNEX4.doc
02/13.98 9:28 AM
39



ANNEX 5
Page I of 8
UKRAINE: FINANCLIL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
POLICY MATRIX
Policy Issues and      Measures already taken           Actions prior to           Actions prior to Board          Actions prior to Second      Actions prior to Third
Objectives        1                            1 Appraisal/Negotiation               Presentation                      tranche                      tranche
L STABLE MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
Establish and          Policy measures, including   Maintain a macro-             Maintain a macro- economic     Maintain a macro- economic     Maintain a macro-
maintain an             interest rate policy, are in  economic framework           framework consistent with      framework consistent with the    economic framework
appropriate             compliance with IMF          consistent with the           the program as determined      program as determined on the    consistent with the
macroeconomic           Stand-By and                 program as determined on      on the basis of indicators     basis of indicators agreed upon   program as determined on
framework supported     complementary Bank           the basis of indicators       agreed upon by the             by the Government and the     the basis of indicators
by consistent trade,    adjustment programs          agreed upon by the            Government and the             BankIIMF and progress         agreed upon by the
monetary and                                         Government and the            Bank/IMF and progress          achieved by Government in      Government and the
budgetary policies.                                  Bank/IMF and progress         achieved by Government in      carrying out the program.      Bank/IMF and progress
achieved by Government       carrying out the program.                                     achieved by Government
in carrying out the                                                                        in carrying out the program
program.                                                 _
Z.g    Maintain liberal      Interest rates are largely   Maintain interest rates       Maintain interest rates        Maintain interest rates        Maintain interest rates
0    interest rate policy    free and gencrally positivc   largely free and generally   largcly free and gcnerally     largely free and generally     largely free and
I positive                     positive                       positive                      generally positive
11. LEGAL FRAMEWORK FOR BANKING ACTIVITY
New Law on the          The new NBU Law has          First reading of draft Law                                   Approval of NBU Law
NBU to ensure its       been redrafted in the light
reasonable              of World Bank comments
independence            and has been submitted by
the NBU to the Parliament



ANNEX S
Page 2 of 8
Policy Issues and     Measures already taken          Actions prior to           Actions prior to Board         Actions prior to Second     Actions prior to Third
Objectives                                       Appraisal/Negotiation             Presentation                     tranche                     tranche
New Law on Banks                                                                                              Submission to Parliament of   Approval of new Law on
and Banking Activity                                                                                           new Law on Banks and         Banks and Banking
Banking Activity, which will    Activity.
include specific and detailed
arrangement for all substantive
interventions in banks
presently authorized by NBU
Regulation 115. These
arrangements will include the
definition of procedures and
authority for the
conservatorship and the
liquidation of banks.
IIL INFORMATIONAL AND REGULATORY BASIS OF SOUNDER BANKING
(a) LJSAccoundgng
Introduction of IAS    Separate Controller's Unit   Confirm detailed timetable
.I--  accounting by NBU      established. Pilot IAS      for steps to IAS
transaction balance sheets  conversion of NBU to be
completed for Central       achieved by January I st
Operations and other parts  1998, including the
of the NIIU accountinig for  complete conversion ol
85 -90% of all its          the pilots by end July
transactions                1997 (condition for
negotiation).
Commercial banks to    Work program for IAS         NBU Board to approve         Small sub-set of lAS
report to NBU in a     reporting by commercial      the new set of report        consistent reporting forms
format consistent      banks approved by NBU        forms and issue the         approved by NBU Board and
with International     Board including April        detailed instructions for    mandated for use by January
Accounting Standards   1997 deadline for            reporting by the             1998.
(IAS)                  completion of design of      commercial banks for
new IAS repbrt forms.       compliance as from
January Ist 1998.



ANNEX S
Page 3 of 8
Policy Issues and     Measures already taken          Actions prior to            Actions prior to Board         Actions prior to Second     Actions prior to Third
Objectives                                       Appraisal/Negotiation             Presentation                      tranche                     tranche
Introduction of IAS    Separate Reports and         NBU to give official         Conversion was mandated as
accounting in          Statistics Unit established  approval of new CoA by       of January 1, 1998.
Commercial Banks.      in NBU.                      June 15, 1997, and banks
to begin piloting the CoA
and reporting forms in
order to achieve
conversion by January 1,
1998 (condition for
negotiation).
A) Improvc
Arrangementfor
Loan Loss
Provisioning and
their tax treatment
Introduce Improved     (i) NBU Regulation No. 20    (i) NBU Board to approve                                    The NBU shall require        The NBU shall have
Arrangements           of January 1996              the new version of                                          banks to fully provision all  required banks to fully
introduced loan             Regulation 20 of 1996.                                      loans classified as "loss"   provision classified
classification and          (Approval took place in                                     without regard to tax        loans in accordance
provisioning procedures to  September 1997)                                             deductibility.                with the timetable in
be followed by commercial                                                                                             Regulation 323, and
banks. A major revision of                                                                                            confirm this through
this has been proposed by                                                                                             routine on-site
the Bank and is now being                                                                                            inspections.
finalized by the NBU staff.
(ii) An initial draft of    (ii) Parliament to approve
Article 12 of the Corporate  the Corporate Tax Law
Tax Law dealing with loan   including an improved
loss provisions has been    version of Article 12.
amended in the light of     (Approval took place in
Bank comments               July 1997)



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 8
Policy Issues and     Measures already taken          Actions prior to            Actions prior to Board         Actions prior to Second     Actions prior to Third
Objectives                                       Appraisal/Negotiation             Presentation                      tranche                     tranche
(c) Reorganize and
Strengthen Bank
Supervislon in NB]U
Re-organize the        The Board of the NBU has     Appoint a new senior         NBU Board to approve
Department             endorsed the detailed        manager at a level           consolidated strategy for
proposals for re-organizing  equivalent to Vice          Bank Supervision.
the department as the       Governor; establish the
Inspectorate of Bank        advisory team including a
Supervision                 senior advisor to the Vice
Governor and Govemor;
and finalize the
consolidated strategy
document for Bank
Supervision. Initiate
programs for on-site
inspection in three large
banks, and agree
arrangements with SSMC
for supervision of
securities business of
banks.
Improve off-sight      Working group of NBU         Uniform Bank                 Improvements in Regulation
surveillance of banks  and Ukrainian Bankers        Performance Reporting        10 will be approved
(Prudential            Association has completed    System and the associated    including addition of:
Standards)             new prudential regulations   Early Warning System         * five capital regulations
in response to              must be operational and      * seven risk regulations
Bank recommendations        be available to the          * three regulations of bank
and suggestions. These are  Governor and senior staff      open FX positions
embodied in the new         of NBU.                      * three weighted FX position
Regulation No 10 of 1996.                                  regulations
The new regulation
provides improved
measurement of capital,
and improved limits on
insider and connected
lending.



ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 8
Policy Issues and      Measures already taken          Actions prior to            Actions prior to Board         Actions prior to Second      Actions prior to Third
Objectives                                       Appraisal/Negotiation              Presentation                       tranche                     tranche
Improve On-Site        A detailed On-Site                                         NBU to prepare prioritized     On-site inspections in banks
Examination of          Examination Manual has                                    program, specifying scope of   accounting for 60% of total
Banks                   been completed and                                        examinations, degree of        bank assets will have been
training on the manual has                                branch coverage, and           completed and reports will be
been provided in all 26                                   contents and level of detail   available.
oblasts.                                                  expected in examination
reports, for on-site          NBU will provide semi-annual
cxaiiiiidatiolis of haniks lor  reporting to the Bank on
ncxt two years.               progress with the program.
IV. STRUCTURE OF THE SECTOR
(a) Strengthen          NBU has finalized criteria   By September 1997, the       Develop the policy for         All banks not meeting the
present                 (including minimum           NBU will require banks       referral of such banks to       higher minimum capital
arrangementsfor         capital) which banks need    failing statutory capital     BRtI. Set up the criteria to  requirements applicable from
licensing new banks     to meet to bc liccnsed.      requirement in July to        address thc problems of such  January Ist 1998 will have had
and re-licensing        N1 I has written to all      conclude agreemcnts with      baniks and develop thc         licenses removed, and
existing banks          banks which seem likely to   NBU describing how they       policy and procedures for     liquidation procedures
fail to achieve new          will achieve minimum         liquidation of these banks.    initiated.
minimum capital              capital.
requirements by July 1997



ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 8
Policy Issues and      Measures already taken          Actions prior to            Actions prior to Board          Actions prior to Second     Actions prior to Third
Objectives                                        Appraisal/Negotiation              Presentation                      trauche                     tranche
(b) Establish           NBU has established and      Develop and implement a      Enforcement Resolutions        Govemment to approve           BRD to have initiated
enforcement capacity    staffed a specialized Bank   policy within BSD that        signed for another 21 banks   liquidation manual, initiate   procedures for liquidation
and procedures to       Resolution Department        provides criteria for the     in BRD and decision to        program of training relevant   of at least half the total
address problem         (BRD) to deal with           proper referral of banks to  liquidate remaining banks      personnel, and initiate        number of insolvent banks
banks                   problem banks,               BRD                          taken. Timetable of            liquidation procedures for no  in BRD caseload.
liquidation of these banks    less than three insolvent banks.
Develop and implement a      developed.
mission statement that
derines BRI) dulies in       Auciudminiciit to N1311
rehabilitation and           Regulation 115 to bettcr
liquidation                  specilS NBUl aulhority to
liquidate and reorganize
NBU Governor to sign         banks.
first two Enforcement
Programs for the banks
from the current caseload
of BRD with content
consistent with model
agreement already
provided to Bank. Prior
to that, these two banks
Un                                                        will undergo onsite
examinations to provide
the basis for
administrative actions to
be placed on the banks.
NBU will facilitate
training of BRRD personnel
in the CAMEI, risk-based
inspection process and in
necessary interaction with
the enforcement process.
Complete the staffing of
the BRD (at least 19
staff).



ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 8
Policy Issues and      Measures already taken          Actions prior to            Actions prior to Board         Actions prior to Second      Actions prior to Third
Objectives                                        Appraisal/Negotiation              Presentation                      tranche                     tranche
(c) Assess capacity     Detailed terms of reference  An audit contract to be      Supervisory Board to           The following sub-components   The following sub-
and define role of the  for a three stage program    signed.                      approve outline of strategic   in the Savings Bank           components in the
Savings Bank            of audit, including                                       plan.                          restructuring program will     Savings Bank
diagnostic review have       Decree to establish the                                     have been implemented:        restructuring program will
been finalized and agreed    Supervisory Council of the                                  *   registration of SB as joint   have been implemented:
with the Savings Bank and    Savings Bank and define its                                     stock company with        *   initiate
the Ministry of Finance.     mandate to be approved.                                         100% state ownership          rationalization of
The govemment has                                                                        *   strengthening of credit       branch network
appointed an authorized      15-20 page outline of main                                      function                  *   operationalize
person to manage the         components of strategic                                     *   restructuring of loan         treasury function
contractual arrangements    restructuring plan to be                                         portfolio                 *   finalize information
for the audit.               presented to Bank.                                          *   finalization of detailed      technology strategy,
plan for creation of          product development
Pending the results of the                                                                   treasury function.            and marketing
audit, the N1i3J has                                                                                                        stralegy, and human
restricted the license of the                                                                                              resource
bank to prevent further                                                                                                    development policy.
exposure to corporate
lending.
(d) Establish                                                                      *   NBU Board Resolution
Intervention                                                                           establishing
0%  Mechanisms to                                                                           contingency plani:ing
Prevent Systenic                                                                       as NBU activity with its
Spil-overfrom                                                                          own Working Group
Illiqulidity Problems                                                                  and an agreed timetable
In Larger Banks                                                                        for finalization of
detailed contingency
arrangements
* present Bank with brief
paper summarizing
present NBU
emergency procedures
* Commitment to recruit
appropriate short term
extemal advice
* establishment of
Working Group on
contingency planning



ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 8
Policy Issues and      Measures already taken          Actions prior to            Actions prior to Board          Actions prior to Second     Actions prior to Third
Objectives                                        Appraisal/Negotiation              Presentation                     treache                      tranche
(e) Speclfic            I'hese banks have becn       Commit to full scopc on      Issuc lPresidential Dccrcc or  The NBU shall review the      Govcrnment will lake
Interventions in        rated by the BRD on a        site examinations in all     CoM Resolution specifying      performance of Work-Out       appropriate measures to
Former State Banks      basis consistent with that   three banks.                 schedule of govemment-         Units and initiate a loan     reduce stock of
applied to all othcr large                                related debt repayments.       recovery program.             Govemmcnt
banks.                       Provide the Bank with the                                                                 guaranteed/directed loans
schedule and methods of      Submit scheme for the          Repayment of Government       to UAH 100 million.
repaying govemment-          privatization of remaining     directed loans on the balances
directed loans and notify    state shares in the three      of three former state banks will
the Bank as to the           banks.                         have been implemented (CoM
timetable and method to                                     decree), and Govemment will
reduce State equity in, and                                take appropriate measures to
control of, former state                                   reduce stock of Government
banks.                                                      guaranteed/directed loans to
UAH 125 million.
69) Deposit             A Law on Deposit                                          Complete further technical     Finalize the revised Deposit   The Parliarnent will have
Insurance: Establish    Insurance has been drafted                                work for a viable Deposit      Insurance Law, and submit to    adopted the Law on
a sound system of       but this contains major                                   Insurance scheme, including    Parliament.                   Deposit Insurance and
Deposit Insurance       deficicncies. The NBU has                                 calculations of funding                                      authorities will implement
contracted external advice                                needed for viability and                                     the deposit insurance
from experienced                                          improvements in draft Law.                                   scheme called for in the
X__                          practitioner(s) about the                                                                                               new Law. MoF will
-4                            design of a viable deposit                                                                                             ensure sufficient
insurance scheme.                                                                                                      Government funding is
available before scheme is
operationalized.



ANNEX 6
Page I of 2
Ukraine at a glance                                                            8/28W7
Europe &   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Central  middle-
Ukraine     Asia  income       Development dlamond^
Population mid-1996 (mil/ions)                      51A        479    1,125
GNPpercapita 1996 (US$)                             1,180    2,180    1,750                Ufe expec ncy
GNP 1996 (billtons US#)                             60.7     1,043    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                       -0.2      0.3       1.4     GNP
Labor force ()                                       -0.2      0.5       1.8      p     Irosr
per                          primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                          capita                     enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% ofpcp Liadon)             32
Urban populaton (% of totaipopuatlon)                 70        65       56
Ufe expectancy at birth &esJ)                         69        68       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 Yv births)                15        26       41               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of chidw  under 5)
Access to safe water (% of populadton)                97         *-      78
Illiteracy (% of populaion age SA+)                    2         ..       ..              Ukrne
Gross pfimary enrollment (% of school-age population)  87       97      104
Maie                                                87        97      105               Lower-nu/ddle-incomne group
Female                                              87        97      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1986      1996    1996
GOP (billions USS)                            ..       ..      47.5    46.6      Economic raUos
Gross domestic investment/GOP                  ..      ..      26.7    22.7              Openness of economy
Exports of goods and serviceslGOP             ..       ..      47.1     45.5
Gross domestic savingstGOP                    ,.       ..      23.5    20.5
Gross natonal savingslGDP                      ..      ..      22.9    20.4
Current account balance/GOP                    .       .       -3.2    -2.6
Interest payments/GDP                          .       .        1.4      1.2     Savings                    Investment
Total debt/GDP                                ..       ..      17.3    19.6
Total debt servicelexports                    ..       ..       6.9      6.3
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..      47.9                          Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-6    1996       1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                              -        Ukraine
GOP                                   ..    -9.0    -12.2     -10.0      5.4               Loemddeic     gu
GNP per capita                               9 °    -11.5      -9.6      5.4               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        ..       ..      2.7      19.1      7.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1986      1996    1996
(% of GOP)                                                                       Growth rates of output and Investment t%)
Agriculture                                   ,,       ..      15.0    13.0                    l
Industry                                      ..               50.3    46.2    -1,
Manufacturing                                                   ..      ..       
Services                                      ..        .      34.7    40.8
.30. 
Private consumption                            .       ..      55.1     57.8    JO
General govemment consumption                 ,.       ..      21.1     21.7                               O
Imports of goods and services                 ,,       ..      50.2     47.9
197545  1986-96      1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                          Growth ratss of exports and Imports f,)
Agriculture                                   ..       ..      -4.6    -10.3    20
Industry                                      ..       ..    -15.7    -10.2    is
Manufacturing                               ..
Services                                       ,,      ,.      -6.4     -8.5    10
Private consumption                           ..       ,.      -0.1     -5.6       .
General govemment consumption                 ..       ..      -3.5     -8.2     o
Gross domestic investment                     ..       ..    -33.7    -23.5             ai   92   93   94   Os   9B
Imports of goods and services                 ..       ..       I.S    17.4
Gross Domestic Product                        ..   -9.5       -12.1     -9.9                  expors    Omports
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared vith its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond vill
be incomplete.
48



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
Ukraine
PRFiCES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975    1885       1995     1996
Domestfc prices                                                                     Intlatton (%)
(5 change)                                                                         e,ooo -
Consumer prices                                  ,              377 0     80.0
implicit GOP deflator                         -0.5    -1.3      415.8     64.1     4o000 _
Govenment nnC                                                                       2000
(% of GOP)                                                                            o        '
Current revenue                                                  37.8     37.2               91   92   93   94   ss 
Current budget balance                                           -5.0      -3.1                   GOP dot   O  cp
Overall surplus/deficit                                          -4.9      -3.2
TRADE
1975     1985      1995     1996                     -_
(millons USS)                                                                       Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                            13,647   15,118      20X0
Commodity 1 -fefrous metals                                    4,484    4,847
Commod7ty 2 - ores, sags, ashes                                 560      605      15.000t1
Manufactures                                   .
Total impors (cif)                                             15,945   19.376      10,000 °
Food                                           .        ..      745      811
Fuel and energy                                            -  6 946    8,107       500 t
Capital goods                                  ..      ..    3,281    4,891
Export prtce index (1995=100)                                     100      102             90       9a  n3  94       9 0
Import price index (1995.100)                   ..       ..       100       99                   oExport    m baimprs
Terns of trade (1995-100)                                         100      103
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
19T5    198S       1995     1996
(millions USS)                                                                      Currant account balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                                  16,436   19,935
Imports of goods and services                                  17,643   21.067         0               1
Resource balance                                               -1,207   -.1132      4 r
Net income                                                       -50S     -579      w !
Net current transfers                                             200      512                        LI
Current account balance,                                                              l            _
before official capital transfers                             -1,515   -1,198
Financing items (net)                                             476    1,295      25
Changes in net reserves                                         1,039      -97     *20
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mil USS)              ,.       ..    1,069    2.087
Conversion rate (loca.kUSS)                                      1111     1.83
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1996     1996
(mnillons USS)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. U$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                            S,219    9,122
IBRD                                                            491      859                       G    A
IDA                                                               0        0                      2'  859
Total debt service                                              1,137    1,247            2144
IBRO                                                              a 8     32
IDA                                                               0        0                                    C
2282
Composition of net resource ftows
Ofricial grants                                                   0        0
Offtcial creditors                                              401      426
Private creditors                                              -220     -384 4                               0
Foreign direct investment                                       266      436                     E          268
Portfolio equity                                                517      350                   33eo
World Bank program
Commitments                                                     146    1,260      A - IBRD                    E siareral |
Disbursements                                                   401      406      B- IDA    0- Other mulibateral  F - Pmeate
Principal repayments                                              0        0      C.IMF                       G - Short-term
Net lows                                                        401      406    1                                         1
Interest payments                                                 8       32
Net transfers                                                   393      374
Development Economics                                                                                                8)28197
Note: Estimates for economies of the former Soviet Union are subject to more than the usual range of uncertainty.
49



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 4
DONOR ASSISTANCE IN FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
IN UKRAINE
A number of international and bilateral donors are supporting a rich progran of financial sector
assistance in Ukraine. The design of the assistance programs has been characterized by close
cooperation between the donors in order to ensure that complementary programs are being put in
place, and that the advice being offered to the GoU on these issues is broadly consistent. A brief
description of their programs, including financing levels, can be found below.
1.    USAID
USAID has put in place an extensive prograrn of assistance in bank supervision that began in mid
1995.  The scope of work includes developing the capacity of on-site examinations, off-site
supervision (early warning system) and problem bank resolution, and assisting in the development
of a sound plan for deposit insurance. This work is undertaken through several long term advisors
that are resident in the Bank Supervision Department of the National Bank of Ukraine. USAID's
program in accounting reform in Ukraine includes assistance in converting 40 Ukrainian banks to
IAS, including classroom training and hands on assistance in the IAS conversion.
Additional advice has been offered in the area of Economic Research and Policy, which involves
developing the analytical capacity of economists and their ability to advise policy makers.
Technical and policy advice in the development of the Governmental securities market has also
been offered, including provision of computer hardware and softnare for the registration of
Government securities as well as the development of an over the counter securities trading system.
USAID has and will continue to work with the NBU Legal Department in the development of
banking laws and regulations.
Other areas of assistance include the development of the electronic funds payment system, and the
supporting infrastructure and computer equipment; the development of a centralized collateral
registry for bank loans, support to the National Center for the Training of Bank Personnel; and the
support of FSVC programs.
UsAid is committed to a long term assistance programn in Ukraine stretching to at least the next 2-3
years.
2.    EU-Tacis
EU-Tacis has offered extensive assistance in the financial sector. The program includes assistance
with accounting reform, and the conversion of commercial banks to international accounting
standards (IAS); support for the development of custodian services for the stock market; support in
developing regulations on the disclosure of financial and business information; technical assistance
in institution building in a number of Ukrainian banks; and financing of the first phase of technical
assistance and a credit advisor to Bank Ukraina.
Substantial assistance is being offered to to assist the NBU in improving its skills in bank
liquidation, and an extensive programn of pilot bank liquidations is scheduled to begin in mid 1998.
50



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 4
Seminars on relevant financial sector issues for the NBU and commercial banks are also part of
EU's ongoing assistance.
Future projects may include assistance to the Savings Bank for conversion to IAS; and training for
the four largest banks in Ukraine. A total of 3.5-4 million ECU are commnitted each year to
financial sector assistance in Ukraine.
3.    BKHF
The British Know How Fund's assistance includes supporting small business development in
Ukraine by training and other small business support services; assisting the Ukraine Interbank
Currency Exchange; placing technical advisors in Ukrainian commercial banks, particularly to
assist with the handling of the EBRD SME line of credit; providing advice, through a long term
resident advisor, to the Head of the Securities Commission, providing a short term advisor to the
State Property Fund, and; organizing training courses for the NBU. BKHF also contributes to the
bank accounting reform program in Ukraine. focusing on the development of the IAS based
reporting fonnats.
4.    FSVC
The Financial Services Volunteer Corps' assistance has included training and assistance to the
NBU in improving bank licensing procedures: training NBU staff in the development of software
which supports the Uniformn Bank Performance Report (UBPR) for off-site supervision; providing
training to members of the deposit insurance vorking group on the fundamentals of a deposit
insurance system, taking international and regional examples into account; and providing
assistance in the re-drafting of Ukrainian laws; providing written commentarv on the legal
mechanisms and procedures the NBU may develop in its efforts to implement decisive legislation
that will enable it to recover funds from foreign correspondent accounts of comnmnercial banks that
file for bankruptcy in Ukraine, and; delivering practical training in fundamental inspection skills
and western approaches to on-site bank examinations to a core group of NBU bank examiners.
5.     HIID
HJD's assistance includes preparing a Work Out Manual for troubled Ukrainian banks, and;
organizing a cycle of seminars, in conjunction with the Association of Ukrainian Banks.
6.     German Government
The German Government's assistance program includes support for the establishment of a
promotion agency for foreign investments, the establishment of a Germnan-Ukrainian loan fund for
SMEs; business promotion, assistance. and training in the regions through long and short tern
advisors, and short term training in the commercial and banking sectors, including the training of
trainers at professional schools. In addition. the German Government has funded assistance to the
Savings Bank in the development of a strategic restructuring plan.
51



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 4
7.    Netherlands Goverment
The Dutch Government has funded a twinning arrangement for Bank Ukraina as well as assistance
to four private banks in helping them meet criteria for the EBRD SME credit line. There may also
be funds available to support a twinning arrangement for the Savings Bank.
8.    Japanese Government
A Japanese grant has funded a twinning arrangement between JEXIM and the Ukrainian EXIM
Bank.
9.    Soros Foundation
The Soros Foundation has been providing assistance to the Bank Supervision Department of the
NBU with drafting a law on Deposit Insurance. Additionally, the Foundation's experts have
provided comments to the Government and the NBU on a variety of banking legislation as well as
strategic reform in the banking sector.
10.   EBRD
The EBRD has been providing an SME credit line to 10-12 newly created private commercial
banks in Ukraine (wNith assistance from the Netherlands, German, Luxembourg and French
Governments. and the BKHF, KfW, EU-Tacis).  In addition to strategic planning, credit
management. and credit advisors, technical assistance for institutional development has been
provided in the context of their project implementation unit in the NBU. A Trade Facilitation
Facilitv has also been set up.
52



ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 4
Ei   iDonor          Program                                  Funding                          Duration of
WorkProgram
US-AID           Bank Supervision                        US S 4 million                   4/95 to present
Accounting                              UlS S 1.7 million                6/97-
Accounting Training                     US S 250.000
Economic                                US S 0.75                        11/94-present
Research and Policy                     million
Govt'l Securities                      tuS S 1.3 million
Legal Infiastructure                    US S 350.000                     9/95 to present
Electronic Funds Payment                US S 2 million                   '95 to present
Licensing/FX: FSVC                      US 5900,000                      5/95 to present
Subtotal for US-AID:                                           US S 15,250,000
EU-Tack
Aounting refonn: Conunercial Banks      2 nillion ECU                    6/97-6198
IAS implementation support              1.5 million ECU                  I/98-1/99 (approx)
Development ofcustodians                1.5 million ECU                  9/97-3/99
Disclosure regulation                   2 million ECU                    10/97-3/99
Privat Bank                             .065 million ECU                 10196-9197
Bank Utkraina                           .070 million ECt'                2/97-9/97
Bank Liquidation Work                   1.5 million ECU                  9/97-present
Subtotal for Tacb                                             ECU  .6 mIllion
BKHF            Small Business Support                                                   9/95-present
JICE,                                                                    9/96-9/97
Commercial Bank Assistance,                                              7/95-5/96
Securities Commission Assistance. SPF.
Banking Courses for NBU                                                  1/97-1l98
10/96-6/97
1/96-5/98
Subtotal for BKHF                                             2.5 mnillon pounds
FSVC            Development of off-site supervision software,                            present
deposit insurance training, funds recovery.
practical training for bank supervisors, bank
licensing
Subtotal for FSVC                                             No financal data available
HIID           Work Out Manual                          ulS S 50,000
Seminars for troubled banks             US S 30.000
Subtotal for HUD                                              US S S0,000
Genman Governunet   Agency for foreign investments, German-
Ulkainian SME loan fund, business
promotion and assistance, traiing
Subtal for Ger                                                 11A7 mIlNom DM
Gov't
Netherlands       Twining arTangements and TA to banks
Government
Subtotal for Dutcb                                            3,640,000 NLW
Gev't
Japanese Goverunent  Twining with Exim Bank
Subtotal for Japanese                                          US S2.5 mIllIon
GOv't
Soros Foundation     Expert advice, deposit insurance, bank   No fbancial data available       1994-present
legislation
EBRD            SME Credit Lines                        ECU 1.2 million
Technical Assistance                    ECUl 1.8 million
Trade Facilitation                      ECt' 125.000
Subtotal for EBRD                                             ECU 3.7 milUon
53



ANNEX 8
UKRAINE
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
External Financing
(USS millions at current prices)
EstimaWed                 Projedcon
1997          1998          1999.         2000
Sources                                    2,596         3,454         3,502         3,549
Disbursement                              1,278         1,309         2,913        . 2,919
IMF                                       235            354             0             0
Other medium- and long term               739            912         2,513         2,419
of which IBRJD                           306           824           594           584
Net short-term                            304             43           400           500
Direct foreign investment                   434           550           589           630
Debt relief                                 884         1,595             0             0
uses                                       2,596         3,454         3,502         3,549
Non-interest current account deficit      1,082           895           878           528
Debt service due                          1,346         2,467         2,262         2,245
of which IBRD                            87           135            176          239
Repayments (including IMF)                794          1,813         1,526         1,390
Interest payments                         551            654           735           855
Increase in gross reserves                  176             0           236           835
Other capital flows                          -7            92           126           -60
54



