Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24473
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-43910)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$300 MILLION
TO THE
UKRAINE
FOR A
FINANCIAL SECTOR STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
November 5, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 2002)
Currency Unit = Hrivnya
1 UAH = US$ 0.1874
US$ 1 = 5.33335 UAH
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EDP             Export Development Project
FSAL            Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GOU              Government of Ukraine
IAS             International Accounting Standards
ICR             Implementation Completion Report
IMF             International Monetary Fund
NBU              National Bank of Ukraine
PAL              Programmatic Adjustment Loan
SECAL            Sector Structural Adjustment Loan
UAH              Ukrainian Hrivnya
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:  Luca Barbone
Sector Manager/Director:  Khaled Sherif
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Alexander Fleming



UKRAINE
FINANCIAL SECTOR STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                7
6. Sustainability                                                                    9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  10
9. Partner Comments                                                                 11
10. Additional Information                                                          II
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                12
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                13
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                14
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                15
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                17
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   18
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               19






Project ID: P040560                                      Project Name: Financial Sector Structural
Adjustment Loan
Team Leader: Alexander E. Fleming                        TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      IReport Date: November 5, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Financial Sector Structural Adjustnent Loan   L/C/TFNumnber: SCL-43910
Country/Department: UKRAINE                                            Region. Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: Central government administration (17%); Banking
(83%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   07/18/1996                            Effective:                    09/15/1998
Appraisal: . 11/26/1997                              MTR:                      09/04/1999
Approval:  09/15/1998                             Closing: 12/31/1999         02/15/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE/MiNISTRY OF FINANCE/NATIONAL BANK
OF UKRAINE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Johannes F. Linn                          Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:     Luca Barbone                             Paul J. Siegelbaum
Sector Manager:      Khaled F. Sherif                         Hennie van Greuning
Team Leader at ICR:  Alexander E. Fleming                     Alan R. Roe
ICR Primary Author:  Alan R. Roe
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: BE
Institutional Development Impact: SU
BankPerformance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
(a)    To support the balance of payments and budget financing needs of the period 1998-1999;
(b)    To strengthen the financial sector as one key component of improved private sector



contribution to growth;
(c)   To mitigate the direct budgetary costs of the authorities' reform program for the financial
sector; and
(d)   To provide a framework of reform to guide technical assistance support to the sector to be
provided by other donors.
These objectives accorded closely with the priorities identified jointly with the GOU in both the
1996 CAS and the 1998 CAS Progress Report. Both documents defined the strengthening of the
financial sector as a major priority to help support private sector performance in the aftermath of
the privatization programs initiated in 1995. They were also consonant with the objectives of the
IMF's Extended Fund Facility (EFF) which was in preparation at the same time.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There were no revisions of project objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
The policy agenda to be supported by the Loan had three main components, each with a
significant number of sub-components. These were:
Actions to strengthen the Legal framework for Banking Activity (main sub-components
were a new Law on the National Bank of Ukraine, and a new Law on Banks and Banking
Activity). This component was motivated by the need to provide the NBU with clearer authority
over the banking system and also to institutionalize modem procedures for prudential regulation,
including arrangements for the entry and exit of banks.
*     Actions to Strengthen the Informational and Regulatory basis of Banking (main
sub-components were the drive to achieve IAS-based accounting and reporting; a sound system
of loan-loss provisioning; and a radically reorganized Supervision Function within the NBU,
including specific arrangements for intervening in problem banks).
*     Actions to begin the Restructuring of the Sector (main sub-components included a
restructuring program for the Savings Bank; the establishment of procedures for enforcement
actions against problem banks; targeted interventions in three former state banks; and the
development of sound technical arrangements for Deposit Insurance).
The design strategy took specific account of the likely delivery capacity of the authorities by
focusing on the creation of Institutional Capacity, rather than on specific and highly designed
interventions in particular banks. It also took into account some of the bottom-up initiatives on
reform that were being driven by an earlier Bank project - the Export Development Project
(EDP). Among other things, this led to the FSAL excluding any detailed work on Ukreximbank -
the bank which was the main target of the EDP.
3.4 Revised Components:
There were no revisions to the components of the Project.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The ICR rates the quality at entry as "Satisfactory". This is based on the fact that the FSAL
design followed best practice in being firmly rooted in the results of an in-depth diagnostic study
of the sector that had been undertaken in 1995-96.(see Ukraine: Risks and Transition: A Review
-2 -



of the Financial Sector, Report No. 14526 UA, June 1995) The conditions for the release of the
first and second tranches of the loan were extremely demanding. However, the entry point
judgments about what could be achieved and on what time scale have proved to be reasonably
realistic. The only adjustments to initial project design have been those associated with the
extension of the closing date to accommodate problems with two of the third tranche conditions
(see Section 4.3 below).
The FSAL was an appropriate vehicle to support the authorities' need to establish a wide range of
new legal and institutional infrastructure to support financial sector development. It would have
been premature at the beginning of the project in 1997 for the Bank to have engaged actively in
specific investment type activities directed at particular banks. Information about the perfonnance
of individual banks was patchy at that time. The high quality IAS data that would have been
needed to select specific banks for in-depth support was largely absent and indeed these data
became a specific output of the FSAL interventions. The banking sector, being very small in
absolute terns, did not constitute a major risk of becoming a source of serious macroeconomic
disruption. This led to the at-entry judgment that the institutional foundations for the sector
should be laid before any in-depth policy involvement in individual banks. At the point of entry it
was also anticipated that a Financial Services Project (FSP) would be prepared to build on the
foundations laid by FSAL. Although this never materialized, some of the institution-building at the
level of individual banks was achieved during the identification phase for FSP.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of objectives and outputs was satisfactory. In relation to the four objectives listed
above, the achievements were as follows:
(a)   To support the balance ofpayments and budgetfinancing needs of the period 1998-1999.
During the period September 1998 - December 2000, the loan provided $260 million of balance
of payments and budgetary support. This was a crucial contribution to the financing of the
government's program during that period: a period that followed immediately on the
destabilization associated with the August 1998 Russian financial crisis. In this regard it
complemented the disbursements made under other Bank adjustment operations and the IMF's
Extended Fund Facility. This development objective has therefore been achieved.
(b)   To strengthen the financial sector as one key component of improved private sector
contribution to growth. In the period September 1998 - December 2000, the loan was
undoubtedly the major influence behind the significant improvements in the legal, regulatory and
other institutional infrastructure of the sector. These improvements, taken as a whole, have made
a critical contribution to the development objective of building a stronger and more robust
financial sector. This development objective has therefore been achieved.
(c)   To mitigate the direct budgetary costs of the authorities reform program for the financial
sector. The budgetary support provided by the loan has made it possible for the government to
meet increased expenditures (e.g. those associated with paying off government debt to banks, and
those associated with the corporatization of the Savings Bank) and also to accommodate to some
-3-



losses of revenue (notably those associated with the introduction of tax deductible loan loss
provisions). These budgetary commitments in turn have been a critical element of the reform
package. This development objective has therefore been achieved.
(d)   To provide a framework of reform to guide technical assistance support to the sector to
be provided by other donors.   During the period of project preparation and project
implementation, all major donors have coordinated their support around the FSAL agenda in an
active and concerted manner. This has mobilized substantial Technical Assistance in support of
the reform effort for the sector. This development objective has therefore been achieved.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A significant majority of the identified outputs of the project have been met in a satisfactory
manner. There are two exceptions associated with the third tranche that are addressed below
alongside the successful outputs.
Development of new Banking Legislation: The Law on the National Bank of Ukraine was
approved by the Supreme Rada on May 20, 1999. This Law confirmed the status and powers of
the NBU in respect of the safeguarding of monetary stability, and the protection of a safe banking
system. In most respects the Law conforms with modem Western best practice. However, a
small number of its Articles were subject to criticism by domestic Ukrainian and some. external
agencies mainly because they introduced a role for a Supervisory Council that, in some
circumstances might be construed as a threat to the independence of the NBU. The Bank's view
on this has long been that this Council is unavoidable given the Ukrainian Constitution (Art. 100)
and that other articles of the law had been appropriately drafted to mitigate the dangers as they
introduced proper checks and balances. A modern new Law on Banks and Banking Activity was
approved on December 7, 2000. This provides the NBU with substantially strengthened
supervisory powers in relation to banks, not least the powers to dictate the liquidation process for
failed commercial banks. The third Legislative act, namely the Law on Deposit Insurance was not
approved at the time of loan closure in December 2000. However, all the substantive work on
this Law had been finalized, and the Law was approved on September 20, 2001.
*     Introduction of IAS Accounting for Commercial Banks: All commercial banks in the
country were converted to IAS accounting by January 1, 1998 (negotiation condition), and all
reporting by banks to the NBU is now also made on an LAS basis.
Introduction of System of Loan Classification and Loan-Loss Provisioning: The NBU
Board approved the necessary new regulations for a modern system of loan classification and
provisioning in September 1997, and the Corporate Tax Law which embodies tax deductibility of
most provisions was approved in May 1997. Subsequently the NBU has assiduously monitored
compliance with the requirement to build adequate loan loss provisions in all banks and has also
routinely sanctioned noncompliant banks. At the time of the closure of the project, only two
banks were substantially out of compliance and one of these (Bank Ukraina) has since been put in
liquidation. The other (Savings Bank) is operating under a modified forbearance regime. The
outcome has been that the level of provisions in the banking system has grown from almost zero
in 1997 to a fully adequate amount by 2001.
-4 -



Reorganization and Strengthening of the Bank Supervision Function: The NBU Board
has agreed and has implemented a fundamental restructuring of its bank supervision function. This
has included the designation of a Vice-Govemor as the head of the Bank Supervision Department,
the creation of a Large Bank Unit, establishment and a significant upgrading of the division
responsible for bank resolution matters. This is an area of work that has benefited in a sustained
manner from donor technical assistance (especially from US-AID and EU-Tacis).
Improve the On-Site Examination of Banks: This work has now become a core element of
the NBU's routine work with all banks subject to regular on-site examinations. The technical
quality of this work has benefited from ongoing technical assistance, and received a significant
fillip with the IMF-led diagnostic reviews of the larger banks undertaken in 1998. In accordance
with the NBU practice, all the commercial banks of Ukraine are examined on an annual basis
following the CAMEL system.
Strengthen the Licensing Arrangements for Banks: The NBU has progressively refined its
criteria for licensing banks including the minimum capital requirements, and has enforced these
criteria stringently. The new Law on Banks and Banking Activity incorporates improved
standards for shareholders and managers of banks, and these are now being incorporated in NBU
procedures.
Establish Enforcement Capacity and Procedures to Address Problem Banks: The NBU
has progressively refined its arrangements for taking enforcement actions against problem banks.
This has included an increasingly refined set of NBU criteria and triggers for moving banks to the
bank resolution department; the evolution of operational procedures to deal with the liquidation
of banks; and the gaining of practical experience in the administration of banks, including some
larger ones.
*     Specific Interventions in Former State Banks: The NBU has extended its arrangements
for the off-site surveillance and on-site inspection of banks to include all the large banks
consistently with all other banks. The IMF-led diagnostics undertaken in 1998 covered the seven
largest banks (based on assets), including all the former state banks, thus embracing almost 60%
of the banking sector total assets. All these banks were subject to correction programs which
were reflected in Commitment Letters signed between the banks and the NBU in May-June 1999,
and extending through December 2000. One of the former state banks (Bank Ukraina) showed
unsatisfactory compliance with the commitment letter, and has subsequently been liquidated. At
the same time, the NBU has negotiated successfully with the Ministry of Finance to ensure the
reduction to UAH 100 million ($18 million-equivalent at current exchange rates) of outstanding
government loans to the three former state banks identified for this purpose in the FSAL Loan
Agreement (Prominvestbank, Bank Ukraina, and Ukrosotsbank).
*     Implement the First Stages of a Restructuring Program for the Savings Bank:  The
authorities successfully achieved the corporatization of the bank in 1999.  The bank's
management, together with the NBU Large Bank Unit, also succeeded in introducing several
important elements of a restructuring program for the bank. These elements included significant
progress with the introduction of a Treasury system; some strengthening of the credit function;
- 5-



improving bad debt resolution capacity, and some rationalization of the branch network.
However, other elements of the agreed restructuring, such as the finalization of an Information
Technology Strategy, improved Human Resource Management and development of a proper
Product Development and Marketing plan were not achieved to the standard anticipated. Nor
was the bank's performance against its NBU Commitment Letter particularly good. Hence, by
the end of 2000, it still had a capital deficit almost as large as at the time of the diagnostic study
in 1998, and it was one of only two banks with a major deficiency in its loan loss provisions. In
spite of this, the bank came under government pressure from August 2000 to make loans to
energy companies, some of which seemed destined to worsen the financial condition of the bank.
For these various reasons, the last supervision mission prior to project closure determined that the
third tranche condition relating to the Savings Bank had not been met. However, this is a
component of the project where considerable donor technical assistance has been provided -
principally by EU-Tacis, with ING-Barings as the main contractor. This work is continuing, and
gives rise to the hope that the shortfall on meeting the conditionality will be made good given a
little more time.
Establish a Sound System of Deposit Insurance: The authorities have established a
Deposit Insurance Fund (Presidential Decree of September 10, 1998) and have passed the Deposit
Insurance law in September 2001 that will govern its operations. This embodies principles of
sound practice that have drawn from Bank guidance, and from the variety of international
experiences that the Ukrainian specialists have had via technical support coming from Canada,
Hungary, and other countries. After a great deal of debate, modest limits on the size of the
insurance cover have been established, and workable exclusion arrangements for problem banks
have been drawn up. Unfortunately, the draft Law was unable to achieve its approval through the
Rada prior to the project closure date.  Hence, this condition also failed to be met in full by
closure. Again, given that the Law was passed in September 2001, the substance of the condition
can be considered met.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The FSAL had a significant impact on Institutional Development in all the main dimensions that
are relevant to financial sector performance. The new Legal structures for banking (both the laws
and the detailed regulations of the NBU) have arisen as a direct consequence of the guidance
coming from the FSAL package. Accounting reform for banks is a direct consequence of the
project and the associated technical assistance. The upgraded organizational arrangements in the
NBU for the regulation and the supervision of commercial banks have also been put in place
under the umbrella and support of the project. Although many other donors contributed technical
assistance to ensure the delivery of key components, the structure of conditionality designed into
FSAL has been an important organizing influence for this TA. The same is true of the reform of
some key elements of the tax laws to assist sound banking and in particular it is true of the
adoption of a revised Corporate Tax law permitting deductibility of loan losses.
-6 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
S.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
The main point to note is that the timetable for Rada discussion of major legislation has been
consistently unpredictable and that the outcomes from those discussions have also been
unpredictable in some cases. This was an issue impacting the failure to achieve the approval of the
Law on Deposit Insurance in a timely fashion. It also accounts for the presence of some of the
criticized articles in the Law on the NBU.
5.2 Factors generally subject to governmtent control:
The overall performance of the State Savings Bank under the FSAL program has been
disappointing in spite of the dedicated efforts made by many of its senior staff to achieve the
progress that had been agreed. The poor performance relates to both the unsatisfactory financial
situation of the bank at the end of the project period, and also to the inadequate progress in some
of the qualitative areas mentioned earlier. To a degree, the GOU through its involvement in the
Supervisory Council of the bank bears much of the responsibility for the shortfalls. It seems
possible that a more committed and determined stance by government could have avoided at least
some of the problems that are now evident.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Extension of the Original Closing Date
The initial extension of the closing date to June 30, 2000 was motivated by the authorities'
success in meeting three of the six third tranche conditions. Equally, at the time of the extension,
the new Law on Banks and Banking activity was in an advanced stage of preparation, and there
appeared to be a strong possibility that this could achieve approval by the Supreme Rada by the
summer recess. That Law in turn was regarded as a crucial element in the whole reform package
since it fundamentally upgraded the authority and the powers of the NBU to deal with all aspects
of banking problems from entry (licensing) to exit (liquidation). The other two unmet conditions
related to Deposit Insurance and the restructuring of the Savings Bank. In both these cases, much
of the technical work had been achieved, and full satisfaction of the conditions seemed to only be
a matter of time. There were no disagreements of substance between the Bank and the Ukrainian
authorities.
Two factors in this situation changed regarding the decision to extend the closing date and the
onset of the new closing date at end-June 2000. First, because of the time pressure on the Rada
(see 5.2 above), only the first reading of the Law on Banks and Banking Activity was achieved by
the summer recess of 2000. But at the same time, the situation in Bank Ukraina had become more
obviously serious and liquidation of that bank seemed the only sensible course of action. The
authority of the new law was needed to ensure that the various options being considered for the
troubled bank could go ahead legitimately. Second, the Bank's Programmatic Adjustment Loan
had begun its preparation, and offered a possible vehicle to sustain some of the unfinished work of
reform initiated in the FSAL. For these reasons, and because the new banking law was still
regarded as a vital component of the project, Board approval was sought for an extension of the
closing date to February 15, 2001 and a restructuring of the third tranche component of the Loan
Agreement.
-7 -



The actions approved by the Board were as follows:
*      The third tranche was reduced in size from $100 million to $60 million-equivalent, and
the outstanding conditions were further strengthened and moved to the proposed PAL operation
that was expected to be presented to the Board in the Spring of 2001.
*     The restructured third tranche was released upon approval by the Executive Directors of
the proposed amendment.
The decision to allow the authorities more time to achieve approval of the Law on Banks and
Banking Activity was justified in that the law was approved in early December 2000. The broad
justification for the restructuring was set out in the Board memorandum as follows:
"Staff believes that Ukraine has reached a critical stage in its reform of the financial sector. There
is a renewed commitment by the Authorities to increase the momentum of financial sector reform,
which is supported by the recent creation of the financial sector Policy Coordination Board and a
number of other complementary initiatives. This warrants a seamless phasing of support
encompassing a restructured FSAL flowing into a PAL containing a substantive financial sector
program. Against this background, Staff is of the view that progress under the third tranche of
FSAL is sufficient to merit a partial release of the tranche."
The restructuring involved only two of the original conditions. As regards the reform of the
Savings Bank, the justification was as follows:
"Staff supervision of the project in early December concluded that this condition has not been met
in its entirety. There are several explanations for this. One is that at the time of Loan negotiations
the Ukrainian Authorities were not in a good position to articulate a robust restructuring strategy.
The basis is now much better defined after an 18 month TA program delivered by ING-Barings
and financed by EU-Tacis. A new strategy document has recently been prepared by the Savings
Bank and its advisers and the Bank has received a request to assist in the refining and
implementation of that strategy. There is a strong argument to restructure the FSAL condition in
such a way as to ensure ongoing Bank support (through the PAL) in an agenda of work which is
only partially completed."
As regards the system of Deposit Insurance, the justification was as follows:
"The Authorities have notified the Bank that they will not be able to comply in time with the sixth
FSAL condition, specifically the approval of the new Law on Deposit Insurance. The technical
work on this Law is substantially complete after considerable Bank assistance through the FSAL
period. However, the legislative timetable has not found room for the Law and its promoters also
perceive the need to achieve stronger financial underwriting of the insurance cover before the
Law is formally debated in the Rada. Staff have no difficulty with this logic and again would
support the request that this unmet condition be restructured for possible inclusion in the agenda
of the PAL."
-8-



5.4 Costs andfinancing:
As an adjustment operation, the FSAL does not require a cost estimate and a financing plan. The
Government disbursed an acceptable overall budget in support of the reform objectives of the
loan. Certainly some of the individual budget expenditures and revenue losses (1997-2000)
associated with these reforms were of a substantial magnitude. Note should also be made of the
very substantial technical assistance provided by other donors in support of the objectives of the
FSAL project. None of this was provided as the result of formal co-financing agreements but the
monetary value and the technical quality of this support should certainly be factored in as one of
the positive outcomes of the FSAL initiative.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Most of the new or reformed institutional arrangements put in place under the FSAL project (see
also sections 4.2 and 4.5) have a high probability of remaining sustainable and thereby making an
ongoing contribution to a sounder banking system for the country. Some of the reforms, such as
the introduction of the new Laws, [AS accounting and the system of loan loss provisioning will be
hard to reverse. This justifies the "HL" rating in regard to "Sustainability".
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
One caveat, however, concerns the strength of the commitment to take full advantage of, and to
enforce, the new arrangements. This commitment is not fully assured, and is likely to depend for a
little longer on some external pressures, such as those that will be associated with the ongoing
technical support from some donors, including the Bank in its own future operations relating to
the sector. The Bank's new PAL operation will be critical in sustaining momentum in relation to
some of the dimensions of the FSAL reforms.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank lending perfornance is assessed as Satisfactory, even though it was necessary to extend the
closing date of the project and to truncate the disbursements associated with the third tranche (see
also section 5.3). First and second tranches of $100 million each were disbursed promptly,
without waivers, and within a year of loan approval (in September 1998 and September 1999
respectively). These disbursements provided the government with substantial balance of payments
support at a very critical stage in its macroeconomic evolution. Second tranche conditions were
very demanding on the authorities, and this accounts for the one-year gap between first and
second tranche releases. Softer conditionality or the use of waivers could have helped to achieve
an earlier release of the money. However, this would not have been of great significance in terms
of the macroeconomic situation of that time. The reduced third tranche disbursement of $60
million also made an important contribution in this regard.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision of the loan has been intensive throughout. This has been associated with regular
supervision missions, but equally important with a very "hands-on" approach by the key staff
-9-



based in the Kiev Resident Mission. This has ensured timely awareness of problems and an almost
day-to-day ability to help Ukrainian counterparts interpret and deliver on the program of policy
reform. It has also been crucial in affecting the nature and timing of some of the key TA inputs
from other donors that have contributed to the project's success.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall performance of the Bank in relation to the project is assessed as Satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in preparing the project is assessed as Satisfactory. Although the
main Borrower agency - the NBU- entered into preparation in 1996/97 with only a sketchy view
of the appropriate strategy for the sector and weak institutional capacity, especially in the area of
bank supervision, it quickly assimilated some of the guidance provided to it by the Bank to
become an effective counterpart for the preparation of the project. Its practical work in
developing the component of the project was carried out to a good standard. The main
difficulties related to the relatively poor coordination between the different parts of the
governmental system for reaching conclusions and agreeing actions. Some elements of the
preparation process involved degrees of confrontation rather than cooperation between different
parts of governments. At the same time the legislature - the Supreme Rada - was treated as
something of an outsider, even a threat to the reform process. This attitude gradually dissipated.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Borrower's implementation performance is rated as Satisfactory. On some issues having high
political sensitivity or divided opinions, procrastination was sometimes experienced and this
required considerable persistence by the Bank to achieve progress. On one or two issues, the
government seemed not to fully buy-into the intention of the reform, and to take actions which
seemed to run counter to those intentions. Its ambivalence regarding the Savings Bank is one
example.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Most of the work of implementation was undertaken by the NBU. The generally positive
comments about this agency as set out in 7.4 apply.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower in relation to the project is assessed as Satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Coordination amongst the various parts of government. The NBU has shown that it is able to
take the main responsibility for organizing and managing most dimensions of a complex
multi-component adjustment operation in the financial sector. At the same time, the project has
revealed that the quality of the coordination between the NBU and other key organs of
government is relatively poor. The absence of a unified vision of what financial sector reform is
meant to achieve has resulted in a great deal of wasted effort in project implementation - with
actions by one part of the administration negating the intentions of another. A far more integrated
and unified approach from government will be needed fully to ensure the economic benefits from
the types of reform initiated by this project. This is now being implemented through a new
-10-



inter-agency Financial Sector Policy Board established at the end of 2000.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
In the letter dated July 5, 2002 from the Ministry of Economy and on the issues of European
Integration of Ukraine, the Government of Ulraine confirned its full agreement with the ICR and
the assessment made on the performance of the FSAL in the ICR. In the letter dated July 5,
2002, the GOU wrote:
" The Government of Ukraine reviewed the assessments proposed by the World Bank in
the draft Implementation Completion Reportfor the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL)
completed in February 2001, and communicates its full agreement with the presented
achievements and assessments.
In our opinion, this Project, on the whole, had very positive impact on the development of
financial sector of Ukraine and made significant contribution to the strengthening of the
comprehensive legalframework, as well as regulation and supervision of the banking sector of
Ukraine".
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
A detailed list of additional available documentation on the project can be found in Annex 7.
-11 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Not applicable.
-12 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by       Appraisal Estimate    Actual Estimate        Percentage of
Tranche                                     (Disbursed)            Appraisal
First tranche         US$100 million        US$100 million         100%
Second tranche        US$100 million        US$100 million         100%
Third tranche         US$100 million        US$60 million          60%
TOTAL                 US$300 million        US$260 million         87%
- 13-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
-14-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle.  - --     N- .No. oofPersons and Specialty  -          --Pe6fomnanice Rating- .
. -- -- --(e.g. 2Ecorfornists, V.FMS,- etc.)  - mplefnentation  Development
Month/Year   -Couiit      -    Specialty-  .  -              - Progress  : -Objective
Idenffflcation/Preparation
June 1996                    5   Task Manager, Economist,
Accounting Specialist, Banking
Specialists (2)
October 1996                 5   Task Manager, Operations
Officer, Banking Specialists(3)
March 1997                   9   Task Manager, Operations
Officer, Accounting Specialist,
Economist, Banking Specialists
(5)
June 1997                    5   Task Manager, Accounting
Specialist, Banking Specialists
(3)
July 1997                    3   Task Manager, Banking
Specialists (2)
Appraisal/Negotiation
November 1997                5   Task Manager, Operations
Officer, Accounting
Specialist, Banking
Specialists (2)
Supervision
November 1998                2   Task Manager, Banking               S             S
Specialist
May 1999                     3   Task Manager, Banking               S             S
Specialists (2)
July 1999                    2   Task Manager, Banking               S             S
Specialist
March 2000                   5   Task Manager, Director,             U             U
Banking Specialists (3)
June 2000                    4   Task Manager, Banking               S             S
Specialist, Financial Specialists
(2)
October 2000                 5   Task Manager, Director,             U             U
Banking Specialist, Financial
Specialist
December 2000                3   Task Manager,Banking                S             S
Specialist, Financial Specialist
ICR
I    Financial Specialist
- 15 -



(b) Staff:
- Site of.Project Cycle -. A. .tual/Latest Es.ijimate                        .
-- -- -  No. Saff  eeks  -         -US$ COOO)     -
Identification/Preparation                                                517
Appraisal/Negotiation                                                     172
Supervision                                                               374
ICR                                                                        53
Total                                                                    1,116
Note: The current MIS does not provide information on the actual staff weeks spent during the project cycle.
- 16-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OI Macro policies                        O H   OSUOM       O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                        OH    * SU O M    O N  O NA
El Physical                              O H   OSUOM       O N  * NA
O Financial                              O H   * SU O M    O N  O NA
O Institutional Development              0 H   0 SU 0 M    0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                          O H   OSUOM       O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                OH    OSUOM      ON    * NA
Fl Gender                          OH OSUOM ON *NA
LI Other (Please specify)          OH    OSUOM      O N   * NA
b Private sector development             0 H   O SU *M     0 N   0 NA
Ol Public sector management              0 H   * SU O M    0 N   0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                 * H   OSUOM       ON    O NA
Mobilization of Donor Support
-17 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
F Lending                                          OHS*S        OU     OHU
• Supervision                                      OHS OS       O U    O HU
3 Overall                                          OHS * S      O U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
%3 Preparation                                     OHS OS       O U   O HU
F Government implementation performance            O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
F Implementation agency performance                O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
0 Overall                                          OHS OS O U O HU
-18-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Memorandum of the President (dated February 23, 1998)
Letter of Financial Sector Development Policy (dated February 24, 1998)
Loan Agreement (dated September 15, 1998)
Back to Office Reports/Aide Memoirs
Project Status Reports
Tranche Release Memorandum
Letter from the Govemment of Ukraine communicating its agreement with the
ICR assessments of Project Implementation (In Ukrainian and English translation)
-19 -















Report No.:  24473
Type:  ICR
i  ~ ~ ~  ~_   __ _   I



