                                                                                                   92017
World Bank Projects in Financial Sector                                                            April 19, 2004
Ukraine’s economy which is one of the leaders among the CIS countries as regards the growth rates, requires great exertion
of the banking system resources. Over the past four years, after renewal of the powerful growth of production, the banking
system credits are increasing at least by 50% annually. However, even the super high growth rates of the banking system are
considered insignificant as compared to the economy growth. At the same time, the riskiness of the banking activities and
vulnerability of the creditors’ rights may become a source of problems. The credit activity of the banks cannot keep pace with
the growth of their capital and the level of management needs to be continually improved.
 
„The economy that is growing so rapidly does not allow us to conduct an adequate expert examination of borrowers…
Auditing continues to be weak and companies’ business is not sufficiently transparent. Information is lacking on borrowers and
all this creates risks”, — says Mr. Mark Davis, senior economist from the World Bank.
 
The development of the system of credit bureaus that collect information on the credit histories of borrowers, in the creation of
which the World Bank takes an active part, will help the banks considerably increase the efficiency of their work. This will
reduce expenditures for the disbursement of loans and make the credit funds cheaper.
 
The World Bank is working to create a system of credit ratings, which is widely developed in the entire financial world. This
system will facilitate enhancing enterprise transparency.
 
Within the framework of the World Bank Financial Sector Reform Project (1998-2001), the Government developed and
adopted a law that has considerably extended the powers of the National Bank of Ukraine, related to supervising the banking
system. At that time, a new system of bank accounting and reporting was introduced in accordance with international
standards. The new laws allowed the National Bank of Ukraine to use more leverages to influence the commercial banks,
many of which, being weakened by the 1998 financial crisis and not prepared for market transformations, needed immediate
intervention.
 
One of the main requirements of the Bank for allocating a US$ 260 million loan for Ukraine, a greater part of which the
Government used for social payments, was to establish a Fund for guaranteeing natural persons’ deposits. Since the time the
Fund was established in 1999, it paid out compensations to depositors of many banks that went bankrupt, specifically, of the
Ukrayina bank.
The creation of this institution that is financed at the expense of the banks themselves, helped resolve the problems of
depositors of bankrupt banks — currently, the amount of compensations to each depositor, which was equal to 500 hryvnias
at the time when the Fund was established, increased to 2000 thousand hryvnias.
 
One of the World Bank requirements for financing Ukraine is enhancing the performance efficiency of the banking system by
restricting risky crediting of persons related to such crediting, as well as by reducing the level of risks per one individual
borrower.
 
The development of the new Law “On Banks and Banking Activities,” with the participation of the World Bank experts, and its
adoption in 2001, made the banks capitalization requirements more stringent, and over the past four years the banking
system capital has almost doubled.
 
In 1996, the World Bank extended to Ukraine a loan for reforming the financial markets – the Export Development Project for
the amount of US$ 70 million. This project provided for assistance to support exporters’ production and promoted the
development of the state Export-Import Bank.
 
During its cooperation with the Government, the World Bank insisted on strengthening the powers of the National Bank and
the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in managing the state banks, in particular, the Savings Bank, thus helping stabilize the
work of the institution that exercise control over almost 11% of the population’s deposits attracted by the banking system.
 
Prior to 2003, there had been no agency in Ukraine to supervise insurance companies and other non-banking financial
institutions. As a result, in 2003 alone, the insurance market was used for illegal export of 3.2 billion hryvnias to other
countries, to the accounts of companies that have no relevant licenses (data presented by the State Commission for
Regulating Financial Services Markets). At the same time, the life insurance companies which should become important
participants in the development of the pension system, continue to be weak and unprofitable. Thus, until recently, the market
of non-banking financial institutions has been developing uncontrolled, which caused many companies to reorient their
activities to money-laundering operations rather than to real business requiring expenditures for modernization and
development.
 
With the support of the World Bank which insisted on establishing a separate body for supervising the non-banking financial
market, a Commission for Regulating the Financial Services Markets was set up in the spring of 2003. The task of the newly
established body was to develop transparent rules for a market where the rights of clients and investors often remain
unprotected.
 
The World Bank favors strengthening the positions of the regulatory body and supports increased financing of this body at the
expense of market participants. The regulator's independence and professional qualities are needed to create an efficient
infrastructure of non-banking financial market.
Dozens of new financial companies and banks emerge on the market every year, insurance companies are actively
developing and establishing a non-state pension system is to be started soon.
In particular, adoption of the law “On Non-state Pension Funds,” which was one of the World Bank requirements to be met to
continue financing of Ukraine, will also help create foundations for the development of the pension system – a guarantee of
social security and a powerful investor of the economy.
 
Insufficient development of the insurance market is, in particular, one of the constraints impeding the development of the
agricultural complex. The low level of risk insurance in this sector hampers the development of production — agricultural
producers encounter ever greater difficulties in attracting bank credits.
 
“Currently, we are working on the program of insurance reform and the development of new products for insuring risks in the
agrarian sector,” says Ms. Anzhela Prigozhina, financial sector project coordinator of the World Bank.
 
Already at the present time, the most efficient banks which make large profits and control significant parts of the domestic
market begin to develop business beyond Ukraine’s boundaries, opening their subsidiaries abroad. At the same time,
crediting small and medium businesses, in particular, in rural areas, remains underdeveloped.
In view of this fact, the World Bank is preparing to initiate a new large-scale project for regional development, aimed at
increasing access to credit resources and services of insurance and leasing companies for those firms which usually do not
attract attention of financial intermediaries.
 
„This is an attempt to encourage financial institutions from large cities to begin to work in regions, to create incentives for
them. In addition to providing cash, we also introduce crediting infrastructure – new services, new information technologies
and, lastly, new methods of work with clients,” says Ms. Anzhela Prigozhina.
 
The new project for the development of regions infrastructure for the amount of US$ 250 million, being currently prepared by
the World Bank, is aimed at the development of financing of projects for rural areas.
 
In addition to commercial banks, which the World Bank intends to involve in implementing this project, it is planned to
commence financing of leasing companies and credit unions.
 
Within the framework of the Rural Development Project, the World Bank plans to involve experienced and stable banks in
crediting projects for rural areas.
 
“The banks which were audited in accordance with international standards, comply with all the National Bank requirements
and are able to work with a large circle of borrowers may take part in this credit line. We are interested in the banks which
will develop and expand their presence in Ukraine, especially in rural areas,” said the World Bank project coordinator in the
financial sector.
 
The time needed for Ukrainian banks to attract deposits that form the greater part of the banks resources for crediting, does
not exceed, as a rule, one year. Based on the data of the National Bank of Ukraine, the interest rate for dollar deposits was
6% in 2003. The low-interest credits provided by the World Bank at the Libor rate (nearly 1% per annum) plus 1% for a
period of 20 years, will promote greater competition among the banks and reduction in the credit rates in the economy, which
still remain rather high.
 

Translated by V. Ivchenko

 
