Document of
The World Bank                            fI Vnpy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.3367-GY
CYPRUS
FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 20, 1981
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance 6f
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =    Cypriot Pound (CL)
1 CL              =    1,000 Mils
1 CL              =    2.88 US Dollars (US$)
1 US$             =    0.347 CL
1 US$                  347 Mils
CL Million             US$2.88 Million
W4EICHTS AND MEASURES
1 oke                           =    1.28 kilograms (kg)
1 kilogram (kg)                 -    2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton)            =    2.205 pounds
1 liter (1)                     =    0.264 US gallon (gal)
1 cubic meter (m3)              =    35.3 cubic feet
1 cubic meter (m3)              =    264 US gallons
1 liter per second (l/s)        =    0.035 cubic feet per second (cfs)
1 imperial gallon               =    1.2 US gallons
1 hectare (ha)                  =    7.5 donums
1 hectare (ha)                  =    2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (sq km)    =    0.3861 square miles
ABBREVIATIONS
CCB    - The Cooperative Central Bank
CS     - The Cooperative Society
DOA    - Department of Agriculture
DOT    - Department of Trade
FAO/CP - FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
FVEA   - Fruit and Vegetable Exporters Association
HEDACC - Horticultural Export Development Advisory and Coordinating
Committee
ICB    - International Competitive Bidding
LCA    - Land Consolidation Authority
LC     - Loan Commissioners
LCB    - Local Competitive Bidding
MANR   - Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MCI    - Ministry of Commerce and Industry
MCN    - Million Cubic Meters
GOVERNMENT OF CYPRUS FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CYPRUS
FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION ............................................                   l
II.    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND THE HORTICULTURAL AND
VITICULTURAL SUBSECTORS ...............................                  2
A.  The Agricultural Sector .............................                   2
B.  Government Policies and Programs ....................                   5
C.  Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector ... ......                  6
D.  The Horticultural Subsector .........................                   7
E.  The Viticultural Subsector ..........................                  11
III.      THE PROJECT AREA ........................................                  14
A.  Project Location ....................................                  14
B.  Land Resources, Land Tenure and Land Use ....              ........    16
C.  Supporting Services .................................                  17
D.  Packing Stations and Export Facilities ....              ..........    21
IV.      THE PROJECT ............................................                   22
A.  Origin and Objectives ..............................                   22
B.  Project Description ................................                  22
C.  Cost Estimates .....................................                  27
D.  Financing ..........................................                   29
E.  Procurement ........................................                   30
F.  Disbursements ......................................                   30
C.  The Role of Women ..................................                   31
H.  Environmental Effect ...............................                   32
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .................................                   32
A.   Implementation of Institutional Arrangements              .......     32
B.  Project Organization and Management ....              ............     34
C.  Monitoring and Evaluation ..........................                   36
D.  Accounts and Auditing ..............................                   37
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in November
1980 composed of Messrs. U. Kiermayr (Financial Analyst), J. Tellez
(Economist), E. Eugenio (Credit Specialist), E. Reusse (Marketing Consul-
tant), N. Welch (Horticulturist Consultant) and Ms. S. Macken (Economist).
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont'd)
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....................          37
A.    Production   .........................................  37
B.    Marketing   ..........................................  40
C.  Benefits and Beneficiaries .........................     41
D.    Economic  Analysis   ..................................  43
E.    Project  Risks   ......................................  51
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS .52
Text Tables
3.1 Areas to be Developed
3.2 Crops Crown in the Project Area
4.1 bummary of Project Costs
4.2 Project Financing Arrangements
4.3 Procurement and Disbursement
4.4 Estimated Disbursements
6.1 Projected Productivity Increases
6.2 Incremental Production
6.3 Producers' Benefits and Rates of Return
6.4 Economic Analysis
6.5 sensitivity Analysis for Project
Annexes
1. EEC Tariff and Quotas Applicable to Cyprus
2. Summary Project Cost Table and Phasing
3. Project Cost Table and Phasing
4. Estimated Schedule of Quarterly Disbursment
5. EEC Imports of Selected Horticultural Commodities
6. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Chart
World Bank 22626 - Project Organization Chart
World Bank 22736 - Implementation Schedule
Map
IBRD 15447R - Export bhipping, Packing and Processing Facilities
IBRD 15448 - Production in Project Areas



CYPRUS
FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The Government of Cyprus has requested a Bank loan to help finance
a development program in the horticultural and viticultural subsectors with
emphasis on production and export of high-value off-season fruit and vege-
tables as well as high quality vintage wines. The project supports the
Government's effort to increase agricultural productivity and expand agri-
cultural exports, thereby increasing foreign exchange earnings. The proj-
ect would be the Bank's first direct participation in horticultural and
viticultural development in Cyprus, but would directly complement ongoing
Bank support of Government programs to develop the island's scarce water
resources and raise rural incomes, especially in the depressed vine growing
regions.
1.02     The project was identified in early 1978 as a result of joint
efforts of Bank staff and various Government agencies to find ways of
increasing foreign exchange earnings. The project is consistent with the
Bank's development objectives for Cyprus which place high priority on
infrastructure and export-oriented projects. The project was prepared by
the Government of Cyprus with assistance from the FAO/World Bank Coopera-
tive Programme. Project preparation was monitored by the Bank. The
project was appraised in November 1980.
1.03     The project has been developed in recognition of:  (a) the con-
tinuing importance of fruit, vegetable and wine exports in Cyprus' foreign
trade, such exports totalling about 60% of total agricultural exports
which, in turn, contribute about 40% of total domestic exports; (b) the
potential for considerable expansion of this trade provided off-season
production is increased and certain critical organizational bottlenecks are
overcome; and (c) the urgent need for introducing major improvements in
marketing strategy and organization if Cyprus is to compete effectively in
an increasingly competitive market, penetrate new markets both in Europe
and in the Middle East, and avoid the risk of being too closely tied to its
traditional markets, principally the United Kingdom, where growth prospects
are limited.
1.04     Since 1974, the island has been divided into two political/
economic zones. The north is under the control of Turkish Cypriots while
the south is under the control of the Government of Cyprus. Project acti-
vities are confined to the Government controlled area of Cyprus as too are
all data cited in this report unless otherwise stated.



- 2 -
II. THE AGRICULTURAL sECTOR AND THE
HORTICULTURAL AND VITICULTURAL SUBbECTORb
A. The Agricultural sector
General
2.01     The 1974 events had a profound effect on the Cypriot agricultural
sector. With the de facto division of the island, 80% of the irrigated
citrus plantations, 65% of the rainfed areas, 45% of the olives and 30% of
the carobs remained in the north, while the whole of the vine-growing area
and most of the deciduous fruit areas were in the southern part under
Government control. The large-scale displacement of population included
thousands of farm families of both communities.
2.02     Until 1979, the Government's response to the economic disruption
caused by the events of 1974 was to encourage investment in quick gestative
labor intensive light industry to help provide employment for the displaced
population. This strategy has been remarkably successful and the sector
contributed significantly to the economic revival of the area under Govern-
ment's control. However, despite this emphasis on industrial development,
and the expectation that industrial performance will be the major
determinant of the success of future development efforts, agriculture
remains high on the Government's development priority list. In 1979, the
sector provided 22% of total employment and directly or indirectly
accounted for about 40% of total domestic exports.
Agricultural Production
2.03     Real growth in agricultural value added was a modest 2.5% per year
during 1975-78 with an exceptional 6.0% in 1979 reflecting the recovery
from a poor 1978 agricultural performance. According to the 1979 Agricul-
tural Survey, total agricultural value added reached CE 65.7 million in
1979 of which the highly diversified crop subsector contributed more than
76% or CE 50.0 million; the balance was made up by livestock (18%) and
other minor activities (forestry, fishing and hunting) 6%. Crop production
showed the sector's highest growth rate of 3.6% followed by livestock with
1.4%; other subsectors declined in real terms. By far the greater part of
the value of crop production is accounted for by irrigated crops (60%)
although these crops cover only 18% of the total cultivated area.
Principal crops grown are cereals, grapes, olives and carobs, citrus,
potatoes and other vegetables. In 1979, wheat and barley were grown on
349,400 donums and produced 76,600 tons; grapes 256,000 donums and 200,000
tons; olives and carobs 101,000 donums and 28,700 tons; citrus 38,100
donums and 101,000 tons; potatoes 55,000 donums and 170,000 tons; and other
vegetables 28,365 donums and 110,000 tons. Tomatoes (21,500 tons), carrots
(18,700 tons), cucumbers (12,800 tons) and melons (130,000 tons) are the
most important vegetables grown and together accounted for over two-thirds
of the total volume of vegetables produced in 1979.



- 3 -
2.04     Slow growth in agricultural production and the continued high
level of employment in agriculture during 1975-79 have contributed to the
apparent decline in productivity of agricultural labor relative to other
sectors. The ratio between agricultural labor productivity and non-
agricultural labor productivity declined from 42.1% in 1975 to 37.6% in
1979. The low productivity of the agricultural sector can be largely
attributed to the predominance of rainfed agriculture and suboptimal and
fragmented holdings that hinder major advances in mechanization.
2.05     Land and water resource limitations are the major constraints to
agriculture development. Long-term growth of agriculture value added is
therefore expected to remain moderate, at about 2% per year. Growth of
crop production (about 3% per year) will depend mainly on the expansion
of irrigated land, which is expected to increase by about 67,500 donums
with completion of on-going projects and projects to be implemented over
the next decade. Crop yields on rainfed land will rise only slowly with
the use of improved cultural practices (0.3 to 0.4% per year).
Nevertheless, these moderate growth prospects will still permit a
relatively high growth rate of exports of selected agriculture products,
especially fruit and vegetables, because of the existence of good export
marketing prospects for early and off-season produce.
Land Use
2.06     According to the 1979 Agricultural Survey, about 1,620,000 donums
(216,000 ha) of agricultural land are in the Government-controlled area of
Cyprus of which 1,117,500 donums (69%) are cultivated, 195,000 donums (12%)
are fallow and the remaining 307,500 donums are uncultivated. Only 225,000
donums (14%) of the agricultural land are irrigated. Here, crops such as
citrus, potatoes, vegetables, table grapes and legumes are grown. On the
nonirrigated area under cultivation (892,500 donums), cereals, pulses and
fodders, and wine grapes are the most important crops, together being grown
on a total of 757,500 donums. The balance is made up of olives, carobs and
nut trees which are often found growing wild in scattered stands thus
making their improvement very difficult and costly.
Land Tenure and Land Consolidation
2.07     Land tenure in Cyprus is characterized by three main features:
continuously decreasing average size of holdings which was 54 donums in
1946, 37.5 donums in 1974 and 34.5 donums in 1977; fragmentation and
*       dispersal of plots; and dual land ownership.  The average landholding in
1974 was composed of 6.4 widely scattered plots. About 30% of the
agricultural land is held in joint ownership. The excessive degree of land
fragmentation causes high costs in terms of manpower wasted by farmers in
travelling between widely scattered plots, and in foregone benefits from
lack of mechanization and other new technologies which are not being
introduced. In order to halt and reverse land fragmentation a Land
Consolidation Authority (LCA) was established in 1972 in the Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR). By 1979, land consolidation was



- 4 -
in various stages of implementation in 16 villages covering a total area of
45,000 donums or 3% of the total agricultural area. The Government encour-
ages land consolidation on newly irrigated land but only in irrigation
projects of at least 200 donums of gross area. Since project activities
would not result in any expansion of irrigated area, no land consolidation
activities are envisaged in the project area.
Water Resources
2.08     Expansion of agricultural production is mainly limited by the
availability of water for irrigation. Groundwater supplies are inadequate
and annual rainfalls are low and quite unreliable. Some of the known
aquifers are already overexploited and there are no new major aquifers to
be developed. Surface water is therefore becoming of predominant impor-
tance for irrigation which, however, requires large investments in irriga-
tion infrastructure.
Pattern of Trade and Marketing
2.09     Historically, the close links forged with the United Kingdom as a
result of British rule in Cyprus have resulted in Cyprus' agriculture being
developed in a manner designed to produce certain fruit, vegetables and
wines for the UK market. Once Cyprus gained independence from the UK,
preferential treatment, including free entry to UK markets for agricultural
products, led to the perpetuation of this trade flow. With the British and
Irish accession to the EEC and the consequent realignment of their foreign
trade policies vis-a-vis the EEC countries, the special preferences for
Cyprus were allowed to expire after a transitional period. In 1978 the
special Commonwealth Preferences were replaced by a set of preferential
tariffs for Cyprus with regard to potatoes, carrots, table grapes, raisins,
sherries and wines, coupled with tariff reductions on citrus, vegetables,
strawberries, melons and a variety of processed produce. The UK is still
by far the dominant export marketing outlet for Cyprus' agricultural
products, absorbing all exported carrots and beet roots, about 85% of
potatoes, 80% of fresh fruit, 70% of fresh vegetables and 65% of citrus.
In the case of wine, the UK market buys more than 50% of Cyprus' total
exports.
2.10     Over the last few years Cyprus has managed to lessen her depen-
dence on the UK market. Penetration of a number of Middle Eastern markets
has been favored by supply disruptions caused by the hostilities in Lebanon
and cholera outbreaks in other traditional supply areas. A modest shift of
trade flows towards COMECON countries has also been achieved. This process
of regional diversification is far from complete and trade with these new
markets is still highly erratic. Continuous efforts are required to
consolidate Cyprus' position in these markets. The continental EEC
countries have not yet gained any importance as export markets. Cyprus
exporters seem to have neglected and avoided trading there for a number of
reasons, mainly because of language problems, the heavy competition, and
the sizable introductory investments required for any market penetration.



2.11     Exports from the rural sector in 1979 reached CE 41.4 million
compared to CE 21.5 million in 1975 although the sector's contribution to
total exports of domestic goods has declined from 44% in 1975 to 32% in
1979. The dependence on Cyprus' agriculture of export is clearly
demonstrated by the export proportions of its major crops: wines 90%,
potatoes 86%, citrus 76%, table grapes 58% and fresh vegetables 20%.
B. Government Policies and Programs
2.12     Government policies are designed to systematically exploit the
development potential of the country's limited natural resources. Although
it has declined in importance vis-a-vis other sectors of the economy, the
Government considers agriculture a priority sector, not only for its con-
tribution to Cyprus' export earnings, but also for its continuing employ-
ment potential and its role in achieving more balanced regional development
and slowing down population concentration in major towns.
2.13     The events of 1974 had large dislocating effects to the island's
economy and population, and necessitated an agricultural policy that was
primarily devoted to readjustment and rebuilding. The invasion resulted in
40% of Cyprus' territory coming under the occupation of the Turkish forces,
lands which were qualitatively amongst the best and had, prior to the
invasion, contributed 46% of total agricultural production and 50% of agri-
cultural exports. Estimates of the agricultural capital that was lost as a
result of the 1974 events exceeded C£ 97 million.
2.14     In the First Emergency Action Plan for 1975-76, the Government
provided expanded financial assistance on concessionary terms to farmers
in order to promote employment and increased production. It also gave
priority to the completion of ongoing projects, including the development
of marginal land by soil conservation and reclamation measures, pasture
improvement, use of improved seeds, planting of tree crops, replanting of
vines, and completing the distribution works for irrigation from existing
and new dams and tubewells. In the Second Emergency Action Plan for
1977-78, the Government adopted, in addition, a strategy of intensifying
land cultivation. The main objective of the Third Economic Action Plan
that covers the years 1979-81 is to reach the fullest possible and optimum
use of available resources, with a view to increasing production, decreas-
ing costs and improving the quality and marketing efficiency of agricul-
tural products, both locally and abroad.
2.15     Fundamental to Cyprus' general agricultural policy is the provi-
sion of low interest loans for onfarm investments, covering a wide range of
activities. Between 1975 and 1979, Cf 10.3 million were committed for
agricultural lending. Over and above this, a revolving fund with an
initial capital of about Cf 1.0 million was established in 1976 to cover
short-term credit needs of refugee farmers. From 1975 to 1979, Government
expenditure for agricultural development totalled almost Cf 37.5 million.



- 6 -
Subsidies to the agricultural sector in 1979 totalled around C£ 6.2 million
of which CE 4.0 million or 65% were consumption subsidies, mostly for
wheat. Income subsidies to the viticultural subsector totalled C£ 1.65
million in 1979 or about one quarter of total subsidies. Subsidies are a
very small element in total government expenditure, amounting to only 4% in
1979. Aside from low rates of interest, there are no other subsidies
affecting the horticultural subsector in the economy. The volume of agri-
cultural production has increased between 1975 and 1979 by about 17% and
the value of agricultural exports has risen by more than 50%. Despite this
progress, average farm income has fallen behind the levels of almost all
other sectors.
2.16     The Government now recognises that it needs to gradually move
towards placing greater emphasis on economic factors rather than
socio-political considerations which, after the events of 1974, were the
more important determinants of the Government's policy toward the sector.
Policy objectives now include the expansion of irrigated area, land
consolidation in conjunction with increased farm mechanization and, above
all, the provision of incentives to enable the increased export of selected
agricultural products.
C. Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
2.17     The Bank has so far concentrated its lending to agriculture
primarily on the development of new and the more efficient use of existing
water resources, the sector's most limiting factor. Second in priority has
been the improvement of the sector's low labor productivity to promote
productive employment and to achieve a more equal distribution of economic
growth. The Bank's participation in this sector has also served as a
catalyst to attract development financing from other sources.
2.18     The Paphos Irrigation Project, begun in 1974, provided essential
irrigation infrastructure and facilitated a wide range of on-farm invest-
ments. The Pitsilia Integrated Rural Development Project, started in early
1977, emphasized productive and social investments directed towards the
poorest segment of Government controlled Cyprus. The third project under-
taken in the agricultural sector, the Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project,
started in 1979, is designed to develop water resources on the southern
coast for irrigation, and to reduce the shortages of potable water in the
cities of Nicosia, Limassol and Larnaca. Feasibility work is scheduled to
be completed in mid-1982 for the Southern Conveyor Project, a master plan
which will complete the integrated development of the water resources of
the south of Cyprus by developing 70 MCM of water for agricultural, indus-
trial and domestic uses. The project is designed to transfer surplus water
from the southwest to the areas with water shortages in the southeast. At
the request of the Government, the Bank is assisting in the review of
feasibility work which is expected to materialize into a lending operation
in 1983 or 1984.



- 7 -
2.19     The proposed fruit and vegetable project would complement previous
Bank investments in the agricultural sector by improving the utilization of
scarce water resources, creating further employment opportunities and
improving productivity. In addition, the project would directly respond to
the special emphasis the 1979-81 Third Economic Action Plan places on a
more consequent exploitation of Cyprus' export potential. The project
would initiate and support a process of long overdue and urgently required
institutional and organizational changes that would enable Cyprus' fruit,
vegetable and wine export industries to respond more effectively to the
changing export market scenario that the accession to the EEC of three
directly competing countries, Greece, Spain and Portugal, will bring about
over the next few years.
2.20     In contrast to agricultural commodity markets, markets in manufac-
tured goods do not experience seasonal supply shortages and third countries
exporting manufactures to the EEC cannot expect to take advantage of
seasonal concessional tariffs (see Annex 1). However, the comparative
advantage that Cyprus' horticultural sector enjoys in terms of agro-
climatic conditions will not be affected by the programmed "southern
enlargement" of the EEC. The horticultural sector in Cyprus will continue
to be able to exploit seasonal supply shortages in EEC markets and is
therefore in a more favorable position than the manufacturing sector to
respond to changing export market scenarios. In the face of these forces,
the proposed project would make a considerable contribution to the stabili-
zation of the national economy.
D. The Horticultural Subsector
Setting
2.21     The agroclimatic conditions along the coastal belt running from
Paralimni to Paphos are well suited for early- and off-season fruit, vege-
table and flower production. A high number of days with uninterrupted sun-
shine, low frost hazard, absence of any serious soil problems, and the fact
that little if any supplementary heat is needed, places Cyprus in a highly
competitive position even vis-a-vis other mediterranean countries. The
frost free microclimates along the coastal belt have enabled the island to
obtain fairly uniform production of good quality produce. The island's
potential to produce horticultural products during the climatically most
difficult but economically most rewarding seasons is further enhanced by
the high level of growing skills its growers have acquired over the years
as evidenced by the relatively high yields achieved. Horticultural
production in Cyprus is characterized by small production units that are
mostly dependent upon family labor. Greenhouse or other protective
structures for off-season production lend themselves to this type of
farming because of the need to pay close attention to cultural practices
and environmental details.



2.22     So far the main constraint to expanding acreage for horticultural
production has been the lack of water. For this reason, excellent poten-
tial for growing high quality avocadoes could not be exploited and it has
not been possible to expand citrus production in the area under Government
control and recapture the export market volume of citrus that was lost when
the Turkish invasion occurred. At the same time, the lack of adequate
water has resulted in reduced plant growth and yields. This constraint has
been relieved during the last few years due to successful efforts to make
much more efficient use of the available, but scarce and costly water
resources. Many vegetable and flower producers, for example, have changed
from flood or furrow irrigation to improved irrigation methods like drip,
mini-sprinkler or sprinkler irrigation systems. The project would directly
reinforce these efforts through its investments in improved on-farm
irrigation systems.
Fruit and Vegetable Export Marketing system
2.23     Cyprus' fruit and vegetable export industry is characterized by:
a relatively large number of independent private exporters with varying
shares in the market; several marketing boards, of which the most important
are those for potatoes and for carrots; and the cooperative export sector,
SEDIGEP. For all of Cyprus' horticultural export produce, four distinct
forms of export marketing organizations have evolved.
2.24     Marketing Boards.  Cyprus' most important single agricultural
export commodity, both in terms of quantity and value (about 150,000 tons
in 1979 at a value CE 13.6 million), is exported by the Potato Marketing
Board which was established as a regulatory agency in 1965. This Board is
fully responsible for production planning and the supervision of production
and marketing. The Board operates as a vertically integrated production-
marketing system coordinating the production and marketing efforts of about
5,000 potato growers. The Board was established in response to serious
difficulties that were experienced in the marketing of potatoes in the
early sixties. While the Board is generally considered to operate
successfully, it has not always anticipated in time new market developments
and sometimes lacks the flexibility to adjust quickly to new commercial
realities. The Board's ability to anticipate changes and to react to them
swiftly will be increasingly tested in future years when Egypt and a number
of other Mediterranean countries will step up their efforts to obtain a
larger share of the Western European markets. The Board responsible for
marketing carrots operates along similar lines to the Potato Marketing
Board but the size of its operations is very much smaller. In 1979, only
about 6,000 tons of carrots were exported, compared to 150,000 tons of
potatoes.
2.25     SEDIGEP.  The Agricultural Products Cooperative Marketing Union
(SEDIGEP Ltd.) deals in the marketing of fresh fruit and vegetables.
Estimated export market shares for SEDIGEP are as followsz citrus 30%,
deciduous fruit 30%, table grapes 30% and vegetables 17-18%. Primary
cooperative societies at the village level market fresh horticultural



- 9 -
products mainly for local outlets and selling to 'EDIGEP which exports only
the best of the cooperatives' production. Recently, SEDIGEP set up a range
of minimum guaranteed prices for producers. In recent years SEDIGEP has
engaged in a massive investment program in packing and transport facili-
ties. Most of thcse investment decisions were based on poor judgements
concerning location and installed capacities. It is now doubtful whether
SEDIGEP will be ible to meet all the heavy financial obligations that it
has incurred in connection with these investments. Its future role in the
horticultural export trade is therefore undecided. The proposed project
would, however, not be affected by whatever decision is made regarding
SEDIGEP's future, as none of the project components depend on its continued
participation in the horticultural export business.
2.26     Vertically Integrated Production-Marketing Firms.  Most of the
country's citrus crop and a major share of the table grape production,
respectively second and third in terms of exported horticultural volume and
value, are marketed by vertically integrated production-marketing firms.
These exporters market the production of their own orchards or vineyards.
Due to the concentration of orchards and vineyards in the south western
coastal areas of the island, the operational sizes of these firms are quite
substantial by Cyprus' standards. All of them have their own permanent
sales offices in London from which they market their produce under their
own brand name. One table grape exporter uses the services of a UK whole-
saler for distribution. This organizational arrangement is considered
satisfactory at least for citrus where the vertical integration of produc-
tion and marketing is more advanced and Cyprus' products have gained a high
quality reputation. In the case of table grapes, operations were less
satisfactory but have substantially improved during the 1980 season. For
the first time, all exporters voluntarily agreed to collaborate in a joint
shipping and marketing program. A single shipping contract was entered
into that assured the exporters the services of fast reefer vessels able to
reach the UK in about 6 days from Limassol. In all, 10 shipments were made
between July 14 and August 29 with an average tonnage per ship of over
1,400 tons. The rate of discharge at Dover was limited by agreement to 400
tons (5,000 trays) per day. This arrangement assured a much more level and
regular supply of Cyprus' grapes to the UK trade and has helped ensure a
better level of returns than was achieved in 1979 when around 1,000 tons
were discharged on some days. The agreement had two major advantages for
the shippers; it cut transportation costs by 40-45% and reduced travel time
to the UK by 2-3 days. Less satisfactory was the relatively long loading
time of the larger vessels at Limassol port.
2.27     The shipping and marketing agreement that was voluntarily reached
among the country's competing exporters for the 1980 table grape production
is a highly beneficial and encouraging development. Based on this expe-
rience it can be expected that collaboration between exporters will be
carried further and more cost effective marketing arrangements will evolve.
2.28     Independently Operating Export Marketing Firms.  In contrast to
the concentrated large-scale production of citrus and table grapes, a wide



- 10 -
variety of fresh vegetables and other fruits are grown by many small
growers in widely scattered areas. This form of production is reflected in
the subsector's domestic and export trade. Its main characteristic is a
relatively large number of independent exporters, most of whose operations
are small scale. Cyprus' annual export of between 10,000 and 13,000 tons
of fresh vegetables are handled by 15 firms exporting between 3,000 and
less than 100 tons annually. The four largest exporters have a combined
share of about 60% of total vegetable exports.
2.29     As all fresh vegetables are exported by air, exporters run their
business from Nicosia-based packing houses where, until 1974, Cyprus' only
international airport was located. The shifting of air departures from
Nicosia to Larnaca, the site of the new airport, has left the operational
infrastructure of the vegetable export trade displaced. Produce for export
is still assembled from all over the country in the Nicosia-based packing
houses and then shipped to Larnaca, while it would be much faster and less
costly to do the assembling, grading and packing directly near the airport
of Larnaca and avoid long road shipments. The channels of distribution of
vegetables from exporter to final retail outlet are rather heterogeneous:
about 15% pass through a London-based cooperative distributing agency owned
by the Cyprus Cooperative Union; 15% are exported directly to large distri-
butors with country-wide connections who buy firm on order basis; 10% are
exported to commission agents at the New Covent Garden Market; 10% are
exported to predominantly Cypriot wholesalers who distribute the produce to
groceries within the London area; and the balance of about 50% is exported
directly to retailers or retailer/wholesalers including supermarkets and
department store chains in the UK and to some extent in Arabian countries.
New outlets are company catering establishments in Saudi Arabia. Although
the versatility of the downstream marketing organization of the export
trade spreads the marketing risk, its disadvantage is that it limits the
industry's growth prospects.
Export Performance and Prospects
2.30     The export performance of the horticultural subsector has shown a
generally positive trend during the 1975-79 five year period. Success,
however, varied substantially between produce categories with fresh vege-
tables showing the largest increase from 3,900 tons in 1975 to 8,500 tons
in 1979 and beet roots actually declining from 1,800 tons to 1,600 tons.
The produce categories with the largest export volumes, namely potatoes,
citrus and table grapes shared increases in exports of 19%, 24% and 24%
respectively between 1975 and 1979. These figures underline the export
industry's ability to market larger volumes of produce even under increas-
ing competition. An analysis of the financial performance of the export
trade is, however, far less encouraging. F.o.b. prices in constant terms
have declined for most produce categories between 1975 and 1979 and
domestic wholesale prices and marketing costs have increased substantially
during the same period. The profit margins of Cyprus' horticultural export
traders have thus come under increasing pressure.



- 11 -
2.31     The exporters' ability to absorb further declines in their profit
margins was severely tested during the first six months of 1980 when a
prolonged winter and unusually cold spring weather resulted in supplies of
major vegetables falling 40% below normal supply levels. As domestic
wholesale prices rose above obtainable f.o.b. prices, exports dropped by
40% between January and June 1980 compared to the same period in 1979. The
general trend in the horticultural export performance that recently has
become more accentuated, clearly demonstrates that the future of Cyprus'
horticultural export trade will depend on a set of measures that are aimed
at increasing the supply of high quality export produce, lowering unit
costs of production through increased productivity, exploiting possible
economies of scale in production and marketing and adopting a more
sophisticated and efficient export marketing organization.
E. The Viticultural Subsector
State and Importance of the Wine Industry
2.32     Vine cultivation and wine making in Cyprus go back to time imme-
morial. The island's climate, its hillsides and geological formations
provide ideal conditions for extensive viticulture. About 315,000 donums
are under vineyards, located mainly on the south and south-west slopes of
the Troodos massif at altitudes of between 500 and 1,500 meters. Wine
products contribute 25% to total agricultural exports and rank second in
value of agricultural exports.
2.33     Failures over the past three decades to adjust the industry's
structure and products to changing commercial realities have caused
substantial problems for Cyprus' viticulture subsector, difficulties which
will take financial, managerial and political efforts to overcome. The
industry for far too long has relied on the production of one major
product, Cyprus Sherry, and on one single outlet for it, the UK market.
The industry further failed to gain much experience of its own in the
international distribution and marketing of wine products at consumer
levels. In the UK for example, it relied on big breweries as distri-
butors, who still own the main distribution brands under which names
Cyprus' products are known to the consumers. In the case of COMECON coun-
tries, another Cyprus market, the sale of wine products is done at state
level which again does not require Cyprus' involvement in competitive
consumer level marketing.
2.34     Today Cyprus neither produces high quality wines that if marketed
successfully can carry high production costs, nor does its viticulture have
a cost structure that is commensurate with the ordinary table wines it
produces. Most of Cyprus' vineyards are poorly structured for efficient
production and practically no mechanization has been introduced. Despite
the fact that the industry depends increasingly on subsidies transferred



- 12 -
from other sectors of the economy, viticulture from an employment and
foreign exchange earning point of view is a highly important subsector for
Cyprus, a fact that makes immediate concerted action to rectify past
omissions a matter of high priority.
2.35     Oenological and viticultural research are carried out in part by
the Agricultural Research Industry and in part by a special section of the
Department of Agriculture. This section operates a model winery in
Limassol which is concerned with the vinification of new grape varieties,
aging and blending of wines on a trial basis. The section further selects
and grows grape varieties at special vineyards located in various growing
areas. These research facilities have over the last two decades undertaken
systematic efforts in identifying new grape varieties of high quality
potential that are suitable for Cyprus' agroclimatical conditions. Exact-
ing trials in grape productivity and vinification have produced highly
satisfactory results that offer promising commercial potential.
2.36     Thanks to these efforts Cyprus' wine industry finds available the
grape material it needs for systematic product innovation and quality
improvements. The industry's response to the new opportunities is
evidenced by escalating premiums it pays for grape deliveries of the new
varieties which are grown by a small, although increasing, number of pro-
gressive farmers. Wine made from new varieties is in high demand domes-
tically and available stocks are selectively allocated only to the leading
distributors. The progress made so far on a small scale has encouraged the
wine industry to fully commit itself to promote rapid expansion of the new
varieties and make substantial investments in vinification capacities in
selected growing areas which will enable them to exploit the full quality
potential of the promising new varieties.
2.37     The results of successful viticultural and oenological research,
the private sector's commitment to product innovation and quality improve-
ment and increasing efforts in systematic consumer marketing, provide a
sound basis on which a successful recovery of Cyprus' wine industry should
be realistically feasible.
Processing and Marketing
2.38     On average, between 110,000 and 120,000 tons of grapes are pro-
cessed annually into a large variety of wines, grape must, brandies and
commercial alcohol. Processing and marketing of wines and wine products
is done by three independent private wineries and one cooperative-owned
winery, all operating modern facilities, managed by experienced oenolo-
gists. The grapes are bought by the four wineries at a guaranteed price,
negotiated between the vine growers and wineries, under supervision of the
Government. The location of the large wineries at the coast in Limassol
and Paphos makes it necessary for the grapes to be transported in large
trucks over long distances which adversely affects the quality of the
wine. In order to sell grapes of the island's traditional Mavro variety,



- 13 -
of which there is a chronic over production, a farmer must own shares in
the large wineries since they will buy Mavro grapes only from its share-
holders. Domestic wine consumption of about 9 liters per head per annum is
very low for a major wine-producing country; in comparison annual domestic
wine consumption in France and Italy is about 100 liters per head.
Cypriots consume, however, annually about 6 liters of brandy per head of
population. The small size of the population--450,000--and its drinking
habits deprive the country of a sizeable home market which necessitates the
export of 90% of its wine production. Although Cyprus' vineyards produce a
vast range of wines, vermouths and spirits, its reputation is based mainly
on the quality of the Cyprus Sherries which was and still is by far the
largest single wine product. Commandaria, a distinctive original sweet
dessert wine, is presently the only Cyprus' wine which would qualify for
the classification of Appelation d'Origine Controllee which requires the
vinification and bottling of the wine at the area where the grapes are
grown. Commandaria is made in a few small wineries in producing mountain
villages and is then sold to the large wineries at Limassol. An important
feature of Cyprus' wine export trade is that 95% of the wines are still
shipped in bulk which is not surprising, taking into account the distance
between Cyprus and its main markets and the fact that there is still no
glass industry on the island.
Historic Trade Pattern and Future Prospects
2.39     Cyprus' wine industry was essentially built on one single product,
Cyprus Sherry, and on one single market, the United Kingdom. Cyprus bherry
still makes up more than 50% of all wine exports and the UK market still
absorbs 95% of this product. But with Great Britain's entry into the EEC,
Cyprus has lost significant price advantages in this market as a result of
the phasing out of Commonwealth Preferences. This has led to a substantial
erosion of Cyprus' share of the UK market for all wine products, from over
90% in 1975 to less than 50% in 1978. Even the remaining UK sherry market,
which is practically the only meaningful outlet for this product, has
become very unstable, as a drop of over 600,000 gallons in exports to this
market between 1977 and 1978 clearly demonstrates. The difficulties in
this special, but for Cyprus highly important, market are bound to increase
further because of the recently introduced new customs regulations favoring
Spain, the main competitor, who subsequently has launched a marketing drive
in this market in anticipation of its planned entry into the EEC. Increas-
ing exports to COMECON countries, mainly the Soviet Union, Czechoslovakia,
Poland and the German Democratic Republic, have brought some relief to
Cyprus' hard-pressed wine industry. Eastern European countries currently
account for almost 40% in volume of total wine exports. Although valuable
for the time being, bulk sales to these countries are very often done at
minimum prices and present a low guarantee of regular repeat orders. In
the continental countries of the EEC, Cyprus' wines are more or less
unknown while some small progress seems to have been made in Switzerland
and three Scandinavian countries which together absorb about 12% of total
wine exports.



- 14 -
Future Marketing Prospects
2.40     The general understanding in international wine marketing is that
there is always an over supply of low quality, inexpensive "plonk" for
which it is difficult to find a market, while markets for wine of high
quality are growing. Because of the island's location, which means
relatively long transport distances to its main markets, and the island's
natural constraints, which allow only modest grape yields, Cyprus' vine-
yards cannot compete with the vineyards of southern Europe in producing
inexpensive ordinary table wines of which there is a chronic over-supply.
In addition, the programmed "southern enlargement" of the EEC through
three major wine-producing countries will make it very difficult, if not
impossible, for Cyprus to survive with its present line of wine products.
The only long-term solution for Cyprus' viticulture therefore lies in a
comprehensive reorientation of its production and marketing policies
towards establishing a line of higher quality products of greater
marketability.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Project Location
3.01     The areas for which project investments are envisaged are located
in the southern part of the island, extending from south of Famagusta, in
the east, to areas beyond Paphos in the west (IBRD Maps 15447 and 15448).
More specifically, seven agroeconomic regions have been selected as the
project area because of their particularly favorable soil and climatic
conditions. These regions are: Paphos Vines, Paphos Coastal, Limassol
Vines, Limassol Coastal, Pissouri, Larnaca Coastal and Paralimni. About
one third of the total area in the seven regions is uncultivated, a further
third is under permanent crops (mostly vines, citrus, olives and carobs)
and on the remaining one third, temporary crops (cereals, fodder, vege-
tables) are grown. Irrigated area comprises only 14% of the total area.
3.02     Project activities would be undertaken on about 30,825 donums
(4,110 ha) or 6% of the total area in the seven regions (539,909 donums).
Vegetable production is quite evenly distributed in the seven regions and
total area under vegetables, both in open and under protected cultivation,
is about 15,395 donums. In the Government controlled area of Cyprus, a
comparatively small area of vegetables (3,277 donums in 1979/80) is grown
under protected cultivation (greenhouses and tunnels), over 83% of which is
found in Paralimni and Paphos coastal regions. Citrus and other fruit tree
plantations are concentrated in the Limassol, Larnaca and Paphos coastal
regions. Wine grapes are cultivated principally in the Limassol and Paphos
vine regions and table grapes in Limassol coastal and Pissouri regions.
3.03     Of the total project area of 30,825 donums, 15,825 donums are
presently irrigated, the 15,000 donums of wine grape area not being irri-
gated. Water-use efficiency on all of the irrigated area would be improved



- 15 -
under the project. Investments in improved irrigation systems form part of
on-farm investments in early vegetables, flowers and table grapes and in
the establishment of tree crops which together cover 6,825 donums. In
addition, 9,000 donums would benefit from investments in improved
irrigation systems alone with consequent increases in water-use
efficiency. The proposed areas to be developed under the project are as
follows: early vegetable cultivation under plastic greenhouses (300 donums
in Paralimni and 262 donums in Paphos Coastal); flowers (38 donums in
Limassol Coastal); early table grapes under plastic cover (225 donums in
Pissouri); tree crops such as citrus, avocadoes and deciduous fruits (3,487
donums in Paphos Coastal and 2,513 donums in Larnaca Coastal); water-use
improvement (9,000 donums in Larnaca, Limassol and Paphos Coastal regions
and Pissouri); and vineyard replanting (15,000 donums in Paphos and
Limassol Vines). With the exception of vineyard replanting, where the
project area is 12% of the total area in the Paphos and Limassol Vines
regions, the project's activities are confined to 5% or less of the total
area in each individual region. The area to be developed under the project
in relation to total area in each region is shown in the following table.
Table 3.1: AREAS TO BE DEVELOPED
(1)   Area to be                  (2)
Developed   Water-Use  Total Net Area
Region         Total Area With Crops Improvement To be Developed (1) as Z (2)  Project Activities
-----------------------(donums)---------------------
Larnaca Coastal    118,643    2,513     2,170         4,683         4      Citrus, deciduous fruits,
water-use improvement
Paphos Coastal   173,753    3,749       3,320         7,069         4      Avocadoes, early vegetables.
citrus, deciduous fruits,
water-use improvement
Paphos Vines      67,764  )               -        )s 000          12      Vineyard replanting
Limassol Vines    58,815  ) 15,000                   1    )        1
Limassol Coastal    73,046     38       3,430         2,468         3      Flowers, water-use improve-
ment
Pissouri          25,281      225       1,080         1,305         5      Early table grapes, water-
use improvement
Paralimni         22,607      300         -             300         1      Early vegetables
Total        539,909    21,825     9,000         30,825        6%



- 16 -
B. Land Resources, Land Tenure and Land Use
Land Resources
3.04     Good soils with satisfactory depth are predominant in the Paphos
and Limassol coastal areas, varying in both texture and in calcium carbon-
ate content. They are especially suited to vegetable production, with the
less calcareous soils more adapted to fruit tree growing. Pissouri soils
are calcareous to very calcareous, generally of a clay loamy texture of
various depths, and mostly cultivated to table grapes. Soils on the west
and southwest of the Troodos massif are highly calcareous, shallow to
moderately deep, and are suitable for wine grape production. In the
Paralimni zone, soils are mostly of a red color, of various depths, of
medium to light texture and noncalcareous. They are specially suited to
the production of early vegetables. Soils in the Larnaca coastal region
are moderately calcareous, deep, medium to light textured and are suitable
for tree or vegetable crops although some salinity problems exist in
certain areas.
3.05     With the recent development of the island's water resources
(para. 2.18), the coastal areas are coming under irrigation, and a large
part of this area can be planted with high value horticultural crops. The
climate in the coastal areas is mild, there is little or no frost, and
great opportunity exists to produce out-of-season, high value crops such as
vegetables and flowers for export to European and Middle Eastern markets.
Apart from these climatic advantages, an additional and most important one
is the high light flux available in the "off season" for growth, which may
be 10 times that of Northern Europe. As supplementary light is still the
most expensive and difficult of all the controlled environmental factors to
attain economically on a commercial scale, this gives Cyprus, and some of
its neighbors, a commanding advantage in the production of the so-called
out-of-season fruits and vegetables.
Land Tenure
3.06     Agricultural land within the seven project regions totals 539,900
donums (about 72,000 ha). Ownership of this land is 95% private, the
balance of 5% belongs to Government, the church and communities. This
reflects the average ownership pattern in the Government controlled area of
Cyprus. Of the 539,900 donums, 74% (399,017 donums) are owned and operated
by the holder and 26% (140,893 donums) are rented from others. Landowner-
ship is characterized by small size of holdings, fragmentation and numerous
ownerships and co-ownerships. There are 15,648 holdings in the project
area with an average area per holding of 36 donums. Half of these holdings
have an average area of 20 donums or less.
3.07     Between agroeconomic zones, average area per holding varies con-
siderably, from about 20 donums in Paralimni to 24 donums Limassol Coastal,
31 donums Paphos Coastal, 37 donums Limassol Vines, 41 donums Paphos Vines,



- 17 -
45 donums Pissouri and over 76 donums Larnaca. In Larnaca, where mainly
tree crops and vines are cultivated, a large number of holdings above 1,000
donums exist, constituting 42% of the area. Paralimni, on the other hand,
is a vegetable growing zone and there are no holdings over 500 donums in
size.
3.08     Ownership of land in the project area is highly fragmented.  The
average holding comprises about 5.5 parcels. Fragmentation is lower in the
Limassol Coastal zone (about 3 parcels per holding) and higher in the two
wine growing zones of Paphos and Limassol, varying from about seven to
almost nine parcels per holding.
Land Use
3.09     About 66% (355,917 donums) of the total area in the seven regions
is cultivated, 17% under irrigated conditions and 83% under rainfed condi-
tions. The remaining 173,992 donums (34%) consist of fallow, grazing,
scrub, forest or generally unproductive land. Permanent crops are grown on
191,290 donums (54%) of the cultivated area and temporary crops on 164,627
donums (46%).
3.10     Most of the permanent crops (vines, citrus, nuts, other fruit
trees, olives and carobs) are irrigated, with the exception of vines for
wine production and the greater part of olives, carobs, almonds, figs and
pomegranates. The temporary crops (mainly cereals and fodder crops) are
grown under rainfed conditions. Vegetables, however, are almost all irri-
gated and constitute by far the largest area of temporary crops grown in
this manner. For major crops grown in the project area, the area and farm-
ing system are shown in the following table.
Table 3.2: CROPS GROWN IN THE PROJECT AREA
Crop                            Area                        Farming System
(donums)
Vines:  wines                      125,404                       Rainfed
table grapes               13,475                       Irrigated
Cereals                             99,938                       Rainfed
Fodder crops                        42,299                       Mostly Rainfed
Carobs                              19,796                      Mostly Rainfed
Citrus                              16,744                       Irrigated
Vegetables                          15,395                      Mostly Irrigated
C. Supporting Services
3.11     The Ministry of Commerce and Industry.  The Department of Trade
(DOT) of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI) is responsible for the



- 18 -
provision of policy direction and commercial trade services to the coun-
try's export industry including exports of agricultural commodities. In
the case of agricultural exports, DOT's functions are focused at three
stages of the export marketing process: the provision of marketing intel-
ligence information and other services relevant for export preparation and
planning; the inspection of quality standards of export produce; and the
following of Cyprus' produce movements and quality in export markets. Lack
of adequate staff and a target-oriented export development policy have
limited the DOT's activities severely, leaving exporters basically without
both guidance and supporting services. The only area where the DOT's
responsibility has been institutionalized and is being executed on a
regular basis is in the field of produce quality inspection. The
Agricultural Produce Inspection Service supervises packing operations at
exporters' licensed packing facilities and after a final check at points of
departure at Limassol and Larnaca ports and Larnaca airport, it issues the
required export certificates stating that the exported produce meets EEC
standards. The quality of Cyprus' agricultural products generally enjoys a
good reputation. This reputation has been built by responsible exporters
in collaboration with the Produce Inspection Service. There is, however,
still room for improvement. Instances where exporters rely too heavily on
the produce inspector's statement and in turn the inspectors rely too
heavily on the reputation of the exporter must be eliminated, as a quality
reputation can be easily destroyed or at least severely damaged by only
very few incidences.
Agricultural Extension and Research
. 3.12     The Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources is the major
public institution dealing with agriculture in Cyprus. It consists of a
number of departments coordinated by a Director-General having authority
over the heads of the departments. The Department of Agriculture within
the Ministry has a relatively large Extension Service operating in every
district on decentralized lines. Specialized sections deal with major dis-
ciplines and functions. Besides the Extension Service there is an Agricul-
tural Research Institute staffed with highly qualified scientists working
on production related research programs. The Extension Service works in
close cooperation with all other departments of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Natural Resources-mainly the Research Institute, the Water Development
Department and the Land Consolidation Authority.
3.13     The organizational structure of the Extension Service is comprised
of an Extension Section at Ministry level, five District Agricultural
Offices at Nicosia, Limassol, Paphos, Larnaca and Famagusta and ten Agri-
cultural Centers of which four are in Nicosia District, two in Limassol,
three in Paphos and one in Famagusta. The Agricultural Centers usually
have one to three assistant agricultural officers and a small number of
agricultural assistants. Towns and villages are subdivided into 30 Agri-
cultural Beats. The number of villages in each Beat ranges from 4 to 24
with an average of between 13 and 14 villages. The ratio of persons
employed in agriculture to a Beat officer is about 1,450.



- 19 -
3.14     The Agricultural Research Institute, established in 1961 with
assistance from UNDP/FAO, has the responsibility for the country's agri-
cultural research requirements. The principal objectives of the Institute
are to increase plant and animal production, improve quality of output and
obtain optimal production cost structures. Production of out-of-season
vegetables under controlled environments is a priority for the Institute's
research program. The Institute's facilities are located outside Nicosia
with a substation at Akhelia which serves the special research needs of the
island's southwest regions. Research on horticultural crops includes
variety and rootstock trials on avocadoes and citrus. Work on viticulture
is concentrated on quality and early ripening of table grapes and the test-
ing of new wine grape varieties for replacing the local Mavro variety.
3.15     The Viticulture and Oenology Section of the Department of Agri-
culture operates a small model winery which vinifies new grape varieties,
ages and blends new wines on a trial basis. This model winery would need
to be improved and expanded in order to evaluate new wine grape varieties
as its facilities are fully utilized and already inadequate for the current
program of field trials.
Financing Agriculture
3.16     Cyprus has developed a comprehensive and extensive system for
channelling financial resources into agriculture and the horticultural
sub-sector. The system's lending procedures suffer to some extent from
over-centralization of the decision making process and could be improved.
In general, they are considered acceptable. The system consists of two
separate channels which to some extent, however, rely on each other.
The Cooperative Credit System
3.17     Cooperative Credit Societies.  Short-term credit requirements are
effectively met by village based Cooperative Credit Societies (CCS). These
are associations with a voluntary membership of at least twelve members for
the primary purpose of providing financial assistance to its members.
About 80% of the CCSs' lending operations are short-term, with some 20%
being of medium term up to five years. Until recently, deposits, the
system's principal source of funds, have increased more rapidly than lend-
ing which left the system with substantial liquidity. Generally the CCSs
keep their excess liquidity in the form of fiscal-term deposits with the
Cooperative Central Bank (CCB), thus earning interest between 4.5% and 7%
depending on maturity.
3.18     The Cooperative Central Bank.  The CCB was established in 1938 as
a secondary level limited liability cooperative to serve as apex financing
bank for its shareholder members which are credit, marketing, supply or
other types of cooperatives. The capitalization of CCB does not involve
any Government-supplied funds. It is administered by a committee of five
members elected for 3-year terms. The committee appoints a management
team which runs CCB's day-to-day operations. Branches are maintained in
Limassol, Paphos, Larnaca and Famagusta.



- 20 -
3.19     CCB's lending funds mainly come from deposits (para. 3.17) and
from the Loan Commissioners, a Government body formed to channel Government
funds for specific development purposes (para. 3.21). Although the CCB is
empowered to lend to all sectors of the economy, between 1975-78 more than
90% of loans were made for agricultural investments including agroindus-
tries. Funds from the Loan Commissioners are available for medium- and
long-term agricultural investments for either specific Government sponsored
programs like refugee rehabilitation or for investments of national in-
terest like water use improvements.
3.20     In early 1980, CCB's liquidity position came under increasing
pressure as a result of financial mismanagement and the granting of a
number of large loans, some of which are now in default, for doubtful
investments. Given the important role played by CCB in the rural sector,
Government intervened to guarantee all deposit claims, thus preventing the
possibility of the institution's collapse. This matter is now the subject
of a special inquiry by the Government. In the meantime, CCB's management
committee has been replaced by a committee of three directors, one each
from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the
Central Bank of Cyprus. Despite these difficulties, CCB remains a viable
channel that can be employed as disbursement agent for project lending
operations.
The Loan Commissioners
3.21     Organization and Powers.  While agricultural's financial short-
term requirements are met by the CCSs and the CCB, funds for medium- and
long-term investments are provided by the Government through the Loan
Commissioners (LC) who were originally enacted in 1897. The LC are com-
posed of the Minister of Finance as chairman and the following members:
the Accountant General, the Directors General and the Ministries of
Interior, Agriculture and Natural Resources, Communications and Works and
two representatives of the private sector appointed by the Government.
Administration and accounting support is provided by the Ministry of
Finance.
3.22     Sources of Funds.  The LC have three principal sources of funds:
annual budgetary appropriations, revolving funds and borrowings. Loans for
improvements of water use and development, soil conservation, production of
early vegetables, flowers, etc. have been funded from budgetary alloca-
tions. Development projects cofinanced by the EEC or the World Food
Program receive resources from certain revolving funds. To meet its loan
requests, the LC may borrow funds at cost up to 5%. Its principal sources
of borrowings are the Social Insurance Fund, the Government Provident Fund
and the Cyprus Relief Fund.
3.23     Negative real interest rates for agriculture became an issue in
the Bank's dialogue with the Government of Cyprus after inflation accel-
erated in 1976. The present rate of interest on long-term loans for
on-farm investments is 4-1/2% at a time when the annual rate of inflation



- 21 -
is around 13%. Onlending rates are 7% for loans to other sectors. Pro-
posals from the Ministry of Finance and MANR to raise interest rates for
agriculture are now being reviewed. It should be noted that low interest
rates represent the only form of subsidy offered by the Government to the
horticultural subsector as all agricultural inputs without exception are
supplied at full market cost.
3.24     Lending Policies and Procedures.  As the LCs do not have their own
lending facilities, their loans for agricultural investments are channelled
through the CCB. There are two different types of lending relationships
between the LC and the CCB. In one case the CCB borrows funds from the LC
for their own lending operations to farmers. In the other case the LC lend
to farmers directly, using the CCB only as facilitating lending agent in
which case the borrower-lender relationship is established between LC and
borrowing farmer. Under the first arrangement CCB pays the LC 3% for the
funds advanced to it while in the second case the LC pay the CCB a commis-
sion of 1.5% on all loans handled on their behalf. The rate of interest
paid by farmers in both cases is 4.5%. In the case of default, a penalty
charge of 25% is levied on the interest rate. Long-term loans must be
secured by real estate mortgages with the exception of loans to refugees
which are guaranteed directly by the Government.
3.25     Loan applications for agricultural development projects sponsored
by the Government are made to the District Agricultural Officer (DAO)
generally through an Agricultural Beat Officer (ABO) who are the local
representatives of the Department of Agriculture (DOA) of the MANR. Loan
applications are forwarded to the DOA in Nicosia for approval of their
feasibility. Approved applications are recommended by the Director of
the DOA to a loan committee consisting of representatives from the DOA, the
Planning Bureau, Ministry of Finance, the LC and the CCB for final
approval. A review by the Bank of the technical evaluation of loan appli-
cations revealed that the standards vary between technical fields but are
considered in general satisfactory. Because of the importance and the
special expertise acquired, the standard of technical appraisals of water-
use improvement projects are particularly high.
3.26     Financial Condition.  Funds (budgetary allocations and special
funds) under LC's control are in sound condition although about 26% of the
loans made are in arrears. As all loans are amply covered by real estate
mortgages, no immediate danger of losses exist. A further assurance is the
Public Loans Law which treats unpaid loans like taxes due.
D. Packing Stations and Export Facilities
3.27     Seventy-seven grading and packing facilities with operating
licenses issued by the Produce Inspection bervice are currently in use in
the country. They rank from open-field sheds and grocery store rooms to
multi-million dollar investments in over-sized and over-equipped coopera-
tive packing and storage houses. The geographic concentration of packing



- 22 -
operations is primarily determined by the location of export terminals and
only secondarily by the location of producing areas (para. 2.29). For
air-freighted produce, the principal location is Nicosia, for sea-freighted
produce Larnaca (potatoes and watermelons, mostly grown in the eastern
provinces) or Limassol (citrus and table grapes, mostly grown in the
western provinces) and for produce shipped in reefer trucks (mainly to
Arabian destinations) the Limassol ferry port.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Origin and Objectives
4.01     Concerned about the horticultural sector's fluctuating perform-
ance, its uncertain future export prospects and the necessity to adjust to
the major changes that the impending enlargement of the EEC will bring for
Cyprus' traditional export markets, the Government has requested financial
support from the World Bank for a project that will strengthen, modernize
and reorganize the country's fruit and vegetable export oriented production-
distribution system. The proposed project would, through increased produc-
tion of out-of-season vegetables and seasonably shifted production of fruit
for export, provide additional foreign exchange earnings for the country's
deteriorating trade account. Further, the vine replanting and vinification
component of the project will adjust Cyprus' wine production to changed
consumer preferences and halt declining exports. The project will raise
labor productivity on many small farms by promoting intensive horticultural
production. As a major contribution to efficient institution building, the
project will reorganize the country's outdated export production-distribution
system through restructuring the export trade and through horizontal and
vertical coordination of all marketing activities as well as through a
regional diversification of trade flows.
B. Project Description
4.02     The project objectives will be achieved through investments in
on-farm development, processing and marketing facilities, through strength-
ening of supporting services and most importantly through launching of a
new export development initiative based on restructuring the export trade
and the creation of an advisory and coordinating committee.
4.03     On-farm Developments.  Project supported investments in horti-
cultural production are aimed at exploiting the island's highly favorable
agroclimatic conditions by shifting production as much as technically
feasible towards those seasons when fruit, vegetable and flower supplies in
export markets are lowest and therefore when EEC tariff barriers are set at
their minimum.



- 23 -
(a) Protective structures for out-of-season vegetable and flower
production. Two types of improved protective structures will be
financed under the project: greenhouses and "walk-in" tunnels.
The structures will be redesigned and equipped with labor saving
devices, better types of ventilation and more efficient plastic
application. The individual investment package will consist of
the protective structure, irrigation system, heating facilities
where needed and miscellaneous small equipment. This type of
investment package will be made available to about 300 growers who
are expected to develop on average one donum of greenhouse and one
donum of high "walk-in" tunnel.
(b) Greenhouses for table grape production. Some 225 donums of
existing vineyards of early table grape varieties will be put
under plastic to advance grape ripening by between two to three
weeks, from early July to mid-June. The investment package,
consisting of greenhouses, irrigation systems and miscellaneous
small equipment will be made available to about 112 vineyard
owners.
(c) Fruit tree planting. To regain some of the citrus production that
was lost in 1974, about 4,650 donums of oranges, lemons, grape-
fruit and clementines will be planted under the project. In
addition the project will finance establishment of 975 donums of
avocadoes and 375 donums of deciduous fruit trees, mainly apricots.
(d) Vine replantation scheme. To produce wines of superior quality
requires the introduction of new grape varieties. Over the last
twenty years many new varieties have been brought to Cyprus and
tested under local conditions. From those, the most promising
varieties have been selected and are now recommended for replace-
ment of the traditional local varieties. The project will finance
public investments for the purchasing of crawler tractors and
vehicles to carry out uprooting, land leveling and terracing of
15,000 donums of worn-out Mavro vines. The project will also
finance the staking of the vineyards. An estimated 3,000 farmers
will be involved in the replanting scheme with an average of 5
donums of new vineyard each.
(e) Water use improvement. This component is designed to be a part of
the continuing Water Use Improvement Project started in 1965 under
the UNDP planned and financed Cyprus Water Planning Project, which
is a master plan for the integrated use of water in the island.
The component will provide for investments in portable sprinklers,
mini-sprinklers and trickle or drip irrigation, systems to replace
obsolete and inefficient irrigation methods. These investments
will be spread over the coastal zones on about 1,000 holdings
aggregating 9,000 donums. Research results and farm surveys
indicate a water use efficiency of at least 75%. Since the
investments are replacements in farms otherwise operating at full
development, the benefits are calculated as savings in water costs.



- 24 -
4.04     Processing and Marketing Facilities.  Increased volumes of higher
quality produce will require larger, more flexible, versatile and appro-
priately located processing facilities in order to obtain finished products
of better acceptability in a variety of markets. The project will
therefore provide the financing for the necessary processing, storage and
marketing facilities.
(a) Wine making facilities. Aside from the lack of grapes of high
quality potential another major constraint to making high quality
wines for discriminating and origin-conscious export markets is
the present location of Cyprus' vinification facilites. All major
wineries with the exception of one at Paphos are located around
Limassol. The grapes processed by these wineries are transported
mostly over long distances in open-topped lorries of up to 12 tons
capacity. In September temperatures can exceed 25 C and even
during October temperatures can exceed 20 C. The oxidation of
grapes at such temperatures can be extremely rapid and the first
pressing, the best quality juice for vinification, is sometimes
lost due to the damage the grapes have suffered during long and
unprotected transportation. The project will provide funds for
the financing of three vintage wineries to be built in the
proposed vine replanting areas. Each vintage winery will have a
capacity of about 3 million okes of grapes (3,750 tons) and will
be established within reasonable delivery distance. In addition
to the ultimate objective of improving the quality standards of
Cyprus' wines, the three vintage wineries will initially help to
reduce the country's surplus production of about 20,000 tons of
grapes. Because of lack of vinification capacities, the grape
surplus now has to be processed into zivania (eau-de vie de vin)
and raisins, which the Vine Products Commission (VPC) can dispose
of only at substantial financial losses. Once the replanted vine-
yards come into production, the vintage wineries will process only
the new variety grapes.
(b) Grading and packing stations. Based on the emerging two main
export trading partnerships from the present configuration of 15
independently operating exporters, the project will finance two
centrally located, fully equipped grading and packing facilities
(para 4.06(a)). In addition, a number of small rural packing
stations will be established to allow grower-site packing for
direct airport delivery by major growers. Finally, a simple
auction shed with packing facilities will be built near Larnaca
airport. The proposed facilities will handle the project's
incremental production of fresh vegetables and the produce that is
presently handled by inefficient old facilities that will be
closed down as a result of the reorganization of the export trade.
(c)  Transport equipment.  For consolidation and expansion of the fruit
and vegetable export trade with Arab countries more and better
road transport equipment will be required. The project will
finance 3 tractor-trucks and 5 semi-trailers of between 15 and 25



- 25 -
tons capacity. These trailers will use the regular ferry service
between Limassol and Latakia in Syria. At the Latakia ferry land-
ing point where two of the tractor-trucks will be stationed, empty
trailers will be exchanged for loaded ones.
4.05     Supporting bervices.  Coordination of the efforts of growers and
exporters according to a new export development strategy will require well
functioning supporting services and promotion facilities.
(a) Extension service. Under the project the number of farmers grow-
ing out-of-season and early season vegetables will increase sub-
stantially. To meet the consequent additional demands for exten-
sion services, the Department of Agriculture will increase its
present extension capability through the following nine appoint-
ments: specialists in plant protection (3); in soils and plant
nutrition (1); in viticulture (1); beat officers (2); and agricul-
tural assistants (2). The project will further make financial
arrangements for about 24 man-months of specialized overseas
training of extension staff. Priority will be given to increase
the knowledge in strawberry production. To ensure the efficient
utilization of the additional extension staff, financing for nine
new vehicles will be made available.
(b) Horticultural and viticultural research. A total of about 54
man-months in overseas training will be financed to enable the
Institute to provide the project with the specialized expertise
required for implementation. Areas of research will include;
establishing the characteristics of some of the island's micro-
climates; more efficient and safer methods of weed and pest con-
trol; better methods of extending the life of cut flowers;
increased knowledge in tissue culture propagation techniques; and
continuous research in viticultural and oenological techniques.
In addition, some equipment such as a mobile unit for steam
sterilization of soil, compost, etc. and two fertilizer injection
systems will be needed. The DOA's model winery at Limassol needs
to be expanded to handle the increased quantities. of grapes coming
from variety trials and for storage of the wine products. A
temperature controlled wine cellar for trial aging of high quality
wines as well as additional laboratory space for analytical and
microbiological oenology work will be required. Various
laboratory equipment including a gas vapor chromatograph will also
be needed.
New Export Development Initiative
4.06     The project's productive investments will need to be complemented
by a new and energetic export development initiative. A number of
approaches have been proposed for restructuring Cyprus' horticultural
export trade. Prominent among the approaches rank the establishment of a
statutory marketing board and the setting up of a single channel central



- 26 -
export corporation. Both solutions will in principle mean the destruction
of the strong base of entrepreneurial motivation, commercial dynamism and
flexibility on which the industry has so successfully grown during its
first phase of expansion. Instead, the project will be instrumental in
launching a new export development initiative that will be based on the
continued use of the private sector as the promotor of the country's horti-
cultural exports. The proposed new export development initiative will in
principle consist of a restructuring of the export trade and the establish-
ment of an advisory and coordinating body.
(a) Restructuring the Fruit and Vegetable Export Trade. As there are
no institutional or other effective barriers to entry into Cyprus'
fruit and vegetable export trade, the number of participants is
large relative to the volume of produce exported. The necessity
to amalgamate small individual export businesses into larger units
of operation is obvious and unanimously accepted. So far, how-
ever, all efforts made by the exporters themselves to join their
businesses into larger trade partnerships have failed because of
the traditional individualism and strong preference for independ-
ence. A convincing initiative from outside the trade was required
to set in motion a process of organizational and structural
change. Faced with mounting costs, sinking profits and slipping
market shares, the exporters welcomed the appraisal mission's
initiative for voluntary consolidation of the many small export
operations. The prospect that newly formed trade partnerships
above a minimum size will have access to financing for new
efficient, up-to-date grading and packing facilities, as well as
to project-provided expatriate marketing expertise, has further
facilitated the process of voluntary restructuring the export
trade. So far two trade partnerships are in the process of
formation. They will involve about 60% of the independent
exporters who jointly hold about 75% of the horticultural exports,
excluding citrus and table grapes. This development is highly
encouraging as it will substantially improve the trade's structure
without destroying the industry's strong assets of entrepreneurial
motivation and flexibility.
(b) Horticultural Export Development Advisory and Coordinating Commit-
tee (HEDACC). Efforts to restructure the private sector export
trade, especially in the field of vegetable exports, will be
complemented and supported by a multi-agency Horticultural Export
Development Advisory and Coordinating Committee to be established
under the project. The main functions of this committee will be
twofold. First, it will advise and guide the export trade on the
basis of marketing information that it collects from all relevant
sources, processes and transforms into practical marketing
targets. Secondly, it will coordinate the operations of all
elements involved in planning and execution of produce production
and in delivery over space and time to the various export
markets. The committee will ensure that all economies of scale



- 27 -
in transportation, storage, sales promotion, etc. that can
feasibly be exploited are taken advantage of by the industry. To
execute its multiple functions, the committee will be provided
with the necessary foreign expertise, domestic personnel and
financial resources. An expatriate export marketing advisor will
be recruited for the duration of project implementation. He will
assist in organizing and establishing the committee and will
develop the sector's export marketing strategy. The Department of
Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry will strengthen its
agricultural section by adding to its staff a senior commercial
officer and two junior assistant officers. The Larnaca-based
Produce Inspection Service will be strengthened by two additional
inspectors. To facilitate a wider and more frequent flow of
marketing information the Ministry's Trade Centers in the UK and
in continental Europe will be strengthened by three additional
officers.
(c)  Export Promotion Facility.  To facilitate the diversification of
export markets, the project will support building up the image of
Cyprus as a source of high quality horticultural and viticultural
products. Competing Mediterranean countries have achieved that
through the creation of a generic brand for their range of
products. The generic brand usually begins as an identification
of a single commodity, like citrus, but once established has
helped to influence purchasing decisions for other commodities
from that country. A generic brand has characteristics of a
"public good" and is usually created and sponsored by contribu-
tions from a national promotion budget. The project will support
the establishment of such a national promotion budget which,
during the project implementation period, will be funded with
US$1.0 million equivalent of which the Bank will contribute US4-0.5
million equivalent and the Government U60.5 million equivalent.
C. Cost Estimates
4.07     The total cost of the project is estimated at U5$32.9 million
equivalent in December 1980 terms (US$1.0 = CE 0.347), of which US$16.7
million (about 51%) are in foreign exchange. The estimated foreign
exchange expenditure will be largely for imported motor vehicles,
machinery, equipment and consulting services including export promotional
services. Price increases of US$8.0 million were allowed over the four-
year project implementation period. They will cover price contingencies
for the period beginning January 1981 to end 1985, at annual rates of 13%
(1981) and 12% (1982-85) for local investment components and 9% (1981),
8.5% (1982) and 7.5% (1983-85) for imports. About 72 man-months of consul-
tant services will be required for implementing the project at an average
cost of US$6,000 per man-month as of January 1981. Total project costs are
summarized in Table 4.1; a more detailed breakdown is given in Annex 2 and
Annex 3.



- 28 -
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST6
Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
Component                ------CE Thousands------  -----U$ Million----- Component
Early Vegetables and
Flowers under
Greenhouses            959.4    962.5  1,921.9   2.76    2.77    5.53           50
Early Table Grapes
under Plastic
Greenhouse             400.9    235.4    636.3   1.15    0.68    1.83           37
Avocado, Citrus and
Apricot Planting       718.5    958.1  1,676.6   2.07    2.76    4.83           57
Vineyard Replanting
(new wine grape
varieties)             429.0    486.0    915.0   1.24    1.40    2.64           53
Water Use
Improvement             373.0    869.6  1,242.6   1.07    2.50    3.57           70
Wineries (3 small,
in mountains)           451.7    270.2    721.9   1.30    0.78    2.08           38
Packing Stations         160.3    242.9    403.2   0.46    0.70    1.16           60
Technical bervices;
(a) Administrative
unit                 96.8       -        96.8   0.28    -         0.28       -
(b) Monitoring and
evaluation unit    61.2         8.5      69.7   0.18    0.02    0.20         1
(c) Extension
(agricultural)     103.9      40.5    144.4   0.30    0.12    0.42          29
(d) Research
(horticultural)      0.04    51.75    51.8   0.001   0.15    0.151    10
(e) Export Promotion    -         277.8    277.8   -         0.80    0.80    100
Model Winery              56.0      40.6      96.6   0.16    0.12    0.28         43
Base Total             3,810.7  4,443.9  8,254.6  10.97   12.80   23.77           54
Physical Contin-
gencies                 200.0    200.0    400.0   0.58    0.58    1.16          50
Price Contingen-
cies (32%)            1,631.6  1,145.4  2,777.0   4.70    3.30    8.00          41
Total Project
Cost including
Contingencies         5,642.3  5,789.3 11,431.6  16.25   16.68   32.93           51



- 29 -
D.  Financing
4.09     A proposed Bank loan of Us414.0 million will finance 84% of the
foreign exchange cost or about 43% of total project cost. LC will finance
some Ub$9.6 million, or 29% of total cost. bubborrowers' contributions
under the on-farm and marketing and processing components will amount to
U6i5.5 million equivalent or about 17% of total project cost. Government
will contribute the remaining Ub$3.8 million, or 11% of total cost.
Financing of investment and technical assistance costs will be shared as
follows:
Table 4.2: PROJECT FINANCING ARRANGEMENTb
(Ubs million)
bubbor-    Govern-
rowers       ment         LC         IBRD       Total
Project Component /1 Amount % Amount % Amount % Amount % Amount %
On-farm Investment       4.1    17   2.0    8   7.9   32  10.4   43  24.4  100
Marketing and
Processing
Facilities             1.4    25    -       -   1.7   30   2.6   45   5.7  100
Technical Services
and Research            -      -   1.3   72    -        -   0.5   28   1.8  100
Export Promotion         -           0.5   50    -       -   0.5   50   1.0  100
Total              5.5    17   3.8   11   9.6   29  14.0   43  32.9  100
/1  Price increases added to each component.  Discrepancies due to rounding.
4.10      The Bank loan of Ub$14.0 million will be made to the Republic of
Cyprus which will assume the foreign exchange risk. The Bank's loan will
be for 15 years including a 3-year grace period at the Bank's interest rate
prevailing at the time of Board presentation. The Government will provide
the LC in local currency the equivalent of U6$10.4 million for the on-farm
development component and the equivalent of U6$2.6 million for the market-
ing and processing component. An additional U5$1.0 million will be made
available for technical services and research, of which Ub$0.5 million will
be for the export promotion facility. Assurances have been obtained that
Government will make available the equivalent of Ub$2.0 million to the
Department of Agriculture for vineyard replanting, and the equivalent of
US$1.3 million for technical services and research and to the Department of
Trade the equivalent of Ub$0.5 million for export promotion.



- 30 -
E. Procurement
4.11     As is typical in many credit projects, contracts for farm
supplies, equipment for the wineries, the vegetable packing unit and
transport vehicles (three tractor-trucks and five semi-trailers) will not
be suitable for bulk procurement as farmers and private investors will
purchase them individually throughout the project period from well
etablished local or foreign commercial channels. buppliers of these goods
are well represented in Cyprus, competition is keen and prices are
competitive. Three quotations will be required for purchases over
Us$100,000. Disbursements through established commercial practices under
agricultural credit are estimated at US$ll million. These same procedures
will also apply to equipment procured by MANR for project administration,
research and extension, disbursements for which will amount to about
Ub$78,000 equivalent.
4.12     Procurement through ICB according to the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement of March 1977 will include the procurement by Government of
sixteen bulldozers and twenty-three motor vehicles, disbursement for which
will amount to about US$1.75 million. Expenditures for individual
technical specialists and export promotion services (estimated at about
US$1.0 million) will be incurred under the Bank's guidelines for consulting
services.
F. Disbursements
4.13     The proposed Bank loan of US$14 million equivalent will be
disbursed over a four-year period as follows:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local expenditures for
motor vehicles and bulldozers procured under ICB ($1.75 million);
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for tractor-trucks and semi-trailers
($280,000) and equipment required by MANR ($78,000);
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for training abroad ($170,000);
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures for internationally-recruited
individual technical specialists or 90% of total expenditures if
procured locally ($480,000);
(e) 50% of expenditures for export promotion services ($500,000); and
(f) 35% of total amounts disbursed by the LC or by the CCB on behalf
of LC for on-farm development, wineries and vegetable packing
facilities ($10.7 million).
4.14     Disbursements will be made against normal documentation, except
for sub-lending by CCB to farmers or private investors which will be made
against statements of expenditure. These statements will be audited and



- 31 -
the supporting documents will be retained by CCB and be available for
review by Bank missions. The SOE procedure is being satisfactorily
followed under Loan 1483-CY (Pitsilia Integrated Rural Development
Project). Any savings in the Loan after project completion will be
cancelled. The estimated annual disbursements of the Bank Loan are shown
in Table 4.4. The estimated quarterly schedule of disbursements is given
in Annex 4:
Table 4.4: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS /1
Bank FY                FY82         FY83         FY84         FY85         FY86
----------------(US$ million)--------------------
Annual                   1.08        2.04         5.04         4.16          1.68
Cumulative              1.08         3.12         8.16        12.32        14.00
/1 It is expected that disbursements will be completed on December 31,
1985, and the closing date of the Loan will be June 30, 1986.
G. The Role of Women
4.16     Statistics from the 1977 Census of Agriculture highlight the
importance of women in agriculture. Women then constituted the majority--
57%--of the family labor force in agriculture (16,341 men, 21,797 women)
and about 46% of the total paid 6,234 employees. By 1979, women still made
up over half (53%) the family labor force; but their participation in the
paid labor force had increased both in absolute and relative terms to reach
68%. The greater part of total agricultural labor force in Cyprus is thus
comprised of women, and part-time farming is predominant. The dependence
on rainfed activities in Cyprus' agriculture together with the small size
of agricultural holdings (34.5 donums in 1977) mean that incomes gained
from agriculture are inadequate to support the farm family. The male
household head is forced to search for outside employment to supplement the
family income, thereby leaving the greater part of day-to-day farming
activities to the women and other household members.
4.17     Despite the importance of their contribution to agriculture, how-
ever, women are disadvantaged. Data from the 1977 Census showed that their
wages in the paid agricultural labor force were only about half those for
men, although in recent years, women have been receiving relatively higher
wage increases than men in agriculture. This situation is a reflection of
general shortages in the labor market and the effort to attract more women
to join the labor force. The involvement of women in the decision-making
process concerning the family holding is very limited as is their position
in the management of agricultural enterprises. Extension and training
programs, which are designed to improve agricultural productivity, are
usually male-oriented, thereby excluding women. Prejudice and tradition



- 32 -
also discourage women from participating in such agricultural activities.
Given the importance of women in agriculture, it is clear that, at a mini-
mum, training and extension programs for raising agricultural productivity
should be expanded to include women and the participation of women in these
activities should be encouraged.
H. Environmental Effect
4.18     The project is not expected to have adverse effects on the
environment. The plastic covers of the greenhouses and low tunnels are
expected to be recycled rather than burned or ploughed under. The use of
plant protection chemicals will be based on proven applied research and
extension recommendations which minimize adverse effects on local ecology.
Extension staff will train farmers in the safe handling and use of pesti-
cides. Improved irrigation efficiency under the project will help
stabilize or improve the aquifer in certain parts of the island and prevent
loss of hundreds of acres of cropland.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementation of Institutional Arrangements
Restructuring the Fruit and Vegetable Export Trade
5.01     In anticipation of project implementation that will provide newly
formed trade partnerships with technical, financial and institutional
assistance, the forming of voluntary trade partnerships is now taking con-
crete forms (para. 4.06(a)). Despite the given incentives and the proven
gains that will result for the independent firm from joining a larger trade
partnership, it still might take some time for all legal and financial
aspects of amalgamating several businesses to be satisfactorily completed.
The proposed expatriate marketing advisor will assist in completing this
essential consolidation process by giving expert advice on recommended
investments.
5.02     Fruit and Vegetable Exporters Association (FVEA).  A reorganized
and consolidated fruit and vegetable export trade will, as a matter of
priority, form an association that could effectively represent the industry
in all matters of concern vis-a-vis Government authorities or any outside
organization. The FVEA will organize group actions benefitting the entire
industry and will facilitate operations and strategies in which all or the
majority of its members will participate. It will be an important institu-
tion building objective to develop the FVEA into an effective representa-
tive body that will not only be the industry's voice but that also will
have the mandate of collective bargaining power.



- 33 -
Establishment of the Horticultural Export Development Advisory and
Coordinating Committee
5.03     The Horticultural Export Development Advisory and Coordinating
Committee (HEDACC), will be the delivery base for the new marketing con-
cepts that will be developed under the new export development initiative.
To enable the HEDACC to fully integrate and coordinate all inherent func-
tions of the export oriented production-marketing system, the following
groups and agencies will be participating members and will be represented
as follows: the FVEA by one representative; the growers who are regular
suppliers of export produce by representatives of the two farmers unions;
the MCI; the MANR; the Ministry of Communication and Works and the Planning
Bureau. In addition to those regular committee members, resource persons
from other agencies might be requested or permitted to participate in
committee sessions. The HEDACC will be chaired on a rotating basis for the
duration of one year. The establishment of HEDACC is a condition of
effectiveness.
5.04     The MCI will provide the HEDACC with office facilities.  The
Ministry will also provide a permanent secretary who will be supported by
at least one assistant junior commercial officer. The main function of the
secretary will be to convene the monthly committee meetings and prepare and
distribute the necessary documentation for the meetings. During project
implementation, HEDACC will be provided with the fulltime service of the
expatriate export marketing advisor who will be mainly responsible for
developing an export marketing strategy. The advisor will, however, also
assist the export trade during the consolidation phase on technical and
commercial aspects. For creating the generic brand to promote Cyprus'
horticultural and viticultural products, the HEDACC will have at its dis-
posal the proposed export promotion facility of US$1.0 million equivalent.
With the assistance from professional public relation concerns in the
intended export markets, the marketing advisor will design promotional
campaigns that will be subject to HEDACC's approval.
5.05     The Government will contribute over the four-year project imple-
mentation period the equivalent of US$0.5 million to the proposed export
promotion facility.
5.06     During negotiations the following assurances concerning the HEDACC
have been obtained:
(a) that the MCI will recruit one senior agricultural commercial
officer and two assistant junior commercial officers;
(b) that the Government will organize and establish the HEDACC;
(c) that the MCI will provide the HEDACC with office facilities and
that its senior agricultural commercial officer will act as
permanent secretary;



- 34 -
(d)  that the MCI will recruit an experienced expatriate marketing
development expert who will develop marketing strategies for the
various commodities and markets; and
(e)  that the export promotion facility of Ub$1.0 million equivalent
will be made available to HEDACC for its promotional work.
B. Project Organization and Management
5.07     In line with their traditional responsibilities, the MANR will be
in charge of implementing all production oriented project investments and
the MCI will deal with all marketing related project components. The
HEDACC will become the apex body of project organization, as it will estab-
lish policies and coordinate activities that will require action by both
ministries.
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
5.08     The MANR will assign a senior officer acceptable to the Bank as
coordinator and manager of all production oriented project components.
5.09     The additional extension officers that will be needed to achieve
the project's production targets and later to maintain the increased pro-
duction levels, will be incorporated into the extension service's existing
structure and will be allocated to those areas where the project will
create the respective demand. An assurance has been obtained during nego-
tiations that the Government will make the necessary arrangements at the
beginning of project implementation for the establishment of those
positions and that it will fill them with qualified professionals.
5.10     The research and overseas training activities required for suc-
cessful project implementation will fit well into the MANR's overall horti-
cultural and viticultural research objectives. An assurance has been
obtained during negotiations that the necessary funds and manpower will be
allocated to the DOA and the Agricultural Research Institute for the
project's research and training requirements.
5.11     The Department of Agriculture will undertake the necessary
enlargements of its model winery for which designs have already been
prepared; an assurance to that effect has been obtained during negotiations.
Ministry of Commerce and Industry
5.12     The MCI will assign a senior agricultural commercial officer
acceptable to the Bank as coordinator and manager of all marketing related
activities of the project.



- 35 -
5.13      In addition to the three new positions at Ministry level, namely
the senior agricultural commercial officer and the two junior commercial
assistant officers, all of whom will be closely related to the activities
of the HEDACC, the Produce Inspection Service of the DOT will be strength-
ened by two positions. This will enable it to extend its inspection ser-
vices to the sites of larger growers where produce will be packed for
direct airport delivery without passing through exporters' central packing
facilities. The Produce Inspection Service will also supervise the pro-
posed pilot auction operation near Larnaca airport where unsold produce of
export quality will be made available to interested exporters through
auction. To improve the feed-back from Cyprus' produce performance in its
principal export markets through downstream channels and to provide all
relevant marketing intelligence information, two additional positions will
be created in Cyprus' overseas trade centers, that is in the UK and in
continental Europe.
Onlending Procedures, Terms and Conditions
5.14     Subloans for on-farm investments as well as for wineries, packing
facilities and transport equipment will be made by the Loan Commissioners.
The Government will provide the LC with the proceeds of the Bank loan that
are earmarked for onlending at no cost.
5.15     Subloans for on-farm investments will be made by the LC through
the CCB acting as fiscal agent. In this manner, project funds from subloan
repayments cannot be used by CCB for its own operations as they will be
automatically remitted to the LC. As agent of the LC, the CCB will be paid
a commission of 1-1/2% on the outstanding balance of any subloan. Loan
applications will be processed in the same manner as loan applications for
financing under the special Government agricultural development projects,
with the CCB and the DOA, respectively, responsible for financial and tech-
nical appraisal. Interest rate on subloans for on-farm investments will be
at 7.0%. This will represent an increase of some 56% over the current rate
of 4-1/2%. While it would be desirable to lend to Cyprus' farmers at a
positive real rate of interest, at the current rate of inflation of about
13%, this would not be feasible.
5.16     Subloans for financing the vintage wineries, packing facilities
and transport equipment will be made by the LC directly to the subborrowers
after their applications have been technically appraised and approved by
the MCI in consultation with the MANR. These subloans will be subject to
Bank approval.  Interest rates on these subloans will be made at 9%.  An
assurance has been obtained during negotiations that the LC's lending rate
for agroindustry investments will be raised from its present level of 7% to
the country's highest legal lending rate of 9%. The loan term for wineries
and packaging facilities will be 10 years including 2 years of grace.
Loans for transport equipment will have to be repaid in four years with no
grace period.



- 36 -
5.17     There will be no necessity for the project to provide additional
investment financing in future years for tree crops and vineyard replanting
for the following reasons. During the first four years after planting of
tree crops, the orchards will be intercropped with vegetables as is common
practice in Cyprus. Revenue from the intercropped vegetables in these four
years will more than offset the maintenance costs of the trees. The trees
will begin producing in year 4 (citrus) or year 5 (avocados and deciduous
fruits) at which time incremental revenue from the tree will significantly
exceed the plant's operating expenses. For vineyard replanting, the land
will lay fallow for the first two years after uprooting the old vine. No
incremental operating expenses will therefore be incurred in these two
years. Operating costs for the vines in years 3 and 4 (the first and
second years after planting) will be very low. The vine will begin produc-
ing in year 5 (year 3 after planting) and revenue from year 6 onwards will
more than offset the vine's operating costs. Short-term credit, as
required, will be readily available through the established channel, the
Cooperative Credit Bank.
5.18     A condition of loan effectiveness will be that the Government will
raise the interest rate for on-farm investments to 7.0%. The Bank has also
obtained an assurance from the Government that interest rates for agri-
culture will be reviewed every two years or when the official agricultural
wholesale output price index increases by 5% or more annually, whichever
comes first; and should there be a change in the law that fixes 9% as the
highest interest rate allowed to be charged in the country, then a review
of interest rates to agriculture will be undertaken pari passu.
5.19     The interest rate for all on-farm subloans will be 7% with a
penalty charge of 25% (para. 3.23) levied on the interest rate in the case
of default. Grace and repayment periods will be as follows; for tree
crops and vineyard replanting, 15 years including 5 years grace; for green-
houses and tunnels for early vegetables, flowers and table grapes, 8 years
including 2 years grace; and for irrigation equipment financed under the
water use improvement component, 8 years including one year of grace.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.20     The two project coordinators and managers in the MANR and MCI will
be responsible for monitoring implementation of their respective project
components. Routine records will be kept on all project actions, programs,
budgets and expenditures. The responsible staff in the two ministries will
collect and analyze technical and financial data to evaluate the effects of
the project and to follow its progress against the project implementation
schedule. The project coordinator and manager in the MCI will submit his
report to his counterpart in the MANR who will be responsible for preparing
a joint progress report that will be forwarded to the Bank every six



- 3 7 -
months. This arrangement is being recommended as the MANR has the experi-
ence of three Bank financed projects while the MCI will deal with project
implementation of a Bank financed project for the first time. In addition
to the biannual progress reports, the two project coordinators will prepare
a joint draft completion report for submission to the Bank within six
months of the closing date of the project. As in the case of the progress
reports, the MANR will be responsible for preparing the joint report after
receiving the report on the marketing component from the MCI. This joint
report will include an ex-post economic and technical evaluation of the
project as it was actually implemented.
D. Accounts and Auditing
5.21     Separate accounts for the project will be kept by the MCI and the
MANR with an overall project account to be established and kept by the
MANR. The project accounts will be audited annually by the Auditor General
and submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the closing date
of the Cypriot fiscal year.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production
Without Project
6.01     Without the project it is expected that seasonality, yields and
quality of the horticultural products would remain essentially unchanged in
the project area. Citrus would remain the most important horticultural
tree crop, but yields would not increase as the planting of certified,
high-yielding and disease-free budwood has not yet been established as a
general practice. Avocado growing would continue to emerge only slowly
from its experimental state and the area under deciduous fruits would
remain very limited. The low tunnels, greenhouses and many of the wooden
structures presently in general use are inferior in design and do not allow
the degree of environmental control required for obtaining the highest
possible yields and quality standards. Flower production is carried out
only on a very limited scale and again, due to the absence of adequate
environmental control facilities, an unnecessarily high percentage of the
blooms produced do not meet export quality standards. Only a fraction of
the potential of very early table grape production would be exploited. On
the 15,000 donums of non-irrigated project area, local black Mavro vines
would continue to return very low yields and be worked with very small or
no return to farmers. The wines produced from Mavro grapes would become
increasingly difficult to sell because of the oversupply of potential
markets with inexpensive ordinary wines and the corresponding switch in
consumer preference toward quality wines.



- 38 -
With Project
6.02     The project will raise the yields and quality of those crops which
are presently grown under inferior conditions or where substandard produc-
tion practices are employed. Through the propagation of superior, virus-
tested strains of budwood and improved rootstocks and the application of
improved cultural techniques, higher yields of better quality citrus,
avocadoes and deciduous fruit will be obtained. Out-of-season production
of vegetables and flowers will be further advanced. The superior environ-
mental control characteristics of the improved protective structures, more
efficient irrigation systems and, where necessary, fuel efficient heating
systems will advance the ripening process, increase yields and raise
quality levels. Table grape production under plastic cover will be
increased, leading to larger volumes of very early grapes of excellent
marketability although yields will not increase as a result of shifting
from unprotected to protected cultivation. For the future of Cyprus' wine
industry, the proposed replanting scheme will be of critical importance as
the vinification of the new varieties in the proposed vintage wineries will
provide wines of superior quality. The volume of wine produced in the
project area will increase, but for the country as a whole, there will be
no increase in wine production. The greater productivity of the new grape
varieties will be offset by the declining productivity of aging vineyards.
The replanted vineyards will need much more attention than the degenerated
Mavro vineyards. Vine growers in the mountain villages will therefore
benefit from additional employment opportunities and higher incomes. Irri-
gation efficiency in the project area will be increased on the 6,825 donums
where on-farm investments in early vegetable, table grape and flower grow-
ing and tree crop establishment will be undertaken. On the 9,000 donums
where project investments in improved irrigation systems alone are pro-
posed, irrigation efficiency will be increased by 54%. Yields will also
increase for crops grown in the latter area by an estimated 5%.
Projected Productivity Increases
6.03     The following yield developments have been assumed for greenhouse
crops after 3 years, for apricots and wine grapes after 9 years, for citrus
after 10 years and for avocadoes after 13 years:



- 39 -
Table 6.1: PROJECTED PRODUCTIVITY INCREASES
Without Project                   With Project
Crops                       Yield                 Yield at Full Development
---------------(tons/donum)--------------------
Greenhouse Crops
Tomatoes                       14.0                             16.0
Cucumbers                     15.0                              17.0
Fresh beans                     5.5                              7.5
Melons                          6.3 /1                           6.0 /2
Tunnel Crops
Courgettes                      4.0                              7.5
Aubergines                     4.5                              10.0
Peppers                        4.5                              10.0
Strawberries                   3.5                              4.6
Other Crops
Citrus                          4.0                              5.8
Avocadoes                       1.25 /3                          1.75
Deciduous fruits/
Apricots                     3.0                              3.0
Wine grapes                     0.3 /4                           1.1 /5
Table grapes (Cardinal)        2.0                               2.0
/1 Watermelons.
/2 Watermelons and other melons.
73 Obtained at Kouklia experimental farm.
/4 Unproductive Mavro grapes.
/5 New, high-yielding varieties.
Incremental Production
6.04      Increases in production will begin in 1982 for early vegetables,
table grapes and flowers. Full-development production levels will be
attained in 1997. The following table shows production without and with
the project at full development:



- 40 -
Table 6.22 INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION /
Without         With          Incremental
Project        Project          Quantity
-----------------tons-----------------
Early vegetables                             -          5,010             5,010
Strawberries                                 -            280               280
Cut flowers /2                               -              8                 8
Early table grapes /3                      450            450                 -
Citrus                                       -         23,250           23,250
Deciduous Fruit                              -          1,125             1,125
Avocadoes                                    -            975               975
Wine ('000 gallons) /4                     499          2,524             2,025
Preserved grapes and raisins               163            110               (53)
Zivania ('000 gallons)                      19              -               (19)
Cereals                                  1,500                           (1,500)
Seasonal vegetables                      1,500               -          (1,500)
Other (from water use
improvement)                         31,000          32,520            1,520
/1 On the 30,825 donums of project area.
/2 Million cut flowers.
73 This production will not be incremental but will be ripened earlier.
/4 Production of wine in the project area only. For the country overall,
there will be no increase in wine production since the greater
productivity of the new grape varieties will be offset by the declining
productivity of aging vineyards.
B. Marketing
6.05     Incremental production from the water-use improvement component,
5% of the early table grapes and 20% of all other project produce will be
marketed locally. The annual volume of exportable early vegetables and
strawberries at full development (Year 5) will amount to around 4,200 tons,
comprised of about 850 tons of tomatoes, 850 tons of cucumbers, 420 tons of
fresh beans, 340 tons of melons, 420 tons of courgettes, 550 tons of
aubergines, 550 tons of green peppers and 220 tons of strawberries. Not
all of this will be incremental since annually about 1,500 tons of open-
field vegetables will be lost as a result of the project, some of which
previously will have been exported. Exportable volumes of avocadoes,
citrus and deciduous fruits at full-development will amount to around 780
tons (Year 16), 18,600 tons (Year 13) and 900 tons (Year 12), respec-
tively. Most of the project's exportable horticultural produce will be



- 41 -
marketed in the EEC, although determined efforts will be made under the
project to develop the Middle Eastern markets. Should export demand for
these commodities fall short of expectations, there will be little
difficulty in marketing greater amounts than those proposed on the local
market since increasing household incomes and the burgeoning tourist
industry have resulted in buoyant domestic demand for fresh fruits and
vegetables.
6.06     EEC Market Prospects for Fruits and Vegetables.  Details of EEC
imports of fruits and vegetables in 1979 are given in Annex 5.  Over the
period 1975-79, volumes of horticultural produce imported in the EEC have
grown considerably. Fresh beans have experienced the slowest growth--only
9%--but imports of green peppers, strawberries, aubergines, courgettes and
cucumbers have all grown by more than 40% and imports of avocadoes have
grown by 88%. With the exception of cucumbers, table grapes and straw-
berries, countries outside the EEC supplied more than half the total volume
of EEC imports in 1979, intra EEC trade supplying the balance. For most
horticultural commodities, imports in the EEC from countries outside the
EEC have grown by at least 40% over the period 1975-79.
6.07     Even if it is assumed that over the next decade, growth in EEC
imports of horticultural commodities from countries outside the EEC would
be only half that experienced between 1975 and 1979, the market shares of
extra-EEC trade that Cyprus will expect to attain through the export of the
proposed tonnages of fruits and vegetables will be very small; less than 2%
for avocadoes and deciduous fruits, less than 1% for citrus and less than
1% for all vegetables and strawberries. For table grapes, no change in
market share will be expected since the 425 tons of table grapes produced
for export will not be incremental but rather ripened earlier. Similarly,
there will be no increase in the volume of wine exported by Cyprus.
Rather, the composition of wine exports will change under the project, with
greater volumes of better quality wine being produced and less low quality,
bulk wine. In relation to the absolute size of the EEC markets in which
Cyprus is expected to trade, the quantities of fruits and vegetables
proposed for export are very small, and marketing these goods in EEC
markets should not present insurmountable difficulties for Cyprus
exporters, especially since assistance will be provided by the Horticul-
tural Export Development Advisory and Coordinating Committee (HEDACC).
C. Benefits and Beneficiaries
Producers' Benefits and Financial Rate of Return
6.08     Producers' benefits, classified for each farm category, and the
financial rates of return derived from the corresponding farm models are
summarized in Table 6.3. In all cases, financial rates of return indicate
that it should be financially rewarding for the subborrowers to undertake



- 42 -
the proposed investments. For greenhouse cultivation of vegetables,
flowers or table grapes, the average financial rate of return is 32.6%; for
tree crops including vineyard replanting, 19.2%; and for water-use improve-
ment, 18.3%. Incomes at full development, net of income taxes, are
expected to increase by between 13% and 173%. Increases in incomes gained
from water-use improvements and from vineyard replanting are relatively
modest, being 13% and 29% respectively. At the other end of the scale,
beneficiaries of investments in greenhouses with heating facilities, in
flower cultivation, and in the establishment of citrus and avocado planta-
tions are expected to receive income gains net of taxes of over 150%.
Sensitivity tests assuming adverse developments show satisfactory results.
Employment Benefits
6.09     Excluding the small amounts of labor which will be employed in the
wineries and fruit and vegetable processing facilities, about 5,277
families (approximately 21,100 people) will directly benefit from the
project by an increase in their incomes from farming. The project's
demands for incremental hired labor, at full development, are relatively
low but will provide employment for an additional 500 families (around
2,000 people). Indirect beneficiaries include the suppliers of goods and
services scattered in the project area, especially those dealing with
machinery services, farm structures and inputs distribution.
Vintage Wineries
6.10     The building of three vintage wineries in the vineyard areas will
free some of the capacity of the existing Limassol wineries. The surplus
of wine grapes, which presently amounts to 20,000 tons and which is being
processed uneconomically in the villages, could then be made into wine more
economically by the wineries. Grapes which have been losing quality in
delays of transport to Limassol could produce higher quality wines when
vinified without delay in the vintage wineries. Building vintage wineries
in the vineyard areas will also reduce present substantial losses of grape
juice due to spoilage during transport to Limassol. As the quality of
grapes improves, reduction of such losses will become even more important
economically.
6.11     The proposed three vintage wineries will be of the same size each
having a crushing capacity of 3,750 tons of grapes, and after five years of
operation, each will operate two crush periods per year. Over the 20-year
life of the facilities, the financial rate of return on these investments
has been estimated at 25%. Wine production could drop by 50% before the
rate of return to the investment will become marginal (12%). A delay in
operating the plants by one year will lower the financial rate of return



- 43 -
to 20%. Each winery will be initially financed with 25% in equity contri-
butions of which farmers will provide 48% and the winery operating the
plant will supply the balance of 52%. A long-term loan amounting to 75% of
the initial investment requirement will complete the financing. A
short-term loan will finance the grape purchase. Assuming that share-
holders will only be paid an annual dividend of 5%, the wineries will
become independent from short-term borrowing for the grape intake. The
winery's net cash balance after debt service will be CE 18,000 after year
1, increasing to C£ 460,000 after year 12.
Fruit and Vegetable Grading and Packing Stations
6.12     The proposed two grading and packing facilities for fruit and
vegetables will each have an estimated out-of-season and early-season
throughput of 2,300 tons at full development. Their financial rate of
return has been estimated at 78% allowing for a 5Z annual loss in through-
put due to spoilage and shrinkage. No benefits have been considered for
produce being handled in-season. A delay in start-up of the facility by
one year would reduce the financial rate of return to 49%. Utilization of
the facilities could drop by 30% before the rate of return to the invest-
ment would become marginal (12%). A 25% equity contribution from the
investing export trading company has been assumed with the balance of 75%
being provided in the form of a long-term loan.
D. Economic Analysis
Economic Return
6.13     The major direct benefit of the project will be the incremental
production of citrus, avocadoes, deciduous fruit, wine grapes, flowers and
early season vegetables, principally capsicums, tomatoes, cucumbers,
courgettes and aubergines. Improved water use efficiency on an area of
9,000 donums will result in a 5% increase in yields for citrus, deciduous
fruits, potatoes and other vegetables; and although not incremental, the
earlier ripening of 450 tons of table grapes will result in increased
marketability of the produce. In December 1980 prices, the value of incre-
mental production at full development (Year 16) will amount to an esti-
mated US$4.0 million equivalent for early vegetables and flowers and
Us$10.2 million equivalent for fruits and wine grapes. In the case of
table grapes the contribution is not due to higher production but due to a
higher value product. It is assumed that most of the incremental produc-
tion will be for export, the value of which will be in the order of US$12.0
million. The project is not expected to have an influence on world market
prices of the commodities concerned because Cyprus as a marginal supplier
is a price taker in the international markets. Approximately Us6l.9 mil-
lion in crop sales will be foregone each year as a result of conversion
from the existing cropping pattern to one of more intensive orchard and



Table 6.3: PRODUCERS' BENEFITS AND FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURN
Estimated Per Capita    Operating Income        % Increase
Net from Farming         Activities LI         in Income                                             No. of        % Below
Without Project         With Project       Net of Taxes    FRR /3    Sensitivity Test /4    Subborrowers            RPL
Before  After /2       Before  After /2
Type of Farm                                Taxes    Taxes          Taxes    Taxes
- --------------- Us$-
Greenhouse vegetable w/o heating             1,350   1,309          2,516    2,278            74          35.0       24.9  30.1  16.6             150              -
Greenhouse vegetable with heating              682     682          1,838    1,748           156          22.3       12.9  16.8   8.6             131            100
Flowers under greenhouse                       976     972          2,956    2,597           167          42.2       18.8  24.0   8.5              19             50
Avocado planting                               682     682          1,975    1,861           173           26.0      23.8  24.8  21.9             195            100
Citrus orchard                                 682     682          1,916    1,812           166          22.2       19.3  21.1  17.5             620            100
Deciduous trees                               682      682          1,337    1,298            90          15.7       11.6  12.9  11.0              50            100
Table grapes under plastic                   1,042   1,032          1,979    1,865            81           31.0      24.1  25.9  18.2             112              -
Vineyard Replanting                           458      458            592       592           29           12.8      11.6  12.1  11.3           3,000            100
Water Use Irmprovement                       1,493   1,435          1,683    1,619            13           18.3       15.8  14.9  14.1          1.000
5,277             75
LI  At full development, reached in year 10 for citrus, in year 13 for avocadoes and
year 9 for deciduous trees and vineyard replanting. Full development in vegetables
under greenhouse or tunnel is reached in year 3.
/2  Farm incomes above CE 700 are taxed, excluding dependency allowances.  Average
family size is 4.1 persons, varying from 4.0 in the vineyard replanting area to
4.3 in the Larnaca coastal areas, according to the 1977 agricultural census,
/3  Calculated on incremental income from all farming activities before taxes.
/4  These columns represent the financial rates of return as benefits decrease 10%;
investment or operating costs increase 10% (whichever of the two is higher);
or a one year delay in benefits. Details and switch values are given in Annex C.



- 45 -
vegetables cultivation. Of this amount, about Ub$0.3 million will be in
the form of lost wheat, barley and other field crops; US$0.8 million will
be from displaced open field vegetables and U6$0.8 million will be from
terminated production of aging vines.
6.14     The project will also have unquantifiable benefits.  By increas-
ing the level of income of 3,000 marginal farmers who otherwise might have
left their farms, the vine replanting scheme will slow down or even stop
the rapid depopulation of villages in vine producing areas. In addition,
the project will strengthen extension and research services of MANR and
export marketing support services provided by the MCI, and will substan-
tially improve institutional cooperation between agencies involved in
horticultural production and marketing.
6.15     The rate of return to the economy (ERR) is estimated to be 20.7%.
It has been calculated on the basis of eight farm models assumed to be
representative of the different types of subborrowers and cropping
patterns, one model each for a vintage winery and a fruit and vegetable
grading and packing facility, and one model for the water-use improvement
component. The following assumptions underlie the rate of return calcula-
tions:
(a) Agricultural production inputs are imported into Cyprus, free of
customs' duties and taxes. Prices of project outputs are not
controlled. Prices of vegetables vary depending on quality of
produce and on season. For the economic analysis, border prices
adjusted to the farmgate level at a center of gravity were
applied. Out-of-season prices for vegetables are generally about
50-80% higher than the annual averages. Prices adopted for vege-
tables and table grapes in the financial and economic analysis of
the project reflect the early season nature of production.
(b) Prices for all commodities were held constant throughout the
project life. Available EEC in-season price forecasts for the
commodities proposed under the project 1/ indicate that over the
period 1980 to 1985, in-season prices in real terms for straw-
berries, tomatoes and fresh beans are expected to remain virtually
constant. In-season prices are expected to decline in real terms
by 2% for apricots and green peppers, 9% for cucumbers and 11% for
avocadoes. On the other hand, in-season prices are expected to
increase in real terms by 4% for aubergines, 7% for citrus and 12%
for melons. Price forecasts for out-of-season and early season
produce, such as that to be produced under this project, are not
available.
1/ From "Fruit and Vegetable Exports from the Mediterranean Area to the
EEC". World Bank Staff Working Paper No. 321, March 1979.



- 46 -
(c) The contribution of any single vegetable to the project's benefits
at full development is less than 4% and real price changes in
vegetables over the period 1980 to 1985 would balance out. How-
ever, citrus and avocadoes together account for 23% of full-
development benefits. The sensitivity of the project's ERR was
therefore tested by assuming in 1985 a real price increase for
citrus of 7% and a real price decline for avocadoes of 11% with
prices of both commodities remaining constant thereafter. The
increase in the project's ERR was less than 0.3%. Hence, it is
considered that the assumption of constant prices throughout
project life provides the best basis for calculating economic
benefits.
(d)  The economic price of water (C£ 0.05 per m3) is double the
financial cost of water (C£ 0.025 per m3); that of new varie-
ties of high-quality wine grapes is 54% higher than the financial
price of existing varieties to reflect the increased quality of
the resultant wine. The loss of income subsidy for vineyard
replanting (C£ 3.5/donum over a 5-year period) has been excluded
from the economic analysis.
(e) All incremental production and incremental inputs for Farm Models
I through VII have been phased in at the rate at which they enter
the project. Incremental production and inputs for the water-use
improvement component have been phased in by crop areas.
Incremental production and incremental input for the vintage
wineries would not reach full-development levels until six years
after establishment. Similarly, the fruit and vegetable packing
facilities would not reach full-development operating levels until
the fifth year after establishment. Costs of training and
studies, establishment of laboratories, procurement of vehicles
and equipment were phased in according to the implementation
schedules and investment tables.
(f) Investment and operating costs were calculated using December 1980
prices, adjusted to represent costs at the farm level as appro-
priate.
(g) Crop budgets have been used in calculating the returns for Farm
Models I through VIII. For the water-use improvement component,
the increase in yields has been estimated at 5%.
(h) Family labor has been costed at C£ 2.80 per day, equivalent to 80%
of the prevailing market rate for hired male agricultural workers
of C£ 3.50 per day. Women comprise more than 50% of the total
agricultural labor force (family members and paid employees), yet
the average wage rate received by hired female employees in the
sector in 1977 was only half that for hired male labor. The wage
rate disparity does not appear to have narrowed significantly
since 1977.



::!Z;n AA                31 4
73 n
A P   R 9 q
RI-
5i
p            Zs p U. M                           w-s m t
Z, 6      .  .  .  .  .  I  .
E.]    i      A
- - - - - - - - - - - -       -  - - - -  - - - - - - -                   --  ---------
- - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - -                -  - - - - - - - - -
-  ----  -----                       - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
----  ---------                   ---- ----------                                --------
- - - - - - - - - - - - -
-- ---------
Z. 6 6.



_~~~~~~~~~~~~~"                                                                                                                                                      P_  ; |$t|m_DD8      !i    7_   D C   |   t_D V C     
t Kt  t$ hg  aD  C fiV,b  R  mr  Vs ir tDi0|j&|m            
_   F_  |2    -    0v  Jvl  -_ *|  g  w  ze %t  M  D  2| tt  |  Z  V a  zj _5 
v/ t   I,   !                                                       i                                                                I                                                 ,~~~~~~~~~~~
vo     jtjt        g~~~            - - o°-°o     -o°ooo- - - -b - -o°t-x -o - -                                                                          ,     ,    -       
5   ..   l                                      l                                                                 !                                                !~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
ii w  -  o s o o o o o o o o o o o o o - I S S v g o ° Is X , , S £ s<; > I Vt >, o w W . 3 V' , ,: <:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1
tt   >   o   o   o    o  o    o  o   o o oo 0^ ; O:  O O W Vl  O O WW | ~ ° Q  ° -  °   
ie                                                    w     ~~~~    o    1  o  vw  o ov o w o o w vw < w rJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~    2    -d                                        DO  ~3>   
ii ~        ~~~    - - -     -i                   
ii i  N   Oi o    o. °   It t ow  ~  o iiz N       52    s - -    -2  - - - - - -i   - -                             -} -g j-    -     -° -sc   - - - - -e  - ° -g>
;~~~~ - - -     - - - - - -  O AO__O;W0_- - - .V_O\  nI_     s_WO.   
;~~~~ - -f - > - - - - - - - - o-   fww£   gwtwOS iS svaww8oo    



- 49 -
(i)  An overall project life of 30 years has been assumed.  Components
involving greenhouse cultivation have an expected life of 10 years
based on the durability of a greenhouse. However, for the tree
crop and wine grape components, the project life is 25 years
(based on the tree's productive life). For the wineries, a
project life of 20 years has been assumed, and for the packing
facilities, 30 years. For all components, replacement investments
in equipment (for example, every 10 years for irrigation equipment
and for equipment of the packing facilities) were prorated to be
fully depreciated by the end of the component's life (30 years, 25
years or 20 years as appropriate). Foregone crop sales from the
without project situation were deducted throughout the project
life.
6.16     Based on these criteria and on the data shown in Table 6.4, the
economic rate of return (ERR) to the project is estimated to be 20.7%, with
ranges for the sensitivity tests summarized in Table 6.5.
6.17     The sensitivity tests show that a relatively small variation in
the ERR results from 20% variations in costs or benefits. The project's
ERR is slightly more sensitive to changes in benefits of the processing
facilities than to changes in benefits of on-farm activities. An increase
in real terms of 20% in either on-farm investments or on-farm operating
expenditures reduces the ERR to 18%; but in the case of processing facili-
ties a similar increase in operating expenditures would reduce the ERR to
around 15%. If the benefits from on-farm investments should fall in real
terms by 20%, the ERR drops to 15% while a 20% fall in real terms in the
benefits from processing facilities reduces the ERR to 14%. The project's
ERR would fall below 12% and its viability would thereby be imperiled only
if the returns from both on-farm activities and processing facilities were
to suffer a 15% decline in real terms. The relatively high sensitivity of
the project's ERR to real declines in returns from both on-farm and pro-
cessing facilities investments is attributable to the low level of project
benefits in the early years and the relatively long time required (16
years) for the project to achieve full-development benefits. An increase
of 20% in real terms in the operating expenditures of the project unit has
no significant effect on the rate of return. The project is also rela-
tively insensitive to lags in returns net of operating costs for both
on-farm investments and processing facilities, a lag of one year causing
only a slight fall in the ERR to about 19% in either case.
6.18      Individual sensitivity analyses have been carried out for selected
on-farm investments; namely, greenhouse vegetables requiring heating,
citrus and vineyard replanting. These were regarded as being representa-
tive of the spectrum of on-farm investments and were considered to be among
the less economically viable investments. Economic rates of return are:
greenhouse vegetables requiring heating, 13.4%; citrus, 17.0%; and vineyard
replanting, 14.1%.



Table 6.5:  SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS FOR PROJECT
Processing
On-Farm        Processing   Facilities    Project                      Processing  Rate of
On-Farm       Operating      Facilities   Operating       Operating       On-Farm   Facilities  Return
Investments  Expenditures  Investments  Expenditures  Expenditures  Benefits  Benefits               M
+15%                                                                                  -         18.7
+20%            -                                                         -           -         18.1
-             +15%                                          -            -           -         18.4
-             +20%            -                            -             -           -         17.7
-             +15%                          -            -            -         20.3
-   -         +20%           -              -            -            -         20.1
-   -          -            +15%            -            -            -         16.7
-   -          -            +20%            -            -            -         15.4
-              -             -             +20%          -            -         20.3
-             +15%            -            +15%           +15%           -           -         14.3
-  -           -           -15%         -         16.4
-   -   -   -   -  -20%  -         14.9                 U,
-            -          -15%       15.7                 °
-   -   -   -   -  -    -20%       14.0
-           -15%        -15%       11.2
+15%           +15%                   -                      -            -           -         16.6
+20%           +20%            -             -               -            -           -         15.4
-              -             +15%          +15%                          -           -         16.4
-              -             +20%          +20%                          -           -         15.0
+20%            -             +20%           -               -            -           -         17.7
-         Lag1 year           -                            -         Lag 1 year    -           18.6
Lag 2 years        -             -               -        Lag 2 years    -          17.0
-              -          Lag 1 year        -            -        Lag 1 year  19.5
-  -      Lag 2 years        -            -        Lag 2 years  18.6



- 51 -
6.19     An analysis of switching values shows that a decrease in real
terms in total benefits by 14%, an increase in real terms in operating
costs by 20% or an increase in real terms in investment costs by 74% have
to occur before the project's ERR would be reduced to 12% and the project
became marginal. Considered separately, the project would become marginal
only if one of the following changes in real terms occurred: 29% decline
in on-farm development benefits; 26% decline in combined benefits from the
wineries and fruit and vegetable packing stations; 89% increase in on-farm
investment costs; 483% increase in combined investment costs of the
wineries and packing stations; 58% increase in on-farm operating costs; or
33% increase in combined operating costs of the wineries and packing
stations.
6.20     The project is more sensitive to declines in benefits than to
increases in costs. A decline in benefits is most likely to occur if the
yield and produce price expectations do not materialize. For the proposed
crops, however, projected yields are either at the same level or only
slightly higher than those yields already being obtained. Thus, there is a
likelihood of obtaining higher than estimated yields for fruits and vege-
tables. The probability of prices decreasing appreciably is considered to
be low (see para. 6.15(b)). For fresh fruits and vegetables, domestic
demand, including that of the growing tourism industry, is buoyant.
Cyprus' horticultural exports are mainly oriented toward high income EEC
markets, especially the United Kingdom. In recent years, however, Cyprus
has increased her export marketing efforts in Eastern European and Middle
Eastern countries. The latter markets offer good potential for Cyprus to
expand her exports, particularly for off-season produce for which much
higher prices can be obtained.
E. Project Risks
6.21     The various project components involve different types of risks
which individually and jointly are within the acceptable range. Almost all
project costs are divisible; any reduction in benefits will be accompanied
by a reduction in costs.
6.22     On the production side, vegetable growing can easily be adapted to
changing market conditions. If the demand for any one commodity should
fall short of projections, other crops can be relatively easily substi-
tuted. Only one new crop--avocadoes--is to be introduced under the proj-
ect. Cypriot farmers have already developed considerable skills in the
cultivation of the other crops to be included in the project as evidenced
by the high yields they presently obtain. The farmers will be provided
with improved research and extension services to help them obtain the
projected crop yields, which are reasonable and attainable. Peak yields
from greenhouse crops will be obtained in the third year after establish-
ment of the greenhouse; for deciduous fruits and wine grapes, yields will
peak in the ninth year after planting; for citrus in the tenth year and for
avocadoes in the thirteenth year.



- 52 -
6.23     The export of fresh fruit and vegetables to high income countries
in Western Europe and the Middle East involves intrinsic commercial risks
and as temporary oversupply and fluctuating prices. Competition in these
markets is already high and competitive pressures are rising. Neverthe-
less, export market projections for project produce are satisfactory. In
the long run, successful suppliers will be those who can provide high
quality produce during off- and out-of-season periods. Cyprus' highly
favorable agroclimatic conditions, its high level of horticultural produc-
tion technology and the export trade's long experience and overall manage-
ment capability places the island in a strong competitive position vis-a-
vis other competing countries. Although the main thrust of the project is
directed towards export markets, a growing domestic market will offer an
increasingly important alternative. Cyprus' growing tourism industry is
capturing an increasing share of Europe's early and late season vacation
market which is stimulating domestic demand for fruit and vegetables during
those periods. The marketing risk for the project's incremental production
will therefore be spread over two distinct markets.
6.24     The risks involved in the vine replanting and vinification com-
ponents of the project are more difficult to assess. Cyprus' wine industry
will depend heavily on export markets where oversupply of ordinary wines
has become a dramatic problem. The future prospects of Cyprus' wine
industry will depend on a successful shift towards higher quality wines of
better marketability. The basic requirements for such a complex product
transformation have been established and the initial results of this pro-
cess are encouraging. Long range commercial success will depend on the
concerted efforts of all those involved in the entire production-marketing
system. It is difficult to judge at this stage, how well this will be
accomplished. Based on the industry's strong commitment and the island's
long tradition in wine making, risks involved do not appear unreasonable.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01     Agreements have been reached during negotiations on the various
issues referred to in Chapters IV and V of this report, and subject to the
conditions of effectiveness in paras. 5.03 and 5.18 the project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$14.0 million to the Government of the Republic of
Cyprus for a term of 15 years with a grace period of three years.



- 53 -                           ANNEX 1
Table 1
CYPRUS                             Page 1
FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
EEC Common External Tariff (CET) on Fresh Fruits
and Vegetables as at January 1, 1979
Tariff
Applicable Reduction
CET         to Cyprus   on CET
---- % ad valorem ------  --- %
FRUIT
Sweet Oranges
April 1 to April 30                                  13            5.2          60
May 1 to May 15                                       6            2.4          60
May 16 to October 15                                  4            1.6          60
October 16 to March 31                               20            8.0          60
Soft Citrus (all year)                                 20            8.0           60
Grapefruit (all year)                                   4            0.8          80
Lemons (all year)                                       8            4.8          40
Table Grapes
November 1 to July 14                                18           18.0 /1        -
July 15 to October 31                                22           22.0 711
Melons
Watermelons (all year)                               11           11.0           -
rate in period April - to June 15                 11             5.5          50
Other melons (all year)                              11           11.0           -
rate in period November 1 to May 31               11             5.5          50
Avocadoes (all year)                                    8            6(GSP)        25
Figs (all year)                                         7            7.0
/1 Quota system also in operation reducing duty
further, see Table 2 Annex 1.



ANNEX 1
- 54~ -Table 1
Page 2
Tariff
Applicable Reduction
CET         to Cyprus   on CET
% ad valorem                 %
VEGETABLES
New Potatoes
January 1 to May 15                                 15            9 /1/2        40
May 16 to June 30                                   21           21 /1           -
Onions (all year)                                     12            12             -
rate in period February 15 to May 15                12            4.8           60
Tomatoes
November 1 to May 14                           11 with a min.   11               -
of 2UA per 100
kg. net
May 15 to October 31                           18 with a min.   18               -
of 3.5 UA/100
kg. net
Capsicums (all year)                                   9             4.5 /1       50
Green Beans
October I to June 30                           13 with a min.
of 2UA/100 kg.   13               -
rate in period November 1 to April 30          13 with a min.  5.2 with a    60
of 2UA/100 kg.  min. of 0.8UA/
100 kg.
July 1 to September 30                         17 with a min.   17               -
of 2UA/l00 kg.
Cucumbers
November 1 to May 15                                16           16              -
May 16 to October 31                                20           20              -
Aubergines (all year)                                 16            16             -
rate in period December 1 to April 30               16            6.4 /1        60
Courgettes (all year)                                 16           16              -
rate in period December 1 to April 30               16            6.4 /1       60
Artichokes (all year)                                 13            13             -
Asparagus (all year)                                  16            16             -
/1  Quota system also in operation reducing duty further, see Table 2 Annex 1.
/2 Will be reduced to 7.5% when community rules on new potatoes are in
operation.
Source: Tropical Products Institute: A Report to the Government of Cyprus
on the Market in various West European and Middle Eastern Countries
for Selected Fresh and Processed Horticultural Commodities.



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
CYPRUS
FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
EEC Quotas Applicable to Cyprus in 1979 /1
Duty Payable       Comments
Table Grapes
From November 1 to July 14                7.2%           Within the limits of
From July 15 to July 31                   8.8%             a global Community
tariff quota of
7,000 tons.
New Potatoes /2
From January 1 to May 15                  6.0%           Within the limits of
From May 16 to June 30                    9.45%            a Community tariff
quota of 60,000 tons.
Capsicums
All year round                            4.5%           Within the limits of
a Community tariff
quota of 250 tons.
Aubergines
October 1 to November 30                  6.4%           Within the limits of
a Community tariff
quota of 250 tons.
/1 The duty payable is the duty to be paid on the
quota in question. Amounts imported over and above
the quota are liable to the full rate of the tariff
as shown in Table  1.   A global Community tariff
applies to all third countries, as is the case with
grapes; a Community tariff is only applicable to Cyprus.
/2  Concessions on new potatoes are subject to the adoption
of Community rules on new potatoes. As from the adoption,
the tariff reduction on new potatoes imported between
January 1 and May 15 will be 50%.



CYP RUS
FRUIT AND VEGETA8LE EXPORT PROJECT
S-mmery Prolect Cost Table and Phaoine
(CL '000)
Itn               _- -                -         --       ---------------  --------------- 2 ---------                   -- 3 --------------  -------------- 4 ---------__--- TOL ------------
L             P             T             L             F             T             L             F             T              L             F             T              L             F             I
1.  A.  On-Farm investments  (Credil)                   687.5         748.3        1,435.8        776.6         913.5        1,650.1        694,3         865.1         1,339.4        293.2         499.1          792.3        2,451.t       3,026.0       5,477.6
Price Increases                               137.9          104.8          242.7        264.2         210.2          474.4        247.3         276.9          624.2         199.3         209.6         408.9           948.7         801.5       1.750.2
Shttottl                                   825.4         853.1        1,678.9      1,040.8       1,123.7        2,164.5      1,041.6       1,142.0        2,183.6         492.5          708.7      1,201.2         3,400.3       3,827.5       7,227.8
B.  Vinev-rd Renlentine                             54.0         486.0          540.0           -             -              -            -             -               -         375.0            -           379.0          429.0          486.0         915.0
price Increases                                 10.8         68.0            78.8          -             -              -            -              -              -          255.0           -           255.0           265.8          68.0         333.8
SOco.tal                                    64.8         554.0          618.8           -             -              -            -             -              -          630.0            -          630.0           694.8          554.0       1,248.8
rots1 On-Frtm                                      741.5       1,234.3        1,975.8        776.6         913.5         1,601.1        694.3         865.1        1,559.4        668.2          499.1       1,167.3        2,880.6        3,512.0       6,392.6
Pri-e  In.re.e..                                   148.7         172.8          324.5        264.2         210.2           474.4       347.3          27b 9          624.3        454.3          209.6         663 9        1.214 5          869.5       2,084.0
Totae                                              890.2       1.407,1        2,297.3      1,040.8       1.123.7       .2,164,5       L.04 1.6      1.142.0        2.183,6      1,122.5          7087.7      1,831.2        4,095.1       4       5      8,4_76.6
2.  M-rke-tie  and Pr.ces.ins Facilities
A.  Wineries                                       200.6         123.4           324.0       200.6          123.4          324.0        200.6         123.4          324.0           -                                        601.8          370.2         972.0
Price Increesee                                40.0           17,3           57.3         68.2          28.4           96.6        100.3          39.5          139.8           ,             _             _             2088.          85.2         293.7
SehCeisl                                   240.6         140.7          381.3        268.8         151.8          420.6        300.9          162.9          463.8          -                                             810.3     455.4        1,365.7
8.  veeetbile Perkine Stitns                         5.0          45.0            50.0       107.0          188.0          295.0         95.8          87.4          183.2           2.5          22.5          25.0           210.3         324.9         553.2
price lecresees                                  1,0           6.3            7.3         36.3          43.1           79.4         47,8          28.0            75.8          1.7           9.5          11.2            86.8          86.9          173.7
Subtotanl                                    6.0          51.3           57.3        143.3         231.1           374.4       143.6          115.4          259.0          4.2           32.0          36.2          297.1          429.8         726.9
Totll tMarkettn                                    205.6         168.4           374.0       307.6          311.4          619.0        296.4         210.8          507.2           2.5          22.5          25.0          812.1          713.1       1,525.2
Price _rnreatee                                     41.0          23.6            64.6       104.5           71.5          176.0        148.1          67.5          215.6           1.7           9.5          11.2          295.3          172.1         467.4
Totl                                               246.s         192.0           438.6       412.1          3829           795.0        444.5         278j           722             A2           IA            Si    1. 107.4               885.2       19S92.6
3.  Te-heicel S-ervite
8.  Aded nittr-ti-e  Unit                           24.2            -             24.2        24.2            -             24.2         24.2           .             24.2          24.2           -            24.2            96.8           -            96.8
Price Increasen                                  4.8           -              4.8          8.2           -              8.2         12.1           -              12.1         16.5           -            16,5            41.6            -           41.6
iubceesl                                    29.0           -             29.0         32.4           _              32.4        36.3            -             36.3         40.7            -            40.7          138.4            -           138.4
9.  tonnitorenis   6 Eceietitn Unit                 17.7           7.8            25.4         14.5           0.2           14.7         14.5           0.2           14.7          14.5           0.2          14.7           68.2            8.4          b9.5
Price Increesen                                  3.5           1.1            4.6          4.9           -              4.9          7.2            -              7.2          9.9           0.1          10.0            25.5            1.2          26.7
uroteosi                                    21.2           8.9           30.0         19.4           0.2            19.6        21.7            0.2           21.9         24.4            0.3          24.7           86.7            9.6          96.3
C.  Ecteesien                                       29.4          40.5           69.9         24.9            -             24.9         24.9           0             24.9          24.9           0            24.9           104.1          40.5         144.6
Price Inereesee                                 5.8            5.7           11.5          8.4           _              8.4         12.4           _              12.4         16.9           _            16.9            43.5           5.7          49.2
subtotal                                    35.2          46.2           81.4         33.3            -             33.3        37.3            -             37.3         41.8                         41.8          147.6           46.2         193.8
D.  lirticeltcral Re-enroh                          56.1          59.0           115.1          -             5.3            5.3          -            14.1           14.1           -            14.1          14.1            56.1          92.5         148.6
Price Oncres.es                                 11.1           8.2           19.3          _             1.2             1.2         -             4.5             4.5          -             5.9            5.9           11.1           69.8          30.9
Subtotal                                    67.2          67.2          134.4           -             6.5            6.5          .            18.6           18.6           -            20.0          211.0          67.2          112.3         179,4
E.  EUgort Fremettie                                 -            69.4            69.4          _           69.4            69.4          -            b9.4           6".4           -b9.4                      b9.4             -           277.6         277.6
Price Incresses                                  -             9.7            9.7          -            16.0           16.0          -            22.2            22.2          _            29.2           29.2            -             77.1          77.1
Sesnetel                                     _            79.1           79.1          _            854             85.4 8                     91.6           91.6           -            98.6          98.6             -           354.7         354.7
Tetal T-ehni-rl Services                           127,4         176.7          304.0         63.6           74.9          138.5         63.6          83.7          147.3          63.6          83.7         147.3           318.2         419.0         737.1
Price In-resse.                                     25,2          24.7           49.9         21.5           17.2           38.7        31.7           26.7           58.4          43.3          35.2          78.5          121.7          103.8         225.5
TOtal                                              152.6         201.4          355.9         85.1          92.1           177.2  1      95.3         110,4          205.7 _      106.9          118.9         225.8           439.9         522.8         962.6
4.  Preject Cost                                     1,074.4       1,579.4         2,653.8      1,147.8       1,299.8        2,447.6      1.054.3       1.159.6        2,213.9         734.3         605.2       1,339.6         4,010.8       4,644.0       8,654.9
Price Onece--e                                     21469         221.I          436.0        390.2         298.9           689,1       52721          371.1          898.2        499.3          254.3         753.6        1.631.5 _    1.145.4         2,776.9
GRAND TOTAL                                     _1288,3        1.800.5        3.089.8      1.538,0       1598. 7        3.3.7    1.581L4           1530. 7         3,112.1      1.233.6          859.5       2,093.2        5.642.3       5.789.4       11.431.8



-57 -                                  ANNEX 3
Page 1
CyPRUS
FRUIT AN8 VEGETA6LE EXPORT PROJECT
PROJECT COST TAPLE AND PHASING
(CYPRUS POUNtS  '000 
Tear I                     Year 2                       Year 3                   Year 4
Local   roretzn   Total    Local  Foreign   Total   Local   Forelan   Tota4lLo6j   foreign   Total
I . ON-FARA ItNVESTMENTS
EARLY VEGETAkILES/FLO0EPS
UNDEk G*rEEltoJrTS:
rARALINNI                   149.04  132.16  281.20  149.04  132.16  281.20  149.04  132.16  281.20    0.00    0.00    0.00
iAPHOS COASTAL              107.49  116.45  223.94  173,38  187.82  361.20  173.38  187.82  361.20    0.00    0.00    0.00
LZnASSOL COASTAL             58.09   73.93  132.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
SUOTOTAL                  314.61  322.54  637.16  322.41  319.99  642.40  322.41  319.99  642.40    0.00    0.00    0.00
FRUIT TREE PLANTING
N FAFtHGS COASTAL:
AVOCAtIC;S                   29.77   36.39   68.15   33.09   40.43   73.50   33.08   40.43   73.50   33.08   40.43   73.50
CjTffjS                     126.12  187.18  293.30  144.14  191.06  335.20  144.14  191.06  335.20  144.14  191.06  335.20
DECIDUOUS                     6.81   13.21   20.02    8.04   15.62   23.66    8.04   15.62   23.66    8.04  12.62   23.66
__- --    -- - -   --- --   -- - -   --- --   - - - -   -- - -   --- --  -_ __--   -- - -   --- _   _ _ _____    _   -----
SUFTOGAL                  162.69  216.78  379.47  185.26  247.11  432.36  195.26  247.11  432.36  185.26  247.11  432.36
TALLC CAF.ES/PISSOUPI        161.06   94.59  2'5.h5  161.06   9459  255.65   78.74   46.24  124.98    0.00    0.00    0.00
VINSEYA$ID  .tFPLANT1IG       54.00  4e6.00  540.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  -375.00    0.00  375.00
WATER UsE 2OI.PkOvEmET:
I TlUS                      6.80   15.41   22.01    15.12   35.29   50.41   15.12   3'.2e   50.41   15.12   35.29   50.41
DE CILUOUS                    0.98     2.29    3.27    2.39    5.57    7.95    2.39    5.57    7.95    2.34    5.47    7.91
TAILE 0,AFES                 17.99   41.67   57.66   39.09   91.22  130.31   39.09   91.22  130.31   39.09   91.22  130.31
PAwA,AsA                     2.57    5.99    9.55       4.28    9.98   14.25    4.9    9.99   24-.'5    4.28           9.99   14.25
FOT ATUES                     6.51    15.19   2t.70   13.44   31.36   44.E0   13.44   31.36   44.80   13.44   31.36   44.80
IUNNEL: *.TEFtELON            3.47  e.11 58SO            7.53   17.56   25.09    7.53   17.56   25.09    7.53   12.56   25.09
lUNNEL: CUCbT:IR              1.16    2.70    3.06    3.47    8.11   21.58    3.47    8.11   11.58    3.47    8.11   21.59
GkEEN,10.1:f: CL.IOtECk       0.23    0.53    0.76    0.46    1.06    1.52    0.46           1.06     1.52    0.57    1.33    1.90
OtbKER vEGET41LES             9.86   22.!3   32.19   22.14   51.65   73.79   22.1*   51.65   73.79   22.14   51.65   73.79
SUITOTAL                    49.16  114.41  163.57  107.91  251.79  359.70  107.91  251.79  359.70  107.98  251.96  3S9.94
TOTAL O-rAFAI 1NV            741.53 1234.32 1975.84  776.64  913.47 1690.11  694.32  865.13 1559.44  666.24  499.06 1167.30
Sl. MARKETING AND
PrOCESSING FACILITIES
VINEIREST
CIVIL WCRKS                 153.78   68,97  222.75  153.78   69.97  222.75  153.78   68.97  222.75    0.00    0.00    0.00
EOUIPnENT                    46.79   54.42  101.22   46.79   54,42  101.22   46.79   54.42  102.22    0.00    0.00    0.00
SUPTOTAL                  200.57  123.40  323.97  200.57  123.40  323.97  200.57  123.40  323.97    0.00    0.00    0.00
VEG PACKING STATIONS:
CVlVL VORKS                   0.00    0.00    0.00   84.94   31.46  116.40   84.94   31.46  116.40    0.00    0.00    0.00
EOUIEMENT                     0.00    0.00    0.00   17.03  111.54  128.57    8.35   33.42   41.76    0.00    0.00    0.00
CONSULTANTS                   5.00   45.00   50.00    5.00   45.00   50.00    2.50   22.50   25.00    2.50   22.50   25.00
SUPTOTAL                     5.00   45.00   50.00  106.97  188.CO  294.97   95.79   87.37  183.16    2.50   22.50   25.00
NARKETINO'FFOCESSING         205.57  168.40  373.97  307.54  311.40  61e.94  296.36  210.77  507.13    2.50   22.50   25.00
..... ............... =.... ............... ....................................... ............... ....................,,... , ..,,,,..... ,,=....................... 



- 58 -
ANNEX ,
Page  2
CIll. TECHNICAL SERVICES
ADMINISTRATIVE UNIT:
STAFF                        24.22    0.00   24.22   24.22    0.00   24.22   24.22    0.00   24.22   24.22    0.00   24.22
1IE UNIT:
STAFF                        14.14    0.00   14.14   14.14    0.00   14.14   14.14    0.00   14.14   14.14    0.00   14.14
VEHICLES                      0.65    5.85    6.50    0.00    0.00    0.00          0.00    0.00    0.OC    0.00    0.00    0.00
OFFICE EXP AND EOUIP          2.88     1.92    4.80    0.36    0.24    0.60    0.36    0.24    0.60    0.36    0.24    0.60
SU8TOTAL                    17.67    7.77   25.44   14.50    0.24   14.74   14.50    0.24   14.74    14.50    0.24   14.74
EXPORT PROMOTION
EXPORT PROMOTION              0.00   69.44   69.44    0.00   69.44   69.44          0.00   69.44   69.44    0.00   69.44   69.44
I:XTENSION:
STAFF                        24.86    0.00   24.86   24.86    0.00   24.86   24.86           0.00   24.86   24.86    0.00   24.86
VEHICLES                      4.50   40.50   45.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00 0°00                  CO
SUOTOTAL                    29.36   40.50   69.86   24.86    0.00   24.86   24.86           0.00   24.86   24.86    0.00   24.96
tIORTICULTURAL RESEAFCHN
TRATNING                      0.00   12.23   12.23    0.00    5.26    5.26    0.00   14.06   14.06    0.00   14.06   14.06
E0uIFMl JT                    0.04   21.20   21.24    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00             0.0    C OC       0.00
CIVIL 6OF^S                  56.04   25.56   81.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00               0.00
SUITOIAL                    56.08   58.99  115.07    0.00    5.26    5.26          0.00   14.06   14.0o    0.OQ   14.06   14.06
fECHNICAL SERVICES           127.33  176.71  304.03   63.58   74.94  138.52   6;.59   07.74  14'.32    63.89  83.74  147._2
. .  ..... g sa...........  . . ...... ..*.. . .. ... .... ... ...... .. . . . .. . . .. . . . ......  . .. .. . .. . . .w. ... ..........
SASE TOTAL                  1074.42 157Y.42 2653.84 1147.7; 129°.81 2447.56 1054.Z2.5 1i59.64 2213.89  734.31  605.3i 1339.62
PRICE CChTINGENCIES          214.88  221.12  436.00  390.24  298.96  689.20  527.13  371.09  8°8.22  499.33  254.23  753.56
TOTAL PROJECT COST
JIPRICE CONTINGENCIES
70TAL PROJECT COST         1289.31 1800.54 3089.84 1537.99 1598.77 3136.76 1581.39 1530.73 3112.11 1233.c4  859.54 209:.19
'PrfIe continsgocy factors applied are:  Year 1: Local   0.20
Foreign 0.14
Year 2: Local   0.34
Foreign 0.23
Year 3: Local   0.50
Foreisn 0.32
Year 4: Local   0.68
lorelan 0.42



59 -                     ANNEX 4
CYPRUS
FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal Year
and Quarter Ending       Disbursed During Quarter         Cumulative Disbursements
(US$ '000)                      (US$ '000)
FY 1982
September 30, 1981
December 31, 1981                    -                                 -
March 31, 1982                        .54                              .54
June 30, 1982                         .54                             1.08
FY 1983
September 30, 1982                    .54                             1.62
December 31, 1982                     .54                             2.16
March 31, 1983                        .47                             2.63
June 30, 1983                         .49                             3.12
FY 1984
September 30, 1983                  1.28                              4.40
December 31, 1983                   1.28                              5.68
March 31,1984                       1.24                              6.92
June 30, 1984                       1.24                              8.16
FY 1985
September 30, 1984                  1.24                              9.40
December 31, 1984                   1.24                             10.64
March 31, 1985                        .84                            11.48
June 30, 1985                         .84                            12.32
FY 1986
September 30, 1985                    .84                            13.16
December 31, 1985                     .84                            14.00



CYPRUS
FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
EEC Imports of Selected Horticultural Commodities - 1979
Tomatoes          Cucumbers        Fresh Beans   Aubergi es         Courgettes        Avocados       Table Crapes         Apricots       Otrawbcrric_         Melos _-    Greenl    ppers
lof              %o                 Of                 f     of    l         Z o        f      % o        f C             of              lof                7of               ,o f
Tons    Total   Tons    Total    Tons   Total   Tons   Total   Tons   Total   Tons   Total   Tons    Total   Tons   Tot.l   Ton s    Totali   T-,ns    routl   Tons    Total
Total Quantity            777,701    100   415,328    100   66,513    100   33,892   100   40,603    100   40,994   100   532,424    100   44,224    100   117,812   100    233,442   100    159,258    100
Of Which:
Intra EEC Trade          380,604    49   310,597        75   30,574    46   14,628    43   11,614          29       937      2   387,006      73    2,977       7    99,603      85     83,717      36     73,664     46
Extra EEC Trade          397,097    51   104.731        25   35,939      54   19,266    57   28,990        71   40,058      98   145,418      27   41,249      93     18,210     15    149,726      64     85,595     54
Originating From:
Spain                271,931            44,252           17,225            9,311           24,024              658            64,638           20,424              7,024            87,893            38,175
Morocco              103,619              -               1,994              236            2,586              140              -                -                  -                 -                  -
Greece                  -               35,306             -                -                -                -               28,350           17,752               -               27,851             15,239
Egypt                   -                 -               7,347             -                -                -                 -                -
Israel                  -                 -                -                -                -              26,542              _                -                3,106            20,868             10,768
Cyprus                  -                 -                                 -                -                -               12, 236            -                  -                 -                  -
South Africa            -                 -                -                                 -                -               29,909             -                           -                 -
Others                21,547            25,173            9,373            9,719            2,380           12,718            10,285            3,073              8,080            13.114            21.413
Total Quantity (1975)  698,400   100   271,595    100   61,240   100                      50,516          100   21,792    100   432,671    100   34,585    100    68,143    100    189,400    100   113,86'   100            c
Intra EEC Trade        310,300    44   211,823       78   39,862    65                 15,970           32  Negligi-   -    267,462    62         7,031      20    56,531      83     64,900      34    57,983    51
ble
Extra EEC Trade        388,200    56    59,772       22   21,378      35               34,546           68   21,792    100   165,209       38   27,554       80     11,612     17   124.500      66     55,879      49
G Growth in Total
Trade 1975-79             11               53                  9                          47                    88               23                 28                73                211                40
% Growth in Intra
EEC Trade 1975-79        23                47               -23                           64                 Neglihi-            45               -58                 7(,               29                 27
ble
7 Growth in Extra
EEC Trade 1975-79          2               75                68                          40                     84              -12                50                 57                20                 53
Source; Nimese



- 61 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
CYPRUS
FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.    SELECTED REPORTS AND STUDIES RELATING TO THE SECTOR OR THE SUBSECTOR
Al.   IBRD, Cyprus Country Economic Memorandum
Report No. 2895-CY, June 30, 1980.
A2.   Central Bank of Cyprus Bulletin, March 1980
No. 66
A3.   Agricultural Survey in 1979, Statistics and Research Department,
Ministry of Finance, Cyprus, August 1980.
A4.   P.M. Aristotelous, Report of the Agricultural Economics Section
for 1977-1978, MANR, Cyprus, March 1980.
A5.   A. Louca, 1978 Annual Report of the Department of Agriculture,
MANR, Cyprus, 1978.
A6.   Third Emergency Economic Action Plan 1979-1981, Planning Bureau,
Cyprus.
A7.   Census of Agriculture 1977, Statistics and Research Department,
MOF, Cyprus, January 1979.
A8.   Employment in Agriculture, 1977 Census of Agriculture, Statistics
and Research Department, MOF, Cyprus, April 1979.
A9.   P.M. Aristotelous, Problems and Policies Related to Agricultural
Labor Force in Cyprus, MANR, Cyprus, October 1979.
A10.  P.M. Aristotelous, The Place of Agriculture in the Cyprus
Economy, MANR, Cyprus, May 1980.
All.  Graphical Presentation of Agricultural Productivities by
Agroeconomic Region, Statistics and Research Department,
MOF, 1979.
A12.  A. Loizides, Investing in Cyprus:  Uses of Cyprus Free Trade
and Industrial Zones, MANR, Cyprus, July 3, 1980.
A13.  A. Papasolomontos, The Development of Agriculture in Cyprus,
MANR, October 8, 1980.
A14.  The Cyprus Popular Bank Ltd., Newsletter, Vol. 4, No. 3,
May-June, 1980.
A15.  Effect  of Growth Regulators on Fruit-set and Fruit Development
of the Eggplant - Horticulture Research 1976, p. 70.
A16.  Advancing the Ripening of Early Table Grapes, Technical Bulletin 23
ISSN 0070-2315, Nov. 1977.
A17.  Report of Water Use Section 1978, Annexure IV.
A18.  Cyprus Agriculture Research Institute Annual Report for 1979,
ISSN - 0070 - 2307.
A19.  Local Climates of Cyprus - Meteorological Paper Number 6.
A20.  International Committee on Irrigation - Replies on Micro Irrigation
Dr. Olympus - Institute of Agriculture.
A21.  New Sources of Energy and Agricultural Holdings in Europe in 1980,
Cyprus, Dr. Olympus Institute of Agriculture.
A22.  Table I Yield/Donum, Prices, Grass and Net Revenue, Machinery and
Heating Cost 1979 - Institute of Agriculture Research



- 62 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
A23. Production and Economics of French Beans Grown in Plastic Greenhouses,
Technical Bulletin 24 ISSN 0070-2315, Cyprus.
A24. TPI Report to Government of Cyprus on the Markets in Various West
European and Middle Eastern Countries for Selected Fresh and
Processed Horticultural Commodities (9 volumes).
A25. Landell Mills Assoc. Ltd.: Pre-Appraisal Mission to Cyprus, 20.-30.4.
1980, on fresh fruit and vegetable marketing.
A26.  World Bank Staff Paper 321:  Fruit and Vegetable Exports from the
Mediterranean Area to the EEC (1979).
A27.  World Bank Report No. 2523a - Morocco:  Vegetable Production and
Marketing Project (Appraisal, 1979).
A28.  World Bank Report 2065a - YU:  Bosanskia Agriculture and Agroindustries
Project (Appraisal 1978).
A29.  World Bank Report 1940-GR:  Vegetable Production and Marketing
Project (Appraisal, 1978).
A30.  FAO:  Commodity Review and Outlook.
A31.  German Development Institute (GDI):  Cypriot Agriculture Trade with
the EEC.
A32.  ITC:  Market News Service for Tropical and Off-season Fresh Horti-
cultural produce (1978).
A33.  ITC:  Preparatory Assistance for a Market News Service and Production
Development Program for Horticulture products from Africa
(1979).
A34.  Department of Statistics, Nicosia:  Statistical Pocketbook (Cyprus
Economy in Figures, 1950-78).
A35.  Monthly Economic Indicators, July 1980.
A36.  Analysis of Foreign Trade, 1979 Ministry of Finance
A37.  Recent Developments in the Cyprus Economy.  IMF July 1980
A38.  Inflation in Cyprus (1980).
A39.  Employment, Output, Capital Formation in the  Industrial Sector
1979.
A40.  Cyprus geographic map ("distribution of population").
A41.  Cyprus Trade and Industry.  First Review Meeting of the Commonwealth
Regional Programme on Standardization and Quality Control. April 1980.
A42.  Landell Mills Assoc. Ltd.:  The Market for Cyprus Table Grapes in Four
European Countries - Dec. 1980, including Final Report - Feb. 1981.
A43.  Europe Information-Development:  Implications for the Southern Mediter-
ranean Countries of the Second Enlargement of the European
Community - June 1980.
A44.  T.S. Myrianthousis:  The Vine Problem of Cyprus.  Nov. 1980.
A45.  R. von Alvensleben:  The Fruit and Vegetable Market in an Enlarged
European Community. Oct. 1980.
A46.  L. Debus:  The Wine Market in an Enlarged Community.  Oct. 1980.



- 63 -
ANNEX 6
Page j
B.    SELECTED REPORTS AND STUDIES RELATING TO THE PROJECT
B1.   IBRD, Appraisal of Pitsilia Integrated Rural Development Project,
Report 1579-CY, July 15, 1977.
B2.   IBRD, Appraisal of Paphos Irrigation Project,
Report 252a-CY, December 18, 1973.
B3.   IBRD, Appraisal of Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project,
Report 2254-CY, January 10, 1979.
B4.   FAO/WB Cooperative Program, Identification Mission,
Report 23/79 CYP.3, May 30, 1979.
B5.   Export of Table Grapes, 1979 and 1980.  MCI.
B6.   C. Loizides, Marketing of Agricultural Products,
Southern Conveyor Project, Water Development Department,
MANR, Cyprus, April 1980.
B7.   T.S. Myrianthousis, The Table and Wine Grapes Subproject,
FAO/WB CP, MANR, Cyprus, February 1979.
B8.   The Cyprus Fungi - Dr. Lyngas, 1973.
B9.   Solar Radiation and Sunshine Duration in Cyprus, Meteorological
Paper Number 10.
B10.  Frost Occurance and Degree Hours below Certain Limits in Cyprus,
Meteorological Paper Number 9.
Bll.  Evaporation from Class A Pan, Meteorological Paper Number 5.
B12.  A Study of the Surface Winds in Cyprus, Meteorological Paper
Number 8.
B13. Pietro Gazia: Report on World Bank Project in Cyprus (Aug. 1980).
B14.  Scipio Agros Consulting:  The Production of Fruit and Vegetables in
Cyprus for Exportation to Western Europe (1980).
B15.  Agricultural Research Institute, Nicosia:  Pitsilia Integrated Rural
Development Project (Marketing Study: Deciduous Fruits).
B16.  Extract from "Elder's Report" on Marketing Boards in Cyprus.
B17.  The Export of Fresh Vegetables from Cyprus by F. Reich in MCI, Nicosia
B18.  World Bank report extract:  Southern Conveyor Project (Marketing of
Agricultural Products).
B19.  Agriculture Econ. Section, MANR, Nicosia:  Time Series Data on Crops
1960-1984.
B20.  EEC Customs Duties for Cyprus Produce, Nicosia.
B21.  Department of Statistics, Nicosia:  Summary Analysis of Foreign Trade
Jan.-June 1979/80.
B22.  Agric. Econ. Section, MANR, Nicosia:  Average Monthly Prices and
Quantities of Fruit and Vegetables passed through wholesale
markets of Cyprus, 1976-80.
B23.  Analysis of Wholesale and Retail Trade, 1978.
B24.  MCI, Nicosia:  Commodity Reports (Melons, Potatoes, Citrus, Grapes,
Fruit and Vegetables) 1979/80.
B25.  Various Export Enterprise Data.
B26.  Edward Kanne (University of Chicago):  Fresh Food for Nicosia, 1979.
B27.  Cyprus Directory of Exporters.
B28.  E. Reusse:  Cyprus' Fruit and Vegetable Exports.  Feb. 1981.
B29.  ITC:  The Market for Cyprus Wines in Belgium, Denmark, the Netherlands
and Germany.  June 1980.



- 64 -                      ANNEX 6
Page 4
C.    SELECTED WORKING PAPERS
Cl.   Terms of Reference
C2.   Crop Models
C3.   Farm Budgets
C4.   Project Cost Estimates and Disbursements
C5.   Wine Component
C6.   Fruit and Vegetable Processing Component
C7.   Agricultural Credit and Financing
C8.   Land Use
C9.   Implementation and Organization
C10.  Selected Sectoral Data
Cll.  Economic Rate of Return
C12.  Miscellaneous



CYPRUS
FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
r-  mm-        HORTICULTURAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT ADVISORY AND COORDINATING COMMITTEE (HEDACC)  F  _  _  1
Director General          Administrative                                                                                              Director General
Director General    miiiii and Monitoring                                                                                                   MCI
Director               Director                                                                                                       Director                Director
Agric. Research        Department of                                                                                                  Department of           Department of
I nstitute            Agriculture                                                                                                      Trade                  Industry
roject oordinator and                                 Project Coordinator and
Manager for Production                                 Manager for Marketing
Produce Inspection      Technical SectionS
Cooperative                                                                                                                          Commissi~rn-    r    oaner
Central BankComsinr
Lines of Authority
n m_    Line of Coordination
Wiorld Bank -22626



CYPRUS
FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Calendar Year           1982                        1983                       1984                        1985                        1986
1     2      3      4      1      2      3     4      1      2      3      4      1      2      3      4      1     2      3      4
I On-farm Development by Sub-borrowers (No)    _         l                          l                           l                                                                _
a) Vegetables Under Greenhouses                   i.81)(100).(10
(19)
Flowers Under Greenhouses                                     _                 l                          l
Table Grapes Under Greenhouses                     (45)            _(4I5)               _(22)
Avocadoes                                 _        45)   _                    (5I0)                       (50)                        (50)
Citrus                       =       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~( 1 40)  = =  ( 160)     X       =        (160)       =     =        (160)       =
Citrus                                              I 
Deciduous Trees                                    (11)                       (13)                        (13)      _13)
Vineyard Replanting                               (580)                       (6io)                      (820)                       (960)
b) VVater-Use Improvement by Crop Area                71 0        =             (
IDonums)                                         (1200)                      (60                         20)(60 
11 Packing and Processing Facilities
Wineries (No)                                Ii)
Packing Houses (No)
Small Rural Sheds
Auction Shed (No)                                                    _ )
lit Establishment of HEDACC
IV Purchase of Vehicles and Equipment
Vehicles
MANR Equipment
V Training and Study Tours
VI Reporting
Semi-Annual Reports by MANR
Accounts and Audit Reports
VVorld Bank -~22736



IBRD 15447R
3jr3Ci                                                 34                                                    APRIL 1981
TJIRKIrY
r/if                                                                                                                                                                                                   izJc   * > 2 \4ozkarpo so
I.F5AN<Q[iL , ,    '   
i2                                                                                                                                                                        Gcalnoporni               35' 30 G
Ephtakom,
L efko ik   ~FRUIT A~ND VEGETAIBLE EXPORT PROJECT
EXPORT SHIPPING, PACKING AND PROCESSING FACILITIES
Areas wtsh n wh ch Project Activities
lGre/,l., Eare loca ted
ICOSIAco  < \  <s <~PaSckinG  Stctions.
;      Potatoes
4~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ c;e0tocam
ef k. 1  ,  g 4 0   \$g  <               0         f    ;t.   .FAMAGUSTA                                                                     0         a Cupes
-    e 2  ~~~~~~3 ~           Vegetables
ar  nn             U       Exish 'g Se'a>nW;eet- *-xih i Wneries
Possible Areas for New Wineries
:-~Wine Grapes
phagos                        -         Main Roads
GZ2J seFMain Towns
"AO                                    LARNACA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,s                            Airports
Major Parts
2 4                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1000 Foot Contour
Lefkloc                         D,,ly~~~~~~ Fi,qh. t. Altirn -d                                 Present Cease- Fire Line
wIs ,- ,C-i E-p  a-d                                  - C       Regions Bou Zdaries
Vin yrd Ares f Particular Qulin43f
Cornmandaria
IIAPHO                                                       AlirM ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)                                        Pitsslsa
Krasolsiorn
Maircthasa
ssoLvo- OM ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oPanayica
Fos  Grns.  asaLita O~a                                                                                                    Ltapion hri a
i/i                                                                                                                                                                   ____________________________________G-___d_(SY






r ________                                                                                                   _________         __________              ___-30______34__                                                                       IBRD  15448
.                                                                                                                          AAA -3:4:/,   T U R K E Y   ,                                                                                      JANliARY 7981
GAL-Coy           TURKEY
G A
--BA         CYPRUS  -       I  ' YRIAkarpaso
A     ,,LA  .    f         -ft:/,EA  2NF,  Io
L IE YA   5 ~              E  t  'J <  >'" h,A'F                                                                                                                                                                         Galmnopornm
LIBYA~~~~22t
Thisor~s ,,ph,sereopm fbyrhs Wo*ire,dr/ 00(1*usel:thr 5 oo                                                                                                                                        ZEhaOn 
sf5i,eI o,r,A-*o *0 *5 iC*,00
/   Jf  \         (          \  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t ~~LefkolLo                                                                   C'Y'PRUS
FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
PRODUCTION IN PROJECT AREAS
P-oiect Areas
'~~~~~~~~~,.ikc ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      AMUT                      Coastal Temperate Climate Region, Area of
-35' st Frost Hazard f l (1 .-1  l >~ - 0                                                                                                                                                                                                           gor   , Early Vegables Produc-
Water Use Improvement
Polls ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ri iVine Replanting
-2ATiree Crops
Early Vegetables
--  lpaof                             Flowers
larn                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~Early Table Grapes
Main Roads
Xj<str.'''t ........... "'8:X" '.i ':f '....':' ' ' <LARNACA  i  Main Towns
......                     Pono                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Airports
Maior Ports
VX                                                     .,P. ,.re-X---<.:.8 tvt$x51 / :; : . . pAsent Cease-Fire Line
1000 Foot Contours
PAPHO\                                                                                          t         i 
T. b,e    m seed iRtO
3222ff                                                                                                             3330                                                       2V        _______________    ________________3T  3T30'
A                    --



