Docament cf
The World Bank                       FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONTLY
Report No. P-3040-CY
REPORT AND RECOKKENDATION
OF THE
PiRS:3:DENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR REICONTS'CRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
FOR A
FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
April 23, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be osed by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise he disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    -    Cypriot Pound (CL)
1 CL              -    1,000 Mils
1 CL                   2.88 US Dollars (US$)
1 US$             -    0.347 CL
1 US$             -    347 Mils
CL Million        -    US$2.88 Million
WUICHTS ANr MEASURES
1 oke-                               1.28 kilograms (kg)
1 kilogram (kg)                 -    2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton)                 2.205 pounds
1 liter (1)                     -    0.264 US gallon (gal)
1 cubic meter (m3)              =    35.3 cubic feet
1 cubic meter (m3)                   264 US gallons
1 liter per second (11.)        -    0.035 cubic feet per second (cfs)
1 lmperial gallon                    1.2 US gallons
1 donum                        -    1,333 square meters
1 hectare (ha)                  -    7.5 donums
1 hectare (ha)                  -    2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (sq km)    -    0.3861 square miles
GOVERNMENT OF CYPRUS FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CCB    - The Cooperative Central Bank
CCS    - The Cooperative Credit Societies
WA    - Department of Agriculture
DOT    - Department of Trade
FAO/CP - FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
FVEA   - Fruit and Vegetable Exporters Association
XEDACC - Horticultural Export 'Development Advisory and Coordinating
Committee
ICB    - International Competitive Bidding
LCA    - Land Consolidation Authority
LC     - Loan Commissioners
LCB    - Local Competitive Bidding
MANR- - Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MCI    - Ministry of Commerce and Industry
MCK    - Million Cubic Meters



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Republic of Cyprus
Amount:         US$14.0 million in various currencies
Terms:          Fifteen years including three years of grace, at 9.6 percent
per annum.
Project         The principal objective is to increase output and productivity
Description:   of Cyprus' horticultural and viticultural sub-sectors and
assist it in realizing its export potential. The project
includes:
(a) On-farm development, through provision of sub-loans for:
the construction and improvement of greenhouses; new
plantings for grapefruit, lemons, clementines, avocadoes
and deciduous fruits; replanting of worn-out Mavro vines
with superior varieties; and improved irrigation systems.
(b) Construction and equipment of two centrally located
grading and packing facilities, rural packing stations,
and packing facilities near Larnaca airport.
(c) Construction and equipment of 3 vintage wineries, and the
expansion and modernization of the Government's model
winery.
(d) Tractor-trucks and semi-trailers to be used in connection
with ferry facilities for horticultural produce.
(e) Expansion of extension services, vehicles and specialized
overseas training.
(f) Equipment and overseas training for staff of the Ministry
of Agriculture's Agricultural Research Institute.
(g) Establishment of a national horticultural export promotion
facility.
The major direct benefits would be a substantial increase in
productivity and cost reductions for producing citrus,
avocadoes, deciduous fruits, wine grapes, early season
vegetables and flowers. The earlier ripening of table grapes,
would result in their increased export marketability. Improved
water use efficiency would result in an increase in yields of
citrus, deciduous fruit, potatoes and vegetables. The indirect
benefits would include: an increase in the incomes of about
3,000 marginal farmers, the strengthening of extension and
research services, and the establishment of export marketing
institutions and support services.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
The risks attached to the project fall within an acceptable
range.  The domestic and export market prospects for project
produce are satisfactory; and given the small tonnage which
Cyprus can produce, there should be little difficulty in such
produce being successfully exported. Should export market
conditions change dramatically and limit exports, there should
be no difficulty in disposing of the incremental produce
domestically, given the fact that demand for these fruits has a
relatively high income elasticity. The risks attached to the
wine component are more difficult to assess. The prospects of
the wine industry depend on the shift to higher quality wines.
Success will depend on the concerted efforts of those involved
in the production-marketing system. The initial steps for the
complex product transformation have been taken and the results
are encouraging.
Estimated Project Cost;
Local    Foreign    Total
Component                                               ------ US$ million ------
Early Vegetables and Flowers under Greenhouses            2.76      2.77       5.53
Early Table Grapes Under Plastic Greenhouses              1.15      0.68       1.83
Avocado, Citrus and Apricot Planting                      2.07      2.76       4.83
Vineyard Replanting                                       1.24       1.40      2.64
Water-use Improvement                                     1.07       2.50      3.57
Wineries (3)                                              1.30      0.78       2.08
Packing Stations (2)                                      0.46      0.70       1.16
Technical Services                                        0.76       1.09      1.85
Model Winery                                              0.16      0.12       0.28
Base Cost                                            10.97     12.80      23.77
Physical Contingencies                                0.58      0.58       1.16
Price Contingencies                                   4.70      3.30       8.00
Total Project Cost                                 16.25     16.68      32.93
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
------ US$ million ------
IBRD                                                 -         14.0       14.0
Government                                            1.1       2.7        3.8
Loan Commissioners (para. 37)                         9.6       -          9.6
Sub-borrowers                                         5.5       -          5.5
Total                                           16.2       16.7       32.9
Estimated Disbursements:
FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86
-------- …US$ million ----------
Annual                                      1.1    2.0    5.0    4.2    1.7
Cumulative                                  1.1    3.1    8.1   12.3   14.0
Rate of Return: About 21 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 3367-CY of April 20, 1981



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
FOR A FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
I.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Cyprus, for the equivalent of $14 million, to help
finance a portion of the foreign exchange costs of a fruit and vegetable
export project. The loan would have a term of 15 years including 3 years
grace, with interest at 9.6 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The last economic report on Cyprus (No. 2895--CY), was circulated
to the Executive Directors in June 1980. The mission on whose findings the
report is based had discussions with the Government as well as the Turkish
Cypriot authorities and visited the economically important areas in all
parts of the island; the economic data base is still extremely limited for
northern Cyprus however, which is under Turkish Cypriot control. Hence,
while the report provides a detailed analysis in respect of the
Government-controlled part in southern Cyprus, a full review of the
economic situation and prospects of the whole island has not been
possible. An Annex incorporated in that report, reflects a broad attempt
to evaluate the economic situation in the north. The following section
reflects the findings of the economic mission.
General Background
3.       The economy of Cyprus grew at over 7.5 percent per annum between
1960 and 1973, despite tension between the Greek Cypriot and Turkish
Cypriot communities. The major factors contributing to this growth were a
competent public administration, dynamic entrepreneurs, a high rate of
investment especially in the private sector, a rapid increase in
agricultural exports contributing to a strong overall balance of payments,
and flexible fiscal and monetary policies, which helped to stimulate growth
while maintaining domestic price stability.
4.       The 1974 events brought a sudden, although temporary, end to this
long period of successful economic growth. Since then, the country has de
facto been divided into two parts by a ceasefire line, with increasingly
less movement of people and goods between them. The southern part, under
the Government's control, constitutes 64 percent of the area of the island,
and accounts for over 77 percent of total population. The northern part of
the island, under Turkish Cypriot control, has 23 percent of total
population living on 36 percent of the land area. About one-third of the
total population was displaced by the 1974 events, with nearly 180,000
Greek Cypriots moving south, and approximately 45,000 Turkish Cypriots
moving north. Most of the displaced population has been resettled. In the
expectation of an island-wide political solution, based on the principle of
federation, the Turkish Federated State of Cyprus was proclaimed in



-2-
February 1975. UN sponsored intercommunal talks to find a possible
political solution, have been held intermittently since 1978; but prospects
for agreeing on a permanent solution remain uncertain.
Recent Developments and Short-term Outlook in the Area Under Government
Control
5.       Immediately following the 1974 events, with the massive
displacement of population and severance of sectoral linkages, GNP dropped
by some 19 percent, and the unemployment rate jumped to nearly 25 percent
of the labor force; exports and imports fell by about 55 percent in the
second half of 1974. This drop in export earnings, reflected the loss from
the non-exploitation of about one-half of Cyprus's cultivated land area
(which produced over half of its agricultural exports) and the
non-utilization of about two-thirds of the island's tourist facilities.
6.       Government policy to reactivate the economy in the area under its
control, has been highly successful. The economy recovered rapidly, with
GDP (in real terms), growing annually by an average of about 27 percent in
both 1976 and 1977, but which has since gradually dropped to about 4
percent in 1980. The growth rate has slowed down largely because the
economy rapidly reached full capacity, with the level of unemployment
decreasing from over 16 percent in 1975 to less than 2 percent in 1980.
Construction, tourism, and manufacturing are now all suffering from
critical labor shortages. In the rural sector, peak labor demand can only
be met with difficulty. To lessen the severity of this shortage, the
Government, with the cooperation of the private sector, has increased
industrial training programs. Natural growth of the labor force is
projected to average about 1.3 percent per annum in the medium-term; but
the Government hopes to push this rate to 1.8 percent, by bringing more
women into the labor force and encouraging more workers to return from
construction jobs abroad, especially in the Middle East.
7.       Rapid economic recovery, together with relative price stability,
which marked Cyprus' economy until 1977, has since changed. Although the
rate of inflation is still modest compared to most countries, it has crept
up from 7.5 percent in 1978 to 13 percent in 1980. Having a highly open
economy, with imports representing more than 60 percent of GDP, Cyprus is
susceptible to international increases in the prices of imports.
Furthermore increased private and public consumption and public sector
investment expenditures, have pushed up domestic demand, particularly for
local products, beyond the productive capacity of the economy. Under these
conditions, it has been easy for labor to attain wage settlements at rates
exceeding increases in productivity, so as to recover part of the salaries
lost after 1974. A high share of public and private investment still goes
to housing, further aggravating the imbalance of domestic demand and supply.



-3-
8.       Expansionary public finance and monetary policies were the
instruments used by the Government to achieve the successful reactivation
of the economy after 1974. However, the budget has remained expansionary,
even after the economy reached full employment in 1978: between 1978 and
1980, public savings remained negative and the overall budgetary
deficit--averaging 4 to 8 percent of GDP--was financed to a large extent by
borrowing from the Central Bank. The Government still believes that it has
little room to cut down expenditures because of: (i) the need to grant
continuing salary increases to civil servants whose pay was frozen until
mid-1977; (ii) continued assistance to some refugees; and (iii) the need to
complete ongoing investment projects. It has however, attempted to
increase revenues, by changing the tax system to suit the changed economic
conditions. This has already significantly improved in the tax-GDP ratio,
from about 13 percent up to 1978 to 17 percent in 1980.
9.       The effort to restrain domestic price increases was left largely
to the Central Bank. Initially it took only limited measures to restrict
new loans to importers and distributors and reduce loans by hire-purchase
finance companies. But in late 1979, more comprehensive measures were
taken to reduce bank liquidity. The effectiveness of monetary policy,
however, remains hampered by an interest rate structure fixing rates for
different sectors, with an absolute ceiling of 7 percent per annum on
saving and time deposits, and 9 percent on lending. The Council of
Ministers last year proposed that the interest rate ceiling be removed and
that the Government be authorized to set interest rates in accordance with
prevailing economic conditions. The proposal has met with considerable
resistance, and has been stalemated in Parliament for over one year.
10.      Triggered by expanding local demand for consumer and investment
goods, imports have increased rapidly, causing a large increase in the
current balance of payments deficit. However, external capital inflows
have also been rising, so that the overall balance of payments has remained
sound. Net foreign exchange reserves have declined somewhat since 1976,
but still equalled about four months of imports at the end of 1980, a
satisfactory position despite political uncertainties. Recent trends, show
that further substantial increases in exports as well as increased revenues
from tourism, can be expected.
Third Plan Targets and Medium-Term Prospects
11.      A Third Emergency Economic Action Plan (1979-1981) was approved by
the Government in 1979, for the area under its control. It calls for a
modest, but realistic, GDP growth rate of about 5 percent per year, with
manufacturing providing the lead (8.2 percent per annum). It foresees a
major shift in development strategy toward medium-scale, higher technology,
capital-intensive investments, in contrast to the preceding two Plans which
emphasized quick gestative and labor-intensive light industries to absorb
the large pool of unemployed labor which resulted from the 1974 events. It
also emphasizes consolidation of small factories into larger units, to
realize economies of scale. Exports and tourism are to continue to be the



major engines of growth, with import substitution limited to a selected few
industries. The Government is currently doing preparatory work on the
Fourth Plan, scheduled to commence in 1982. That Plan is likely to reflect
the intended shift in the development strategy, as labor supply continues
to be a major constraint.
12.      Since the total labor force is unlikely to increase by more than
1.8 percent per annum, the Third Plan targets imply an annual increase in
labor productivity of some 3.4 percent. Achievement of such an increase,
however, requires major changes in the present structure of the economy,
including increasingly capital-intensive investments in manufacturing and
agriculture and a progressive shift of the labor force from relatively low
productivity employment in agriculture, into more productive medium and
large scale manufacturing and services. This structural change, although
difficult to achieve in the Plan's timeframe, would enable Cyprus to
capitalize on its hard working and relatively well trained labor force, the
existence of dynamic and sophisticated entrepreneurs, and its excellent
geographical location which makes it possible to tap Middle Eastern as well
as European markets.
13.      The necessary increase in the level of public investments, will
require special efforts to mobilize domestic savings, if foreign borrowing
and debt service payments are to be kept at prudent levels. At present,
private savings are low, and no savings come from the budget. The Third
Plan projects domestic savings to increase from about 12 percent of GDP (at
current prices) in 1978, to about 16 percent in 1981, so as to finance
about half of the planned investment by local resources. The remaining
financial requirements are to come from net factor incomes from abroad and
foreign borrowings, which are expected to double from $96 million in 1978
to close to $200 million in 1981. To keep foreign borrowing requirements
at a sustainable level, it is essential that in the long term the saving
rate be increased to about 18 percent. Such an increase is achievable,
provided policies are designed, and adopted, to increase public savings to
about 3 percent of GDP (a figure achieved before 1973), and private savings
to about 15 percent of GDP by 1985. Recognizing this need, the Government
has been able to persuade Parliament to pass new tax measures to
substantially increase tax revenues in 1980. It has, however, not been as
successful in its attempt to limit current expenditures, nor in adjusting
interest rates to a level where they can function as effective resource
mobilization and allocation tools. A lower savings rate, would almost
inevitably require a reduction in planned levels of investment, with a
consequent impact on long term economic growth.
14.      Assuming that Government will be able to strengthen its
anti-inflationary policies, and internal demand is further restricted
through higher taxation, Cyprus will need an increasing inflow of foreign
capital to help finance the necessary restructuring of its economy. This
will depend substantially on the Government's success in increasing its
level of external borrowing. Considering the continuing political
uncertainties, Cyprus' recent experience in mobilizing external resources



- 5 -
has been most encouraging. It successfully raised Eurodollar borrowings in
late 1977 of $30 million, followed by loans of $40 million in July 1978,
$10 million in November 1978, and $46 million in July 1980. The country is
also beginning to attract significant export and suppliers' credits. These
forms of external borrowing are perhaps indicative of the future trend,
since access to long-term concessionary bilateral and multilateral support,
is expected to be limited. Consequently, despite some continuing German,
UK and Council of Europe assistance, most future public external borrowing
to cover the projected current account deficits, will have to come from
commercial sources, either in the form of export or suppliers' credit, or
commercial bank loans.
15.      The Bank's efforts to date, have not only been directed towards
encouraging Cyprus to diversify its sources of official aid, but also to
use Bank projects as catalysts to attract other external support, including
cofinancing with commercial banks. Thus, besides the cofinancing catalyzed
from bilateral and multilateral sources for sound Bank loans approved up to
1979, commercial bank cofinancing has been arranged in 1980, in connection
with the Third Cyprus Development Bank Project (Loan No. 1744-CY), and
substantial suppliers' credit and a Euro-currency loan for the Power
Transmission and Distribution Project (Loan No. 1873-CY). Despite this
record, access to external fund is still limited, in relation to needs and
economic potential. In other words, growth prospects are also likely to
face continued constraints, stemming from balance of payments constraints
and the availability of external credits.
16.      Cyprus' external debt has so far remained low, because of the past
policy of financing development from internal resources and the
availability of substantial levels of foreign grant aid from Greece and
UNHCR, mainly for refugee assistance (averaging $35 to $55 million per year
since 1974). Total long-term public debt outstanding and disbursed was
$300.2 million as of December 31, 1980. Public debt service was only 5
percent of exports in 1979. However, given the increasing future reliance
on relatively hard commercial financing-, debt service is projected to
exceed 18 percent of goods and nonfactor services by the mid-eighties. The
Bank's share of debt outstanding and disbursed declined from 51 percent in
1974 to 18 percent at the end of 1979, while its share in debt service
declined from 45 percent in 1974 to 18 percent in 1979. Thus, the Bank's
exposure, once quite high, has now declined to a more normal level and is
expected to continue to decline further, as Cyprus continues to diversify
its sources of external borrowings. Given Cyprus' low external debt and
current debt service ratio, and the Government's record of economic
management, the country is creditworthy for additional Bank borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CYPRUS
17.      Bank lending to Cyprus began in 1963.  As of February 28, 1981
seventeen loans totalling $136.5 million (net of cancellations) were made;
of this about $112.7 million was held by the Bank. The main areas of



concentration have been infrastructure (power, sewerage, and ports),
industry through the Cyprus Development Bank, agriculture (irrigation and
integrated rural development), and water resources development. Details of
Bank loans to Cyprus are given in Annex II as of February 28, 1981.
18.      The events of 1974 had a substantial impact on some of the ongoing
Bank-financed projects as well as on planned operations. In particular,
the execution of the following projects was affected: (i) the sewerage
project in Famagusta, which lies entirely in the area controlled by the
Turkish Cypriots; and (ii) the construction of the Nicosia-Morphou highway,
the alignment of which coincides with the ceasefire line. The Nicosia
Sewerage Project, which straddles the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot
areas of Nicosia, was also uncompleted. However, as a result of the
initiative of the UNDP and the Bank, Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot
cooperation on this matter was engendered and a formal agreement to
complete the project, reached in September 1978. Thereafter, based on
those arrangements, and continuing cooperation displayed by both sides in
their implementation, the project has recently been completed and is now
benefiting both communities. As regards planned operations, a number of
projects under study, or contemplated, before 1974, which were also
intended to benefit directly both communities, could not be pursued because
of the de facto division of the island. The Bank, together with UNDP, will
continue to explore areas where cooperation appears possible, although
prospects are quite limited until a political settlement is reached.
19.      The Bank's objectives in Cyprus are to finance projects to meet
the needs for higher productivity and exports; invest in essential
infrastructure which can be justified in the context of the whole island;
and cooperate in attracting long-term development capital from other
sources. Within this overall context, Bank lending has made a substantial
contribution towards assisting Cyprus to recover from the 1974 events,
especially in obtaining long term financing from other sources. Once a
political settlement is reached, additional opportunities for Bank
involvement might emerge, with the Bank seeking to help both communities
through projects designed to improve living standards of those groups left
out of the growing prosperity, and encourage development of a national
water policy and utilization of other resources on which both communities
are dependent. Projects likely to materialize over the next 2 to 3 fiscal
years, include those to upgrade the island's road network especially of
agricultural roads, develop water resources, and establish renewable energy
sources.
20.      IFC's first investment in Cyprus was in a cement company in 1972.
The company has since become a leader in the country's successful export
drive. IFC has most recently invested in an asbestos cement pipe plant,
and is currently exploring opportunities for further investment on the
island. As of February 28, 1981, gross commitments totalled $3.6 million,
of which $1.5 million are still held by IFC. Details of IFC investments in
Cyprus are given in Annex II.



PART III - SECTORAL ASPECTS
Agriculture in the Economy
21.      Prior to 1974, agriculture occupied a predominant place in the
Cypriot economy. It accounted for 60 percent of commodity exports and
provided employment for just over a third of the labor force. The de facto
division of the island had a profound effect on the sector: 80 percent of
the irrigated citrus plantations, 65 percent of the dryland cereal growing
areas, 45 percent of the olive and 30 percent of the carob trees have since
come under Turkish-Cypriot control. The large-scale displacement of
population included thousands of farm families of both communities.
22.      Until 1979, the centerpiece of the Government's response to the
economic disruption caused by the events of 1974 was to encourage
investment in quick gestative labor-intensive light industry to help
provide employment for the displaced population. This strategy has been
remarkably successful and the sector contributed significantly to the
economic revival of the area under Government control. However, despite
this emphasis on industrial development, and the expectation that
industrial performance will be the major determinant of the success of
future development efforts, agriculture remains an extremely important
activity. In 1979, it contributed 11.5 percent towards GDP, provided about
22 percent of total employment and accounted for over 40 percent of
exports. The Government continues to be fully committed to developing
agriculture as a major sector of the economy.
23.      The policies and programs formulated to help in the achievement of
this objective consist of three distinct but intertwined strands; (a) the
improvement of incomes and the quality of life of the rural population to
reduce the urban/rural income gap and decelerate the flow of migrants to
cities where industry-related employment opportunities are becoming more
plentiful; (b) the expansion and upgrading of agricultural output to both
meet both domestic demand and increase export earnings; and (c) the support
of balanced regional development.
24.      The present productive structure within the sector is partially
responsible for its low productivity - dryland crops such as wheat, barley,
wine grapes, olives, carobs and almonds are grown on some 86 percent of the
total cultivated area, but their output accounts for only 40 percent of the
total value of crop production. On the other hand, irrigated crops
(citrus, table grapes, potatoes and other fruits and vegetables) account
for 60 percent of crop value, while utilizing only 14 percent of the crop
area. The land and water resource limitations in southern Cyprus are such
that the most recent economic mission concluded that even under the most
favourable circumstances, buttressed with the adoption of appropriate
policies, the growth of agricultural value added will remain moderate
(about 2 percent per annum) in the medium term. The Government recognises
that it needs to move gradually towards placing greater emphasis on



- 8 -
economic factors rather than the socio-political considerations which have
been given the greatest weight in evolving its policy towards the
agricultural sector since the events of 1974. This effort will include the
expansion of the irrigated area, land consolidation in conjunction with
increased farm mechanization and, above all, provision of incentives to
enable the increased export of selected agricultural products. The
proposed project fits with this strategy, by seeking to capitalize on the
island's comparative advantage over other neighbouring Mediterranean
countries in the export of horticultural products and wine to specific
markets in the European Economic Community and the Middle East. It also
complements previous Bank operations in the sector.
25.      Bank support for agricultural development is being provided under
three ongoing projects (Annex II). A $14 million loan, signed in January
1974, provides for irrigation of about 5,000 ha in the Paphos area along
the southwestern coast (Loan No. 960-CY); a portion of this area is now
under irrigation, and the full 5,000 ha is expected to have access to
project water by the summer of 1982. A second project for $10 million,
signed in August 1977, provides for irrigation of 1,150 ha in the depressed
Pitsilia area as part of an integrated rural development scheme to upgrade
incomes and the quality of life (Loan No. 1483-CY). The most recent
project, a $11 million loan signed in February 1979, provides for
irrigation of 1,160 ha in the Vasilikos-Pendaskinos area of southern
Cyprus. It is expected that this area will be under irrigation by 1985.
The Bank is also currently providing technical assistance, at the
Government's request, in reviewing preparation of the feasibility study for
the proposed Southern Conveyor project which will take surplus runoff water
from the Limassol area and convey it east along the southern coast as far
as the water-short areas near Famagusta.
The Horticulture Subsector
26.      The agroclimatic conditions along the coastal belt running from
Paralimni to Paphos (see attached map) are well suited for early and
off-season fruit, vegetable and flower production and place Cyprus in a
highly competitive position vis-a-vis other Mediterranean countries. These
advantages are supplemented by the high level skills of its growers,
evidenced by the comparatively high yields. The main horticultural crops
are grapes, citrus, olives and carobs, potatoes and other vegetables
(mostly carrots, tomatoes, cucumbers and melons).
27.      The major constraint to expanding acreage for horticultural
production has been lack of water. Consequently, excellent potential for
growing high quality avocadoes could not be exploited and it has not been
possible to expand citrus production. Inadequacy of water has also
resulted in reduced plant growth and yields. This constraint has been
partly relieved during the last few years by changing from flood or furrow
irrigation to improved and more sophisticated methods like drip,
mini-sprinkler or sprinkler irrigation. The constraints will be further
alleviated with the completion of other major irrigation schemes, some
supported by the Bank, over the next 3 to 5 years. The constraint on



- 9 -
developing horticultural production for exports is lack of sophisticated
marketing knowhow. It is therefore important to develop an aggressive
export marketing policy, institutions and enterprises, aimed at the highly
competitive markets in Europe and the Middle East.
28.      The export performance of the horticultural subsector has shown a
generally positive trend during the 1975-1979 period. Success, however,
varied substantially between produce categories; e.g. fresh vegetables
showed the largest increase from 3,900 tons in 1975 to 8,500 tons in 1979,
while sugar beet declined from 1,800 tons to 1,600 tons; the produce
categories with the largest export volumes, namely potatoes, citrus and
table grapes showed increases in exports of 19 percent, 24 percent and 24
percent respectively between 1975 and 1979. While these figures underline
the export industry's ability to market larger volumes of produce, even
under increasing competition, an analysis of the sector's financial
performance suggests that improvements in the production and marketing cost
structures are urgently needed. F.o.b. prices have declined for most
produce categories between 1975 and 1979, and domestic wholesale prices and
marketing costs have increased substantially during the same period. The
profit margins of Cyprus' horticultural export traders have thus come under
increasing pressure.
29.      The general trend in the horticultural export performance, that
recently has become more accentuated, clearly demonstrates that the future
of the horticultural export trade will depend on a set of measures that are
aimed at increasing the supply of consistently high quality export produce,
lowering unit costs of production through increased productivity,
exploiting possible economies of scale in production and (marketing and)
adopting a more sophisticated and efficient export marketing organization.
Good marketing prospects exist in Europe, especially for Cyprus' off-season
horticultural products, as they do in the Middle East. The incremental
quantities Cyprus will be able to produce for export are very small, in
fact only fractions of one percent of the high volume EEC and other
European markets. The marketing of these quantities of high quality
produce should not pose any major problems. The issue, however, is not so
much one of the availability of export markets, but of competitively
capturing and retaining a share in them at a level that maximizes the value
of exports, as well as the incomes and returns to the farmers and the
country from such exports.
The Viticulture Subsector
30.      The south and southwest slopes of the Troodos mountains in
southern Cyprus, are ideal for extensive viticulture. Indeed, wine making
has been a traditional occupation in Cyprus throughout its history. At
present, about one-third of the farming population in the Government
controlled area depends on viticulture for a living, particularly since
there are few, if any, alternative crops that can be grown in the hilly
areas lying at altitudes of 500 to 1,500 meters. Wine products make up 25
percent of total agricultural exports, underscoring the importance of the
viticulture subsector.



- 10 -
31.      Despite its importance and potential, the productivity and
competitiveness of the wine industry have been seriously compromised in the
past decade by failures to: (a) adapt to changing commercial attitudes and
requirements at home and especially in export markets; and (b) take
adequate steps to improve vineyard operational efficiency through better
layouts and mechanization where possible. Consequently, the production
cost for the ordinary table wine now produced is generally too high to
enable Cyprus wines to continue to be sold competitively abroad, and the
production of high quality wine which can absorb higher production costs
remains extremely limited. The proposed project will support Government
efforts to improve viticulture from both these perspectives.
Export Trade
32.      Cyprus' export marketing efforts have been traditionally
concentrated on the UK market, where its products have enjoyed special
Commonwealth preferences. Since the UK became a member of the EEC, Cyprus'
market position there has been substantially weakened. However, only
during the last few years have the exporters made some progress in market
diversification. Further efforts to open new markets for Cyprus'
horticultural and viticultural products are hampered by the export trade's
present structure which is characterized by a large number of relatively
small independent export enterprises which individually lack the skills and
financial resources to successfully penetrate highly competitive markets in
the high income countries of Western Europe and the Middle East. A major
new export development initiative is required to strengthen Cyprus'
position in its traditional markets and secure new export outlets for its
horticultural and viticultural products.
The Institutional Framework
33.      By and large, the institutions serving the sector are efficient,
experienced and responsive to the demands placed on them. The Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) is charged with the major
responsibility for the development of the sector. It consists of a number
of departments under the coordinating authority of a Director-General. The
Department of Agriculture, within MANR, has a comprehensive and efficient
extension service, operating in every district on decentralized lines.
Specialized sections deal with major disciplines and functions. The
viticulture and oenology (wine) section, for example, operates a model
winery for new varieties and the aging and blending of wines on a trial
basis. The Agricultural Research Institute is staffed with highly
qualified scientists, working on production-related research programs. Its
current work program places a high priority on studying the production of
off-season crops, under controlled environments, as well as on methods of
early ripening of table grapes. The extension service works in close
cooperation with other departments of MANR, including the Research
Institute, the Water Development Department and the Land Consolidation
Authority.



- II -
34.      The Department of Trade (DOT) of the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry (MCI) is responsible for the provision of policy direction and
commercial trade services to the country's export industry including
exports of agricultural commodities. In the case of agricultural exports,
DOT's functions are focused at three stages of the export marketing
process: the provision of marketing intelligence information and other
services relevant for export preparation and planning; the inspection of
quality standards of export produce; and the monitoring of Cyprus' produce
movements and quality in export markets. Lack of adequate staff and a
target-oriented export development policy have limited the DOT's
activities. One area in which the DOT's responsibility has been
institutionalized and is being executed on a regular basis is in the field
of produce quality inspection. The quality of Cyprus' agricultural
products generally enjoys a good reputation. This has been built up by
responsible exporters in collaboration with the Produce Inspection
Service. There is, however, still room for improvement. Measures to
strengthen DOT in this respect as well as to improve its service to
exporters are to be taken in the context of the proposed project (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.04).
Agricultural Credit System
35.      Cyprus has developed a comprehensive system for channelling
financial resources into agriculture. It consists of two inter-connected
channels: (a) the Cooperative Credit System; and (b) the Loan
Commissioners. These are described briefly below.
36.      The Cooperative Credit System.  Short-term credit requirements are
effectively met by village based Cooperative Credit Societies (CCS). These
are voluntary associations with at least 12 members for the primary purpose
of providing financial assistance to its members. About 80 percent of the
CCSs' lending operations are short-term. Deposits, the system's principal
source of funds, have increased more rapidly than lending, resulting in
substantial liquidity. The Cooperative Central Bank (CCB), established in
1938, serves as an apex financing bank for its shareholder members who are
credit, marketing, supply or other types of cooperatives. The
capitalization of CCB does not involve any Government-supplied funds.
CCB's lending funds mainly come from deposits and from the Loan
Commissioners. Although the CCB is empowered to lend to all sectors of the
economy, between 1975-1978 more than 90 percent of loans were made for
agricultural investments. In early 1980, CCB's liquidity position came
under increasing pressure, as a result of looser financial management and
the granting of a number of large loans, some of which are now in default.
Given the important role played by CCB in the rural sector, the Government
intervened to guarantee all deposit claims. This matter is now the subject
of a special Government inquiry. Meanwhile, CCB's management committee has
been replaced by a committee of three directors, one each from the Ministry
of Finance, the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the Central Bank of
Cyprus. Under the proposed project, CCB will only be used as a
disbursement agent. Despite its difficulties, it remains suitable for this
limited role.



- 12 -
37.      The Loan Commissioners.  In addition to the above, funds for
medium and long-term agricultural investments in Cyprus, are provided by
the Government through the Loan Commissioners (LC), a Government body
formed to channel Government funds for specific development purposes. The
LC are composed of the Minister of Finance as chairman, and the following
members; the Accountant General, the Directors General of the Ministries
of Interior, Agriculture and Natural Resources, and Communications and
Works and two representatives of the private sector appointed by the
Government. Administration and accounting support is provided by the
Ministry of Finance. The LC have three principal sources of funds: annual
budgetary appropriations, revolving funds and borrowings. The LC are
permitted to borrow funds at interest rates of up to 5 percent. These
principal sources of borrowings are the Social Insurance Fund, the
Government Provident Fund and the Cyprus Relief Fund. The LC's loans are
channelled through the CCB in two ways. Firstly, the CCB borrows from the
LC for its own lending operations. Secondly, the LC lends to farmers
directly, using the CCB only as lending agent. Under the first
arrangement, CCB pays the LC 3 percent for the funds advanced to it, while
in the second case the LC pays the CCB a commission of 1.5 percent on all
loans handled on their behalf. The rate of interest paid by farmers in
both cases is 4.5 percent. Funds (budgetary allocations and special funds)
under LC's control are in sound condition although about 26 percent of the
loans made are in arrears. As all loans are amply covered by real estate
mortgages, no immediate danger of losses exists. A further assurance is
the Public Loans Law, which treats unpaid loans like taxes due.
38.      The Government has attempted to accelerate economic recovery,
following the events of 1974, as well as to fuel economic development in
general, by the provision of long-term loans at relatively low interest
rates. Thus, as mentioned in Part I above (para. 9), (a) the ceiling on
all interest rates is still 9 percent per annum, with the lending rates
applicable to different sectors varying from 4.5 to 9 percent, and (b) the
Government's proposal to enable it to increase interest rates as
necessitated by economic circumstances, has been stalemated in the
Parliament for over a number of years. In these circumstances, the
flexibility, if any, which the Government has in this regard at present, is
to adjust rates in various sectors upwards, up to the 9 percent ceiling,
taking cognizance of the political difficulties inherent in such moves.
Against this background, long-term loans for on-farm investments still
carry an interest rate of 4.5 percent, while that for short-term loans in
the sector is 9 percent. Given the 1980 annual rate of inflation of around
13 percent, which is expected to decrease to 11 percent in 1983, these
rates are negative in real terms. This matter has been discussed with the
Government during the course of the preparation and appraisal of the
proposed project. The authorities have pointed out that the only real
subsidy made available to farmers is through the interest rate mechanism,
unlike other developing countries where farmers receive a variety of
subsidies for their inputs. Nevertheless, the Government recognizes that
there is a clear need to gradually move towards charging more realistic
interest rates for the agricultural sector. Accordingly, it has been



- 13 -
agreed that the lending rate for on-farm development in agriculture will be
raised to 7 percent; this will be a condition of loan effectiveness (Loan
Agreement, Sections 3.05(a) and 5.01(a)). 1/ It has also been agreed that
interest rates on-farm development will be reviewed at least every two
years or whenever the agricultural wholesale price index increases by 5
percent or more during any twelve month period (Loan Agreement, Section
3.05(b)). Finally, assurances were obtained that, should there be a change
in the legal maximum interest rate, a review of interest rates for on-farm
development would also be carried out (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05(b)).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
39.      In 1979, the Government requested Bank assistance to help develop
a program in the horticultural and viticultural subsectors, emphasizing the
production and export of high-value, off-season fruit and vegetables as
well as of high quality wine products. The project was thereafter prepared
by the Government of Cyprus, with assistance from the FAO/Bank Cooperative
Programme. Project preparation was monitored by the Bank. Negotiations
were held in Washington from April 14-15, 1981 with a Government delegation
led by Mr. Andreas Papasolomontos, Director-General, Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources.
Project Scope and Details
40.      The project will finance a four year development program for the
horticultural and viticultural sub-sectors. It will include:
(a)   on-farm investments in greenhouses, tree planting, vineyard
replanting and water use improvements ($24.4 million);
(b)   processing and marketing facilities including packing
stations and wineries ($5.7 million); and
(c)   supporting services to strengthen the extension service,
improve research and training facilities, establish market
information and promotion facilities, and provide
consultants services to advise on export marketing
organization and development strategy ($2.8 million).
Detailed features of the project are described in paragraphs 42 to 45 below
and in a Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3367-CY, dated April 12, 1981)
entitled "Cyprus, Fruit and Vegetable Export Project", distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. The main features are summarized in
the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
1/ This condition of effectiveness would apply to all agricultural credit
except for the proceeds of a fund of C£ 1.0 million established in 1962
which accounts for a very small proportion of total agricultural
lending in Cyprus.



- 14 -
41.      The seven areas in which project investments are located lie in
the southern part of the island, extending from south of Famagusta in the
east, to areas beyond Paphos in the west (see map attached). Seven
agroeconomic regions have been selected because of their particularly
favorable soil and climatic conditions. About one-third of the total area
in the seven regions is uncultivated, a further third is under perennial
crops (mostly vines, citrus, olives and carobs) and on the remaining
one-third, annual crops (cereals, fodder, vegetables) are grown. Irrigated
area comprises only 14 percent of the total area. Project activities would
be undertaken on about 30,825 donums 1/ (approximately 4,110 ha) or 6
percent of the total area in the seven regions (539,909 donums).
42.      On-farm developments are aimed at facilitating a shift in
production towards those seasons when fruit, vegetable and flower supplies
in export markets are lowest. They include:
(a)   Protective structures for out-of-season vegetable and flower
production. The installation of 300 greenhouses and 300
"walk-in" tunnels would be financed. The investment package
would consist of the protective structure, an irrigation
system, heating facilities where needed and miscellaneous
small items of equipment. About 300 growers are expected to
develop an average of one donum of greenhouse and one donum
of "walk-in" tunnel;
(b)   Greenhouses for table grape production.  The maturity of
grapes can be hastened by up to three weeks, if grown under
protective structures. Some 225 donums of existing
vineyards of an early table grape variety ("Cardinal") would
be put under plastic. About 110 vineyard owners are
expected to participate in this scheme;
(c)   Fruit tree planting.  About 4,650 donums of grapefruit,
lemons and clementines would be planted to replace
productive areas that were lost in 1974. Further, the
establishment of 975 donums of avocadoes and 375 donums of
deciduous fruit trees, mainly apricot   would also be
financed;
(d)   Vine replanting.  As indicated in paragraph 31 above, the
only viable option for the Cypriot winemaking industry is to
enter the higher quality brackets in selected export
markets. The change will require some radical innovations
in the production-processing-distribution system. The
planting of known improved grape varieties will be crucial
to this effort. Over the last two decades some promising
varieties have been identified and selected to replace the
traditional local varieties and are already grown in certain
areas of the island. Uprooting, land leveling, terracing
and replanting of 15,000 donums of worn-out Mavro vines is
1/ 1 donum = 1,333 square meters.



- 15 -
envisaged under this scheme in which an estimated 3,000
farmers would be involved; and
(e)   Water use improvement.  This would be a continuation of
activities begun in 1965 under the UNDP-financed Cyprus
Water Planning Project. It consists of investments in
portable sprinklers, mini-sprinklers and trickle or drip
irrigation systems on about 1,000 holdings aggregating 9,000
donums.
43.      Processing and Marketing Facilities need to be expanded, made more
versatile and located in such a manner as to help ensure the acceptability
of products in export markets where quality standards are exacting. To
this end, the project aims at facilitating the vertical integration of
Cyprus' production-processing-marketing system and would provide the
financing for;
(a)   Grading and packing stations.  Two centrally located, fully
equipped grading and packing facilities will be
constructed. Five small rural packing stations would also
be established to allow grower-site packing for direct
airport delivery by major growers. An auction shed with
packing facilities would be built near Larnaca airport.
These stations would handle the incremental production of
fresh vegetables and the produce that is presently handled
by outdated facilities; and
(b)   Wine making facilities.  Virtually all of Cyprus' major
wineries are located around Limassol. The grapes to be
processed are transported over long distances in open-topped
trucks. High temperatures prevailing at harvest lead to the
oxidation of grapes at an extremely rapid rate during
transportation and deterioration in the quality of the first
pressing, from which the best quality wines are made. Funds
for the establishment of three vintage wineries located in
the areas covered by the proposed vine replanting scheme,
are therefore provided under the project. Each winery would
have a annual crushing capacity of about 3 million okes 1/
of grapes (3,750 tons). The new wineries will initially
help to reduce the country's surplus production of about
20,000 tons of grapes and will handle the grapes of those
vineyards that have already been replanted. The location of
the wineries will be determined by MANR and MCI in
consultation with the private manufacturers (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.08(b));
(c)   Transport equipment.  The expansion of the fruit and
vegetable export trade with various Middle-Eastern countries
1/ 1 oke = 1.28 Kgs.



- 16 -
will require more and better road transport equipment.
Accordingly, 3 tractor-trucks and 5 semi-trailers of between
15 and 25 tons capacity would be procured for use in
conjunction with the regular ferry service between Limassol
and Latakia in Syria.
44.       Improvements in bupporting bervices for the proposed project will
include:
(a)   Extension service.  Under the project, the number of farmers
growing out-of-season and early season vegetables as well as
new grape varieties would increase substantially. To meet
the additional demand for extension services, the Department
of Agriculture will increase its staff in key areas, such as
plant protection and viticulture, by 5 professionals and 4
technicians. The proposed loan will also help finance about
24 man-months of specialized overseas training of the
Department's staff;
(b)   Horticultural and viticultural research.  The implementation
of some of the project's production components would rely on
advice and assistance from the MANR. To enable the
Institute to respond to such requests, its capability in
certain specialized fields needs to be strengthened and
upgraded. Therefore, the project would finance about 54
man-months of overseas training and study tours, together
with some specialized equipment. The Department of
Agriculture's (DOA) model winery at Limassol will also be
expanded and provided with specialized equipment to handle
the increased quantities of grapes coming from variety
trials and to store wine products.
45.      New Export Development Initiative.  The project's productive
investments are to be complemented by a new and energetic export
development initiative. This will rely upon the private sector continuing
to act as the major promoter of horticultural exports. The following steps
will be taken in support of this effort;
(a)   Restructuring the Fruit and Vegetable Export Trade.  The
number of fruit and vegetable exporters is large relative to
the volume of produce exported. The necessity to amalgamate
small individual export businesses into larger units of
operation has been evident for some time. However, efforts
made by the exporters themselves to join their businesses
into larger trade partnerships have failed. A convincing
initiative from outside the trade was required to set in
motion a process of organizational and structural change.
Faced with mounting costs, sinking profits and endangered
market shares, the exporters have opted for voluntary
consolidation of their many small export operations. So
far, two trade partnerships are in the process of



- 17 -
formation. They would involve about 60 percent of the
independent exporters who jointly supply about 75 percent of
the horticultural exports, excluding citrus and table grapes;
(b)   Establishment of an Horticultural Export Development
Advisory and Coordinating Committee (HEDACC). Efforts to
restructure the private sector export trade, especially in
the field of vegetable exports, would be complemented and
supported by a multi-agency Horticultural Export Development
Advisory and Coordinating Committee, to be established by
the Government (MCI) as a condition precedent to the
effectiveness of the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Sections
3.04(a) and 5.01(b)). The main functions of this committee
would be to; (i) advise the export trade on the basis of
marketing information that it collects; and (ii) coordinate
the operations of producers and exporters in relation to
requirements and delivery to various export markets. The
project will provide the services of an export marketing
advisor to assist in organizing and establishing the
committee and in developing and implementing the sector's
export marketing strategy (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03).
MCI will also strengthen its export promotion activities by
hiring three professional agricultural officers, two produce
inspectors and two officers for its European trade centers
under the project; and
(c)   Export Promotion Facility.  The project would support the
establishment and operation by HEDACC of a national
horticultural and viticultural export promotion facility
which, during the project implementation period, would be
funded with $1.0 million equivalent of which the Bank would
contribute $0.5 million equivalent and the Government $0.5
million equivalent in approximately equal installments in
fiscal 1982-5 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04(b)).
Project Cost and Financing
46.      The total cost of the project, including taxes and duties, is
estimated at $32.9 million equivalent, of which $16.7 million (about 51
percent) would be in foreign exchange. The estimates are based on prices as
of December 1980. Price increases of $8.0 million were included over the
four year project implementation period, January 1982 to end 1985, at
annual rates of 13 percent (1981) and 12 percent (1982-85) for local
investment components and 9 percent (1981), 8.5 percent (1982) and 7.5
percent (1983-85) for imports. About 72 man-months of consultant services
would be required for implementing the project at an average cost of $6,000
per man-month.
47.      The proposed Bank loan of $14.0 million would finance 84 percent
of the foreign exchange cost and about 43 percent of total project cost.
The Loan Commissioners (para. 37) will finance some $9.6 million, or 29



- 18 -
percent of total cost from their resources. Subborrowers' contributions
under the on-farm and marketing and processing components and exporters'
levy contributions to export promotion services would amount to $5.5
million equivalent or about 17 percent of total project cost. Government
will contribute the remaining $3.8 million, or 11 percent of total cost.
On-Lending Arrangements
48.      Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement specifies the terms, conditions
and procedures for the provision of sub-loans under the proposed project.
$10.4 million of the proposed loan, would be provided by the Government to
the Loan Commissioners (LC) for on-farm development subloans, and $2.6
million for processing and marketing components, all in local currency.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk. All sub-loans
exceeding $100,000 equivalent will be subject to Bank approval (Loan
Agreement, Section 2.02(b)).
49.      Subloans for on-farm development would be made by the LC, through
the Cooperative Central Bank (CCB) acting as fiscal agent. In this manner,
the subloan repayments would not be used for CCB's other operations, and
would be automatically remitted to the LC. To cover its handling costs,
CCB would be paid a commission of 1.5 percent on the outstanding balance of
any subloan. The interest rate to farmers on these subloans would be 7
percent, which represents an increase of nearly 60 percent over the current
rate of 4.5 percent per annum. 1/ Subloan maturities will be 8 to 15 years
including 1 to 5 years of grace.
50.      Subloans for wineries, packing facilities and transport equipment
would be made by the LC directly to the subborrowers, after their
applications are approved by MCI's Industrial Investments Division; the
detailed designs of the wineries and packing facilities would be subject to
Bank approval. The interest rate thereon will be at 9 percent per annum,
the prevailing rate for agro-industrial lending in Cyprus, which is
currently the highest permissible rate. Subloan maturities will be 4 to 10
years including up to 2 years grace.
Procurement
51.      As typical in credit projects, contracts for farm supplies,
equipment for the wineries, the vegetable packing units and transport
vehicles would not be suitable for bulk procurement as farmers and private
investors will purchase them individually throughout the project period
from well established local or foreign commercial channels. Suppliers of
these goods are well represented in Cyprus, competition is keen and prices
are competitive. Disbursements through established commercial practices
under agricultural credit are estimated at $11.0 million. MANR will
procure equipment for project administration, research and extension,
disbursements for which will amount to about $78,000 equivalent, through
1/ This change would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan
(paragraph 38 above).



- 19 -
local shoping. The Cyprus Tender Board approves all tenders (a ministerial
committee approval is required for tenders exceeding $288,000), and all
tenders are open to any bidder, whether foreign or local, according to
Cypriot law. Procurement through ICB according to the Bank's Guidelines
will include the purchase by Government of about 16 bulldozers, and 23
motor vehicles estimated to cost about $1.75 million. Expenditures for
individual technical specialists and the export promotion services are
estimated to require about $1.0 million from the proceeds of the Bank loan.
Disbursements
52.      The proposed Bank loan will be disbursed over a four-year period
as follows;
(a) 100 percent of foreign, and 85 percent of local, expenditures
for motor vehicles and bulldozers procured under ICB;
(b) 100 percent of foreign, and 85 percent of local, expenditures
for tractor-trucks and semi-trailers and equipment required by
MANR for project administration, extension and research;
(c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for training abroad;
(d) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for internationally
recruited individual technical specialists, or 90 percent of total
expenditures if recruited locally;
(e) 50 percent of expenditures for export promotion services; and
(f) 35 percent of total amounts disbursed by CCB on behalf of LC
for on-farm development, wineries and vegetable packing
facilities, and 90 percent of total expenditures for the
tractor-trucks and semi-trailers to be used in connection with
ferry facilities for horticulture produce.
Project Implementation
53.      In line with their traditional responsibilities, the Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) would be in charge of implementing
all production oriented project investments and the Ministry of Commerce
and Industry (MCI) would deal with all marketing related project
components. The Horticultural Export Development Advisory and Coordinating
Committee (HEDACC) would become the apex body of project organization, as
it would establish policies and coordinate activities that would require
action by both ministries. The Soil Conservation Section of MANR would be
responsible for the vineyard replanting aspects of the project.
54.      The Department of Agriculture (DOA) would designate the chief of
its Economics Section as coordinator and manager of all production oriented
project components as well as MANR's representative on the HEDACC; further
he will sit on the loan committee that approves Government sponsored
agricultural development projects which would also handle on-lending for
on-farm developments financed under the project.



- 20 -
55.      The MCI's Department of Trade (DOT) would designate the senior
agricultural commercial officer to be coordinator and manager of all
marketing related project activities. Like his counterpart in the DOA, the
chief of the Economics Section would represent the MCI on the HEDACC. He
would at the same time act as HEDACC's permanent secretary on a full-time
basis (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04(a)(iii)).
Benefits and Risks
56.      The major direct benefit would be the incremental production of
citrus, avocadoes, deciduous fruit, wine grapes, flowers and early season
vegetables. Improved water use efficiency would result in a 5 percent
increase in yields for citrus, deciduous fruits, potatoes and other
vegetables; and although not incremental, the earlier ripening of 450 tons
of table grapes would result in increased marketability of the produce.
The economic rate of return is estimated at about 21 percent.
57.      The project would also have substantial unquantifiable benefits.
By increasing the level of income of 3,000 low-income farmers, with
holdings averaging 4.8 ha, who otherwise might leave their farms, the vine
replanting scheme would slow down the rapid depopulation of villages in
vine producing areas. In addition, the project would strengthen extension
and research services of MANR and export marketing support services
provided by the MCI, and would substantially improve institutional
cooperation among agencies involved in horticultural production and
marketing.
58.      The risks attached to the project though somewhat greater than for
many similar projects are not considered inordinately high. On the
production side, vegetable growing can easily be adapted to changing market
conditions. If the demand for any one commodity should fall short of
projections, other crops can be relatively easily substituted. The export
of fresh fruit and vegetables to high income countries in Western Europe
and the Middle East involves intrinsic commercial risks. Competition is
already high and competitive pressures are rising. Nevertheless, export
market projections for project produce are satisfactory. In the long run,
successful suppliers will be those who can provide high quality produce
during off- and out-of-season periods. Cyprus' highly favorable
agroclimatic conditions, its high level of horticultural production
technology and the export trade's long experience and overall management
capability places the island in a strong competitive position vis-a-vis
other competing countries. Further, a growing domestic and tourist market
will offer an increasingly important alternative in case of export market
difficulties. The risks involved in the vine replanting and wine
components are more difficult to assess. Cyprus' wine industry will
continue to depend heavily on export markets where an oversupply of
ordinary wines is already a major problem. Its future prospects will
depend on a successful shift towards higher quality wines of better
marketability. The basic requirements for such a complex product
transformation have been established and the initial results of this



- 21 -
process are encouraging. Long range commercial success will depend on the
concerted efforts of all those involved in the entire production-marketing
system.  Based on the industry's strong commitment and the island's long
tradition in wine making, the risks involved do not appear unreasonable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Cyprus and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are given in
Section III of Annex III. Additional conditions of loan effectiveness are;
(a) Interest rates for on-farm investments to have been increased
to 7 percent per annum (Loan Agreement, Section 5.01(a); and
(b) The horticultural export development advisory and
coordinating committee (HEDACC) to have been established
under satisfactory arrangements (Loan Agreement, Section
5.01(b)).
60.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 23, 1981
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-22 -                                             Page I of 5
Page I
TABLE 3A
CYPRUS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CYPRUS                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGrS
LARD AREATHOUSAND SO. KM.)                                                                M- PST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TO-TAU             9. 3
ACR(C.I'TURAL      5.3                                   MOST RECENT                MIDDLE INCOME            INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE fb                   EUROPE                  COUNTRIES
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   480.0       1110.0    2940.0                        2749.5                   9499.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRANIS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      829.0       1380.0    1966.0                       1641.4                    7021.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)        0.57         0.62       0.65
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF ToTAL) 35.6           40.8       45. 1                       53.9                      76.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED
POPULATlON DENSITY
PER SQ. K!l.                        61.0         67.0       70.0                        77.2                     142.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    108.0          117.0     123.0                        129.5                     523.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PESCENT)
0-14 YRs.                           36.7         32.7      26.5                         30.6                      23.5
I5-64 YRS.                           57.4         60.4      63.6                         61.1                      65.1
65 YRS. AbD ABOVE                     5. 9         6.9        9.9                         8.2                      11.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATS (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.5          0. 7f     0. 6/c                       1.6                       0.7
URBAN                                4.2          1.6        1.9                         3.3                       1.3
CRUDE DIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       25.0         19.0       19.0                        22.8                      13.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       11.0         10.0        9.0                         8.9                       9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                1.7          1.5        1.1                          1.5                      0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
VSERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            64.0         91.0     100.0                        113.1                     110.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    101.0        1l8.0     136.0                        125.3                     131.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            73.0         36.0     102.0                         91.0                      98.0
OF WHICII ANIMAL AND PULSE        29.0         40.0      49.0                         39.6                      62.1
CUELD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        4.0          3.0        2.0                         4.3                       0.8
HEALTHI
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    69.0           71.0       72.0                        67.8                      73.5
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             30.0         29.4      2 7. 0                       55.9                      13. 2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         95.0      95.0
URRAN                                           100.0      94.0
RURAL                                 ..         92.0      96.0                           ..                        .
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POP'JLATION)
TOTAL                                            95.0      95.0
URBAN                                 ..        100.0      94.0
RURAL                                 ..         92.0      95.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            1390. 0/d    1290.0    1081.0                       1030.1                     624.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       1080. Old     610.0     446.0                        929.4                     21P.9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              220.0/d      190.0     157.0                        289.7                     121.2
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED             ..           ..         ..                        17.0                      17.0
NOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                4.0           ..        3.9
LRBAN                                4.0           ..        ..                           ..                        ..
RURAL                                3. 9          ..
AVESAGE NUIMBER OF PERSONS PER ROGM
TOTA1                                1. 5          -.       0. 9
URBAN                                1.3          1.0       0. 8
STTRAL                               1.6           ..        1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               43.1           ..         ..                          . .
URBAN                               90.4           ..      99.0
RURAI                               21.5           ..



-23 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
Paea 2
TABLE 3A
CYPRUS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CYPRUS                              REFERENCE GROUPS (HEICUTED AVERgES
- MDST RECEIIT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INC011E           INDUSTRIALTEND
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /                  EUROPE                  COUNTRIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                102.0        82. OJp   70.0/I                     105.9                    100.1
KALE                103.0         83.0]e    69. 0A                     109.3                    102.2
FEtALE              100. 0        81. 0A    70. 0A                     103. 0                   102. 3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 47.0        52. O/e   60. 0/-                     64.0                     87.1
KALE                 55.0         55. 0/e    62. OZg                   71. 1                    84. 4
FEhALE               39.0         49. 0/e    59. 0/e                    56. 9                    84. 3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY)  4.0          10.0/e    13.0/e                       28.8                    19.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            34.0        30.O/e    26.0/e                      Z9.4                     21.3
SECONDARY                          23.0        21.0je    20.01e                      26.1                     16.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        76.0        85.0        ..                          .,                     98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        48.0         88.0     116.4                        84.6                    339.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TROUSAND
POPULATION                        148.0       264.0     293.0                       192.2                    932.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0        77.0      84.0                       118.5                    354.8
NEWSP,PER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 126.0       107.0        ..                        93.0                    327.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  9.0         10.0        ..                         5.7                      3.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       237.2       258.0     288. 9
PPAALE (PERCENT)                   33.2        34.3      35.0                        30.6                     36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              42.0        38.6      36.0                        37.0                      7.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                27. 1        27.7      28.0                        29.3                     38.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                41.5        41.9      42.9                         40.9                    44.6
KALE                                 56.2        55.8       56.8                        55.9                    58.1
FEMALE                               27.2        28.3      29.4                        26.2                     31.7
ECONOHIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1. 0        0.9       0.8                          1. 0                    0. 8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOKE
RECEIVED 8Y
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        12. /f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         39. /f
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      *          7. 9f
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOtDS      *-        19.         .                            ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                               ..           ..     376.7
ESTlIATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URRAN                               ..           ..     746.7
RURAL                               ..           ..     512. 7                      385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ARSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                               ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
mong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/    Due to migration population growth rate is lover than rate of natural increae; /d 1962  /e Excluding
Turkish achools; Lf 1966, urban only.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are an of April, 1980.
October, 1980



ANNEX I
-24 -Page 3of 5
Pope 3
DEFINITIONS IF S7OCI1. INDICATORS
fNoes.:  Although  ha lets era drawn from  source    --srLy judgd the moat  -ihnctaad relIabLe1. cc ecoLols  he acted Chat theyny  bot haoto-
mareeenegrIn   raLL  b  sate tOeCy incur Cf  h.C subjet-;CnCy and (2)aouCyrncLCCOCaCLhroaogainsCenCeoCryrup
CfteTh     atcutyLnsCfr'aCn   upoaIlfpree    rcoeaffdeIc.   ot   fre   n  fdL    atccor    eas   Csrne
eoto-ultra   aftntia)    I  Ce Srfaanc  gou  fasil .  nrgS_ arrc po        miadntnlgha.     CwCse   aa   o   sr   aleo   n   Lo,ol  atna
les   ,L  o  h   onCiat     ropfa  at   C   hCIOCCo.S CsCecceReaCcanae   nCseatdehaedpns  nCssedgilyo
dos  ndCano   nior,  actn oh             C  n...a.ttatttgn               ..ea f..     tdoIrrnontEe- hee  croIsor  o                        h ...eCLb...p...   nbeeLu
ofna  ntntn  tathnamn  Ceconr.a.reeene.ro.
(.0010 CRAb (housand eq.Ln.S                           toCulsC tn oer  baa ittac - ncputotot utataso  C  tomeer ow peatteteg  pny
dota -d  toa  aufc  ae,,mrdte   adtrgad    ad_dee                                            _ti hs_eLfe   free.   a-acoLeco Lotl unIer tyLnai
cateLnrt   Oniae  f  sretana   peusd   aenspLco  pnsnarc. Pouetanne  un es  eec.   Polaho   inde  b   adaouSperhc.
7c   mp.jgnne,eranadkleee   adaeo  t  ie(Los;197dta                              ae  n  fnL  geutanree   natca   use,adtrteyeeues
.9 th ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~euano   a   leca  fn     oo.cbo.sdCnt-Pooatt    ttl
LAMP PCA (dP'h (.Sf  - O    a   a  e   e nn.a   urn   aktpfn.ea-                              obn   n   aa)daddb    htne                    tenme  ofkhOspttaf beds
tu Te by. saeno... u   ato a.o.dBnkA.e.   777tass_16,                                   entabei  phtsadpnategtna   ndseioladbctn_sa   e
L90   n   C7dt.febtnttCenp.    er  ot   peC bytfan  persa ...t  -Snepfyd
"t   -'k- ..d kil.h-                                             P ...~~~~~~by  t Lat  gen - h- nr_a-   ....abtiab.ert  rnointdting prntaiytand
d  19"d9h--i.); 1960,                                          -l~~~~~~~b-epna.   Loca  or- ena d boepdinale . and  ad bos   end  hater it.1 bedr.
dat.                                                                                 rn  hsytat Hd-tndbythe nusbe  of.b beo-s.                              .f
iranPoolnonLorCnto  tonal) -_  htto of urbanbto nonat p-npiLan-au;
diffarane.dafdninioeIod orbRan.ara-aity.affect.ersparabhtny  hf dataICOdBIf
asn  cans;  50.L7B   nd176dt.                                                AensdBie  f  oaehLd( fdeC  oar hyoeeild)- tbonab. cbas  end rear_t-
Poeolanlon ProfootI.n
dt                        --liI-;   S-  1170          7~~~~~~~  aseod  osst   f    rapn  tdatuinbear   itn    oanr
Onelalo  I car20f    Crrctpoaitin   rteCloa   rebasdon190       ndtfee  e i  eac.      bsneranLcgs  sy  r  ayno  b  Ecida  i
tealpoaltin  y  g  ad  anaa  tei    oraltyan  frnlnyraes      ta  ocebi  fo ,t theis   upss
Prjoto  praer   oraralt  nts  opie   f  h.  Lnleaee-          Aen    tnuhroff      raa   enronttg.uba.en   ual-A                     Ang
tn  (fe  aseaCya  brh  tcaangoiboonrynpa  apt  ieer             h r cf dcne  a   oe.L   i  ubo   ndrrlotuidnneto
andfeniliy nend1fo6prjec197009t55.-fdtnal9ur8nh.                                                 rena   dclicseost        _ay
"Onanio ..ter f couaintatIRS nar   po -bnonhr ts ..  no erojatetn"os..   !l. P'I'!
tba hntb  ate ifnqalhno  na  jankdrne,dnd aby th  age  nrue-ra m-bfo  int
siffns. etetoe.Thssasend tlafefrnitneedeln   o                                           duneteaeetCte
nb  rplosan   lce6       o  ui  net0 repr-duon         tynnae  uecoc  d.nntCi        HOSNiGor   col-it;   oendfat-renn                                aeedCnl
ofwme   etan   tsl   naiy    m    esicnypflatnalsns                                notaooraiasen  oerfic   lataspceces7o   engna
saisna    n  bsbat  t  teprjetd   baacat-tc   f  iapouaCocSi.ar  ecHoo-ghouains   c tytoudecide   gd H-.Il
inteyarlf,an   h   en   fdntn   ffanliy   aen  npne                 yasbth       duid  o   tfeetagu   fpiPr'dnefn   o
sent1 Plana.I.   bycuntri:hsl  ni-  uotaa adtio erolncsyeed10pren
CPa   nnwer   ataio   srshd -thoi  yIt cHat sntLn_ypouato                                  e nc                      HIspoten  belo  craoef h   f total school o q.   T
eia  aabenraeed                                                                fcidnyncoL    tes.noe  n  tnaa LoetndansHne   atndd
Ptrlsten  seiecedusftnrqhtee nhlae  for yar  nfg'   apone  m bun   innrocClan;
Per so.  - h.- -ttdy frppuauo   a  eameklant  (0   ecees   rtryds   ecry   aotonLro-echrtrtfg ntyolnsfr  u
natl  rea                                                                         uualy  f  2'CSt  ytrsofage-crrepodene.guanear a.a..t
Pe fa   t   atolua   ad- Cosane .a boo  P rar7 unrL  adtrldd
onty.r.flf.i,yb,fP .o.tt .a wnnnlac   rrtnIfdtodrL-Inatclinttto
Ponaio   g   trcae)rrat  -CIden(-iper  ,aokr-ga(5                             oo   ecahta,   tiria,o   thnporaeot'hpot  ilpn
64yern,  odratng(H  yar  ed  pn)anpeoetaeso  aidyea  yP.         -d'l  o   slpste                       tO neco-ndary       - ia -icutton1
Cue Brisn   ranaanj-  nulln   bith  pa                         . Chooand    aidf-yearP    PIt
popaletin; ifiNt 1970, ad ifid. ata.,ConLd -,.J
Srdt ec   aecnnasgf-csa   ateprnnan   fadye                                              PgeotCr  ernoan   ouain       asne   asoens   so
ponniation; iSHO, 197-0thand 1978rdata,.                                       care sa btIC   Lase tb .. eIgh   anoa;notds  nul ee.eass  n
Pesiy PlnIda-Tesfecn  o   nnw   amu    Panarngeof abnnd                                   cononiaooltht              I i ets leg.       G
ocanofttl-bmne        'h, 15u yPareSgig ot  ftnbeo tho dpctee  no -                 Oraar   erthnI.        dcolto)-ILotten(rhodatt
al th ynrie  nng  i   ee  g   etp.nnrlbLopnrhu.edppuain;IIudaullaedhVrcen
IIPl~~~~~~~~~~~~in oc   in  n  In.. y.s.                             e oteni   ganeino%V    annt   fai
roAftLb.TtTIttteacne-I rolatot(penchesndtouit,,r   ..""                                                                             IYiol-1, thoods thsorcec6Cf
YuearfFo   pdetnnrCrn   1H-lnOf-tdno   e   aiaaca                                          nYior of b 'doily genna  tneiff nnpaa,  enc                npetdIahpb
rndeton o  alPl food        r.. .d,h.Y ch..dniapFodatin  ocuds  ne  sd C.dac..ooio  Itoedyr. nLynnrsatcoggeat.an..c  s  coldre
Pe  toie  unlrnfcooisd (aCsn-td ofreb-sana   Comute  froe                                                          f-WbI.1d..   -..~.- l.
anorgy  quinalen nf nt food  u'_lienevetiale  in cuntry pn  Iupia    'ruuoc nMIc
paPe.'         albi    tpisc  rlsdsst   routo.tprn    ea                               Tnllao   oe   toead)-Oool-tystc    eraa2tldn
haoaabald; tenot  l9t-t  190d       ad177dta.ihiga id-,-ntpgn-of_tco _l dato fote   9H,  90  nd17toas
PeP    ois.rl   fnnenOrs   edy       rtennnono   e   aia                                 bdar   cret       .oo    mot   tif   cenotu   iuanrn
ne  eppl   ffo   endy    e   apl ffo A            Ia daftth rdafbr.C-                 adesttiy   oe   n  gan   ecnaeo   oe   ao     rg   90
aor    h fond  (p .as; .91-5  1970 ned   1977 dat.                                                                            b
Ult1960-70, -d IWO-78.                                                                                  Lit--~~maseon  Icacatoct  cice
ChId B0t asts I-jtptltytnefe t          ba.. a-aaadII) ilh - . Anadethe p... d baoo    n     c  bcnoollaorCons
agegrup  -f pairs  noolldr1e75in thl.g.      op     rmn dPn.o...oan
abit;16.1970 end 1979 dots.
ofag  per ehwuao    - linebidrnba  h                                                  tat11-td  -bhui     oenyoonatcl  ttcn  snts      rbneI  os 
IInaa  CCt af aste   fan-nen - of nectetoe  - ntad          rbn.g       rural0,1 ...  -9, t diAbSo-l.t . poet(p   ne-    al  5ca thncnmnAI  tee   ao p     btit     - lttd
'Pma   fpni   toa,ubn   n   url   ihrsnal  soeeee no oafs                       nunr97lt.b..d...Ionollruas int plot hesennio  tot-fool  _eiteee    e  o
eae  splyjeloe  tetd  sraewtrsolnmoe  hut-nontaniat                                 a...dderOable.,                                                    f   di
id   -   -J. .-   g. jt,, ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~     ~     sontt Prcatongron penui TVet  fa-ns feat(cne)-ura
familyd 5 esterly n..ee1dJa.!,IlPb
ccaeP.ates  lenn  )natani       tcwanoe9otI ubanan
rnol7g~ecpepl    noaloho.adnotjereHyeon
P dtnpnial a  paranagI    o  chain ceP,oi   pooetn .d tonen  f.die                                                         ctm     adtoa   aaOye
pel.  sa.    ntd.b  elnto    e  d-eg-d-             nn oY-tnItnnacsC-dinnni .a.ytsandF- jg tte   Itpsrtms                                                             d
nfbamecre   n   aasonnbpse-oa  Yaeso  taueo                                                                   tihn18
em... r  fns  and.l  hlilher tanilanon.d    Ii          .           bf.    d            '.I   tP.I        ..    --



ANNEX I
CYPRUS    CONC11C DEVELOP21 NT DATA  SHUT /I                                                             Page 4 of 5
tEtiated         Projec-td               An-l Gro-th Roat.             Share
1975        1976         1977         197S        1979        19B0         1981        1985         1975-1979        1979-;985       1979
e..1.BL AIOUUSTO ti.
Cr,a. do-.ti. prodoRt (ot oIk.t pi ..)            689.9        884.3       1004.1       1099.1      1160.3       1210.7      1253.7       1573.1            13.9             5.2       100.0
Cln fro-  t.r   of te-d.                                        23.6          1.9        -3.0                    -11.2        -13.5       -1IC.4                             ...         .
C0... do.tL. tnc_                                 689.9        907.9       1006.0       1096.1      1160.3       1199.5      1240.2       1462.7            13.9             4.0       100.0
%.po.to (good.0   NFSI                            248.0        419..        513.6       54S.9        712.3        771.6       833.3       1003.9            3C.2             5.0        61.4
I.po.t. (good.   NFS)                             395.8        555.2        727.4       S02.9        902.9        948.0       995.4       1190.2            23.0             4.7        77.S
R6.-teo Sol.o.c                                    147.8       135.8        213.3       254.0        190.6        176.4       162.1        186.3             6.5           -0.4         16.4
loo..toact                                         120.0       163.6        255.2       15.1         394.0       411.1        423.4        461.8            34.6             2.0        34.0
CoOpeoL..                                          717.7       883.1        961.6      1I05.0       1069.6       1104.9      1138.0       1207,5            10.5             2.0        92.
L-L0te 0.0105                                    -27.8         24.5         44.4        91.1         90.7         94.6       102.2        225.5                            1 .  16.4    7.0
N01t0.nl 0.0t05                                     10.5        65.3         93.7        102.5       128.2        130.2        175.0       294.4            86.9            14.0         11.0
1C6O1   OUTPUT                                                      Sh-re of Total WOtpot of Carreot F.ct.  Coot (%)
Agr"aa1tae                                          16.7        17.0         14.0         L2.0        11.5         11.2         11.0         9.5             2.6             2.0
lodoat:y                                           24.3         27.7         29.7        32.2         33.6         33.9        34.2         35.4            21.7             8.3
Oth.r                                               59.0        55.3         56.3         55.8        54.9         54.9        54..8        5.1             13.0             4.5
P81CE1 ui975 . 100)
E.gpoe  price.                                    100.0        107.5        107.0        107.1       114.0        121.3       129.1        166.7
r,p-0t ptic.                                      (100.0       101.0        107.1       107.6        11.57       124.4        133.7        193.3
Ter o-   rdo                                       100.0       105.6         9i.0        99.5         98.5         97.5        96.5         06.2
CDP dofloor                                        100.0       106.0        118.0        127.1       142.0        157.6       173.3        210.8
PUBLIC *^.INOM                                             A  7. of 0DP at Carrect lhrk.t P,Lc..
OoG. oot -eaoeoe.                                 21.3        1I.7          1S.0        19.3        21.0         21.2
C°oo.ot  opodit-t  nd   t I.dtl                    35.5         31.2        26.6         25.6         26.0        2056
Deficit                                            14.2         12.5          7.8         6.5          7.0         4.4
szucn   7ND0CAT013S                               1975-79      9                         LABOR FORCE                               1975     1979
1100                                                2.5          6.1                     La-or force (tho.a..d)                   207.7    205.0
1.port e1a1.teity                                   1.36         1.03                    Jne.plo.y-nt  7-4)                        16.1      1.8
AOeeagS  do.e.ti.  -Lag. -at.                       7.S        1.0                      Eploy-.t (tloa...d)                      114.2    201.3
rSoonLl doQtic oSatng. r.                          29.7         25.4                       Agrtcaltar- 1.)                         25.9     21.9
C-o.a1_nt/GOP                                      26.9         31.9                      Ied,.tty (7.1)                           21.5     29.5
lpoe-t*GDP                                         61.0         63.4                       ath-e  (.)                              52.6     48.6
jL  R.fer to .o.ther  Cyp-o. only.                                                                                                           2MDA
Jcaery 1981



CYPRUS - MAXof P YIIU15 MD  YX2NL ASSZSTAIC ACT
(in utIIIm    of US doLl-...
1975            197S             1977            L978           1979             1980            1981                1985
L.P---. (9-40 & NrS)                             275.6            430.Z           519.1           596.2           7 75.3          900- 1         1067.3              11.
R... porc                                      -imo   6  S         79.5          -14.             255.6          -324. _.                         MM
N.t f ctor IncO_                                   5.2              8.4            23.0            31.1            47.7            52.4           60. a                53.7
N. t    .nfr152                                                    :142                            7.              24.8             28.1           3a: 1               37.3
Currnt oceoac bzlrnes                94.3            .>7.9           146.8i_202.                     -251.7          _286.          -314.413
Crn.t M o 6 orn                                   '2' 2°           422' 9          458             91404           626 0             5 62         11O505              25306°
Dlsburv_nc                        8~ ~       ~ ~~~~~              ~~~.4  32.4  51.2  14            84.            11.            145.7               425.6
ArorCla^aton                     6. ~        ~ ~~~        ~      ~~~    ~~2 9.5  11.5  14.7       22.9            2H.8            35.2               175.0
S^put-s  n s.X.                      ~~~      ~       ~~~ ~ ~~~6.0  19.?  43.6        59.5             90 3           110 2          150.2                 0 
Nec sxror ;nd o i;ione       .9 s             IL2              5~ ~ ~~                ~      ~~~ ~       ~~~~~~-3    20 0  3225   _--           __
Ow .. ll b i .c                                  _38.8             43.4             5.4            10.5   -       -32.6             -8.3            2.0                49.4
I.t.-n.tL-1o rtrv .. ... nd y-i215.2                              291.9           332.2           365.5            366.5           390.5          401.0               598.7
4-r..ig  rtat. CL                               2_7162           2.4371          2.4510          2.6788          2 822            2.87i4          ..                  -----
p sroln- L porvs         49.1             es.3            t3*.3            83.s    ~     ~~~~~ ~~~~~~             ~     ~~~~ i 5.6  1 5 .  195,.0  351.0
LIAUI COMIeTMDlNS                                                                                                                  Di   & Mt #5011                  V75        197      7          8       1979
Totel Fu211e M 6 LT           7 0             156 o           ~~~~   ~    ~ ~~~          ~~~~~~~1'00  8 5  5160  md Tec  pD ld            16.3ctDd- a  76.3    94.4    162.0   240.9
Oth. r  ll;rl56                                               24.0             5.28.                           Z.7    ftel'c Tbtob      se                ol        16        1.        25.7    40.2
5.~ ~  ~    ~ ~~0                                       14:           M*£Ch tLuor                  (*.9       (5.3)    (8.6)   (13.4)  (24.4)
Su ppl-                                       1.4              0.3             1.7             4.3                     D         $"ic 8   al0   cot       3.7'       3.4       3.4       4.4     5.2
pinznei.l I.tLltetoLaa_                                        1.4            50.8            647. 7          15.7      ra.          Ttl DIOaDo            6          69        9        83      13
An7GLC TsM OF r.61  CDl"-THSlS                                                                                                     .C T et bc 8 rvleT-to  WI)x   13.2          15.49    18.9       15.9    16 7
Aw ros Inc rent (% Ps~~~~~~~~~6 87                8      :1              'I      7       3 0            8.3        3 DDD;SecAl DDID                53 0      4t2 1    24 9182831
A,e^s   1utJ(7o-4.4                                                 e.6            12. 5              .3            9.5      1Xi Debt 3zvlc*/TtSocl Debt 
irv2e                    4~~~~~~~~~~7.0  !>4.4  34.8    23.7    1.
12  Y   rly Iao f  Cloo pt privt.s debt 16 Mt  U^bl                           74t velpie                                                                                          zp   y1g
-di.Wu      S-wuc*    d.bt outttMlA  to  -7r   11U -^ : r^lt of th. 1974L76
,vt.,  Tsog    2rt-t_c_ d bt muctmsdl4  W  $58  I171X   at tho  of4 1976



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CYPRUS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of February 28, 1981)
US$ Millions
Amount
Loan                                                     (Less
Number   Year      Borrower      Purpose             cancellations)   Undisbursed
Nine loans fully disbursed                                 60.1               -
730     1971   Sewage Board    Sewerage and
of Famagusta    Drainage System            1.9               0.5
960     1974   Republic of      Paphos Irrigation
Cyprus                                    14.0               2.9
1344     1976   Republic of      Highway II
Cyprus                                    10.0               8.4
1483     1977   Republic of      Rural
Cyprus          Development               10.0               7.8
1540     1978   Cyprus Ports    Ports II
Authority                                  8.5               6.6
1658     1979   Republic of      Water Resources
Cyprus          Development               11.0              11.0
1744     1979   Cyprus           DFC
Development
Bank                                       5.0               1.1
1873     1981   Electricity      Power V
Authority of
Cyprus                                    16.0              16.0
Total                                           136.5
of which has been repaid                       23.8
Total now outstanding                           112.7
Amount sold                    2.3
of which has been repaid    2.3
Total now held by Bank                          112.7
Total undisbursed                                                  54.3



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of February 28, 1981)
Amount of US$
Year            Obligor            Type of Business       Loan      Equity      Total
1972    Cyprus Cement Company           Cement             2.3        0.6         2.9
1977    Cyprus Pipes Industr'y         Construction
material           0.5        0.2         0.7
Total gross commitments                            2.8       0.8         3.6
Less cancellations, sales
terminations and repayments                       1.7        0.4         2.1
Total commitments now held by IFC                  1.1       0.4         1.5
Total undisbursed                                   -        0.1         0.1



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Loan No. 730 - Famagusta bewerage Project: U6$1.9 million loan of April 5,
1971. Effective Date; July 16, 1971. Closing Date: (original) March 31,
1975; (current) March 31, 1981.
The project was about 90 percent completed in July 1974, when
construction was interrupted. The project site lies entirely in Famagusta,
which is under the control of the Turkish Cypriot administration. Completion
of this project therefore depends on a political settlement. At the request
of the Borrower and Government, the closing date has been extended on an
annual basis, the last time to March 31, 1981, pending further progress toward
such a settlement. 2/
Loan No. 960 - Paphos Irrigation Project: US$14.0 million loan of' January 30,
1974. Effective Date: October 10, 1975. Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Work has been completed on the main canal and Eastern Conveyance
System, with the Western Conveyor pipeline also essentially complete.
Construction of the Asprokremos Dam is well underway with completion expected
by early 1982. Construction of the pumping stations is nearly complete and
farm distribution system is well underway. Land consolidation is also
progressing satisfactorily and training of farmers at the "Farmers Training
Center" is continuing with high farmer interest and participation. Overall
progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1344 - Second Highway Project: US610.0 million loan of December 31,
1976. Effective Date: October 11, 1977. Closing Date; April 30, 1982.
The main construction contract- was awarded in January 1979, and
construction is making satisfactory progress.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.
2/  The undisbursed balance of the loan, $0.5 million approximately, was
cancelled as of March 31, 1981.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 ot 4
Loan No. 1483 - Pitsilia Integrated Rural Development Project: US$10.0
million loan of August 18, 1977. Etfective Date: November 7, 1977. Closing
Date: June 30, 1983.
Overall implementation of project works is proceeding
satisfactorily. The contract of the Xyliatos Dam has now been awarded and
construction is underway. Health tacilities have been completea in three
villages, and work on village streets is essentially completed. Work is
progressing on farm roads, on-farm water distribution systems, and land
consolidation and rehabilitation.
Loan No. 1540 - Second Ports Project: US$8.5 million loan ot April 12, 1978.
Effective Date: August 11, 1978. Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The contract for the main civil works component involving
construction of quays at Limassol has been awarded and construction work is
underway. Overall progress satistactory.
Loan No. 1658 - Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project for Water Resources
Development: US$11.0 million loan of February 12, 1979. Effective Date:
July 16, 1979. Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
This project has undergone initial delays due to slow progress in
appointment of consultants. However, now that consultants have been selected
and are expected to begin work in early 1981, progress shoula improve
thereafter.
Loan No. 1744 - Third Cyprus Development Bank Project: US$5.0 million loan or
July 5, 1979. Eftective Date: November 30, 1979. Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
About 70 percent of the loan was committed as ot the end oi 1980.
The management and staff of CDB have developed a good project appraisal and
supervision capability, and project implementation continues smoothly.
Loan No. 1873 - Power Transmission and Distribution Project: US$16.0 million
loan of June 25, 1980. Effective Date: November 10, 1980. Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Project implementation is underway and proceeding satisfactorily.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page i of 1
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
FRUIT AND VEGETABLE EXPORT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section 1: Timetable for Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare project        Two years
(b)  Agency which prepared project                   Ministry of Agriculture
with assistance from
FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program
(c)  Project first presented to Bank                 1978
td)  First Bank mission to review project        :  May 1980
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission              :  October 1980
(f)  Completion of negotiations                  :  April 1981
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness               :  August 15, 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III; Special Conditions
1. Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) An increase in the interest rate for on-farm development investments
from its present level of 4.5 percent to 7 percent (paras. 38 and
49); and
(b) Establishment of the Horticultural Export Development Advisory and
Coordinating Committee (HEDACC) (para. 45(b)).
2. Measures to be taken by the Government include;
(a) Recruitment of an export marketing development advisor (para. 45(b));
and
kb) Establishment of an export promotion facility of $1.0 million jointly
funded by the Bank ($0.5 million) and the Government ($0.5 million)
for financing promotional activities in new target markets for the
country's horticultural exports (para. 45(c)).






lattj fFN~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
0 t - ? i 8 ys \ t.. /~~~~fri                  m3
<         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-     !
-:    tt-                   Iu >t            t
I :       : :-   1  '        R 
44I     I           .  -
f t0000 L 0    e i L L t;  'N   '''--' ,..Xff  :   t0 D -   ti; ',0~~VI
.0==    N..   l- t,;; : S Xtf:  S.E o   E Dt0   ;;X 
tr:::       ;      : : r :ff:.E:  cf Q  -        =-0 :0-
' ca            *        °@|   00E0^;;-    
Li=.t='='.'.-={?Rg='g=t2-g '          "''    0   0    '



