Donwast of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Report No. 6416
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA DOMESTIC AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1624-CO)
September 24, 1986
Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office
This document has a restricted Jistribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR omCAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Oike of DOffWk,Cu.Wal
Opswuinn Evakuation
September 24, 1986
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Colombia Domestic Aviation
Development Project (Loan 1624-CO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Colombia Domestic Aviation Development Project (Loan
1624-CO)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office.
Under the modified system for project performance auditing, further
evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has not
been made.
'
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCAL Use ONLY
PROJECT C0IPLETION REPORT
COLADBIA - WAN 1624-CO
DaKESTIC AVTIION DEVELOPW?I PROJECT
TANES OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface                                 ........................       ±
Basic Data Sheet .....i
Mission ............. ......................   iii
Highlights                                                            iv
I.  INTRODUCTION ...................                                        1
II.  PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL              ........                 2
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST              .........                  4
IV.  TRAFFIC AND OPERATING PERFORMANCE ................... .......           9
V.  FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER            ........              10
VI.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT ............ .......         13
VII.  ECONOMIC REEVALUATION   .0. ..13
VIII.  CONCLUSIONS ....0000... 0......15
TABLES
1.   Actual and Appraisal Estimate3 of Proj(ut Cost                         16
2.   Actual and Appraisal Schedule of Project Completion ......0.0.    18
3.   Schedule of Disburcements                                              19
4.   Actual and Appraisal Airport Traffic Projections, 1978-2000            20
5.   Actual and Appraisal Income Statements of DAAC/FAN, 1978-1984.    21
6.   Actual and Appraisal Balance Sheets of DAAC/FAN, 1978-1984             22
7.   Actual and Appraisal Expectation of Project Financing                  23
8.   Ex-post and Appraisal Estimates of Economic Rates of Return            24
ANNEX
1.   htrrower Comments                                                     25
MAPS
IBRD 13569 - Domestic Aviation Develoment Project
IBRD 13571 - Medellin International Airport
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wurld Bank authorization.



- i -
PROWJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOIIA
DCONESTI' AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PEOJECT (LOAM 1624-CD)
Preface
The following is the Project Completion Report of Colombia's
Domestic Aviation Development Project for which a loan in the amount of
US$61.0 million was approved by the Executive Directors on October 10,
1978. A grant of US$70,000 from the United Nations Development Program
helped to finance the technical assistance component of the project. Except
for $516,756.62 which was cancelled, funds from Loan 1624-CO were fully
disbursed in July 1985 and the project was completed the following wonth.
The following sources were used in the preparation of this Project
Completion Report: Appraisal Report, Loan Agreement, Supervision Reports,
Quarterly and Annual Reports, Official Correspondence and Quarterly Progress
Reports.
In accordance with the revised procedure for project performance
audit reporting, this Project Completion Report was read by the Operations
Evaluation Department but the project was not audited. The draft report was
sent to the Borrower for comments; their comments, shown as an annex, were
incorporated into the text.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
DOmESTIC  IAv ION  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1624-CO)
Bastc Data Sheet
Key Project Data
Appraisal         Actual or
Item                                            Expectation         Estimated
Total Project Cost (US$ m)                         97.8               210.8
overrun %                                                           115.0
Loan/Credit Amount (US$ m)                          61.0               61.0
Disbursed                                        61.0                60.5
Cancelled                                         _                   0.5
Repaid                                                                _
Outstanding
Date Physical Components Completed                 12/31/83          8/31/85
Proportion Completed by Above Date                   100%              80%
Proportion of Time overrun (%)                                         33%
Economic Rate of Return (%)                           22%              12%
Financial Performance                                                Better
Institutional Performance                                           Unchanged
Other Project Data
Original                       Actual or
Item                                   Plan        Revisions        Estimated
First mention in file or timetable       -                            4/14/76
Government's Application                 -                           1/77(Fst)
Negotiations                             -                            8/21/78
Board Approval                           -                           10/10/78
Loan/Credit Agreement Date               -                           12/29/78
Effectiveness Date                    6/4/79                          7/24/79
Closing Date                          12/84                             12/84
Borrower                                      Republic of Colombia
Executing Agency                              Dpto. Adm. de Aeronautica Civil
Fiscal Year of Borrower                       January 1 - December 31
Follow-on Project Name                        None Scheduled



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COL(tSIA
DOMESTIC AVIATION DEVELOPHENT PROJECT (LOAN 1b24-CO)
Mlssion Data
No. of    No. of      Man/        Date of
Item               month/year    days    Persons        Days         Report
Identification          2/77        11        2          22          2/25/77
Preparation             7/77         5        3          15          8/05/77
11/77        3         1           3        11/30/77
1/78       10         2         20          1/11/78
Prenegotiarion          7/78         7        2          14          7/27/78
Appraisal            1/78-2/78      14         1         14          9/28/78
28        3          84
Sub-Totai                                               172
Supervision I          10/78         2        4           8         10/27/78
Supervision II          2/79         2        4           8          3/14/79
Supervision III         6/79         2        4           8          6/26/79
Supervision IV         11/79         2        4           8         12/05/79
Supervision V           5/80         2        4           8          5/19/80
Supervision VI         11/80         3        5          15         11/21/80
Supervision VII         3/81         2        5          10          3/29/81
Supervision VIII        6/81         1        5           5          6/17/81
Supervision IX          9/81         2        5          10          9/08/81
Supervision X           2/82         2        5          10          3/22/82
Supervision XI          6/82         1        4           4          6/25/82
Supervision XII        11/82         2        5          10         11/24/82
Supervision XIII        6/83         2                    9          6/17/83
Supervision XIV        10/83         2        5          10         11/08/83
Supervision XV          4/84         4        3          12          5/30/84
Sub-Total                                               135
Total                                                   307
Country Exchange Rates
Nlame of Currency:  Peso (Col S/.)    Rate:  US$1 - 37.6 (initial)
US$1 = 61.85 (average)
US$1 = 143 (final)
Year: Appraisal Year Average - 1978 - Exchange Rate
* Intervening Years Average - 1979-83
Completion Year Average - 1985
* Based on monthly averages for 1979-1983



- iv -
PROJECT CaMPLETION REPORT
COLRMBIA
DOMESTIC AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1624-CO)
Highlights
The physical components of the Domes'ic Aviation Development Project
have been generally successfully carried out. The overall rate of return is
satisfactory, but substantially lower than the appraisal estimate and some of the
institutional building objectives have not been achieved.
The project was designed to allow continued growth in the air
transportation subsector by removing constraints at the airports of Medellin,
Cartagena and Bogota; provide flight calibration equipment, and strengthen the
management of the Department of Civil Aviation (DAAC) (para 1.06).
Project implementation was delayed on average by almost two years
because of inadequate preliminary engineering, complex bureaucratic procedures and
legal technicalities. These delays and higher than anticipated inflation resulted
in increased project costs. However, the largest factor influencing the cost
overrun was the serious problems encountered with ear:h moving in Medellin. Worse
than expected soil conditions were encountered and some unsuitable technical
decisions were made by the contractor and the supervising consultants in trying to
overcome them (paras 3.11-3.15).1/
As a result of the substantial total cost overrun and a slower than
expected growth in air traffic, the economic rate of return for the project,
estimated at 22% at appraisal, was reevaluated at 12%. The executing agency is to
be commended for being able to finance this cost overrun from internally-generated
funds (para 5.07).
The emphasis which was given to completion of the physical aspects of
the project together with too frequent changes in the management of the executing
agency resulted in inadequate attention to the institutional aspects of the
project. Among other shortcomings, a major goal, that of DAAC becoming
financially autonomous, was not achieved [para 5.08 (a)I.
I/   The Borrower, however, is of the opinion that actual soil conditions
were within those considered in the engineering studies for the
different airports (Annex 1, page 1, para 1). While there seems to be
consensus with the Borrower on the fact that difficulties with handling
the soils contributed to delays and cost overruns, Bank staff felt that
these difficulties could have been foreseen and measures could have
been taken to minimize them.



PROJECN COMPLETION REPoWT
COLOMBIA
DOMESTIC AVIATION DEVEL0PHWT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Colombia has coastlines on both the Pacific Ocean and the
Caribbean Sea, but this advantage of having two coastlines is offset by the
difficulty of movement between the coasts and the interior. Transport
investment policy over the past twerty years has been aimed at national
integration and at overcoming the barriers imposed by topography.
1.02      The effort to establish the basic transportation infrastructure
absorbed a considerable proportion of the country's public investment.
Transportation represented over half of the Central Government's investment
in the late 1950's. More recently, with most of the basic infrastructure in
place, transportation's share declined and, by 1984, it amounted to about
13% of public investments.
1.03      The  Colombian domestic surface transport system moved about 25.4
billion ton-km of freight in 1984, of which about 88% was moved by truck
over the national highway system. Coastal shipping accounted for about 4%,
river transport about 5%, and railways some 3%. Roads and aviation dominate
passenger traffic, accounting respectively for 71% and 27% of total demand,
estimated at 17,250 million passengers/km in 1984.
1.04      Aviation transport in Colombia developed early in the 1920's,
induced by the adverse topography and the inherent difficulties of surface
transport. Air traffic is now a major passenger transport mode for both
international and domestic travel, and, while air freight represents only a
very small proportion of the total volume of transport operations, air
exports are expanding rapidly.
1.05      There are presently in the Colombian territory 70 airports, whose
standards vary widely. Seven of the airports in mainland Colombia and one
on the Caribbean Island of San Andres are equipped for international
flights. Aviation is governed by the Adminiscrative Department of Civil
Aeronautics (DAAC), which is directly responsible to the President of the
Republic. DAAC's primary areas of responsibility are the setting of
aeronautical policy, control of aeronautical communications, execution of
studies and works, and administration and operation of airports and
aeronautical installations. DAAC is financially supported by the National
Aeronautics Fund (FAN), whose revenues originate mainly from user charges.
FAN is an autonomous public entity which functions essentially as a bank
account for DAAC, with all FAN personnel requirements being met by DAAC
staff. FAN's primary function is the provision of funds for studies,
construction, maintenance, operations and acquisition of fixed assets in
accordance with DAAC's requirements. The funds for DAAC/FAN's salaries and
general expenses are provided by the National Budget.



- 2 -
1.06      The Bank has played an important role in the development of
Colombia's transport sector. Its involvement dates back to 1949, when a
transport sector mission reported the transport system to be in an
exceptionally bad condition. Since 1950, the Bank has loaned about
US$551 million ira 23 loans to the sector. These investments supported the
construction of an integra-ed highway network and, more recently, have
contributed to the rehabilitation and maintenance of the national network
and to the development of an improved highway organization. They have also
contributed to the construction of over 670 km of the main railroad line, as
well as to the rehabilitation of other lines. The domestic aviation
project, designed to improve basic aviation infrastructure and subsector
efficiency and planning, was the first Bank operation in the aviation
subsector.
1.07      The objectives of the project were to allow continued growth in
the air transportation subsector and improve the flow of air traffic within
Colombia. Accordingly, the project aimed at removing the constraints to air
traffic growth at the airports of Medellin, Cartagena and Bogota, providing
flight calibration equipment for use on the airways throughout the country,
and strengthening the administration, planning and financial practices of
DAAC. Also, under the project, the Borrower would establish a system to
combine and integrate the aviation sector (DAAC/FAN) revenue-expenditure
mechanisms as to achieve sector financial autonomy by the year 1983, thereby
eliminating budget transfers from that year onwards.
1.08      Apart from US$70,000 made available by the United Nations
Development Program for customs facilitation studies, the project was
financed by a Bank loan of US$61.0 million and by FAN's internally generated
funds.
1.09      The following sources were used in the preparation of this Project
Completion Report: Appraisal Report, Loan Agreement, Supervision Reports,
Quarterly and Annual Reports, Official Correspondence, and Quarterly
Progress Reports.
II. PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
2.01      Because of its rugged territory, aviation in Colombia has become a
very important mode of transportation. Growth was being hindered by
physical limitations at several of the major airports. Medellin, in
particular, was suffering from the incapacity of the existing airport to
permit either instrument or night flights. Cartagena's runway was too short
and weak for large aircrafts, and the terminal building and its apron were
inadequate. Barranquilla's terminal building, apron and taxiway system were
inadequate, and Bogota's runway and taxiways were too weak and terminal
building and apron too small. Lastly, the lack of a balanced development
plan was retarding rational aviation development of the Llanos, the largely
undeveloped eastern part of the country.



-3-
2.02      In February 1977, an identification mission recommended
preparation of a project to correct the above deficiencies in the four
airports. The proposed project encompassed support to strengthen and
lengthen the runway, and strengthen and enlarge the taxiway and apron at
Cartagena plus minor ancillary works; strengthen and enlarge the taxiway
system and terminal apron at Barranquilla plus minor ancillary works;
strengthen the runway and taxiway at Bogota, and study and finance an
enlargement of the Bogota terminal and cargo facilities and their aprons.
It also contemplated construction, if justified, of a new runway with
texiways at the Bogota airport. These works, however, were eventually not
included in the project since, with the installation of additional
navigational aids, airport capacity could be expanded co meet expected
demand up to 1992. Secondly, it was recommended that the reorganization and
streamlining of the customs procedures constituted a major covenant of the
proposed loan. The identification mission also recommended the allocation
of loan funds for the preparation of a comprehensive transport plan for the
Llanos region (para 2.03).
2.03      During the initial months of 1977, DAAC began carrying out various
economic and financial studies to determine the feasibility of the aviation
project and, by the end of 1977, the mission was presented with draft
feasibility reports for each of the project airports. With the exception of
the proposal for a second runway at El Dorado Airport, which had not yet
been included into the studies, the economic and financial returns on the
potential project items were found satisfactorv to the Pank.  During the
early months of 1978, it was decided that the Bank would help finance the
purchase of a flight facility instrumentation (FFI) aircraft, and that the
Llanos/Amazonas transport study would be excluded because the Ministry of
Public Works and Transportation agreee to carry out this work by its own
means. The improvements on the Barranquilla airport were also excluded
because DAMC had already entered into contracts so that this urgently needed
work could be rapidly completed.
2.04      The Bank proposed that the project include thirteen man-years of
technical assistance for DAAC, the autonomous governmental etity which
governs aviation in Colombia. The areas to be covsred would be: air
traffic control (1 year), electronic engineering or taintenance (2 years),
spares procurement and warehousing (2 years), airport and terminal building
management and operation (3 years), airport financial accounting (3 years)
and planning (2 years). There would also be provision for technical
training both on the job and abroad. Additionally, in an effort to
strengthen its accounting capability, DAAC was preparing to undertace a
study of its accounting system and at the same time determine if tbe volume
of activity warranted computerization.
2.05      The preparation mission recommended that a foreign consulting firm
be engaged to review airport user charges, rental charges and contracts and
that the current financial arrangements of DAAC and FAN be integrated so
that sector revenues accrued to FAN and sector expenditures accrued to DAAC
could be consolidated in a financially self-sufficient operation. Such a
change was believed to allow more efficient management of the sector's
financial affairs. Finally, it was recommended that DAAC/FAN should make
greater efforts to keep the level of user charges up-to-date cd improve
effectiveness of collections.



-4-
2.06      The final plans for the project included the construction of a new
airport in Rionegro (Medellin) and the improvement of the airports in Bogota
and Cartagena* It also included provisions for technical assistance and
training, a consultant for the financial plan, preparation of a Bogota
master plan by a consultant and an FFI aircraft with its ground equipment
and accessories. In addition, the loan agreement included the financial
covenants to carry out the recommendations made by the preparation
missions. It was also agreed that the Republic of Colombia would be the
Borrower and would enter into an agreement for relending the proceeds of the
loan to FAN, defining the participation of FAN in carrying out the project,
and establishing a system to ensure that the airport sector would have
financial autonomy by the year 1983 [paras 1.07 and 5.08 (a)l. Covenants
were also established concerning DAAC/FAN's financial accounts and
statements that included an accounting study to be carried out by DAAC by
July 1, 1979; restrictions on investment in works not included in the
project; the control of tariffs; and the control of various financial
ratios.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST
Cartagena
3.01      The project at Crespo Airport (Cartagena) consisted of six major
components: runway extension, strengthening and drainage, including a
turnaround taxiway loop; expansion of aircraft parking aprons; auto parking
and access road construction and paving; runway lighting improvements and
construction of stand-by electrical plant; CFR building construction; and
navaids and communication equipment improvements.
3.02      Overall, project implementation at the Crespo Airport was free of
major problems. There were, however, various minor problems that adversely
affected the project's timely execution. Planned and actual completion
dates are shown in Table 2. One problem that caused significant project
delays was the legal process involved in finalizing the award of a
contract. In Colombia after the selection of a successful bidder, which
takes about three months, there is a further process of legal and budgetary
review. This process introduced considerable delay, since it involves
several setting stages before the contract reaches the contractor for
signature. For example, selection of successful bidders for the first two
contracts (&pron, auto parking and access road paving, and runway extension)
was made in May 1979, but final award was delayed until August 1979 and
February 1980, respectively. The practice is unde- review by the director of
DAAC with the intent of reducing as much of the time delay as possible for
future contracts.
3.03      In addition to the civil works, the loan agreement for this
project included a provision for a master plan for the future development of
an airport for Cartagena at a different site. Since traffic did not develop
as originally projected the master plan was not carried out, remaining the
only area of noncompliance concerning Cartagena.



-5-
Bogota
3.04      The civil works at the Eldorado Airport included the following
components: strengthening taxiways and aprons; relocation of the access
road to the air force facility and enlarging the international apron;
drainage improvements in aircraft operating areas; apron lighting; cargo
apron strengthening and terminal expansion; renovation of the international
terminal, including provision of ten additional holding rooms and gate
positions; and renovation of the domestic terminal. The component also
included a new navaids installation.
3.05      With the exception of delays caused mainly by bureaucratic and
legal requirements, there were no major problems in the execution of the
civil works at Eldorado airport. The engineering for the aircraft movement
areas to be improved under the project got underway during 1979 and the
contract for the first component of the loan, which included improving and
widening various movement areas, was awarded on December 15, 1979.
3.06      There ware bureaucratic delays in the selection of Colombian
architects for the design of the Bogota terminal building but by
mid-February 19d32, a local firm had been appointed. The architectural firm
completed the design for the terminal building renovations by the end of
June 1982. Construction work on both the international and domestic
terminals was essentially completed without significant problems by August
1983, and the Navaids installations by July 1984 (see Table 2 for further
details).
3.07      The project included the installation of new navaids (VOR) to
assist aircraft in approaching and leaving the airport, and thus increase
its capacity, A study completed in 1979 resulted in selection of a new VOR
site at La Herrera, south of the airport, but before the equipment arrived
in mid-1983 further studies in connection with the Bogota Master Plan (see
para 3.08 below) indicated that the existing VOR site should continue to be
used in addition to one at a new site west-north-west of the airport (Buena
Vista). Prior to final approval of this plan, DAAC decided to install the
new equipment at the existing site. The old VOR has been installed at
another airport (Ipiales) and procurement action is in progress for new
equipment for the Buena Vista site. The Bank reviewed the consultants'
report, approved by DAAC, of the VOR locations for Eldorado and had no
objection to the plan.
3.08      Bogota Master Plan:  In addition to the civil works and equipment
included in the project, DAAC was required to complete a two-phase master
plan for the future expansion of the existing facilities, including the
possible construction of a second runway. The first phase (the land use
study) would be financed by the loan. The second phase, which would be
financed by FAN, consisted of the final engineering plars for the Eldorado
airport expansion. After various delays, a consultant was chosen in March
1981. By June 1982, the consultant had presented his preliminary
conclusions for the location of the second runway parallel to the first.
Detailed plans for expansion of Eldorado Airport on this basis were later
commissioned by DAAC.



-6-
Medellin
3.09      The civil works in the construction of the Rionegro Airport
included: earth moving; airport paving, access road paving, drainage; high
tension line relocation; terminal building structure; terminal building
finishes, public services, etc.; cargo building; CFR building. In addition,
the component included: special systems equipment and installation;
commumi.cations equipment and installation; navaids; telephones; lighting;
CFR equipment; and electrical substation.
3.10      Despite the legal and bureaucratic delays that affected all
aspects of the aviation project, the civil works at the Rionegro airport
got off to a good start. The earth-moving contract was awarded in May 1979
and signed on October 7, 1979. The contractor selected offered both a short
contract peried of thirty months, and a low price. The new schedule would
result in cutting eighteen months from the project timetable.
3.11      However, delays in the earth-moving process set in soon after
work started, significantly affecting the completion date. These initial
delays were attributable to wet soils as a result of frequent rains. By May
1980 the contractor was five months behind schedule even though he was
working on two twelve-hour shifti daily.
3.12      The next major problem in the project came in May 1980.  At the
suggestion of the earth-works contractor, the supervising engineer had
approved a change in design of the culverts passing under the runway, from
reinforced concrete box culverts to corrugated steel pipes. This was done
without the Bank's knowledge or approval. Three of the culverts failed
probably because of improper installation and the high water content of the
existing soils. The Bank felt that the field management of the supervising
consultant had not been sufficiently rigorous in preventing poor quality
construction: In the first place, the contractor was permitted to change
from concrete culverts to less expensive corrugated metal pipes with no
financial advantage to DAAC. Second, the contractor was allowed to leave
earth surfaces poorly graded so that water tended to collect in hollows and
seep into the material. Third, the contractor was allowed to backfill
around the corrugated metal pipe with material that could not be properly
consolidated. Fourth, the contractor was allowed to install the corrugated
metal pipe in the deepest fill section without proper bedding. Finally, the
contractor was permitted to dispose of excess material being cut from high
ground by pushing the material into natural drainage courses.
3.13      By August 1980, reinforced concrete box culverts were being
designed to replace the steel pipes. The Bank approved the replacement,
with the provisos that a suitaAle foundation design be carried out, and that
the culvert be designed to withstand a minimum aircraft design load of
1,000,000 pounds.
3.14      By November 1980, the steel culverts were being replaced by
reinforced concrete culverts, and instrumentation was being placed to
measure pore water pressures and consolidation so that rates of settlement
could be estimated and allowed for in the construction of the deeper
embankments. The specialist soil consultants engaged for foundation and
embankment design review reported that the fill material was predominantly



- 7 -
high plasticity silt placed in less than optimum conditions, due to
excessively high water content. The report confirmed the Bank's belief that
surface leveling of the airfield pavements would be necessary some time
after the completion of the initial paving, and recommended that settlement
be measured during construction to determine expected future settlement and
design remedial measures.
3.15      During the first half of 1981, earth works proceeded well under
difficult conditions. The supervising consultant replaced the previous
supervisory personnel and X major improvement was noted. However, by
September 1981, problems again arose concerning earth moving, as the
contractor repeated previous procedure mistakes. Further remedial action
had to be taken and, by February 1982, the soil problems were slowly being
resolved as time and the weight of the nearly completed embankments pressed
water out of the fill material. The earth-moving component of the project
was finally completed on July 31, 1982, three months after the revised
deadline, but two months before the date established in the appraisal
report. A total of 14,750,000 Zubic meters of material had been excavated
and 8,340,000 cubic meters placed and compacted in embankments.
3.16      While earth moving was being completed, other aspects of the
project had begun. The runway paving and access road construction contract
was awarded in March 1981, but was delayed by the problems in the
earth-moving contract.
3.17      In December 1982, DAAC and FAN announced that they would pave an
additional 500 meters of the runway, making it 3,500 meters long, plus two
additional taxiways. DAAC claimed that it would be cheaper to make the
addition at the time, rather than later because the contractor was already
on site and because of the need to accommodate larger planes. Because the
Bank did not see the economic justification for increasing the paved length
of the runway and DAAC failed to provide a study justifying the addition,
the Bank limited its financing to the original 3,000-meters runway.
3.18      The construction of the terminal at the Rionegro airport was let
in two separate contracts. The first, which consisted of the construction
of the building structure, was awarded on June 1, 1981. The second, for
building finishes, was awarded on April 1, 1981. The entire terminal
building was completed in July 1985, 31 months after the date scheduled in
the appraisal.
3.19      The contracts for all of the remaining civil works were awarded
between October 1982 and August 1983, and were completed in 1985. The last
major contract to be completed was the access road. Construction was
delayed by problems with land acquisition as well as unstable soils.1/
Completion dates of other contracts are given in Table 2.
3.20      In addition to the civil works included in the project, the loan
agreement included a covenant that required Colombia to discontinue the
general aviation activities in the Olaya Herrera Airport, close the
facilities, sell the land occupied by such airport, and turn over the
proceeds from the sale of this land to FAN. In 1980, however, the
government decided that the land would be put to good use as a park and that
the land should be given to the city of Medellin at no cost. The Bank
1/   In the Borrower's opinion, however, the contractor's financial problems
were the major cause of delays (Annex 1, page 1, para 2).



- 8 -
agreed to the change, and the loan agreement was altered accordingly. Legal
steps have been taken to close the existing airport and turn the land over
to the city of Medellin. There may be some delay in completing the transfer
since the facilities for general aviation are still insufficient at Rlonegro
(They were not included in the Bank-financed project.).
Flight Facility Inspection
3.21      The project included the purchase of a new FFI aircraft and the
equipment and training necessary for its proper operation. Advertising for
tne plane began in March 1979 but several delays arose which prolonged the
procurement process. Because the reviewing process continued into February
1981, the President of Colombia commissioned a special review team of high
level officials to make a decision. The contract was finally awarded in
September 1981, and the plane was delivered in late January 1983, 38 months
after appraisal estimated date of completion. Training was completed, and
the aircraft has been in use since February 1983 although formal acceptance
of all contract terms took place only in June 1985.
Customs Facilitation
3.22      The Loan Agreement included a provision for a study to recommend
institutional improvements in Colombia's customs procedures, which were to
be implemented, by the Colombian authorities by June 30, 1979. The study was
to be carried out by FALPRO, a division of UNCTAD.
3.23      The FALPRO expert arrived in September 1978, and the study was
completed by January 1979. Once the Colombian government reviewed the
study's recommendations, the expert returned to assist in implementation.
By June 1979, the government, under the supervision of a new Director of
Customs, had implemented most of the recommendations for improvement of
import clearance. As a result, the time required to clear imports was
reduced from over thirty days to less than three days.
3.24      Problems arose with the study's recommendations concerning the
export clearing process, which the Director of Customs considered suitable
for a European country but not for Colombia, UNDP planned to bring another
expert to review the original recommendations. The Director agreed to a new
study, but then resigned, and the study was not carried out.
Technical Assistance and Training
3.25      The project also provided for thirteen man-years of technical
assistance for DAAC, covering the areas listed in para 2.04 above. In
addition, the project included funds for about 100 man-years of training
which would reach approximately 400 technical and professional staff through
two, four and six-month training courses at appropriate schools.
3.26      In October 1978, the International Civii Aviation Organization
(ICAO) was requested to assist in this training program. In the early
months of 1979, preparation was under way within DAAC for the construction
of a training school at Eldorado airport, with the expectation that
financial assistance amounting to US$1.3 million would be received from
UNDP. In March 1979 a mission from ICAO, using criteria contained in the



- 9 -
Bank's Staff Appraisal Report, prepared the relevant project document for
the UNDP. The project in total was about twice the size provided for in the
Bank's proposed technical assistance. In June 1979, an agreement was
reached and signed with UNDP and ICAO to cover the establishment of the
school. The UNDP agreed to provide approximately US$1.3 million; the
remaining funds to complete the school building and equipment were provided
by DAAC/FAN. The construction of the school was finally completed in late
1983 at an approximate cost of US$1.46 million (UNDP US$.86 million, DAAC
US$.6 million); but it did not become fully operational until August 1984
because of delays in delivery of equipment.
3.27      On October 1, 1979, the Bank confirmed that US$1.1 million had
been set aside to finance 100% of foreign costs for the technical assistance
and training mentioned in the preceding paragraphs. By December 1979, four
of the nine advisors had arrived in Bogota and actively assisted their
counterparts in their various disciplines. The other advisors soon
followed. They provided valuable assistance in operational and technical
areas such as air traffic control, communications and navaids. Their
efforts in the management and financial areas were less successful: the
Bank had advocated, inter alia, that the aviation sector should become
financially autonomous, covering its operations and investments through user
charges and, while minor progress was made in that direction, autonomy is
far from having been attained. Overall, it would seem to be unfortunate
that ICAO's assistance was not brought in earlier to help with the technical
assistance and training program. The Bank could probably have benefitted
from their experience in these fields from appraisal onwards.
IV. TRAFFIC AND OPERATING PERFORMANCE
4.01      The strong traffic growth experienced in Colombia during the
mid-1970's continued through mid-year 1979 (see Table 4). Passenger traffic
grew at rates of 15% and 19% p.a. for domestic and international travel,
respectively. The corresponding growth for aircraft operations was 13% and
11% p.a. Since 1979, traffic growth has tapered off. At the three project
airports, the combined domestic traffic increased by 37% vaile international
traffic dropped by 12% between 1979 and 1985. The overall combined traffic
of the three airports increased by about 30% over this seven-year period.
4.02      No specific operating performance targets were developed during
appraisal. However, since the physical components of the project removed
significant operating restrictions in the three project airports, this would
lead to improve the efficiency of airport operations. The corresponding
impact cannot be assessed at this stage since improvements have only
recently been completed.



- 10 -
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER
A.   Financial Position of DAAC/FAN
5.01      During project implementation, the financial results for DAAC/FAN
were considerably better than antic'pated (Table 5). Between 1978 and 1984,
the actual operating income exceeded considerably the forecast income.
Operating ratios, working ratios and financial rates of return also
consistently exceeded forecasts with the exception of 1979 and 1980 when the
working ratios were slightly in excess of those expected. Actual operating
ratios and rates of return, however, are somewhat unrealistic because of the
low values of fixed assets and depreciation charges used in the DAAC
accounts (no asset revaluation took place). In addition, depreciation
charges in 1983 and 1984 do not include several project components already
completed by such dates. Actual and expected working and operating ratios
are summarized below:
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Working Ratio
Appraisal Target       56     48      47     44      43     54      51
Actual                 53      58     53     43      38     38      40
Operating Ratio
Appraisal Target       76     64      62     58      58     81      73
Actual                 55      59     54     51      39     38      45
DAAC/FAN's Revenues
5.02      The aggregate operating revenues between 1978 and 1984 exceeded
the forecast by 28%. The main reason for thid performance was that, as
agreed with the Bank, tariffs were regularly adjusted to keep pace with
local inflation and actual adjustments made were higher than those projected
at appraisal as a result of higher than expected inflation.2/ In addition,
chroughout the implementation period, DAAC/FAN received increasing
allocations in the National Budget to cover DAAC's salaries and general
expenses. These allocations were also made in 1983 and 1984, by which time
DAAC/FAN had been expected to become financially autonomcss.
5.03      Higher than projected traffic, particularly at the project
airports (Table 4), also contributed to improving DAAC/FAN's revenues during
the period 1978 to 1980. The decline in traffic growth experienced after
1980 had little effect on revenues since it was more than offset by tariff
increases.
2/   Between 1978 and 1984, actual accumulated inflation reached 320%
compared with 207% projected at appraisal for the same period.



- 11 -
Operating Expenses
5.04      During the period under review, DAMC/FAN's working expenses also
exceeded expectations because of higher personnel, general and maintenance
costs. Between 1979-1984, the aggregate working costs exceeded the forecast
by 31%. However, this increase did not materially affect DAMC/FAN's
financial performance since salaries and general expenses, which accounted
for about 80% of working costs, were fully covered by transfers from the
National Budget. In addition, actual depreciation costs were substantially
below appraisal estimates [paras 5.01 and 5.08 (g)].
Balance Sheets
5.05      The Balance Sheets for the period 1978 to 1984 are shown in
Table 6. Because of the slow start of some project components, until 1981
DAMC/FAN's fixed assets increased below forecast; however, in 1982, 1983 and
1984, the value of these assets grew substantially, exceeding forecasts by
102% at end-1984. The current assets also grew faster than expected as a
result of a continuing increase in accounts receivable Lpara 5.0O (e)j.
DAAC/FAN's liabilities also reflect the better than expected financial
results; although from 1981 onwards total debt was higher than anticipated,
the debt/equity ratio improved substantially as a result of a stronger
equity position. At end-1984, the debt/equity ratio was 28/72 compared with
a forecast 43/57 for the same year.
5.06      It was not possible to obtain financial information by individual
airport because of DAAC/FAN's inadequate accounting records and procedures.
As a result, it was not possible to verify if the actual financial
performance of each project airport improved as forecast at appraisal. The
project included technical assistance to correct deficiencies in the
accounting system. However, because of management's lack of commitment to
the institutional aspects of the project, improvements began to be
introduced only at end-1984 [para 5.08 (d)], when the project was virtually
completed.
B.   Sources of Financing
5.07      Table 7 summarizes the forecast and actual project financing from
the different sources. Financial resources for the project were to come
largely from the Bank (62%). However, in view of the substantial cost
overrun, DAAC/FAN actually financed 71% of the project cost contributing
nearly US$114 million more than originally expected.
C.   Financial Covenants
5.08      The loan included standard financial covenants and targets for the
project Implementation period (1978-1984) covering, inter alia, record
keeping, tariffs, auditing, computerization of accounts, normalization of
collections, capital expenditure and debt limitation, and rate of return.
Although these covenants were suited for the project, compliance was poor
because of the priority given by the Borrower to the implementation of
physical aspects of the project, to the detriment of actions aimed at
institutional improvement. A summary of the Borrower's compliance with the
main financial and management covenants of the project is given below.



- 12 -
Standard covenants which were complied with in a satisfactory manner are not
discussed.
(a) Financial Autonomy for the Aviation Sector [Section 3.02 (iii)]
During negotiations, it was agreed that in order to allow DAAC/FAN
to carry out the proposed level of investments, the National Budget
would cover all salaries and general expenses of DMC/FAN during the period
1978-1982. However, starting in 1983, DAAC/FAN would finance these
expenses and budget allocations to the sector would be discontinued.
Because of DAAC/FAN's interest in retaining most of the revenues for
investment purposes, the financial autonomy of the Aviation Sector was not
actively pursued. DAAC/FAN's salaries and general expenses continue to be
paid for from the National Budget.
(b) Record Keeping and Accounts [Section 4.02 (a)]
DAAC/FAN has maintained the records normally required from public
agencies in Colombia. However, those records are not suitable for an
adequate control of operations of a civil aviation organization. As a
result, considerable difficulties were encountered in collecting the basic
data required for the preparation of this PCR.
(c) Independent Annual Audits [Section 4.02 (b) and (c)l
The loan agreement established that DAAC's and FAN's accounts
would be annually audited by independent auditors. In spite of the Rank's
insistence throughout numerous supervision missions, independent auditors
were never appointed during the project period because of DAAC/FAN's failure
to maintain accounting records up-to-date.
(d) Computerizing of Accounts (Section 4.03)
The computerized accounting study was completed with a four and
one-half year delay (February 1984). Full implementation of the new system
was postponed, pending the updating of accounting records.
(e) Normalization of Receivables [Section 4.06 (a) (ii)]
Despite repeated assurances to the Bank that receivables would be
regularized, DAAC/FAN was not able to comply with the covenant that
receivables would not exceed 25% of annual operating revenues because of
inadequate collecting procedures and lack of clearly defined policies for
writing off uncollectable accounts.
(f) Target Operating Ratios for the Project Airports
[Section 4.06 (a) (iii)l
Operating ratios for project airports could not be determined
because of the lack of separate accounts for individual airports.
(g) Rate of Return and Revaluation of Assets [Section 4.08 (a)
and (b)l
Compliance with agreed rates of return could not be verified as
DMC/FAN did not revalue its fixed assets.



- 13 -
VI. TNSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
6.01      The functions of DAAC and FAN are described in paragraph 1.05.
The administrative duties involved require increased levels of expertise if
DAAC/FAN is to meet the increasing needs placed on it by the growing civil
aviation industry. This need was recognized by the Bank, and funds for
training and technical assistance were provided in the Project. However,
the uncommitted attitude of the sector authorities towards institutional
development hampered these efforts, and the administration, planning and
financing procedures of DAAC/FAN improved little, if at all. (For details,
see paras 3.02, 3.22-3.27, 5.06, and 5.08).
6.02      Under the project, the key task for management was the
construction of the new facilities and the carrying out of organizational
changes required by the Loan Agreement. In general, the dates put forth in
the project implementation schedule were ambitious, and DAAC had difficulty
complying because of bureaucratic delays and institutional weakness which
required technical assistance. In addition, progress was hampered by
frequent personnel changes within DAAC. At the outset of the project,
management personnel were well qualified and enthusiastic. However, in late
1979 and again in 1982, several changes in top management were made which
affected the project, particularly its institutional goals. These repeated
shifts contributed to the implementation delays and cost overruns.
6.03      Management by the Borrower was not as effective as desired.  The
report mentions a number of changes in project deadlines and specifications
made by DAMC. Some of these changes were justifiable and approved by the
Bank; in other cases, however, the Borrower's decisions were questioned by
the Bank. The most important example of this was the Borrower's refusal to
turn DAAC/FAN into an autonomous financial entity, an important goal of the
project. Other examples were the unjustified pavement of the additional 500
meters of runway at Medellin (para 3.17) and the inadequately considered
placement of the navaid in Bogota (para 3.07). In addition to these
changes, administ:ative inefficiencies caused delays in procurement,
implementation, the collection nf revenues, financial auditing and reporting
and the improvement of customs procedures. Overall, the institutional
development section of the project was not very successful.
VII. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
7.01      The economic reevaluation of the major project components was
carried out following generally the same methodology as used at appraisal.
The overall rate of return for the whole project dropped from 22% estimated
at appraisal, to an ex-post estimate of 12%, largely through cost overruns
and lower than anticipated air traffic. A discussion of the cost benefit
analysis of the major project components is presented in the following
paragraphs.



- 14 -
(i) Rionegro Airport at Medellin
7.02      The construction of the new airport serving the Medellin area was
justified at the time of appraisal on the basis of the net savings accruing
to airlines, to airport users, to urban land users, and to the economy at
large through the facilitation of foreign trade, from the use of the new
facility versus that of the exi3ting airport at Olaya Herrera. The main
benefit stream estimated at appraisal included aircraft operating and users'
time savings derived from a reduction in weather-related and congestion
delays, from shorter in-flight time, from the alternative use of the
existing airport site, from the avoidan..t of traffic diversion to less
economic transport modes and from the gereration of additional exports,
perishables in particular, made possible by the improved level of air
transport services. With the exception of the potential benefits accruing
from the alternative land use of the Olaya Herrera, which has not yet been
fully closed as originally envisaged, the economic reevaluation assessed the
same type of benefits as at appraisal.3/
7.03      The economic reevaluation of this project component yielded an ERR
of 12%, as compared with 24% expected at appraisal. This re-ults primarily
from lPwer-than-expected traffic growth (Table 4) and from cost overruns
(Table 1).4/ Until 1979, traffic growth generally exceeded expectations.
Since that time a period of economic retrenchment has inhibited growth of
business activity in general, including air travel. The traffic projections
from 1985 onwards considered in the ex-post evaluation assume a moderate
growth rate for passenger traffic, which is a conservative scenario in view
of the favorable prospects currently forecast for the Colombian economy.
(ii) Bogota
7.04      At the time of appraisal, benefits of the improvements at El
Dorado Airport in Bogota were estimated on the basis of savings to the
domestic fleet through faster turnaround of aircraft, reduced delays to
Colombian aircraft in international operations and the avoidance of weight
penalties for Colombian wide-bodied aircraft. The estimated rate of return
was 20%. Reevaluation was carried out on the same basis except that the
avoidance of weight penalties on wide-bodied aircraft was not considered
since there is no firm evidence that load demands for such aircraft have
increased. The new analysis shows that the estimated rate has dropped to
12% due to less than anticipated traffic increases and cost overruns.
(lii) Cartagena
7.05      The major benefits considered in the justification of the project
elements at Cartagena were those connected with tourism, both foreign and
domestic. Evaluated benefits included tourism airport fees and grose
margins on spending related to the existing hotel capacity as well as (for
domestic traffic) savings in apron delays. The rate of return, estimated at
appraisal as 14%, has not appreciably changed.
3/   The Government may be considering a nev access to the airport (Annex 1,
page 3). Neither its additional cost, nor its benefits, were
considered in the analysis.
4/   The Borrower provides details of the changes in the size and scope of
this project component which contributed to a final cost above the
appraisal estimate (Annex 1, page 1, para 3).



- 15 -
(iv) FFI Aircraft
7.06      The benefits attributed to the FFI Aircraft were the cost savings
from purchase of an aircraft compared to renting one to carry out the
calibration of navigation aids. Since the aircraft and e1uipment purchased
cost only about 52% of the original estimated cost, it is estimated that the
reevaluated rate of return would be about twice the 15% estimated at
appraisal.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS
8.01      Although the actual project costs were eventually more than twice
the appraisal estimate, its physical components were carried out to
completion by the Borrower. No additional external financial support was
requested. The quality of the completed works was good.
8.02      The increase in project cost along with the failure of air traffic
demand to increase as expected led to a substantial reduction in the
economic rate of return for the project, from 22% estimated at appraisal to
the current estimate of 12%.
8.03      Although the physical work proceeded relatively smoothly at
Cartagena and Bogeta, significant delays were met in the earth-moving
process at Medellin. More in-depth analysis prior to the appraisal of the
project would have enabled the Borrower to identify potential problems and
the Bank to recognize the need for closer field supervision of earth-moving
operations at Medellin which could have reduced the delays and cost overruns
experienced there.
8.04      Frequent changes in DAAC/FAN management and concentration on the
physical aspects of the project were the central reasons behind the poor
results of the institutional strengthening components of the project.
8.05      The legal process involved in the formalization of contracts,
requiring the review by a series of DAAC's administrative departments, which
consumed approximately three months ln each case, created significant delays
in all areas of project execution.
8.06      The facilitation of customs procedures, in particular for
expediting export shipments, would require a more active participation
of the Colombian authorities in the design of a suitable system to expedite
implementation of the recommendations of the FALPRO study.
8.07      The above four points (greater emphasis on physical achievements,
to the detriment of long-term institutional strengthening; frequent senior
staff turnover; the legal process involved in contract processing; and
customs procedures) are common barriers for infrastructure projects in
Colombia. The implementation of this project offers lessons both for
Colombia and for the Bank: to the Borrower, on the need to improve internal
efficiency to obtain adequate results from the investment of scarce capital
resources; and to the Bank, on the need to further concentrate on
institutional strengthening in the conditionality of future infrastructure
projects.



m L WAEU 
,,fiic SIAMtI iin.ws iEW .  IID).
MmI = AuralasIl E.tksba of Prj.st GMst
Actual Cost as a
Actual Cost                                        Original Estlamte of Coat                      Proportlon at
Item                        Local             Foreign            Total                Local            Foreign           Total             Original Estmate - I
>rAtM                      ColM (millions)    US (mililons)    U  (mmiliIons)        Colt (millions)    US* (milIlons)    USi (millionl
Apron Eniargount                                                                                     41.5               1.35              2.45
Auto Parking and Access Road             |                                                            6.0               0.19              0.35
RuAy Extension and Holding Apron            77.3              2.21              3.74                  t1.2              0.37              0.67                    108
Rwry Strengthening                                                                                    16.8              0.67              1.12
Drainage                                J. 57.5               1.08              1.82                   1.3              0.02              0.05                    156
Lighting                                    4.2               1.16              1.23                   2.2              0.23              0.29                   .315
ElectrIc Plant                                                                                          .8              0.08              0.10
C=unilcatlons *nd NWvelds                   34.6              0.84              1.3S                  t.6               0.40              0.44 
CFR uiliding                                 1.6              0.03              0.06                   1.8              0.03              0.08                    133
Enginmerlgn                                 16.5              0.28              0.56                  10.0              0.20              0.47                     S4
Subtotal                         191.7               5.60              8.79                 93.2               3.54             6.02                     146
ContingencIOs                           -                 -                 -                    52.7              0.86              1.30
Subtotal Including Contingenles:   191.7            SO                8.79                145.9               4.40             7.32                     120
-                             ~~~~~~~~~~0'
80D0TA
Apron Strengthening                   1                                                                5.5              0.12              0.27
Taxoey Strengthening                                                                                  24.7              0.54              1.20
Initial Apron Widening                                                                               15.4               0.34              0.75
Strengthen T xty Connections                                                                          5.6               0.12              0.27
Pare RuwAy Shoulders                    1                                                             3.6               0.12              0.22
Internetlonse Apron                                                                                   6.6               0.14             0.32
Pave Taxay Shoulders                        307.8             8.02             13.58                  3.6               0.12              0.22                    206
Apron DraInege                                                                                       22.0               0.48              1.07
Dalastic Apron                                                                                         8.2              0.18              0.40
Tsey Leadoffs                                                                                         13.5              0.44              0.80
Strengthen Cargo Aron                  _6.5                                                                             0.36              0.10
Aron Lighting                     Included In Cartagena Coats (Joint Contract for both airfields)     0.5               0.12              0.13                                     la
ParkIng Lot                       Included In Apron Strengthtning, etc.                                4.5              0.15              0.27                                     OQ
Access Road                       Included In Apron Strongthening, etc.                               6.3               0.20              0.37                                         r
Crgo Terminal                               22.9              0.65              1.09                  13.2              0.29              0.64                    170
International Terminal                     63.1               1.14              1.92                 26.7               0.47              1.18                     77              °
Dometic Terminal                                                                                      29.8              0.53              1.32
NYaid                                       -                 0.45              0.45                  2.1               0.50              0.56                     80
EngineerIng                                 20.8              0.28              0.53                  12.5              0.31              0.64                     83
Subtotal                         414.6              10.54             17.57                220.8               5.52             t.39                     154
Contingenclos                           -                 -                 -                   168.5               1.60             2.84
Subtotal including Contlngencles   414.6            10.54             17.57                389.3               7.12             14.23                    123



R:Er Eirsa wr
EsflI AC aII          UPW  FET  MM  162-0)
Athol _1 A6    l     Estb . of Pr.jt Cot
ktusl Coct ss 
Actual Cost                                            Original Estlsmta of Cost                         Proportlen of
Itam                          Local              Foreign             Total                  Local             Foreign             Total              OrIginal Estloste - £
CoM (m0l I I Ionr)   LIS$ mltoll  ns)    US$ (mtl l1 l or.    Co l* (ml I I lIons)    USS (ml II l one)    US$ taI II ow
tfD&i. INl
Land Acquisitlon                              588.0               13.82              13.82                   45.0                 -                 1.20                   1IlS0
Earth MovIng                                  966.0               25.32              42.90                  185.2                7.43              12.36                      347
AIrport Paving                                                                                              113.4                6.73               9.75
Dralnago                                    1,916.9               32.98              S5.92                   31.5                0.36               1.20                      211
Acces  Road                                                                                                  57.8                3.00               4.54                       S6
Public Services                                35.9                0.86               1.34                   31.0                1.57               2.39                      154
Hlgh Tension Relocatlon                        15.3                0.48               0.69                    8.0                0.85               1.06                       65
Tonrnmal Building                             332.2                7.31              12.39                   96.0                1.70               4.25                      292
T1 FurnIture                                  773.6               12.60              21.37                   22.0                0.39               0.98                    2,180
Cargo Building                                 69.8                1.09               1.85                    9.7                0.17               0.43                      410
CFR Building                                  151.1                2.82               4.78                    0.9                0.22               0.24                    1,990
SpOclel System Equlpnent                1                                                                     5.2                1.25               1.39
Installetlon            }     54.4                2.60               3.17                    6.4                0.04               0.21                      198
Lighting, Wevalds Equlpmnt                -   103.7                1.62               2.59                   11.0                2.63               2.92                       68
Installation            J                                                                   26.4                0.18               o.e8
CFR Equlpwnt                                   Included In CFR Buliding and TB Furniture                      5.5                t.32               1.47
EngIneerIng                                   50S.9                6.68              13.31                   59.6                1.67               3.26                      400
Subtotal                          5,512.8              174.13             175.33                  714.8               29.51              48.52                      361
Contingencies                            -                    -                   -                    788.4               12.25              17.34
Subtotal Including Contingenlest 5,312.8               174.13             175.33                1,503.2               41.76              65.86                      266
ONRAL IT14
Technical Assistance                                                                                          2.9                0.69               0.77
TraIning                                  -                        3.38               3.38                    3.6                0.39               0.4D                      19S
UNP Consultant                                                                                                1 1.3              0.07               0.10
FlnancIal Consultant                    J                                                                     4.6                0.25               0.37
hater Plan Conaultant                          81.8                1.73               2.67                    7.4                0.39               0.59                      450
FFI AIrcraft                                                                                                 55.6                2.16               3.64                                      0
AC Spares                                                                                                     -                  0.37               0.37
Avlonics Console                                                   3.09               3.09                    -                  0.76               0.76                        2             Nt
Socond Unit                                                                                                   -                  0.79               0.79                                      O
Electric Spares and Ground Equlpmnt                                                                           _                  0.34               0.34
Typo Training                                                                                                 -                  0.05               O.t5
Subtotal                             81.8               8.0                9.14                   75.4                6.27               8.28                      t1O
ContingncIes- -                                                                   -                     46.0                1.63               2.00
Subtotal Including Contingencies    81.8                 8.20               9.14                  121.4                7.90              10.28                       89
MALt &                                       60 :111e6is                            208                   Z.sMa                  s1..              n7.7M                      as
-                                          -                      -              _                       - 



- 18 -                            TABLE 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
DOMESTIC AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1624-CO)
Actual and Appraisal Schedule of Project Completion
Completion Dates          Months
Appraisal                    behind
Schedule        Actual     Schedule
Cartagena
Apron, Auto Parking and Access Road             12/80         7/82           19
Runway Extension, Strengthening
and Drainage                                  9/80         7/82           22
Lighting and Electric Plant                      9/80         6/84           45
CFR Building                                     3/80         6/82           27
Navaids and Communications                       9/80         7/84           46
Bogota
Apron and Taxiway, Strengthening
and Widening                                  9/80         1/83           28
Pave Taxiway Shoulders and
International Apron                           6/80         1/83           31
Apron Lighting                                   3/80        12/82           33
Cargo Apron Strengthening and
Cargo Terminal                                9/81         1/83           16
International Terminal                           9/80        11/83           38
Domestic Terminal                               12/81         8/84           32
Navaids                                          9/79         8/84           59
Medellin
Earth Moving                                    12/82        10/82        ahead 2
Airport Paving and Drainage                     12/82         7/85           31
Access Road                                      9/82         8/85           35
Public Services (Water Distribution)             9/82         7/85           34
High Tension Line Relocation                    12/79         4/84           52
Terminal Building Structure                     12/82        11/83           11
Terminal Building Finishing                     12/82         7/85           31
Cargo Building                                  12/82         7/84           19
CFR Building                                    12/82         5/84           17
Special Systems 1/                              12/82         5/85           29
Lighting, Navaids                                9/82         7/85           34
CFR Equipment                                   12/82          -              -
General
FFI Aircraft and Related Equipment               6/80         6/85           60
1/  Communications, Navaids, Runway and Taxiway Lighting, Instrument Landing
System.
Source: Bank staff
May 1986



- 19 -
TABLE 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
DOMESTIC AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJv'CT (LOAN 1624-CO)
Schedule of Disbursements
(in US$ millions)
Actual as a
IBRD Fiscal           Appraisal             Actual              Percentage of
Year               Estimate          Disbursements         Appraisal Estimate
FY79
June 1979               1.08                  0                        0
FY80
June 1980              16.57                  5.67                    34.00
FY81
June 1981              26.55                 19.40                    73.00
FY82
June 1982              41.81                 41.50                   99.00
FY83
June 1983              57.00                 55.08                   96.60
FY84
March 1984             60.00                 56.60                   94.33
June 1984              61.00                 59.1                    96.89
FY85
December 1984          61.0                  59.1                    96.89
June 1985              61.0                  60.4                    99.02
FY86
July 1985              61.0                  60.5                    99.18
NOTE: Unwlthdrawn amount $516,756.62 was cancelled August 1985.
Source: Bank staff
May 1986



W
W, c, I      'a* --l
-!:.11  441:u  tl,:w  144  -t
ti  v                                                                                   r  4
kit'i,  s"'m
i,r"fe.      ao           .*,W,                                                       t..L
Y.,,   - -W.                                                T 7M,  v-m    wilrq-  -V -.%                                1.4.,
W.c                      .11,":W  V.                     j   kil      I    In  I    'Al:
W.-V
P-L
C.-,          r, I-q  V-S    lWo 7
7-V  r7-.
r                               "t      W
;-q-t   1-4    1-4    - -V.
14     K      1.            t,
ot    It      41     r,            Ic
It,
rw-  7m
4141              w6l
-It                    ""ml AIV loneaw  PM surow
tOO-HU              A190MV8M,lo-vo-Ar *UUM
van



ouerc Rum  sNasrw     tM
OK WC NUf         EWR      W  MAC  CA    14110
As        d  AgpIil la    *tainb of O            , 1 44"1 1_
ZFIW.. to 8mt Obil Pam - ISllm)
t978                 1979                  1980                  1981                 1982                 1985                  1984
Appr Isol   Actual   Appraisal  Actual   Appraisal  Actual   Appraisal  Actual  Appralal  Actual   Appraulil  Actmi   Approalal  Aceml
REES
Pas_engr Tax                              418        411        728        531        943        897      1,t89      1,531     1,471     2,359      1,689      2,626      2,091      3,078
Landing Fees, Overflights, Other          397        411        58S        392        767        58         965        796     1,191     1.015      1,371      1,382      1,685      1,516
nbatala                                    55         90         83        112        109        124        138        141      174        323        204        511        259        386
Other                                      11         53         15         25         19         53         25         25        30       133         35        145         43        136
Resldent Tax                              -          -          -           72        -          231        -          301      -          305        -          287        -          340
Total Operating kRvenes                   81       966      1,414      1,132     1T38        1,843      2,317      2,794    2,866      4,135      3,299      4,951      4,078      5,468
Budget froiminlstry of Financo            653        645        S00        965        963        972      1,129      1,410     1.323     1,871        -        2,321        -        2,745
Total                                   1,534      1T,611     2,214      2,097      2,801      2,815      3,446      4,204     4,189     6,006      3,293      7,22       4,078      6,213
1li6 EWEN6S
Salaries                                  sOS        482        622        673        749        690        878      1,067    1,029       1533      1,208      1,786      1,417      2,073
General/Other                             145        163        178        292        214        282        251        343      294        338        345        55         404        672
heIntenance                                69         72        120        158        156        316        167        301       181       273        242        324        25t        411
Ttrafer to  ovornesnt                     139        139        141         95        184        205        232        103      267        109         -         116        -          122
Total                                     861        856      1,061      1,218      1,303      1,493      1S,28      1,814     1,791     2,253       1,795     2,761      2,072      3.278
WRtIN  SULUSA(OEICIT)                       673        755       1,153       879      1,498      1,322      1,918      2,390    2,398      3,753      1,504      4,511      4C06       4,935
Osprclatlon 2/                            302         22        363         29        447         38        486       317       651        106        861          9        907        405
WO TING IHCOWE/LOSS)                        371       ' 733       790        850      1,051      1,284      1,432      2,073     3,049     3,647        643      4,502      1,099      4,000
beklng fbtlo                                 56         53         48         56         47         53         44         43       43         38         54         38         51         40
Opwrating Rbtlo                              76         SS         64         59         62         54         S8         51         1        39         81         38         73         45
1/ Actei figwes are unauditad.
21  Flgre fr<u 1980 emords  Is wekl latic; OAAD FAN did not revalue fixed easets.  In additiont d*preL-t:on of works under the project Is not included for 1983 and 1984.                         H
Soe    s  OAA#FM                                                                                                                                                                                  r
qey 1986



,mz
LAMsb    aA  Im    101101 SaM "Na  b of  fAf98  11Ml   9t
(FItpwe  la      t De1wM  PM" - o sIme)
1g78                1979                 1910                 1905                5962                t9o5                 3964
pe  lwl  Atul         1 1    Actual   AeprAW         ActAel   fpt leal  Actual  pAWlesl  Actmi   AWppIel  Actul   Appraisal  Actmt
ASETS
Curemt  Ats
Cash                                   173        995         4      1,299       m          730       490        95    1,100        62       1,60        354     2.177        449
Ralvabies                              220        332       322        426       422        i30       539 Ss    ,02       66       1,20        718     2,           771     3,314
1 wastertos                            16O      Im          216        so        256        142       294       In        35        362       36         370       447      3,6
Ottw                                              136        -            .       -       3416         -       5,4 7              6, -         -       4          - 
Total Cwrt Asets                        673     2,984       542      3,50       1,0'     4,991     1,323      6,0w   2,106        S,2o9     3,06      ?7,S       335       8,75
Fixed Aste -  rWes                     3,841      ,835      4,904     1,197     6,213      2,117     7,416      2,3D0    48,90      3,331    12,610     5,388    13.s2s      6,7Y0
Aemlated DeprecIation                   817       536      1,180       56       1,627       6D3     2,113        S0    2,764       1,p26     3__ t4               4.12      1,441      P
Nat Fined Aeta In Ue                  3,24      1t,299     3,724      ,2       4,626      1,4       530        1,460    6,186      2,30S     8,985     436        0,994     59,
Contrection In Progress                350        09          99       927      1,129     2,09      1.400     4,011  I15          6t 19    10,266                  916    14.160
Subtotal                              3,382     1,906     4,623      2,2539    575        3,603     6,303      5,460    7,591     1.992      960      14,63       9,910    29,01
Other                                     -          136       -          311       -          360       -        I.35       -       1,979                2           -        2,S1
Total Aiete                             3,955      5,028     5,165      6,073     6,805      8,967     8,Q26    13,s2    9,697    19,250    12,670    24,906    133          31,52
ULALITIES
Curnt LieblIltIt.                       181        3D0       231        140       2a0        195       324       381       376       709        449     1,039       519      I,5m
Loagtm  Debt
Extanl Debt                           1,537       797     2,029        660     2,919        525     3755         403    4,880       74       5,37        554      S,214       90t
Inbtrnl Debt                           126        683       107        663        e6       607         62    2AD           2a 4.21            -        5.±         -        6A72
Total Debt                            1,663     1,480      2,133     1,302     3,05       1,1U2     3,79       3,683    4,90s      5,052    s5r34      5,837    52a4       7.25
Tetal Liabliltle and Debt             1,844     1,610     2,367      1,472     3,25        ,327     4,119      4,264   s5284      5,761      5,i       6,6        5,735     89
__ernet Equlty nd fRerves             2,111      3,418     2,790      4,601     3ea      72aM        2L7        Ml?7   4,413    13.40         647    18,IS0        7,572    27,3
Total Llebilitlee                      3,955     S,028      S,165     6,073     6,05       8,967     8,026    13,502    9,697    19,210    12,670    24,906    13,305    31.w
1 Actual f lpures m*s amaudited.
2' Inclds ordwrs In trasit and uarrttam  Investmbent.
Sou_ t DA#AFMI
My 19s6



- 23 -
TABLE 7
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
DOMESTIC AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1624-CO)
Actual and Appraisal Expectation of Project Financing
(In current US$ Millions)
Foreign Currency
Appraisal             Actual
USs $               us$       X
Sources of Funds
Bank Loan                  61.00       62       60.55      29
DAAC/FAN                   36.76       38      150.28      71
TOTAL:                97.76     100       210.83     100
.....             - 
Source: DAAC/FAN
May 1986



- 24 -
-~ 24 -TABLE 8
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
DOMESTIC AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1624-CO
Ex-post and Appraisal Estimates of Economic Rates of Return
Appraisal Estimate       Ex-Rost Estimate
Bogota                                20                       11
Medellin                              24                       12
Cartagena                             14                       14
Inspection Aircraft                   15                      30
Project                               22                       12
Source: Bank staff
May 1986



- 25 -                                 ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 12
Letter from:
Mr. Orlando Fleohas Corredor
General Director of
Aeronautic Infrastru¢ture
(Unoffioial translation)
Bogota, July 24, 1986
Mr. Brian Shields
Chief
Energy, Infrastructure and
Urban Development Operations
Evaluation Department
Dear Mr. Shields:
In regard to your letter dated July 2, 1986, we wish to forward you
some comments related to the airport of Rionegro. With regard to the
airports of Bogota and Cartagena we have no comments.
1.        In page iv, third paragraph, we read that "worse than expected sol)
conditions were found". We do not agree with this since, according to the
soil studies undertaken during the earth moving it was found that the
physical and mechanical conditions of the soil, and the levels of moisture
content in the excavated soils used in the construction of the embankments,
were within those considered in the engineering studies for the different
airports.
2.        In page 7, paragraph 3.19, referring to the access roads, the PCR
states that the construction was "delayed by problems with land acquisition
as well as unstable soils". We do not believe the delay can be atributed to
the instability of the soils but to the contractor's financial problems.
3.        In several sections of the report the economic rate of return was
lower (12% as compared with 24% estimated at appraisal), due mostly to the
high cost overrun of the civil works, which is specially true with regard to
the higher cost caused by the failure of the metallic sewers initially built
instead of the reinforced, concrete box-culverts contemplated in the bidding.
However, it is convenient to take into account that the cost
estimated by the Bank during project preparation refer to less civil works
(or smaller areas or volumes), specifically:
a)   the length of the runway was increased in 500 m., since actually
3,500 m. were built instead of the 3,000 m. recommended by the Bank
and costed in this agency's budget in order to determine the loan
amount to DAAC;
b)   the actual passenger terminal (including the administrative
building) is 50% larger than that considered by the Bank, since the
area actually built is approximately 30,0Q0 m2 instead of the
20,000 m2 coated by the Bank. Furthermore, the main gates
increased from the six contemplated by the Bank to 11 actually
built, which means that we now have an apron with twice the area
than the one costed by the Bank.



- 26 -                                 ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 12
c)   neither the Bank's estimates, nor the consultants' design take into
acoount the underground services at the parking apron which were
built, such as the 400 Hertz energy pits, the compressed air pits
and the fuel hydrants;
d)   the Llano Grande access road to the airport wao not included in the
Bank estimates.
4.        In our opinion the pri';e contingencies estimated by the Bank were
too low. Actually in paragraph 4.07 of the Bank's Staff Appraisal Report
No. 20396-00, dated September 28, 1978, we read that the local cost would
increase 26% in 1978, and would then decrease to 12% by 1981 and subsequent
years.
This last percentage, which was probably applied to moat of the
civil work on the Rionegro Airport, is clearly too low and unrealistic, which
we believe is an important factor that should be taken into consideration in
comparing the initial estimates for the construction of the airport with the
final cost of the work and therefore in the lower value of the internal rate
of return of the actual investments.
We hope that the preceding comments will serve to clarify, at least
partially, your request.
Cordially,
Orlando Flechas Corredor
General Director of Aeronautic
Infrastructure



-27 -                                ANNEX I
Page 3 of 12
Letter from:
Mr. Cesar Vallejo Mejia
Division Chief
National Planning Department
(Unofficial translation)
Bogota, July 31, 1986
Mr. Brian Shields
Chief
Energy, Infrastructure and
Urban Development Operations
Evaluation Department
Dear Doctor:
In response to your letter dated July 2, 1986 in which you ask for
our comments on the Report prepared by the Bank on the implementation of Loan
1624-CO for the development of Domestic Aviation in the country, we have the
following comments:
Neither dur-ng Appraisal, nor during the construction of the Rionegro
Airport, the IBRD or the DA&C took into consideration the importance of
having a suitable access road from Medellin to the Airport*. This omission
has had serious onsequences, since the existing roads in the area do not
have enough capacity to handle the traffic generated by the new airport. Due
to this, the National Government through the Ministry of Public Works and
Transportation will have to incur in a very important cost in order to built
and maintain a new access road.
In our opinion the extra funds necessary to built and operate the
highway from the Airport of Rionegro to Nedellin are an additional cost of
the project, which was not considered in the initial evaluation of the
airport, and which has a negative impact in its financial and economic rate
of return.
Sincerely,
Cesar Vallejo Mejia
Division Chief
National Planning Department



-28-                                  ANNEX I
Page 4 of ;
Bogota, August 2nd, 1986
Telex from:
Ms. Maria del Rosario Sintes
Deputy Minister, Transportation and Public Works
(Unofficial translation)
Mr. Brian Shields
Chief
Energy, Infrastructure and
Urban Development Operations
Evaluation Department
We have read your draft "Project Completion Report - Domestic
Aviation Development Project (Loan 1624-CO) June 25-86", attached to letter
dated July 2, 1986, concerning which this entity has no further comment's
since the negotiation, administration and execution of Loan 1624-CO was under
the responsibility of the Departamento Administrativo de Aeronautica Civil.
However, the analysis and the final evaluation of Loan 1624-CO
included in the Completion Report, constitutes a valuable experience not only
for DAAC-IBRD, but also for this institution, which forwards the National
Transport Plan through its Transport Division - Implementation Office, which
deals with aviation.
Cordially,
Maria del Rosario Sintes
Deputy Ninister
Transportation and Public Works



- 29 -                           ANNE,X 1
Page 5 of 12
29114"a on. AczoVonw a6 aeen
Note: This letter from the National Planning Department,
while it has no specific comments on the PCR,
commends the PCR and mentiovs matters of
particular interest to the Department.
SISEP-03-048-86
Seilor
Brian Shields
Chief
Energy, Infrastructure and Urban Development
Operations Evaluation Department
Washington
Apreciado senor Shields :
He leido el informe sobre la terminaci6n del Proyecto de "Desarrollo de la
Aviaci6n Dom6stica en Colombia", preparado por funcionarios del Banco Mundial.
En mi concepto es un bien logrado documento, en el cual primero se reconstruye
el proceso de la decisi6n de la inversi6n y luego, con base en dicha reconstruc-
ci6n, se describe el proceso de su ejecuci6n y se evaluan sus resultados.
Como se resume en dicho documento, el Proyecto se disefio para permitir el pro-
gresivo crecimiento del subsector del transporte aereo a traves de :
i)   Eliminar los obstaculos que existian en los aeropuertos de Medellin, Carta-
gena y BogotA.
ii) Dotarlo del equipo necesario de vuelo, y
iii) Fortalecer el sistema gerencial del Departamento de Aviaci6n Civil (DAAC)
En cuanto al desarrollo y ejecuci6n del proyecto se explica su retraso de casi
dos aftos en raz6n del bajo nivel de ingenieria alcanzado, como por los largos
procedimientos legales y burocraticos.
Con relaci6n a la duplicaci6n de los costos del proyecto se sefialan como causas
fundamentales los problemas no previstos relacionados con la movilizaci6n de -
tierra para el aeropuerto de Medellin, los sobre-costos incurridos por los re-
2 1w 2 r1



-30 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 12
trasos en la ejecuci6n y en el mayor nivel de inflaci6n no previsto en loe es-
timativos iniciales. Si bien el primer factor explica en gran parte log mayo-
res costos en el aeropuerto de Medellin, lo doe 4ltimos se incluyen pero no
les fue ponderada su influencia.
Finalmente, el convenio del credito inclula una clhusula que preve el mejora-
miento de los procedimientos administrativos, finascieros y de planeaci6n con
el prop6sito de dar autonomia de gesti6n a la entidad. Sin embargo, eate ob-
Jetivo no se cumpli6 completamente. Entiendo que el sistema seroportuario co-
lombiano adolece de grandes fallas administrativas y t&cnicas adicionales a
las mencionadas en el informs.
Cordialmente,
Martha Lucia Hincapi tde los a0o
Sistema de Seguimiento y Evaluaci6n de Proyectos
Jefe
c.c.  Dr. Enrique Angel
Jefe Unidad Infraestructura



- 31 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 12
REPUBLICA DE COLOMBIA
Deportamento  Administrotivo de Aerondutica C:
40                                                                    7528
Bogota, julio 24 de 1.986
Doctor
BRIAN SHIELDS
Chief
Energy, infraestructure and
Urban Development Operations
Evaluation Department.
Estimado doctor :
En relaci6n con el oficio de julio 2 de 1.986, nos permitimos conmuni-
carle algmunos coinentarios relacionados con el aeropuerto de Rionegro,
pues en lo referente a los aeropuertos de BogotA y Cartagena no tene-
mos observaciones.
1. En la pAgina iv, parrafo tercero, se dice que se encontraron con -
diciones de los suelos peores de las esperadas ('Worse than expec-
ted soil conditions"). No estamos de acuerdo con esta afirmaci6n,
pues seg6in los estudios de suelos efectuados durante el movimiento
de tierras se encontr6 que las propiedades flsicas, mecanicas y con
tenidos de humedad natural de los suelos de corte empleados en la
construcci6n de terraplenes estaban dentro de las magnitudes sefiala-
das en los estudios generales de los aeropuertos.
2.  En la pAgina 7, parrafo 3.19 se dice   en referencia con la vias de
acceso, qTue la construcci6n se demoro por problemas de adquisici6n
de tierras y suelos inestables ("Land adquisition as well as enstable
soils").  No creemos que las demoras se puedan atribulr a suelos ines
tables, sino mAs bien a problemas financieros del contratista.



- 32 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 12
REPUBLICA DE COLOMBIA
Deportomento  Administrotivo de Aeronoutico C
continuaci6n oficio 40-
Dr. Brian Shields.                                                    7528
3. En varias partes del informe la tasa econ6mica de retorno fu6 infe-
rior (12% en lugar del 24% esperado) debido especialmente a los ele
vados sobrecostos en la construcci6n de la obra, lo cual es verdadc
especialmente en lo que se refiere a los mayores costos causados por
el problema de la fallas de las alcantarillas metalicas construiLdas
inicialmente en    lugar de los "box-culverts" en concreto reforzado
contemplados en la licitaci6n.
Sin embargo, es conveniente tener en cuenta que los presupuestos es-
timados por ustedes para hacer el pr6stamo, contemplan menos obras
(o menores areas o voldmenes) construldas, especialmente las siguien
tes :
a) Se aument6 en 500 m. la longitud de la pista de aterrizaje, ya que
se construyeron 3.500 m. en lugar de los 3.000 m. recomendados por
el Banco y valorizado en el presupuesto de esta entidad para deter-
minar el valor del prestamo al DAAC.
b) El terminal de pasajeros (con su edificio de administraci6n) en
un 50% m6s grande que el considerado por el Banco ya que el area
construida tiene 30.000 m2 aproximadamente, en lugar de los 20.000
m2  valorados por el Banco.  Asi. mismo las posiciones  principa -
les de estacionamiento de aviones pasaron de 6 contempladas -or el
Banco a 11 realmente construldas, lo cual significa una platafor-
ma con el doble en area de la valorizada por el Banco.
c) Ni el estimativo del Banco, ni en los disefios de los consultores,
se consideran los servicios subterraneos de plataforma construl -
dos como son los "pits" de energia a 400 Hertz, los "pits" para
aire comprimido y los hidratantes para combustible.
d) El ramal de la via de acceso de Llano Crande al aeropuerto no es-
taba considerado en los estimativos del Banco.



- 33 -                           AMNEX 1
Page 9 of 12
O             REPUBLICA DE COLOMBIA
Deportomento  Administrotivo de Aeronoutica C
continuaci6n oficio 40-
Dr. Brian Shields                                                      7528
4. Consideramos que los estimativos del Banco para inflaci6n de precios
(Price Contingenicies) fueron muy bajos. En efecto, en el numera 4.07
del "Staff Appraisal Report" No. 20396-C0 de septiembre 28/78, de di-
c-ha entidad, se dice que los incrementos de costos locales aumentarian
el 26% en 1.978, y disminuirian hasta el 12% en 1.981 y afios siguien-
tes.
Este ultimo porcentaje, que posiblemente se aplic6 a buena parte de la
obra del aeropuerto de Rionegro, es evidentemente muy bajo e irreal
lo cual creemos es un factor importante que debiera tenerse en cuenta
para comparar los estimativos iniciales de construcci6n del aeropuerto
con el costo final de la obra y por consiguiente en el bajo valor de la
tasa interna de retorno de la inversi6n ejecutada.
Esperamos que los anteriores comentarios, le sirvan para aclarar, al menos
en parte, lo solicitado en su comunicaci6n.
Cordialemnte,
ORO FEAP
Director General Instalaciones
We-r-onTultica-s-.



- 34 -                         ANNEX 1
Page 10 of 12
UINF:T: 361
w I J,L 19t* 
Doctor
BRIAU SHIELDS
Jefe
Divisi6n de Evoluaci6n de Operociones en Energro,
Infroestructura y Desarrollo Urbcno
Banco Mundiol
Washington
Apreciodo doctor
En respuesta a su comunicoci6n del 2 de julio del anfo en curso,en la cu>'
se soliciton comentarios al Informe preporodo por el Banco sobre lo ejecuci6n
del Credito 1624-CO para el desarrollo de la Aviaci6n Dom6stica en el PaTs,
me permito hocerle los sigulentes comentarios:
Ni en el c   Appraisal ' del cr6dito, ni durante la comstruccl6n del Aero-
puerto de Rionegro, el BIRF o el Departamento Administrativo de Aeron6u-
tica Civil consideraron la importoncia de contar con una adecuoda vro de
acceso desde Medellrn hasta el Aeropuerto. Esth omisl6n ha tenido graves
consecuencias, ya que ls vros existentes en la regt6n no tienen copoci-
dad suficiente pora monejor el tr6fico generodo por el nuevo oeropuerto.
AsT las cosos, el Gobierno Nocionol o trav6s del Ministerio de Obras PC-
blicos y Tronsporte tendr6 que incurrir en un costo muy tmportonte, para
construrr y mantener una nueva vro de acceso.
En nuestra opini6n, los recursos adicionoles requeridos pora construrr
y operar la cerretere del Aeropuerto de Rionegro a Medellrn son un
fiU' S 



(    Ati ~~~~~          -~35 -                            ANNEX 1
t yZ"?g .,ga~v-.o    ~/4n.sn                            Page 11 of 12
sobrecosto al valor del proyecto, que no fueron tenidos en cuenta en
la evcluoci6n inicial del Aeropuerto, y que tienen un efecto negoti-
vo en la rentobilidod financiera y econ6mica del mismo.
Atentomente,
CESAR VALLEJO MEJIA
Jefe del Deportorrento
c.C. Dr. Juan Guillermo Penagos
Jefe DAAC
Dr. Eduardo Martinez Merchon
Jefe Oficina Planeoci6n MOPT
Dr. Juan Manuel Villegas
Director General Finonciero DAAC



- 36-                       ANNEX 1
Page 12 of 12
ZCZC DI8T2668 JUS0292
OTE-1 TCP D.S.
45656 DHOPT CO
DOGOTAP D.E.vp  2/AGO/86           325
DOCTOR
BRIAN SHIELDS
CHIEFS ENERGY# INFRAESTRUCTURE AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
OPERATIONS EVALUATION DEPARTMENT
_ANCO MUNDIAL
WASHINOTON
HEMOS LEIDO SU BORRADOR DE INFORME ''PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT -
DOMESTIC AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT. (LOAN 1624-CO) JUNE 25-86''
QUE ACOMPA A SU NOTA DE JULIO 2/86w PARA EL CUAL ESTA ENTIDAD NO
TIENE COMENTARIOS ADICIONALES, DADO QUE LA NEGOCIACIONP ADMINIS-
TRACION Y EJECUCION DEL PRESTAMO 1624-CO1 CORRESPONDIO AL DEPARTA-
MENTO ADMINISTRATIVO DE AERONAUTICA CIVIL.
NO OB3TANTE LO ANTERIOR, EL RECUENTO Y EVALUACION FINAL DEL PRES-
TAMO 1624-CO CONSIGNADO EN EL INFORMEP CONSTITIJYE UNA VALIOSA EX-
PERIENCIA NO SOLO PARA EL DAAC-BIRF, SINO TAMBIEN PRA ESTA INSTITU-
TUCION, QUIEN ADELANTA ADEMAS. EL PLAN NACIONAL DE TRANSPORTE. POR
SU OFICINA DE PLANEACION-DIVISION DE TRANSPORTE. Y EN EL CUAL SE
CONTEMPLA EL MODO AEREO0
CORDIALMENTE,
MARIA DEL ROSARIO SINTES
VICEMINISTRA OBRAS PUBLICAS Y TRANSPORTE
45656 DMOPT CO
45656 DHOPT CO...



IBRD   13569
7B°                                       70                                                      MAY 71
120                                                                                                                             S P IOUTJH AMERICA
:fi e~~~H                                                                       q )  k,. 't 
-'~d/        / "                                                                     ,                                 MB
_,         c- <                     ,9              t        .  5~                                                            =
a  tii:A<f                1 , sznA +        ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~_ ~~, cg
; , i  .  > +   \   \  t  Ria  9,     G  N a~~~~~~~4aOCO0fl                         0-. 
800*,.                                                                 4 0PlBbrOd,A,oo,o L 
, \ rl . ~~I   I                      0/  , 4
40
-  -                                                                   N0~~~~~~VIDNEAZU   EL\
YI-I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~I
40                                                                ,',,~~~~~~~C,
4*-
L   A  ena          <*           > s  u e                                    j~~~~~~~-  <
./,/ ~~~~l  ,<4N1                    V e   )             l- ,
1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.
4~
La~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~___ Unoj 
* AA
CW     tJE   /'E- iI _  
00  ECUADOR        t                                                                                                                 r
o,   .0  L 0   M   I A    .   0     '4
DOMESTIC AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                ~" B A I
ELEV7T)NS IN METERS'\
+                                IoDOioA iD 1-
`,   _   .,,,2000. 3000 
-Gr~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~ ECAO  R^-                                        U         
~~~~~~~~~~~~.-.   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a  ~~  _                                                       0                   .j, ,O_
--s~~~~~~~~'  ' \  B40AZ  
+   ProiESii         ELEVETIONS  IN    MET .ERS .   E  Rsv 
7|0 -<0  InterrMtion   ARpm   D. lODD       720



-_____C_____O____L_____O__________BI______A_____L_____OM______________                                                                                                                                      I BRD-13571
COLOMBIA  -OMBIA                                                                                                 MAY 1978S
DOMESTIC AVIATION DEVELC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MEDEL LN IN TERNATIOtRNATIONAL AIRPORT
GENERAL  LAYOU AL LAYOUT                                                                                        TO-Medelin a
-                                       0            E FARM
A       A       _ 1TERMIN L
- -,                                                             RU. 5NWAY
FIRE
STAflOR
\      /                                                                                                                                       Ar~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\_/                                                                                                                            '\  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOUtH   i~
Jh,smaphrs, beonpr4aredbythe                                                     _     )PROJECT FIRST STAGE   ST STAGE
IW                                                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AMERICAj
Workt Bank's staff exclusivety fot                                                                                G
th convenience of the roeders of                                                       SECOND STAGE              0GE                            0 300 400 500                      o                 S0 
the report to which it is attached.                                                    ULIAESAEAGE                                             I
The danonirnetions used and the                                                        ULTIMATE STAGET
boundaries showvn on this map                                                                                     ITS
donotipy on the pan of the                                                        -    PROPERTY LIMITS
World Bank and its affiliates, any
judgment on the legal status of
any terrtoy or any endorsement
or acceptance of such boundaries.



