FILE COPY
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2383-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUITVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR AN
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
September 28, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Average Calendar 1977             August 15, 1978
Currency Unit       Peso - Col $                          Col $
US$1            -   Col$37.6                              39.08
Col$1               US$0.0266                              0.02559
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CNR       Colombian National Railways
CNT       Corporacion Nacional de Turismo
DAAC      Civil Aeronautics Administration Department
FALPRO    Facilitation Program of UNCTAD
FAN       National Aeronautic Fund
ICAO      International Civil Aviation Organization
IDA       International Development Association
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
MOPT      Ministry of Public Works and Transport (after January 1976)
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Republic of Colombia
Executing Agency:       Civil Aeronautics Administration Department (DAAC)
and National Aeronautic Fund (FAN)
Amount:                 US$61.0 million equivalent
Terms:                  Repayment in 17 years, including 4 years of grace;
interest at 7.9% per annum.
Prolect
Description:          The project forms part of the 1978-1983 national
aviation development program and would assist in
providing necessary infrastructure to meet air
transport demand. The project would also support
the Government's efforts to strengthen institutions
in the transport sector. It includes:
(a) improvements to the Bogota and Cartagena airports;
(b) development of a new domestic airport at Medellin;
(c) provision of a facility flight inspection aircraft;
(d) preparation of a Master Development Plan for
Bogota airport; (e) a study of the value of the assets
of the National Aeronautic Fund (FAN); (f) a study of
airport user charges; (g) a study of air fare and
freight rate tariff-setting policy and guidelines;
(h) a study of customs procedures; and (i) technical
assistance and training for the Civil Aeronautics
Administration Department (DAAC) and FAN.
The project would, through approximately 1990, remove
the air traffic bottlenecks at the Bogota and Medellin
airports and enable the Cartagena airport to accommodate
forecast traffic. Concommitantly, the project would
significantly increase the amount of time during
which aircraft can operate safely. Moreover, the
project would extend to the aviation subsector the
Bank's ongoing efforts to proaote efficient development
of the transport sector, with special emphasis on
management, planning and operational capability.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page 2 of 2
Estimated Cost:                        Local              Foreign            Total
-------- US$ million equivalent --------
Civil Works                       17.0               25.8               42.8
Buildings and
Materials                        5.6                5.1               10.7
Equipment                          1.3                 5.5               6.8
Land Acquisition                   1.2                  -                1.2
Engineering                        2.2                 2.2               4.4
Technical Assistance,
Consultants and Training         0.6                1.8                2.4
Inspection Aircraft                1.5                4.5                6.0
Base Cost                    29.4               44.9              74.3
Physical Contingencies             2.9                4.5                7.4
Price Contingencies                4.2               11.9               16.1
36.5               61.3              97.8
Financing Plan:                                  Local        Foreign        Total
--- US$ Million Equivalent ----
FAN                                          36.5          0.2           36.8
IBRD                                           -          61.0           61.0
UNDP                                           -           0.1            0.1
TOTAL                                        36.5         61.3           97.8
Estimated Disbursements:               FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84
--------------- …US$millions ---------------
Annual                            1.1      15.5    10.0    15.2    15.2       4.0
Cumulative                        1.1      16.6    26.6    41.8    57.0    61.0
Rate of Return:         The economic rate of return on the project investment
is estimated to be 22X.
Appraisal Report:       Report No. 2039b-CO, dated September 28, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR AN
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Colombia for the equivalent of US$61.0 million to
help finance the Aviation Development Project. The loan would have a term
of 17 years, including four years of grace, with interest at 7.9% per annum.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report on Colombia (1548-CO) was distributed
to the Executive Directors in May 1977. It assesses current developments
and provides a medium-term perspective of the Colombian economy. An updating
report is being prepared and is scheduled for distribution to the Executive
Directors in October 1978. Country data sheets are provided in Annex 1.
Background
3.        During the past two decades, Colombia has made substantial progress
in the transition from a predominantly rural and agricultural economy made
up of largely self-contained regions to a more integrated urban-industrial
economy oriented increasingly toward international trade. With steady improve-
ment in economic growth and per capita incomes, the productive base of the
economy has been widened appreciably, and there has been substantial diversi-
fication of production in both the agricultural and industrial sectors. These
improvements have been accompanied by rapid growth of non-traditional exports
and by the development of a modern sector relying to a considerable extent
on imported inputs. As a result, the country has become less dependent on
coffee as a source of foreign exchange earnings and strong fluctuations in
domestic economic conditions resulting from unpredictable shifts in world
coffee prices, while still considerable, have become more manageable.
Greater geographical dispersion of economic activity has accompanied the
broadening of the economic base as well, with several other growth poles
developing to challenge Bogota as the leading commercial and industrial
center of the country. Although substantial progress has been made during
the past two decades, Colombia is still an only partially developed country
with a limited modern sector superimposed on a large, traditional and
economically poor base. Per capita incomes are low by developed world
standards, unemployment is high, and in 1977, 53.3% of the rural and 34.0%
of the urban population had incomes under the absolute poverty level as
defined by the Bank's methodology.



-2-
4.        Colombia's population growth declined during the last two decades
from 3.2% in the 1950s to 2.8% at present. Most of the decrease in popula-
tion growth during this period can be accounted for by a rapid decline
in the crude birth rate -- from 47.2 births per thousand persons in 1964
to 41.3 in 1968 and 31.1 births per thousand in 1975-76. A number of factors
are believed to account for the declining birth rate: rising per capita
income, rapid rural/urban migration, expanded economic opportunities for
women and the increased effectiveness of family planning programs. Rural/
urban migration declined somewhat from the early 1960s on as progress was
made in eliminating the widespread violence which had occurred in the
countryside during the 1950s. As a consequence, investment, output and
employment in agriculture has expanded considerably.  Nevertheless, approxi-
mately 64% of the current population lives in urban centers and there are
now 16 cities in Colombia with population of over 100,000 persons. While
Colombia's population is not considered excessive relative to the country's
resource base, economic growth, particularly in the directly productive goods
and service sectors where permanent jobs can be created, will have to be
accelerated in order to expand employment opportunities at a pace sufficient
to keep up with rapid growth of the labor force.
5.        Available information suggests that there has been some improvement
in income distribution in Colombia since the 1950s. These gains appear to
have occurred as a consequence of a number of factors including reduced
population growth, migration of underemployed surplus labor from rural areas,
and rapid growth of employment in higher productivity jobs in industry and
agriculture. Since 1967, policy efforts to improve the welfare of the poor
have emphasized employment generation and more recently public investment
in health, education, nutrition and urban development designed to reach the
poorest 50% of the population. Future prospects for improvements in income
distribution and in the welfare of the lower income groups appear favorable.
Continued emphasis on growth of the productive sectors of the economy and
on programs to encourage small-scale industry and agriculture should provide
increased employment opportunties throughout the country, and rising real
wages for unskilled and semi-skilled labor in both rural and urban areas.
Continued upgrading of social services provided to the poor are expected to
reinforce these trends and improve the level of welfare of these segments
of the population.
6.        The Colombian authorities introduced a dramatic change in develop-
ment strategy in 1967, replacing the then existing protectionist policy of
import substitution with measures designed to expand and diversify the
country's exports. These policies were highly successful in expanding
exports, thereby alleviating the foreign exchange constraint and making
possible a substantially higher level of investment. As a consequence,
real GDP rose by an average 6.5% annually between 1967 and 1974, well above
the historical average. Merchandise exports expanded more than fourfold
during this period, and most significantly, non-traditional exports became
an increasingly important source of foreign exchange earnings, in part
compensating for slow growth of receipts from coffee exports. By 1974,
non-coffee exports comprised 56% of total merchandise exports, up from
less than 30% in 1967.



3-
7.        Despite improvements in economic efficiency, strong growth of output
and export diversification, the country faced some potentially serious
problems at the time the new administration took office in 1974. Weakening
balance of payments, in part related to the slowdown of growth in the
industrial countries, loss of self-sufficiency in petroleum production,
deterioration of public finances, accelerating inflation, and declining
investment, threatened to reduce growth of output and employment. As a
consequence of these developments, the Government introduced an economic
stabilization program which combined basic reform of the fiscal, monetary,
and trade systems with measures aimed at accelerating long-term economic
growth.
8.        In order to strengthen public finances, the Government undertook
a comprehensive tax reform designed to improve the progressivity and
elasticity of the tax system. Distortions which had developed in the
financial system caused by forced investment requirements placed on financial
institutions and by differential tax treatment of financial instruments were
eliminated. In order to increase the efficiency of the economy through
greater reliance on market forces, price controls on a number of important
agricultural products were removed, thereby providing greater stimulus for
increasing farm production. Modifications in petroleum pricing policy
aimed at regaining self-sufficiency in production of crude petroleum by
improving incentives for exploration and exploitation were introduced.
Concurrently, measures were taken to reduce the subsidy on local consumption
of petroleum products, with the dollar equivalent price of gasoline being
raised in successive steps by 175% between August 1975 and January 1978.
Tariff levels and non-tariff barriers to trade were reduced significantly
in order to increase external competition and efficiency of domestic firms.
While these reforms were successful in strengthening public finances and
reducing inflation, their initial impact was to reduce economic growth and
the slowdown of domestic economic activity which began in 1974 continued
through most of 1975.
Recent Economic Developments
9.        During the last two years the Colombian economy has been strongly
affected by developments in the external sector. As the result of a serious
frost in Brazil's major coffee producing area in late 1975, coffee exports
from that country declined sharply, triggering a fourfold increase in the
world price of coffee by 1977. As a consequence, Colombia's export earnings
from coffee increased from US$670 million in 1975 to nearly US$1.7 billion
in 1977 and incomes throughout Colombia's rural areas rose sharply. Lagging
supply of consumer goods, especially of basic foodstuffs, production of which
was adversely affected by drought conditions in most of the country's interior,
failed to keep pace with rising demand and inflation accelerated from 24% in
1976 to 45% in the twelve months ending June 1977. Inflation in Colombia
has generally been moderate relative to that experienced by other countries
in the region, seldom exceeding an annual rate of 20%. The magnitude of
acceleration of inflation which took place from early 1976 to mid-1977 was
unprecedented in the country's recent history.



- 4 -
10.       The authorities responded rapidly by introducing a broad range of
fiscal, monetary and trade policies designed to gain control over the explosive
increase in prices. Beginning in late 1976 reserve requirements were raised,
rediscounting at the Central Bank was reduced and public sector borxowl-
from the Central Bank was eliminated. The authorities temporarily suspended
their policy of periodically adjusting the exchange rate and prices of petro-
leum products. In January 1977, a 100% marginal reserve requirement was
placed on increases in commercial bank deposits exceeding the December 31, 1976
level. To delay the impact of rising foreign exchange receipts on the monetary
base, exporters were required to accept 90-day US dollar denominated certifi-
cates of exchange in lieu of cash payment for their exports. In order to
sterilize a portion of the increase in foreign exchange earnings from coffee
exports, the Coffee Federation agreed to invest a large portion of its
receipts in Central Bank bonds, the proceeds of which were frozen in a
special account. To increase supplies in the domestic market, a number of
measures were taken to liberalize imports and food imports by the state
marketing agency, IDEMA, were increased sharply. In addition, restrictive
fiscal measures were introduced to curb growth of aggregate demand and the
Treasury registered a budgetary surplus for the first time in recent years.
11.       As a consequence of these measures, a favorable second semester
harvest and a slower rate of accumulation of foreign exchange reserves,
inflation declined sharply beginning in July 1977. By the end of the year,
the annual rate of inflation had fallen to 29%. With inflation subsiding,
periodic exchange rate adjustments were reintroduced and in January 1978 the
price of gasoline was raised by 20%. With few other exceptions, however,
stabilization policies were continued in effect throughout the first half
of 1978 and by July 1978, inflation had subsided to an annual rate of 11.5%.
12.       Despite the domestic stabilization program and the lack of dynamism
in world markets, expansion of the Colombian economy increased steadily in
1976 and 1977. Growth of real GDP increased from 3.8% in 1975 to 4.4% and
5.9%, respectively, in the subsequent two years. Accelerated growth during
this period was the direct result of strong expansion of domestic demand
related to the rise in incomes of coffee producers. Output of the industrial
and service sectors responded strongly to rising demand, while agricultural
output, adversely affected by the drought, showed only negligible increases
in both years. Because strong growth occurred in relatively labor-intensive
sectors of the economy (manufacturing, commerce and services), the urban
unemployment rate declined to an estimated 8% by the end of 1977, from an
average 12% during the first half of the 1970s. In addition, there is
evidence of labor shortages and rising real wage rates in rural areas during
this period, and it is believed that rural unemployment also declined.
13.       World coffee prices have declined since their 1977 peak and are
now moving back toward their real historic average. The 1976-77 boom in
world coffee prices has left Colombia with an unprecedented level of
foreign exchange reserves, US$2.0 billion through mid-1978, equivalent
to nearly one year's merchandise imports at the current rate. While public



-5-
finances also benefitted from the surge in coffee revenues, non-coffee
tax collections, especially from the income and wealth taxes, have lagged
behind growth of nominal GDP. Public investment expenditure was curbed
during the past two years as part of the stabilization effort and will
now have to be expanded so as not to further delay execution of important
projects aimed at improving the country's social and economic infrastructure.
Non-coffee tax revenues will be one of the major sources of financing of
such investment and it is expected that they will be strengthened as tax
proceeds from coffee exports continue to decline.
Development Strategy and Prospects
14.       The development strategy embodied in the 1975-78 Development Plan
aimed at accelerating the rate of growth of GDP and at distributing the
benefit of such growth more equitably. This was to be achieved by increasing
the allocative efficiency of the economy through greater reliance on market
forces, by providing incentives for increasing private sector investment, by
expanding economic and social infrastructure, and by improving public services
provided to the poorest half of the population. Substantial progress has
been made in carrying out this strategy during the past three years. Public
sector investments have focused increasingly on projects designed to alleviate
rural and urban poverty and on expanding and improving infrastructure. Compre-
hensive integrated rural development and nutrition projects aimed at increasing
incomes and welfare of the lowest income groups have been introduced. Urban
development projects designed to provide improved services and employment
opportunities to residents of slum areas in Colombia's major cities have been
initiated to alleviate urban poverty. These programs have been complemented
by policies to encourage the development of small- and medium-scale enterprises
and to decentralize industry away from the three largest cities. This latter
policy, together with credit programs designed to increase output and employ-
ment in agriculture, have been designed to alleviate rural poverty and reduce
rural/urban migration. Public sector infrastructure investments have been
concentrated on improvement and extension of highway and communications
systems. Special priority has been given to the development of domestic
energy sources to reduce the country's growing dependence on imported oil.
15.       Increased emphasis on provision of improved social services is
reflected in the increased proportion of National Government expenditure
on education, health, and water and sewerage systems, which rose from
33% in 1974 to 38% in 1977. The economic dislocations caused by the
coffee boom and the need to concentrate economic policy on short-term
management problems have limited expansion of public and private invest-
ment and required temporary suspension of some of the measures designed
to free the price system and stimulate growth of non-traditional exports.
16.       The new Government in Colombia which took office in August, is
now in the process of formulating its development strategy. Recent
statements by the authorities indicate their intention to continue with the
same basic development strategy as the past administration. Increased
emphasis is to be placed, however, on achieving more balanced growth through
expansion of infrastructure in the country's least developed regions, and



-6-
on stimulating growth and diversification of non-traditional exports,
especially foodstuffs. With import substitution opportunities largely
exhausted and given the relatively limited size of Colombia's domestic
market, renewed emphasis on export led growth is expected to provide a
firm basis for sustained increases in output and employment.
17.       Given the country's strong resource base and its high level of
international reserves, Colombia should be able to achieve annual real GDP
growth of between 6% and 7% during the 1978-82 period. Maintenance of this
level of growth will require rapid expansion of non-coffee exports and
increases in savings and investment rates. Public sector investment is
expected to expand rapidly during this period because of the large unmet
needs for infrastructure, social services and energy development. Financial
requirements for this higher level of investment will be substantial and
public sector savings will have to be sustained at the current high levels.
Given the continued decline in coffee revenue which is expected, improvements
will be required in administration of non-coffee taxes. Of equal importance
is the continued upward adjustment in prices charged for the goods and services
provided by the public decentralized agencies. Growth of non-coffee exports,
especially of manufactured goods, will no doubt be strongly influenced by the
rates of economic growth of Colombia's major trading partners, but appropriate
domestic incentives will play an even more important role in expanding exports.
In this regard, it is expected that Colombia will follow an exchange rate
policy designed to maintain the competitiveness of Colombian exports and that
additional export promotion measures will be adopted to encourage both product
and market diversification.
18.       Greater efforts to increase efficiency and production in the
agricultural and industrial sectors will also be needed to complement
incentives given to non-traditional exports. Programs to meet these needs
in the agricultural sector, including integrated rural development, expansion
of farm credit, improved research and extension services, and upgraded
marketing facilities, are already in place and will need to be strengthened.
Accelerated development of the country's capital markets is expected to
increase private savings and improve allocation of financial resources and
thereby provide the basis for more rapid growth of industry. Ongoing and
future infrastructure investments by the public sector should facilitate
improvements in economic efficiency and lead to more rapid growth of
output and employment in both industry and agriculture.
19.       Projections of Colombia's energy balance indicate a rapidly
growing deficit that is expected to reach significant proportions in the
early 1980s in the absence of an aggressive energy development program.
To avoid the constraint on growth that large scale shortages of energy
would entail, high priority is being given to the development of additional
energy sources. The strategy which is being pursued is to reduce the nation's
dependence on petroleum as an energy source by developing substitutes such
as hydropower, coal and natural gas. Major projects are being executed
and others prepared to expand hydroelectric power generation and incentives
are being given to private foreign companies for accelerated exploration
and development of the country's hydrocarbon potential. Exports of coal



- 7 -
and natural gas are expected to offset a portion of the large petroleum
imports projected for the mid to late 1980s. Conservation of existing
resources resulting from higher energy prices is expected to slow the
growth in energy demand. While the total investment cost of future energy
development Cs still being determined, preliminary estimates indicate that
the required investment could run as high as US$8.0 billion in current prices
over the next decade. Even under the most optimistic assumption regarding
foreign private investment, suppliers' credits and domestic resource mobiliza-
tion, external credits of about US$4.0 billion would be required in this
sector alone during this period. Any significant delay in implementing the
country's energy development program would most likely have serious adverse
repercussions on future economic growth.
20.       Because of the expected continued decline in world coffee prices,
accelerating oil imports and the high import content of future investment
projects, the current account of the balance of payments is expected to be
in deficit throughout the early to mid-1980s. Increased mineral exports
including coal, natural gas, and nickel, and completion of the large invest-
ments in energy development are expected to relieve the pressure on the
balance of payments by the late 1980s. Colombia is expected, therefore,
to continue to be a large net importer of capital for some time to come.
Its future external resource requirements reflect the need to supplement
domestic savings in order to carry out the public sector investment program
and to provide increasing amounts of foreign exchange to finance required
imports of capital and intermediate goods. Assuming that the Colombian
authorities permit a drawdown of international reserves to the equivalent
of three months' imports in the years immediately ahead, gross external
capital requirements are projected at US$4.7 billion between 1978 and 1982, or
an annual average of about US$950 million. About half of Colombia's capital
inflow during this period is expected to be provided by official multilateral
and bilateral sources, with commercial finance credits becoming increasingly
important.
21.       Colombia's public external debt repayable in foreign currency
amounted to US$3.6 billion at the end of 1977, of which US$2.6 billion
was disbursed and outstanding. The Bank/IDA share of this external debt
was 28% and is expected to rise to 30% by 1982, before declining to 27%
by 1985. Although the public debt service ratio fell during the past
two years as export growth accelerated, this ratio is expected to increase
from 9.9% in 1977 to about 11.5% in 1982. Balance of payments prospects
beyond 1980 will depend heavily on the timely development of domestic
energy sources and on progress made in executing several natural resource-
based export oriented projects currently under preparation. Given the
expected continuation of sound economic and financial management and timely
execution of the country's energy program, it should be possible to prevent
the external sector from again becoming a constraint on economic growth and
to maintain Colombia's creditworthiness for the required external borrowing.



-8-
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
22.       The proposed loan, the 76th to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$1939.2 million (net of cancella-
tions). Of this amount, US$1165.5 million is now held by the Bank; IDA made
one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in Colombia in 1961. Disbursements
have been completed on 46 loans and the IDA credit. IFC has made effective
investments and underwriting commitments of US$53.7 million in 24 enterprises
and now holds US$18.7 million.  Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans and the IDA credit as of June 30, 1978, and IFC investments as of
June 30, 1978.  The Annex also contains summaries on the execution of the
29 on-going projects.
23.       Since FY68, Bank lending in Colombia has become more diversified
and has been concentrated on production-oriented programs and activities which
emphasized social as well as economic benefits. Eight of the eleven agricul-
tural loans have been made since then, nine of the twelve loans for industry,
all three loans in the education sector, all seven loans for water supply
and sewerage, one loan for a nutrition project and one loan for an urban
development project. This compares with only nine loans since FY68 in the
power and transport sectors.
24.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY78 consisted of loans for nutrition
improvement, water and sewerage, urban development, power generation and
interconnection, development finance companies and development of an export
processing zone, totalling US$354.6 million equivalent. In addition to the
proposed project, the FY79 program includes proposed loans for water and
sewerage, further urban development, mining, power, coal engineering and
agricultural credit for land reform beneficiaries. Work is also under way in
water supply and slum improvement, transportation, further mining development,
power, including rural electrification, small farm development and industry
for possible consideration by the Executive Directors during the next two
years.
25.       The proposed Bank lending conforms closely with the Government's
development strategy. To help Colombia develop domestic sources of energy, a
substantial part of the proposed lending would be for hydro-power.  The Bank
would also assist the development of coal mines, which hold potential in
helping Colombia meet part of its energy requirements. Bank involvement in
the energy sector would help mobilize additional external financing as some of
the projects would require co-financing. Other future loans would finance
agriculture and industry to assist the Government in its efforts to raise
overall productivity, income and employment, and to strengthen and diversify
exports. Closely related to these objectives would be the proposed Bank
lending for transport infrastructure in more backward areas of the country
to integrate them into the modern economy. In this context, we are assisting
the Government in preparing a rural and feeder roads project. Finally, a
relatively large number of loans are being prepared in support of the Govern-
ment's efforts to help the lowest 50% of the Colombian population. The
proposed urban development and slum improvement, the rural electrification,



-9-
small farm development, credit for land reform beneficiaries and the water
supply and sewerage projects are principally designed to improve the poor's
standard of living.
26.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex I.
While IBRD, lDB, and AID provided about 75% of total external financing to
Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased since then to
approximately 48%. Like the Bank, IDB and AID have given increased emphasis
to social projects. For instance, the IDB has assisted projects in low cost
housing, urban and rural development, agrarian reform, university education,
water supply, and land erosion control; in the future IDB proposes to assist
Colombia in its plans to develop sources of domestic energy and to expand the
activity of the productive sectors to help generate increased employment.
AID has supported programs in education, urban development and small farm
development. More recently, it has moved to small project loans aimed chiefly
at improving the distribution of income. It is expected to phase out its aid
program in Colombia in 1979 with the commitment of a US$6 million nutrition
loan.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR AND AVIATION REQUIREMENTS
Development of the Transnort System
27.       Since the early 1950's, Colombia's transport investment policy has
been aimed at national integration through efforts to overcome the regional-
and community-level isolation imposed by topography. The country's advantage
of having coastlines on both the Pacific Ocean and the Caribbean Sea is offset
by the difficulty of movement between the coasts and the interior. The three
massive ranges of the Andes Mountains which run from south to north present
formidable barriers to communication between the main areas of population,
which until recently developed as separate and almost isolated communities.
28.       Because of the major obstacles to ground transport posed by the
country's topography, Colombia began early to develop air transport, around
1920, and the role of the aviation system has been largely as a long distance
passenger transport mode. Prior to construction of the major highway and rail
links over the last 20 years, air services provided the only regular connection
between many centers of economic activity. Colombia's largely regionally
oriented ground transport system began to evolve into a national system only
in the early 1950's. Until 1961, the Magdalena River was the only workable
ground route between the central region and the Atlantic coast. Since that
year, the Atlantic Railroad, which was constructed with Bank assistance, has
provided an all-weather connection from Bogota to the Caribbean port of Santa
Marta. Also through the early sixties, Colombia was developing its trunk
highway system, which has since become a catalyst of national integration.
29.       The effort to complete the basic transport network required a con-
siderable proportion of the country's total investment. Transport represented
between 10% and 15% of domestic investment and about half the Central Govern-
ment's investment in the late 1950's. Through most of the following decade,



- 10 -
when the trunk highway system and the Atlantic Railways were being completed,
that portion rose to more than 60% of Central Government investment.  More
recently, however, the proportion has been declining; in the late 1960's, it
was about 35% and, since 1970, it has been about 25% of total public invest-
ment. In 1975, Col$ 3,200 million were invested in the transportation sector
(around US$107 million); of this, about 60% went to road transport, 18% to
rail transport, 11% to aviation, 8% to ports and marine transportation and 3%
shipping and inland waterways. On the whole, this distribution reflects the
present economic importance of the different modes of transport.
Infrastructure and Traffic
30.       Colombia has a road network totalling about 51,000 km of which about
8,000 km are paved. The railway system in service consists of about 2,912 km
of single-track meter gauge (0.914 meters) Government-owned lines. The most
important routes are those between Santa Marta-Bogota and Santa Marta-Medellin.
Although the traditional importance of inland waterway shipping has decreased
due to the development of rail and of road transport, it is still significant.
Both the Magdalena and the Cauca rivers are navigable, and they account for
almost all inland shipping. Over the last decade, domestic ground freight
traffic has grown at rates close to GDP growth, 6-7% annually. In 1976, roads
carried an estimated 70% of all interregional and international freight
traffic (60% of domestic freight); river and coastal shipping, 30%, and
railways, 9% of total freight traffic.
31.       The principal seaports of Colombia are Cartagena, Barranquilla and
Santa Marta on the Atlantic Coast and Buenaventura on the Pacific coast.
Between 1966 and 1976, the traffic in the four main ports (about two-thirds
imports and one-third exports) increased from 2.1 million tons to 3.0 million
tons. As the four main ports are now able to handle over 4 million tons of
general cargo per year, there should be no overall capacity problem in the
foreseeable future, but bottlenecks may occur for certain products requiring
specialized handling and storing facilities.
The Bank's Role in Transport Sector Development
32.       The Bank has played an important role in the development of Colombia's
transport sector. Over 1953-73, Bank disbursements accounted for about 10% of
total investments for highways and 30% for railways. Overall since 1950, the
Bank has lent a total of US$255.2 million for highway and railway projects to
assist the Government in developing basic transport infrastructure to facili-
tate economic and social integration, as well as overall growth of economic
activity. The major aims of the proposed project, which would be the Bank's
first participation in aviation infrastructure development, fall within this
framework.
33.       Bank lending for railway development resulted, inter alia, in
construction of the aforementioned Atlantic Railroad. The early Bank-financed
highway projects, although beset with delays and cost overruns, resulted in
the reconstruction or upgrading of 3,200 km of trunk roads and contributed to
the development of a unified trunk road system and to the emergence of road



- 11 -
transport as the main means of freight transportation. The later highway
projects have made important contributions to the trunk road system and have
assisted in the establishment of better engineering practices and improved
contractual procedures. Furthermore, they have contributed to the development
of the local consulting and construction industries, and have directly
supported Government efforts to improve transport investment planning and
coordination. The most recent highway project (Loan 1471-CO, July 1977)
focuses upon rehabilitation works and upon improving maintenance capability
and practices.
Aviation Sector
34.       Demand for Air Services.  Air transport in Colombia is a major
passenger transport mode for both international and domestic travel. Long-term
growth in the domestic passenger market has averaged 4% per annum over the
last decade and 13% per annum since 1974 (totalling about 3.9 million passengers
in 1976) as compared with average annual growth in GNP per capita of 2.7% and
an average 2.8% annual increase in population. One-third of total domestic
air passenger traffic is between the principal cities and Bogota; the country's
four largest airports (Bogota, Medellin, Cali and Barranquilla) handle two-
thirds of all traffic. The domestic passenger market is dominated by business
travel, which accounts for 50-65% of traffic on the major routes. Passenger
demand on these routes has been largely unaffected by the development of the
primary road system. However, road transport appears to have absorbed some
traffic that formerly would have used air services on the shorter routes.
Thus, air transport services are tending to become more concentrated in long
distance operations.
35.       International passenger traffic accounts for about 12% of total air
passenger movements. International passenger traffic to Colombia from Europe
and North America has been growing about 12% annually. Unlike the domestic
market, foreign air travel to Colombia is predominantly for recreation (62%),
and this traffic has been growing at an annual rate of 19% since the late
1960s. The remaining international air traffic to Colombia comprises business
travel (15%) and health, education and family travel. Air travel from
Colombia to international destinations has grown at an annual average of 11%
over 1972-76, with total passengers in 1976 reaching about 470,000.
36.       Domestic air freight tonnage has declined in recent years (from about
95,000 tons in 1973 to 85,000 tons in 1976), although ton-kilometer volume has
remained stable. The principal factors responsible for declining air freight
tonnage have been improved road conditions, especially between Bogota and
Medellin, and the growth of direct international flights which obviate the
need for domestic transshipment of air imports and exports.
37.       Air freight exports have shown a robust growth of about 20% per
annum since 1966 (reaching about 28,000 tons in 1976) with air trade with
North America increasing even faster over the period, at about 30% per
annum. Approximately 80% of all such freight is exported through the Bogota
airport and consists mostly of perishable items such as tropical fish,
meat and cut flowers. Colombia has a well-established major flower market



- 12 -
in the United States, and supplies about 6% of Western Europe's fresh flower
imports. Rapidly-growing industries involving a large number of small
enterprises have sprung up around Medellin and Cali, which in 1975 together
produced over 3,200 tons of air freight exports. Air freight imports, which
totalled abou:<- 23,000 tons in 1975, have been growing by approximately 22%
per annum since 1972 and consist, primarily, of manufactured goods and special-
ized items for use in industry and commerce. Customs procedures, however,
have not kept pace with the rapid growth of air freight imports, with
consequent costly delays in the clearance of commerce and industry-related
imports.  To redress this situation, the proposed project includes a study for
reviewing customs procedures, based upon which a program to improve such
procedures will be prepared and carried out (paragraph 49).
38.       Commercial Airlines.  In recognition of the major problems that
topography has imposed upon surface transportation, Colombia very early turned
to aviation for at least a partial solution and in 1919 established what is
now the second oldest continuously operated airline in the world, Avianca
(Aerovias Nacionales de Colombia, S.A.), which serves international and
domestic points. Two other Colombian firms are currently engaged in interna-
tional service, Aerocondor (Aerovias Condor de Colombia, S.A.) and SAM
(Sociedad Aeronautica de Medellin Consolidada, S.A.). In addition to 10 other
scheduled domestic airlines, 11 foreign airlines also serve Colombia. Support-
ing these scheduled carriers are many charter and non-scheduled foreign air-
lines plus a domestic fleet of about 800 non-scheduled commercial, general
aviation and private aircraft.
39.       Colombia's commercial airlines are privately owned and, in general,
efficiently managed. They compete, within a regulated environment, on the
basis of both fares and frequencies. Domestic air fares in Colombia are very
low - both in relation to costs and by comparison to those of other countries.
The Government policy of maintaining low fares and tariffs to facilitate
aviation development now appears to have become counter-productive. Low
fares, combined with rising costs make new domestic capital ventures unattrac-
tive to investors and the acquisition of new aircraft for internal services
uneconomic for the airlines. The three major carriers are maintaining profit-
ability through intensive equipment use with high rates of aircraft utiliza-
tion and load factors above 70%. All the airlines are constrained in their
ability to replace older, costlier aircraft with more efficient types. More-
over, maintenance costs are particularly high because of a combination of
high import and sales duties on spare parts, and a relatively inefficient
labor force; thus, much of Avianca's formerly growing business in providing
maintenance and overhaul services for foreign airlines has now been lost.
The proposed project would include a study to assist the Government in improv-
ing guidelines and procedures for passenger fare and freight rate adjustments
(paragraph 49).
40.       Aviation Infrastructure and Its Institutional Framework.  Aviation
infrastructure comprises some 70 airports, which range from modern facilities
capable of accommodating modern jet aircraft to landing strips on relatively
ungraded fields. Of these, eight serve both domestic and international
traffic with relatively new or expanded facilities at Cali, San Andres,



- 13 -
Barranquilla, Leticia and Bucaramanga. In line with priorities established 4in
the National Plan for Airports, moderate improvements are to be effected at
two of the remaining airports, Bogota and Cartagena, and a new airport is to
be constructed at Medellin. The planned works for Bogota and Medellin are
aimed at over:oming bottlenecks to existing traffic, while the Cartagena works
would enable that airport to accomodate forecast traffic. These high priority
investments are included in the proposed project (paragraph 49).
41.       With increasing levels of air traffic in Colombia, as well as the
use of large-capacity modern jet aircraft, the development of adequate air
navigational aids and communications systems is of crucial importance in
maintaining an acceptable margin of safety in air transport operations.
However, installation and operation of navigational and communications equip-
ment has lagged considerably behind the development of aviation services.
Existing equipment is insufficient to allow operations in difficult terrain
and under frequently adverse weather conditions. As a result, some major
airports do not operate after dusk and airport closure during periods of poor
visibility is common. Furthermore, existing equipment is not fully utilized
because of insufficient trained staff, while lack of calibration equipment
means that even those navigational aids which are operated are not fully
reliable. These problems are addressed under the proposed project (paragraph
49).
42.       Civil aviation administration is the responsibility of the Civil
Aeronautics Administration Department (DAAC), which is a governmental agency
responsible directly to the President of the Republic. DAAC is charged
with recommending aviation sector policy for approval and adoption by the
Government; the planning, operation and maintenance of the airport and air
navigation facility network; the execution of studies and works (with funds
provided by the National Aeronautic Fund (FAN) (paragraph 43); the ensuring
of the safety and efficiency of the air transport industry; and establishment
of the level and structure of airport user charges, passenger fares and
freight rates. These functions are carried out by DAAC's 3,000 - member
staff, who are government employees. Recent government action to improve
compensation levels and establish a career program for technical personnel is
expected to result in greater length of service of trained personnel and a
stronger technical staff. However, considerable further strengthening would
be required to allow the staff to keep pace with the increasing demands
generated by the civil aviation industry. Assistance for this purpose has
been included in the proposed project (paragraph 49).
43.       FAN is a legally autonomous entity charged with providing funds for
the development, operation and maintenance of aviation infrastructure facili-
ties, which are owned by FAN but operated by DAAC. FAN's sources of funds
are revenues from the operation of aviation facilities, debt financing,
national budget appropriations, and the sale of property. In essence, FAN is
similar to a bank account, as all its personnel requirements are provided by
DAAC. The Director of DAAC, who is appointed by the President of the Republic,
is the legal representaive of FAN and also its administrator.



- 14 -
44.       Regulation and Planning.  Regulation of the aviation sector is
provided by DAAC, which is advised on policy and regulatory matters by the
Superior Council of Civil Aeronautics, whose members include representatives
of other relevant public bodies such as the National Tourism Corporation, the
Colombian Air Force and MOPT. Final responsibility on personnel licensing,
aircraft registration, specification of procedures, fares, routes, fleets and
user charges, however, rests with DAAC. Furthermore, in addition to its
specific mandate, DAAC provides a wide-ranging influence on commercial aviation
activities.
45.       Aviation planning is undertaken by DAAC, with coordination with
other Government programs provided by the National Planning Department (DNP).
The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required before any project may be
undertaken; this procedure was established to avoid a recurrence of past
experience in which the aviation sector undertook investments beyond its
revenue-earning capacity and required Government budgetary allocations to
service debts incurred for investments. Over the past two years, DAAC's
Planning Department has assumed a central role in investment planning.
Technical assistance is provided under the proposed project to assist in
strengthening the Planning Department (paragraph 49).
46.       Institutional Development.  In response to demand for air transport
service, Colombia's aviation sector has developed rapidly. In the past,
however, aviation infrastructure investments were sometimes undertaken without
regard to economic viability or financial feasibility. Further, the organiza-
tion of the sector was not conducive to efficient management and investment
planning. Over the past decade, the Government has addressed these problems
by creating DAAC and FAN, and by undertaking the country's first comprehensive
review of national aviation requirements through the preparation of a coor-
dinated investment program, the National Plan for Airports. Recently, the
Government has effected further improvements in the organization of DAAC and
FAN (one of the most important of which gave DAAC a central role in investment
planning) and has taken action to improve the performance of civil aviation
personnel (paragraph 42). Moreover, the Government has strengthened its system
of review of proposed aviation investments (paragraph 45). Overall, the
improvements have resulted in strengthened sector management and have provided
the framework necessary for rational sector planning. The proposed project
would support this effort, with particular attention to enhancing management,
plannning and operational capability, and the financial viability of the civil
aviation sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
47.       The project, prepared by DAAC with the assistance of consultants,
forms part of the 1978-83 aviation development program and would assist in
providing necessary infrastructure to accommodate increasing demand for air
transport. The project was appraised by a Bank mission which visited Colombia



- 15 -
in January-February 1978. Supplementary work was undertaken by a mission
which visited Colombia in May 1978. Negotiations were held in Washington
during the week of July 31, 1978 with a Colombian delegation led by Mr. John
Naranjo, Chief of the National Planning Department.
48.       The major project objective is to promote efficient operation and
development of the national aviation system through (a) removing the air
traffic bottlenecks at the Bogota and Medellin airports, and enabling the
Cartagena airport to accommodate forecast traffic; (b) increasing the amount
of time during which aircraft can operate safely; (c) strengthening the tech-
nical capacity of civil aviation staff; and (d) supporting the Government's
policy on promoting the financial viability of revenue-earning public entities.
Description
49.       The project comprises:
(a) Bogota Airport. The improvements to be undertaken at this facility
would provide adequate capacity for forecast traffic through the early 1990s.
These include strengthening of the existing taxiways and aircraft aprons, which
are under-strength for the type of aircraft now using the airport; enlargement
of the domestic and international passenger-terminal fingers, which would
provide additional necessary waiting rooms and aircraft positions; improve-
ment of cargo facilities to help reduce the costly losses attendant upon the
current practice of open-air stoLage of cargo awaiting clearance or shipment;
enlargement of the passenger terminal aprons (including the resulting neces-
sary relocation of the access road to the military aircraft area); enlargement
of the automobile parking, and baggage and customs areas to accommodate
existing and forecast traffic; and provision and installation of navigational
aids.
(b) Medellin Airport. Because considerable operating restrictions (re-
sulting from mountainous terrain and frequently poor weather conditions,
compounded by the fact that all low-level aircraft turns during landing and
take-off necessarily occur over a heavily populated urban area) severely
constrain air services at the present airport, where demand for air transport
is high and growing rapidly, a new airport for Medellin is to be constructed.
In line with the results of an economic and technical feasibility study, the
new airport would be located at Rionegro, in a high valley about 23 km east of
the existing facility, and would consist of a 3,000-meter runway with parallel
taxiway, terminal building, a control tower, and a crash-fire-rescue building;
provision of equipment, general aviation, cargo and automobile parking areas;
construction of an internal access road and of a 10-km external access road;
and provision and installation of navigational aids and communications equip-
ment. By January 1, 1981 a study of the existing airport would be carried out
by the Government to explore the potential urban uses of the area, and the
site would be sold, with the funds accruing to FAN (Section 3.05 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
(c) Cartagena Airport. The works to be carried out, together with those
in the 1978-83 Aviation Development program, comprise the minimum improvements
necessary to enable the existing airport to accommodate projected traffic



- 16 -
through 1990. Further expansion at the existing site would be uneconomic, and
no such expansion would be undertaken; to provide for the future aviation needs
of the Cartagena area, the Government will prepare a Master Plan (1979-2000)
to be discussed with the Bank by June 30, 1980 (Section 3.10 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The interim improvements consist of lengthening and strengthening
of the runway; enlargement of the aircraft apron to accommodate larger aircraft;
improvement of ground access and provision of automobile parking areas; procure-
ment and installation of navigational aids and communications equipment; and
provision of a standby electrical plant, runway lighting, and a crash-fire-
rescue building.
(d) Flight Facility Inspection Aircraft (FFI). Provision of an FFI
equipped with a flight inspection console, together with a second console to
replace the obsolete unit in FAN's existing DC-3 FFI, would permit the neces-
sary flight inspections to keep the increasing number of navigational aid
facilities, including those provided under the project, properly calibrated
in accordance with requirements for the safe operation of aircraft. Necessary
training in FFI operation would also be provided.
(e) Master Development Plan for Bogota Airport. A study to provide a
basis for planning the further development of the airport at Bogota would
be carried out by the Government through consultants by June 30, 1980
(Section 3.12 of the draft Loan Agreement). The study would review and update
the existing master plan for the airport and focus upon the appropriate
location of an additional runway as a solution to future traffic constraints.
(f) Study of FAN's Assets. The Goverment would carry out, through con-
sultants, a study of the value of FAN's assets. This study would be completed
by January 1, 1980 and would be used as a basis for establishing asset value,
arriving at an appropriate method for annual revaluation, and reviewing and
adjusting, if necessary, the annual rate of return targets (paragraph 52 and
Section 4.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
(g) Study of Airport User Charges. The structure and level of airport
user charges, including rentals and concessionaire contracts, would be
reviewed by the Government, through consultants. The results of the study
would be furnished to the Bank by January 1, 1980, and based upon such results,
and the comments of the Government and the Bank thereon, a improved schedule
of charges would be put into effect (Section 3.11 of the draft Loan Agreement).
(h) Study of Policy and Procedures for Air Fare and Freight Rate
Adjustments. Through consultants, the Government would review existing
policy and procedures for air fare and freight rate adjustments. The results
of such review would be presented to the Bank for comment by January 1,
1980, and by June 30, 1980, improved guidelines for adjusting such charges
would be established (Section 3.11 of the draft Loan Agreement).
(i) Study of Customs Procedures. Through the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) and the Facilitation Programme of the United Nations Committee
for Trade and Development (FALPRO), the Government will carry out a study to
improve customs procedures. After comment by the Government and the Bank on



- 17 -
the study's recommendations, the Government will prepare and put into effect,
by June 30, 1979, improved customs procedures in agreement with the Bank
(Section 3.13 of the draft Loan Agreement).
(j) Tec>nical Assistance and Training. The project would include 13
man-years of technical assistance consisting of: air traffic control (one
year), electronic engineering and maintenance (two years), spare parts pro-
curement and warehousing (two years), airport and terminal building manage-
ment and operation (three years), airport accounting (three years), and
planning (two years). Technical assistants for the above would be engaged
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.03 of the draft
Loan Agreement). The project also provides for 100 man-years of training for
key technical and professional staff, to be provided under agreements to be
concluded by the Government and such entities prior to disbursement of
proposed loan proceeds for this item (Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Costs and Financing
50.       Total project cost is estimated at US$97.8 million equivalent,
of which US$61.3 million equivalent correspond to the foreign exchange com-
ponent. Cost estimates are based upon nearly complete final engineering for
the construction works. Price contingencies comprising about 22% of base
costs and are based on estimates of yearly price increases. A contingency
amounting to 10% of base costs has been included to allow for incresaes in
quantities. The cost of consultant services has been estimated to range from
US$6,000 per man-month to US$8,000, depending upon specialty, with a total of
about 64 man-years of consultant services. The thirteen man-years of tech-
nical assistance included under the project have been estimated at a cost of
about US$5,000 per man-month. The cost of 100 man-years of training is
estimated at about US$4,000 per year for each trainee.
51.       The proposed loan to the Government of US$61.0 million equivalent
would finance 62% of total project cost, i.e., almost 100% of the project's
foreign exchange cost. The customs study (US$0.1 million) would be financed
by UNDP. The remaining costs would be covered by FAN. The Government would
transfer loan proceeds to FAN, and the entity would assume the foreign exchange
risk and service the loan through the Government, in line with the provisions
of a subsidiary agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, to be concluded between
the Government and FAN; the execution and delivery of such an agreement would
be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan (Section 6.01 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Finances of the Aviation Sector
52.       The financial performance of the aviation sector has improved
substantially in recent years. Whereas in 1970 Government contributions
amounted to 47% of the sector's total cash requirements, in 1977 such con-
tributions comprised a substantially-reduced 17% of total funding require-
ments, as a result of tariff increases combined with considerable traffic
growth. As provided by recent legislation, the sector receives national
budgetary support in the form of an annual allocation for DAAC's personnel



- 18 -
salaries and for miscellaneous expenses. Although the same legislation
provides for the transfer of up to 10% of FAN's gross revenues to the national
budget, this comes to less than the amount provided by the Government. While
the Government decided that it would not after 1977 continue to contribute
directly to aviation investments, the current system nevertheless has an
impact equivalent to equity contributions. Recently, the Government has
expressed strong interest in further promoting the financial autonomy of the
sector and, to this end, has decided to take the following action:
(a)  Investments and Indebtedness.   Individual aviation infrastructure
investments in excess of US$1.0 million would not be undertaken unless
economically justified as part of the agreed National Aviation Development
Program and adequate financing were available to FAN (Section 4.05(a) of the
draft Loan Agreement); proposed investments not included in the Program
aggregating, in one fiscal year, the equivalent of 20% of planned investments
for the Program in such year would not be undertaken without the agreement of
the Bank (Section 4.05(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Furthermore, long-
term debt would not be incurred unless net revenues for the immediately
preceeding fiscal year, or for a 12-month period ended prior to such
incurrence (whichever is greater), would be at least 1.5 times the maximum
long-term debt service requirement for the upcoming fiscal year (Section 4.07
of the draft Loan Agreement).
(b) Tariffs. Over 1979-82 airport user charges would be maintained
in real terms at the level of January 1, 1978 charges, to reflect fully the
effects of price increases as measured by the Wholesale Price Index published
by the Central Bank of Colombia (Section 4.09 of the draft Loan Agreement).
This would generate sufficient forecast revenue to enable the carrying out of
the proposed project and the other investments in the Aviation Development
Program over 1979-82, with continued national budgetary support for salaries
and related expenses of DAAC; from 1983 onwards, it is anticipated that
revenues would also cover operating expenses.
(c) Rate of Return. The tariff action outlined above would imply rates
of return on estimated revalued assets of 6% in 1980, 7% in 1981, and 8% in
1982, taking account of, inter alia, the projected revenues of FAN but exclud-
ing Government contributions to working expenses (Section 4.08 of the draft
Loan Agreement). DAAC/FAN would adjust airport user charges as necessary to
achieve rates of return of at least 8% from 1983 onwards (Section 4.08 of
the draft Loan Agreement), which would provide an acceptable return on capital
and provide a substantial internally generated contribution to planned invest-
ments, in line with sound commercial practices. Because of considerable
uncertainty about the current value of FAN's assets, the rate of return to be
achieved will be reviewed on the basis of an asset revaluation study to be
carried out under the project (paragraph 49).
(d) Financial Autonomy of Aviation Sector. In line with Government
policy to encourage the financial autonomy of revenue-earning public entities,
the Government will annually review DAAC/FAN's financial performance in
order to determine the need to continue budgetary support over the forthcoming
fiscal year through 1982, and furnish to the Bank the results of such annual



- 19 -
review (Section 4.10(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). Moreover, it will take
all necessary action to enable DAAC/FAN to achieve financial autonomy
by 1983, in line with DAAC/FAN's forecast revenues and expenditures (Sections
3.02, 4.10(b) and 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement, Implementation and Disbursements
53.       Contracts for civil works (earthworks, paving, drainage, water
and electrical supply and distribution, sewerage, buildings, etc.) and visual
aids, navigational and communications equipment, and installation would be
awarded after international competitive bidding by prequalified contractors.
The contract for the FFI aircraft and associated equipment would also be
awarded after international competitive bidding. Since it is not produced
locally, no local suppliers are expected to bid on this item. On all other
equipment contracts, local bidders would be granted a margin of preference
by addition of 15% to the CIF value of foreign bids or the applicable customs
duties, whichever is lower. Consultants for the project would be engaged
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.03 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
54.       The Project would be executed through DAAC and FAN.  The first of
the civil works contracts is expected to be awarded by end-1978. Cartagena
airport works are expected to be completed in June 1980, Bogota in December
1981 and Medellin in December 1982. It is expected that DAAC would award the
contract for the FFI aircraft, and related equipment and training by March
1979, and the delivery of the aircraft and equipment would be by June 1980.
The technical assistance and training would be provided through UNDP/ICAO
or other suitable entity. DAAC would also administer the contracts of the
engineering and financial consultants.
55.       Disbursements would be made  through June 1984.  Loan funds would be
disbursed on the following basis: (a) 100% of foreign expenditures for
equipment and installation; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for technical
assistance and training; (c) 100% of foreign expenditures for foreign
consultants or 50% of total expenditures for local consultants; and (d) 59% of
total expenditures for civil works. The estimated closing date of the loan
is December 31, 1984.
Benefits and Risks
56.       The project will result in significant savings in costs for Colombian
domestic and international air transport through more efficient use of air-
craft and improvements in the reliability of services. The improvements will
provide facilities to cope with the increasing volume of air traffic and
remove significant restrictions now imposed at Medellin and Bogota.
57.       At Medellin, the need for a new airport, and the principal justi-
fication for this project component, stems from the inability of the present
airport to cope with traffic demand in the foreseeable future, and the depend-
ence of the city on air services for business and personal contacts with other
cities of Colombia. The new airport at Rionegro provides a viable solution



- 20 -
for maintaining accessibility to Medellin, and at the same time provides
opportunities for improved services by removing present operating restrictions.
One of the aviation oriented industries particularly favored by the new airport
is the small but rapidly growing flower farming centered at Rionegro itself.
58.       Closure of the present airport also has important economic benefits
for the city of Medellin through the potential urban uses of the land.  Urban
population growth (4.2% p.a.) is among the highest in Colombia, while land
within the Valle de Aburra suitable for urban uses is becoming increasingly
scarce and expensive to develop. It is estimated that the airport site
could accommodate 1-2 years growth for the city, allowing suitable areas for
commercial, residential and recreation of uses, with significant savings in
utilities and services costs, and in urban transport for residents and workers.
59.       Bogota is the principal focus of air traffic in Colombia, and con-
ditions there affect the efficiency and reliability of services throughout
the network. Expansion of the loading areas, aircraft parking and improve-
ments in passenger traffic flow and baggage claim will shorten the time
required for aircraft loading and unloading and hence improve fleet utili-
zation. Provision of additional positions at the international finger (which
also copes with domestic overflow) will avoid delays to aircraft waiting to
unload arising from both the increasing traffic and the greater use of large-
capacity aircraft. Strengthening the taxiway at Bogota will also avoid the
imposition of weight/range limitations on these larger aircraft, which would
otherwise negate the economies they offer.
60.       At Cartagena, the airport works are part of a general expansion
of tourism facilities. In the past three years, bed capacity has trebled.
Improvements are being made to water supply and sewerage systems, and the city
has embarked on a scheme to re-develop the old market site and nearby water-
front as a convention center and yacht marina. Although foreign tourism is
very visible in the city, domestic tourism represents the majority of visitors
and facilities. The majority of foreign tourists arrive from North America by
charter flight.
61.       Lengthening and strengthening the runway at Cartagena would allow
aircraft to fly non-stop to Canada and the Midwest of the United States,
significantly reducing the costs of flights and improving Cartagena's relative
attractiveness while opening new potential markets. The new facilities will
be sufficient for normal traffic requirements until the early 1990's, at
which time a new airport will be required.
62.       By 1979, when the current installation program is completed, the
number of en-route and terminal area navigational aids in service in Colombia
will have doubled. These aids will provide safe and reliable navigation on
the major domestic routes of the country for the first time, in the Llanos and
Amazonas areas. The task of inspecting, calibrating and when necessary
recalibrating these aids is now beyond the capabilities of the existing DC-3
flight facility inspection aircraft. Additionally, the aircraft does not have
the speed or altitude capabilities necessary to provide reliable en-route
checks for jet aircraft aids.



- 21 -
63.       The economic rate of return is estimated at 24% for Medellin,
20% for Bogota, 14% for Cartagena and 15% for the flight inspection aircraft.
Overall, the project has a rate of return of 22%. Benefits considered accrue
initially to Colombian airlines and passengers, mainly on business journeys.
The airlines would realize a reduction in the cost of providing air transport
services. It is expected that this saving would be largely passed on to users
of these services through provision of more efficient, and a larger volume
of, such services. Consequently, constraints on long distance passenger travel
would be eased and the expansion of business activity depending on air freight
would be facilitated. Although it is difficult to be precise about which
activities would be most favorably affected by the project, the principal
users of both passenger and freight services are the manufacturing sector and
perishable export producers, while agricultural processing industries and the
commercial sector are also important users. Apart from the tourism and
related industries in all three cities, the principal non-user benefits from
the project accrue to the residents of Medellin, both through the more effi-
cient use of land within the Valle de Aburra, and through the provision of an
employment pole at Rionegro. Studies are to be made to determine the most
appropriate means of achieving these last benefits.
64.       The major risk relates to possible variations in traffic and project
costs which would affect the economic return. The project has an acceptable
return (13%) if lower-than-anticipated traffic levels occur, 1/ averaging 4%
for domestic traffic, 8% for international traffic. In other sensitivity
tests, project costs were increased by 20% leading to returns of 16%, 20% and
10% for Bogota, Medellin and Cartagena, respectively, with an overall return
of 19%.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the
Bank, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
66.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III. An additional condition of effectiveness would be the execution
and delivery of a satisfactory subsidiary agreement between the Government
and FAN (paragraphs 51 and 52). Further, prior to disbursement of loan
proceeds for training of DAAC personnel, the Government would conclude agree-
ments with entities acceptable to the Bank for provision of such training
(paragraph 49).
1/   The best estimate for traffic levels amounts to annual increases of 7%
for domestic traffic, 10% for international.



- 22 -
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
68.       I recommend that the Executive Director approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
September 28, 1978



-23-                                       ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
COLOMBIA            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU .M2)                 -------------------------        ------------------
COLOMBIA                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     1138.9                                        MOST RECENT
ACRIC.     224.8                        1960       1970   ESTIMATE           TURKEY         BRAZIL         MEXICO~*
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     220.0      370.0      710.0              510.0       580.0       660.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            15.4       20.6       25.0               35.6        93.4        50.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        14.0       18.0      22.0                46.0        11.0        26.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         71.0       93.0     111.0                65.0        49.0        52.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          46.1 *     44.3*     40.6*               40.6        38.4        43.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THDU.AV)           14.7       11.0       8.8                14.4         9.9        10.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        103.0/a    74,0 /a       .1. 53.0/a    110.0                      68.5
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        54.7      58.5       60.9                54.4        59.4        62.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.3        2.9        2.3                2.6/b,C    2.6          3.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  2.9        2.9       2.8                 2.5         2.9         3.5
URBAN                                  6.0/b      5.5 /b     4.5                4.9/d       5.0         4.8
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           53.0       60.3       64.3               3B.7        56.0         58.7
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       46.6/C    46.6        44.1                41.7        42.0        46.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                       50,47C    50.4        52.7                54.0        55.0        50.1
65 YEARS AND OVER                      3.0/C      3.0        3.2                4.3          3.0         3.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     1.0/c      1.0        0.9                0.9          0.8         1.0
ECONDM!C DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.87       1.6/c      1.6/a               1.1/e       1.5         2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           0.5     316.9    1804.8                            250.0        55.5
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..         ..       31.0                8.2          1.6
TMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          5100.0/C 6200.0    6700.0               14000.0 /f  29400.0    13000.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)          47.0       39.0      25.9                63.4        40.4        45.0
UNEMPLOYED I% OF LABOR FORCE)            S. 0 7T    7.0        8.0 /b             11.9/g       7.5
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             41,2/cC,f 31.9/d    27.2                 32.8/h      3  o/a      27.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             67.7/r f 60.17     54,4                  60.6 -      62.0 7      58.3
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              2.1 7TT   3.57       5.2                 2.9/h       3.07it      3.4
LOWEST  40% OF HCUSEHOLDS              6.8 m   10. 1       14.3                 9.4tf      10.0/a      10.5
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..       80 O/e                        53.0         45.0        37.1
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..        0           .                  0.9         1.5         0.3
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              2400.0    2220.0    2230.0               2250.0      1910.0      1480.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         3520.0 A.  2130.0    1450.0              1770.0/i   3220.0/b   1620.0/a
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            580.0      430.0      470.0              500.0       260.0-    960.0-
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          94.0       92.0      105.0              112.0       109.0       105.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               50.0       51.0       45.5               78.0        64.0        65.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          28.0 ah   29. If   36.8                  22.0_L      39.0        28.0/b
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             16.3                 12.0                 14.7/k                   9.8
EDUCATION
ADUUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        77.0       98.0      105.0              109.0        87.0       104.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      12.0       23.0      39.7                28.0           ,        22.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              11.0       11.0       11.0               11.0        11.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONOARY)                      31.0/i    21.0       36.1                14.0/1      17.0        24.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 69.4/c    73.0        77.6                55.0        64.0        76.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  ..         ..         ..                 1.9         1.0         2.2
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                       59.0/c,      .           .               66.0         73.0/C  61 .o/c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  47.0/C       .          ,.               40.0        48.0        59.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO FLECTRICITY (%)                     8.0/C       .,         *-                18.0         8.0        28.0
CONSUMPTION
PADiO RFCEI.ERS (PER THOU POP)         139.0      105.0      117.0                89.0        60.0       276.0
PASSENGER CARS (PEP THOU POP)            7.0       11.0       15.0                 4.0        25.0        24.0
.-cECTRICITY (KNH/YR PER CAP)          244.0!e   414.0       599.0               247.0       491,0       567.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                2.4        2.7        2.1                 C.7         2.7         3.2
…-------------------       -  _  ---__.    -___,    --  ---------  _  --___-----__--__---____  ____    -_-  _  ___      _--_____--__.-- - -
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, (e.g. GNP par capita end population), data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 end 1961, fur 1970 between 1969 and 1971, and
for Most Recent FetiMote between 1973 and 1976.
Official estiwates based on registerations, nhow crude birth rate for 1960 as 39.0, average crude birth rate for 1961-70 as 36.0 and for 1971-76
ao 31.0.
e*  Mexico has been selected ae an objective country because Colonlba is now in the stage of  .osnonic developoent that Mesico was in ten years ago.
goth countries sixo at a INP growth rate of about 7 percent and at a shbstantial reduction of unemployment.
COLOMBIA      1960    /a  Regiatered cnly;    /b  1951-64;    /c  1964;    /d  Bogota only;    /e  1963;    /f  Econoeically active population;
lj  1965;    /h  1961-63;    /i  Total secondary includes teacher training at the third level;    /I  Water piped inside.
1970    Ia  Rate based on burial permits;    /b  1964-70;   /I  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over co total labor force;
/d  Economically active population;    /e  -971;    /f  1964-66.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    lb  December 1977, average
unemployment rate is four largest cities.
TURKEY        1970    /a  1967'    /b  Esolude 17 eastern provinces;    /c  1965-67;    /d  1965-70;    /e  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and
over to labor 15 years and over;    /f  15 years end over, excludes employed;    /j  Registered only;    /h  Disposable
income;    /i  Including assistant nurses and midwives;    /j  1964-66;    lk  1967-68;    /I  Persons six years and over
who tell the census takers that they can reed and write.
iALZIt        1970    /a  Economically active population;    /b  Rospital personnel;    /c  Inside only.
MEXICO        1970    Ia  Including assistant nurses;    /b  1964-66;    /c  Inside only.
R14, September 27, 1978
DEiINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Arc  u                                                                              pouainptoriL nn- Population divided ho' omuber of prsc,tLicig
Total - fool s-rface as1-, osesprising lend ara a-d inland eaters.                             nopl and fenu1e graduaer nurses,"trained" or "certified" nurne-. and
tgj rc. - Most resnot estitint- of agricultn.ral urea used temporarily or perma-                axiliairy personnel with training or espeniunc.
onotbn  for  crops, pastures, oorkhrt & kitches gardens or to lie follow.                   Puprilation per hospital bed - Population divided by number of hospi':.l beds
vailable to pubtic and private general and epecialined hospitnl and
t7Ppc'tr capIta (US$) - GNP per  capita estimates at current sarket pricen,                     rehabilitation centers; excLudes nursing hones and establishi-e,to  for
-aic-,lted by noneconou    mthnd as World Dank Atlas  (1975-77 basis);                        cutdilan   reetive care.
1960; 1970 and 1977 data.                                                                   Per oapita sucely of calorles .o  riL eneotntrY  ped cap   perfy
equivalent xi net food supplies available in country per capita per day;
Population and vital ututirtios                                                                 available supplies cosprtse domaetic produrcios, Imports less e-ports, and
Population (otd-year million) - As of July first:  if not available, a-erage                    changes in stuck; net supplies esclude animal feed, seeds, quantitie- used
of two -ed--year eati=ates; 1960, 1970 and 1977 data.                                         in food processing and Isses  in distribution; requirements were estinated
bv PAO based on physiological needs for normal activity and health conlud-
Populotion droni,,ty - per  ktiore he - Mid-year population per square kilometer                erfln  envirnemental temperature, body weights, ego and sex distribl,ticnn  of
(Iii h-to,res) of total area                                                                  population, and allowing 107. for waste at household I-el.
opuoIat ion 'tonu icy - ret square kms of agric. land - Cqmputed as shove for                Per capita supply of protein fgranx per day) - Protein content nf per capita
agrlc::ris:ral lund only.                                                                     net supply of food per day; set supply of food is defined as above: reqcire-
mente for oil countries established by LSDA Ec-nomic Research Seryken
Vital uratiotico                                                                                provide for a mininum allowance of  60 grams of txtal prtein per diy, and
rca-Jr 41t': ratj e ±    isad   vrc   Annual lIve birtlss per thousand of                       20 grass  f animal aod polne prorein, of whilh 10 grama should ', animal
mid-ye-r population; ten-year  ritheetic aerage  ending f, 1960  and 1970,                    protein; these standarda are  ower, than those of 75 gren  of total prud eim
and fiv--year averaeg e-di  in 1975 for most recent estimate.                                 and 23 graros of animal protein ss en overage for the worid, propo-ed by PiO
Crude death rate per LIos.and, average - Annual deaths per thousand of nid-year                 in the Third World Food Survey.
populatio-; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                  Per capita protein sUpply froee  animal and pulae  - Protein supply of food
year  orerage ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                                        derived frem animals and pule.  in grems per day.
Irfoso tonrtollity rate (/thou) - Annual deaths of infents under one year of age              Death rate (/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deaths pr thousand In age group 1-4
per thousand lion births.                                                                     years, to children in this age grtup; suggested as sn indicator of
Ltfe epetcy  t birth  y(rs) - Average nuber of years of life remaining at                       ntalnurition.
birth: usually five-y2ar averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing counLries.                                                                              Education
irons reproduction rats - Average number of live daughters a woman will bear                  Adjusted enrolleent ratio - primary school - Enrollment of all ages as per-
Ic bet normal repr-dacLive period if she emperieusma present age-apecific                     ceneage of primary school-age population; includes children aged 6-11 years
Fertility rartx; uscally five-year averages ending In 1960, 1970 and 1975                     but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for coxutries with
for developing countries,                                                                     universal education, esreilment ssy exceed 1007. since ase pupils are below
Population growth  rate (7) - total - Compound annual growth raes of mid-year                   or above the offtical school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                Adjusted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed as above; secondary
Populatio- growth sate (7.) - urban - Computed line growth rare of total                        education requires at leant four years of approved primary instructiun;
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability of                  provides general, v-octional or teacher tr-ini.S instructions for pupils
data among countries.                                                                         of 12 tc  17 years of age; cerrespondence courses are generally esolnded.
Urban poplu.tin f7. of total) - Rttia vf urban to total population; different                Yenrs of school ing provided (ftrat and second levelnj - Total yesrs of
definitiot- of urban areas may affect comparabiliLy of data among countries.                  achooling; at secondary level, vocatiansl instruction may be partielly or
completely exeladed.
A.e structure (peccnt) - Children (0-14 years), eorking-age (15-64 years),                    Vocatlasal enrollnt (% of secondary) - Vocational institatxoni  include
and retired  (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-year popa14tion.                       technical, industrial OF othar programs which operste independently or as
Age dspe,:d-c  ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and aver to those                   departments of secondary institutions.
of a-eu 15 through 64.                                                                      Adult literacy rate (7) - Literate adults (abto tn rd and write) en pr-
pc-omni__depcdecy tarts - Ratio of population  n der 15 and 65 and over to                      centage of total adult population aged 15 years end -ovr.
L. labor fortce in age group of 15-64 years.
rssily planning - acceptors (conmulative, th1ou  - Cumulative number of acceptora             Housing
ct bicth-controI desi.. under anspifex of national family planning progra                 Ppersos per mum  (urban) - Average number of peruo-  per room in aoupied
since  cr-eptios.                                                                             conventional dwellings is urbas  areas; dwellings eolnide non-perm.anent
Latsillv  .n.ing - canto i% of married  omen) - Percentages of married voaen of                 structures and u.nocupied parts.
cilUid-boariog  age (15-44 years) who use birth-control devices to all narried             Occupied dweIlinga withoot piped water (%)- -ocopied comnentional dwellings
ens's lT: name age group.                                                                     in urban and rural are.a without iJside cr oLtside piped water facilitie
as peroentage of all occopied dwellings.
fopigyo nt Ateeeu to electricity (% of all dwellinga) - Cnnveetional dwellings with
s.t.-I blot force (tbosuodt - hconomically acoive persons, including armed                     electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwellings in urban and
borces -:id unemployed bht ericldicg housewives students, etc.; definitiona                  rural areas.
in variou  countries are not comparsble.                                                   Rural dwellings conected to electricity (          -puted an shoe far rural
Lo -r is_jcE is agric            - PgricIlturi labor fore (is farming, forestry,                dwellings on ly.
hutitge and fishing) as percentage of total labor farce.
;tnomolro-d (I of iobor foroce  - inesploy.d are usually defined ea persons who who.uaption
ore ,bic .,ud willing io take a job, ant of a Job on a given day, remained out             Radio roseivers -ost then pap) - All typos of receteern  for radio broadcasts
o  a iub, ted sebking eork for a specified minimum period not exceeding one                  to general public pet thousand of population; e. ludes unlicensrd rec ivcru
cook; noy sotu b- casnparablo between countries due to different definitions                  in countrIes and In years when registration of radix sets was is  ffec;
o     ,f c.noplcycd -nd sourcr of data, e.g., employment office statistic-, sample            data for recent years c   not be compara. le since most coontries abolished
surveys . cuspoluory  tu-mploysent insura-cII.  i                                                   bcessiag.
Pasege.     as  prtbeu  op) - Passe.nger cars comprise mocto  cars seating
i-ocow  duotbalti-n - P-rrentatg  of private insome (both is cash sad kind)                    lessg thra ight p_r .. uho     s  ludes ams:lo1cos, hbanrse and militroy
receivrd by rIchest 5%, richest 2L2, poorest 202, and poorest 40% of house-                   -ehicles.
h.olds-                                                                                    Electricity (kwh/yr per c_a) - Anusal consumption of iodusrriel. cosaserciol
publi  so d priva to rlrotricity.is hilowatt hoaro, pr,capita,isouy
oi,tri;uhion "f Sand ow--t,hip - Prcetrages of land owned by waeiebsa  10%                      based on prod-ction dsta.  ithout aL  vatut  for  s         in grids ba,t .1eall-
,,. po-est  lil. of Ind owners.                                                             ig for imports -nd ceporto of electricity.
Newprint (kg/yr per car) - Per capita annual consumption in kilograns
toopul  as4 iorrtl- piomSlCiSI. - Popillation divided by nvg3ber of practA                     estimated frau do-estir preducrin, plus  et imparts of newsprint.
f'2Ls i rab s io  ysiof,i '   P-opuliation dividud by masher of pratleicig
psibosqooli' cod ro-  a medical school at  niveraity Isoel.



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(In Millions of UJ Dollars)
1967-69                                                     Estimated               Pro-ected                Average Annual Crvwth Rtaes                      As Percent of TDP
Average          1974           1975            1976            1977            1978            1982      (1967-69)-74   1975-77         1978-B2        1974           1977           1982
WATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                         1976 Price-  and E-Chau Re Rates
Cross D-,essic prod-cc                   9,660          14,073          14,602          15,239         16,135          17,180          22,452           6.5           5.1          6.9          100.C          100.0          IDO.O
Colts Dson Terms of Credo 7+)             -751            -403            -455            -                978            453             -62            -             -             -            2.q            6.1            0.7
Gross Domestic Iscoo1                     8,909         13,670          14,147          15,739          17,113         17,633          22,390           7.4          10.0           6.2          97.1          106.1           99.7
Import (Inc. NPI)                        I,49l           2,306           2,152           2,320           2,543          2,950           4,088           7.5           9.'          8.5           l6.4           15.8           18.2
Escorts (In 1. 7YS) (In. C-cut) -1.419                  -2,66           2,297           -2,520         -3.451          u3,148          -3,821           6.5          22.6           5.0          14.7           21.4           17.0
Resource Tap                                 72            240            -145            -500            -908           -198              267           -             -             -            1.:            5.6            1.2
Conso- ptloo  ECpe-d,t-res               7,320          10,676          11,331          11,521          12,633         13,285          16,906           t.5           5.6          6.2           75.9           78.3           75.3
Inveutnent Expendicures (In-1.
Stoc-s)                                1,661           3,234          2,671           3,218           3,572           4,150           5,751          11.?         15.6           d.5           23.0          22.1           25.6
Doresuic STuings                         1,S04           2,994           2,816           3,718          4,48C           4,348           5,484          11.1          26.1           6.0          21.5           27.8           24.4
National (acI ngs                        1,509           2,845           2,631           3,496          4,270           4,218           5,227          11.1          27.4           6.1          2C 2           26.5           23.3
'iERChA-S5Et TRADE                                         Annual Oats at CDe-tec Pricas                                                                                                               An Petreat of TCoal
Sopor to
C-rital  .oods                           290             525             510             576             700            817           1,401          10.4          17.2         i4.4           34.7           34.2           31.7
lnte- ,ediate Goods (E-l. FPel)          254             613             705             811             926          1,079           1,845          21.4         14.6          14.4           53.8           45.2           41.7
Funis sod Relatod M3terlals                 3              6              14              84             131            204             631          12.2            -          32.6            0.4            6.4           14.3
Conssucptuou ioods                        61             107             166             194             290             5334           548          18.3          32.2         13.2           11.1           14.2           12.4
Tots) M-rchaodise ImpOrts (FOB)          60B           1,511           1,395          1,665           2,047           2,434           4,425          16.4         21.1          16.1          10C.0          100.0         100.0
Esports
SOf hhic: PCi-urv P-od-ucs (Soul,
pooels)                                4B4          1 ,103          1,3f93          1,897           2,415           2,705           3,177         14.5i         31.7           9.6           73.0          86.4           79.4
Of 0i0h4: Coffee                        (341)           (462)           1672)         (1,117) t1,9s1)                (1,437)         (1,301)        711.7)       (58.37        (-.59         7-44.3)         (60.37         (32.1)
tloufactured Goods                       117             391             324             381             381            440             875          22.3           8.4         18.8           26.2           13.6           21.6
Tot02 Mt-chand-se EDpnrts (FOB)          606           14,94           1,717          2,273           2,796           2,643           4,052          16.2         27.6          11.3          100.l          171.0          100.0
Merchandise TCrde Indices
Exp, t,rce loden                           21.2           72.4            74.5           100.0           148.2           124.8          128.7
Impot  PrIcc  Inden                      34.0            90.0            93.0           100.0           108.2          116.8           149.8
Torus of Trade Intde                      62.3            80.4            00.1           100.0           157.0          106.B            85.9
TVALT  ADDOCET 3S OTv  .             .            A.nnual Dots os 1976 - Proust and E-chano-  Rugs                                                     Ac---on Adnnl Gronth Rates               t_     s Peront of Toral
Aocncsulturir                          2,923           3,457           3,673           3,723          3,816           4,007           4,871           2.8           1.9          5.0           26,.           25.4           21.3
Iod-stry and MininS                    2,427           3,588           3,564          3,694           3,9353          4,249           5,759           6.7          5'3           7'4           27.5           26.3           27.6
Sa_son                                 4,249           6,001          6,366           6,738           7,237           7.725          10.240          539           6.6           7.3           4s.0           48.2          49.1
Total                                  9.680          13.046         13,603          14,155          15,006          15,981          20,870           5.1           5.0          6.5          100.0          100.0         100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                                              Anoc.l Sacs at LCrrens PrIces                                                                                                               As Percent of tDP
(tbevrrs I dovecnmncttt
CuDrent Receipt,                       413           1,148          1,391           1,670           2,105           2,370           3,859         18.6          23.2          13.0            9.5          lO.b           10.3
Correct toPandit urns                _ 262             6ff             69;             751            901           1,115           2.019          15.3         14.5          16.0            5.1           4.6            5.4
,udgeoca. S-ving.                      151             532             694            919           1,195           1,255           1,840         23.4          31.2          11.5            4.4           6.0            4.9
Ou-r PFublic Sertor Savines            434             -40              70             -37            -46             -74             125            -            -             -              -              -             -
Public S-ctor Investment               612             864            909           1,135           1,037           1,271           2,660          5.9           9.6          20.3            1 1           5,4            7.1
A  7 of r3-tal
SELECTED INDICATORS                                        1965-70         1975-77         1978-82                                                     TETAlL ON PUBllIC SECTOR ISCES3tIENT                 Acinal
801ROGRAM AN1  FINANCING                             1975_76
(AvtrAtt for Period Shons)
Average ICOR (BasAd on Pb,-d                                                                                                                      Social Sectors                                           79.7
lnveutment)                                            3.17           3.77            321                                                      Agriculture                                              11.6
IDp-rE El-sti-sty                                        1,16            1,71            1.23                                                     Indus-rv  nd Minng                                       16.6
rtr-inel DvMestic Kavings KAsi                           0,20            0,55            0.214                                                    Fxee                                                      8.8
Cortuol Nttional s-viuss Rate                            0.14            0.35            0.23                                                     Transport and C-osu-i-a:Oors                             15.7
Ocher                                                   17.6
Total Fnpenditu-es                                     100.0
LABOR FORCE AND OUT00T PER .20RK0R                                     Cotal  bOr Cone
Do tulillna                   7. oOf Total             Grewth Rate                                   PINANCING
1964           1973          1960            1973            1964-73
Public Sector Sa-is,ta                                  62.7
Agri-ulture                               2.427          2.057          47.3            30.2            -1.9                                       ExernRI Sources                                         15.1
Industry                                 0.958           1.212          18.7            17.8            2.7                                       Other                                                    22.2
Servge                                    1.749          3.542          34.0            52,0             0.2                                      Total FtP--ning                                         100.0
Total                                     5.134          6.812         100.0           100.0             3.2
Value Addad  -ec Wocker (1976 Pr cas and txchange Rstes)
I. US Dollars                      C of Anoraso             Gicatih Nate
1964            1973             1964            1973            1964-73
Apr.oulture                            983           1,517              '6.4            86.4             5.9
Iud:sur_y                            1,837           2,557             135.2          148.6             3.7
__-_i-e                              1,730           1.546            127.3            90.3            -7.2
Otal                                 1,359           1,717             10.0          100.0             2.6
Colobti0 D-vi-ton
Sepiotbor 27, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE ARD DEET
(Ar.ounts si Millions of US ollor- at Current Prices)
Artual                                           EstiFated                                  Projected
1971          1972          1973           1974          1975           1976          1977           1978          1979           1980           1981          1982
SUMMiARY TALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (Incl. N'S)                          972          1,205         1,544          1,861         2,137          2,820         3,427          3,350         3,545         4,033          4,615          5,217
Imports (Inc. NFS5                         1.285          1.232         1,422          2.077         2.002          2.320         2.748          3.240         3,818         4,430          5.059          5,770
R-.- loRosre (X-M)                          -313            -27           122           -216           135            500           679            110          -273           -397          -444           -553
FPotor Soevices                             -169           -191          -203           -173          -243           -272          -200           -187          -191           -222         (-272)          -343
Profits                                   (-71)          (-70)         (-78)          (-55)         (-68)         (-115)        (-114)         (-125)        (-1385         (-152)        (-174)         (-201)
Othar                                     (-98)         (-121)        (-133)         (-11 )        (-15           (-157)         (-86)          (-62)         (-533          (-70)         (-983         (-142)
Crrreont itrasfars (Not)                      28             28            26             39            28              9            IS             17            18             20             22            24
Raisers on Careos Aecoosts                  -454           -190            55           -350           -8             237           494             60           446            599          -94            -72
P       Divo Te ieed  Investment              40             17            23             35             35            12            42             53            66             82            103           128
PobliE Medito- ond Long-tern Loons
DiOborsrneost                              222            354           412            380           383            272           409            468           506            643         1,050          1,194
- Ropoya-sc,                                 -92            -96          -132           -211          -134           -152          -188           -238          -284           -315          -326           -348
Net DiEberse- eets                         130            258           280            169           249            128           221            230           222            328            724           854
OEh-r Medi e- sod Long-tern Los.s
Diaborsenests                              145            139            60             50            76             65             54            63            73             84             96           111
- Rerpyen-ts                                 -79            -84           -58            -58           -87            -87           -58            -91           -96            -94            -72           -44
Net Dijbernenoocs                           66             55             2             -8           -11            -22             -4           -28           -23            -10             24            67
Capitol Tronsactionse  e.i.                   216            39           -78             63            .98           204             51           -57            -             -              -              -
Cl-oge it Nte  Reserves (- = lecresse)          2          -179          -172             91           -95           -331          -804           -138            181           199           -157          -177
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Offitiol Crone  -ed Crn- -like                       -             -              -                     -             -              -                                                                                             Antual
1971         1972          1973         1974          1975         1976          197'
Peblir Medirr- osd Long-sern Loe-s
IBRE                                       153             74           162              8            88            8            306          DENT AND DEBT SERVICE
10A                                        -              -             -              -             _              -             -            Public Rebe
Ocher - eleilatoel                            6            39            29             65              5            93             61           Osttanding and Diaboraed /1             1,380.7       1,626.5      1,901.7       2,070.0       2,318.0      2,403.2       2.621.7
Goaerr=rnte                                109            114            72             52             66           132             57           Ostersat so Pobli Debe                     49.5         57.6          77.2        101.1         111.7        122.8         132.0
Suppliers                                   27             39            31             50             74            43             34           Repayseenti on Publni  Debt                 92.4         96.3         131.4        287.5         135.3        131.8         173.4
Pri.ate i a-ba                              28             93           190             6      1     164            169             65           Tta  Pub    Debt  erice                    14 .9        153.9         20886        3088.6        247.8        274.6         385.4
Doda                                       -              -45                                                                                    Other Dobs Service (Net)                   133.1        155.1         176.6        118.6          67.          8788.
Pubite Lozans s.e.i.                       -              -               1           _              _              _             _              TAlal Debt Service (Net'                  275.0         209.0         335.2        422.2         334.0        381.6         383.4
Tonal Public Redion- sod Long-earn
Loo ds                                     323            359           530            736           397            517           513          Busdes o. ERport Earnings (%)
Publie Debt Serice                          14.6         12.8          13.5         16.6          11.6          9.7           8.9
TotaL  Debt S-evice                   -     28.3         25.6          21.7         23.0          15.6         12.8          10'6
FX_TERXAL POUBLIC DREBT                                                     OetLsaLdi   on 12/31/77                                                  Total Debt SlJelce Plea Net
(Papsy-Al in Fe-ign Currancy)                                        Disburs-d Only                   Per_e_                                           F-origEn II-seese Xooste                  35.6          31.5         26.2          25.9         18.8          16.9         13.9
World Bank                                                              716.2                          27.3
IDA                                                                      22.0                          0.8                                       A esage Teens so Peblei Debt
Other Melcilater-l                                                      152.8                           5.8                                        Xnceetaa */ Prior Year
Governoents                                                             932.3                          35.6                                          Debt Osetnandieg and
Sopplises                                                               187.8                           7.1                                          Rieboraed                                  4.8           4.2          4./           5.3           5.3          5.3           5.5
Private Dask                                                            552.1                          21.1                                        Anartiestlos as S Prior YSar
6end.                                                                    47.7                           1.8                                          Dabt Oustaandi,g sad
PobliE  Debts s.c,.                                                      11.9                          0,5                                            Disbered                                  7.4           7.8           8.1         10.9           6.4          6.2           7 2
Tetal Pvblic Madisn- asd  Ltg-ter-
Losna                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2,420.9   180.0                                      DIBRE Debt IsO~tatadiog aol
Disb.r-ed /1                              390.8         453.4         504.5        561.7         633.5        671.6         716.2
IBRD aa Y Public Debt -utst-sdin4
aed D      ..borend                         28.3         21.9          26 5         27.1          27.3         27 9          27.3
1RD  sa2  ulic Debt Serum                    29.2          30.9         29.1          26.1          31.7         31,2          38.5
IDA Debt~ O-isnadieg end
Dinboe-ed /1                                19.4         20.9          23.0         22.8          22.5          22.3         22.0
XIDA O     Poblic Eebt  O-t-ladiog
s   Dib,-dd                                  1.4          1.3           1.2           1.1          1.0           8.9          0.8
IDA cc 7 Poblic Debt S-rsi-e                   8.2          0.3           8.2           8.1          0.2           0,2          0.1
Colombi- Division                                                                                                                                   /I  End of pasitd.
Septenber 27, 1978



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of June 30, 1978)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                             Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Fully disbursed loans and credits                                718.8      23.5 /1   --
680     1970  Colombia                          Roads             32.0               3.9
681     1970  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                52.3                 .2
738     1971  Empresas Municipales de
Palmira                        Water Supply       2.0                 .3
741     1971  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota       Water Supply      88.0              13.0
849     1972  Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria             Irrigation         2.2               1.4
860     1972  Instituto de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply       9.1               3.2
874     1973  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                56.0              13.9
903     1973  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   60.0                2.0
920     1973  Colombia                          Education         21.2              12.3
926     1973  Ferrocarriles Nacionales          Railways          25.0                 .8
971     1974  Colombia                          Pre-Investment
Studies          8.0               4.5
1071    1975  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.    5.5                 .4
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply      27.0              19.6
1073    1975  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones             Communications   15.0                2.0
1118    1975  Colombia                          Rural Settlement 19.5               13.2
1163    1975  Colombia                          Agriculture       21.0              19.7
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   80.0               43.0
1352    1977  Colombia                          Rural Dev.        52.0              50.0
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica             Agricultural Cr. 64.0               64.0
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de               Communications   60.0               60.0
Telecomunicaciones
1451    1977  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   15.0               15.0
1471    1977  Colombia                          Highways          90.0              90.0
1487    1978  Colombia                          Nutrition         25.0              25.0
1523/2  1978  Empresas Municipales de Cali   Water Supply         13.8              13.8
TOTAL                                           1,562.4      23.5
Of which has been repaid                          368.3       1.5
Total now outstanding                           1,194.1      21.9
Amount sold                         48.8
Of which has been repaid            19.8           29.0
TOTAL NOW HELD BY BANK AND IDA                  1,165.1      21.9
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                                                   471.2
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
/2   Not yet effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of June 30, 1978)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                    Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.           Fiber-board      0.50       -      0.50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                      Food products   1.99   0.08        2.07
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.          Metal cans       0.70       -      0.70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                     Home furniture  0.08   0.09        0.17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.          Electrical
equipment      0.50      -       0.50
1962       Corporacion Financiera            Development
Colombiana                        financing         -   2.02       2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera            Development          -   2.04       2.04
Nacional                          financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de             Textiles         1.98   0.15       2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de          Development
Caldas                            financing         -   0.81       0.81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.           Steel forging       -   1.27       1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de             Warehousing      1.00       -      1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Ganadera                 Livestock        1.00   0.58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.             Textiles         5.00   2.60       7.61
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de          Tourism             -   0.01       0.01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del        Development          -   0.45       0.45
Norte                             financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del        Development          -   0.43       0.43
Valle                             financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de           Tourism           0.23   0.11       0.34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                 Tourism           0.80   0.25       1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de         Housing              -   0.46       0.46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.             Cement            1.50      -       1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.         Cement           3.60       -       3.60
1976       Las Brisas                        Mining            6.00      -       6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.            Utilities       13.00   2.00      15.00
1977       Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                                Construction
Material       2.43      -       2.43
Total Gross Commitments                           40.31  13.35      5-.66
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                           26.79   8.23       35.01
Total commitments now held by IFC                 13.52   5.12      18.65
Total undisbursed                                   -       -         -



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
1.   Ln No. 680 Highways VI; US$32 million, June 1970.
Effective date: March 29, 1971
Closing date:    original - November 30, 1974
current - November 30, 1978
The largest component of the project, the paving program, has
experienced considerable cost increases and delays. As of this writing, six
sections in the program are still under construction, requiring about 190 km
of paving. Project completion is now expected for end-1979. The other compon-
ents of the project were completed with much less delay. The Ministry of Public
Works is seeking ways of hastening project execution and strengthening the
performance of contractors. As of July 31, 1978, US$28.1 million (88% of the
total) had been disbursed.
2.   Ln No. 681 Chivor Hydroelectric Power; US$52.3 million, June 1970.
Effective date: September 1, 1970
Closing date:    Original - June 30, 1977
Current - June 30, 1978
The project was completed and commercially operational in mid-1977,
two years behind schedule, with a cost overrun of about US$86 million (65%).
The delay is mainly attributable to geological problems encountered during
construction of the dam and tunnel. The cost overruns resulted from these
geological problems, from higher than anticipated bids, and local and foreign
inflation. As of July 31, 1978, only about US$200,000 remained undisbursed.
3.   Ln No. 738 Palmira Water Supply and Sewerage; US$2 million, May 1971.
Effective date: December 29, 1971
Closing Date:    original - March 1, 1975
current - December 31, 1979
As of July 31, 1978, about 85% of the loan amount was disbursed.
The original project works were completed at lower cost than originally esti-
mated. The savings in the loan of about US$450,000 are being used to finance
supplementary sewerage works which were already identified during project
appraisal.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
4.   Ln No. 741 Water Supply (Bogota II); US$88 million, May 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1978
current - December 31, 1980
Disbursements up to July 31, 1978, amounted to about 86% of this
loan. Slow progress in the construction of the vital Palacio - Rio Blanco Tunnel
is the main reason for the project's delay; the original contractor was replaced
by another firm which is performing satisfactorily. The project completion date
is now expected for December 1980. In 1977, the entity's financial performance
was excellent. Internal cash generation was sufficient to meet all debt
service and to cover 49% of capital outlays. The financial rate of return
achieved was the 10% covenanted.
5.   Ln No. 849 Irrigation (Atlantico II); US$5 million, June 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    March 31, 1978
The project is the second phase of a scheme to develop about 17,000
ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production. At the request
of the Government, US$2.8 million of the loan of US$5.0 million were cancelled
in February 1977. Work is continuing on additional feeder roads, tertiary
canal drains, waterfronts, land clearing, subsoiling and leveling. A second
contractor has defaulted and work on the main drainage canal has temporarily
stopped, though a new contract is expected to be signed soon. Settlement of
farmers within the project areas and the provision of technical assistance
and farm credit have been making inadequate progress. The Government is
carrying out a detailed review of the project in order to find a solution
to these problems. Following discussion of this review with the Government,
a decision will be made on whether or not to extend the closing date.
6.   Ln No. 860 Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$9.1
million, October 1972.
Effective date: March 7, 1973
Closing Date:    original - September 30, 1976
current - September 30, 1978
As of July 31, 1978, about 66% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Management problems affected the initiation of the project, but progress has
since improved. Delay in receiving budgetary funds as a result of the
Government's economic stabilization measures slowed down project execution.



- 31 
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
7.   Ln No. 874 Guatape II Hydroelectric Power Project; US$56 million,
January 1973.
Effective date: March 13, 1973
Closing Date:    December 31  1978
The progress of the work has been generally satisfactory except for
delays in the resettlement of El Penol and Guatape villages because of the
villagers' reluctance to move into the new cities. This problem is now re-
solved and filling of the Santa Rita reservoir was carried out in May 1978,
three years behind schedule. The revised project cost is substantially above
appraisal estimate, mainly occasioned by higher cost of the works at El Penol
and Guatape. The Borrower experienced serious financial problems but recently
adopted substantial tariff increases should allow it to overcome them. As
of July 31, 1978, US$42.8 million or 76% of the Loan amount had been disbursed.
8.   Ln No. 903 Development Finance Companies V; US$60 million, May 1973.
Effective date: November 9, 1973
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1978
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are expected to be
completed within the next few months. As of July 31, 1978, only US$2 million
equivalent remained undisbursed.
9. Ln No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 1973.
Effective date: January 10, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1979
The execution of the project had been suspended in mid-1975 pending
redefinition of sector priorities by the Government. Project execution resumed
in 1977 but suffered delays as a result of inadequate budgetary resources of
the Government. The Government is preparing a proposal to cancel a large
portion of the Loan.
10. Ln No. 926 Sixth Railway Project; US$25 million, August 1973.
Effective date: December 6, 1973
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1976
current - August 31, 1979
Declines in freight traffic in 1975 and the first six months of
1976 (because of an economic slowdown and lower imports), combined with steep
cost increases, resulted in a deterioration of the railway's financial situa-
tion. Since then, the financial position of the railway has been improving as
a consequence of sharp increases of ton-km of freight traffic, and freight
tariff hikes of about 19% in 1976 and 50% in 1977. Improvements have been
registered in other areas although locomotive availability is severely con-
strained largely because of manufacturer defects in over 40% of 88 relatively



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
new locomotives. Efforts are underway to resolve this problem but early
resolution is not anticipated. Project works are progressing and a substantial
portion has been completed. As of July 31, 1978, only US$700,000 equivalent
remained undisbursed.
11.  Ln No. 971 Preinvestment Studies Project; US$8 million, March 1974.
Effective date: June 27, 1974
Closing Date:    original - December 31, 1977
current - Novenber 30, 1978
In spite of slow start, commitments are now proceeding at a satis-
factory rate. The Bank has approved 26 sub-projects. As of July 31, 1978,
US$3.5 million or 44% of the loan had been disbursed.
12. Ln No. 1071 Small-Scale Industry; US$5.5 million, January 1975.
Effective date: May 20, 1975
Closing Date:    Original - December 31, 1977
Current - November 30, 1978
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are expected to be
completed within the next few months. As of July 31, 1978, only US$400,000
equivalent remained undisbursed.
13. Ln No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$27
million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    June 30, 1980
There were substantial delays in making the eight subloans effective.
The last subloan (Barranquilla) was made effective on September 9, 1976.
After a slow start, project implementation is progressing satisfactorily in
most cities, although rapid project execution has been effected by the
Government's economic stabilization measures. As of July 31, 1978, US$19.3
million or 71% of the Loan remained undisbursed.
14. Ln No. 1073 Telecommunications III; US$15 million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    December 31, 1978
Contracts for all Bank-financed goods have been awarded, and work
is proceeding satisfactorily. As of July 31, 1978, only US$1.9 million
equivalent or 13% of the Loan remained undisbursed.
15. Ln No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million, June 1975.
Effective date: April 1, 1976
Closing Date:    October 31, 1979
The loan became effective on April 1, 1976, after a six-month delay.
Projection execution has proceeded rapidly and some of the lost time regained.
Road and bridge construction is well ahead of schedule (79 km have been



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
completed). School construction, however, is behind schedule, while the
credit program is lagging as a result of inadequate budgetary flows. As of
July 31, 1978, US$12.8 million or 66% of the loan remained undisbursed.
16. Ln No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 million,
September 1975.
Effective Date:   March 30, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1981
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision
delayed the initiation of the project. Implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily, but still behind schedule. As of July 31, 1978, only
US$1.3 million equivalent of the Loan amount had been disbursed.
17. Ln No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 million,
March 1976.
Effective Date:   September 1, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1980
The loan is proceeding satisfactorily and is virtually fully committed.
As of July 31, 1978, about 48% of the Loan had been disbursed.
18. Ln No. 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 1977.
Effective Date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is now in its second year of implementation and, with
the exception of the rural health component, it is fully operational. There
has been a notable improvement in inter-institutional coordination. Adminis-
trative procedures, such as procurement and disbursement, continue to present
some difficulties, but these are much less serious than in the first year.
Control and monitoring of the physical and financial progress of the project
is comprehensive, but there is not yet a sound basis for ex post evaluation
of the project; special studies are scheduled for the fall of 1978 to improved
this situation. As of July 31, 1978, only US$2.1 million equivalent of the
Loan had been disbursed.
19. Ln No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million, February
1977.
Effective Date: September 6, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1981.
The loan became effective in September 1977, but disbursements have
not started yet. About 50% of the Loan amount has now been committed, in-
cluding all funds allocated to medium and large farmers and to machinery



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
contractors. Concern over possibilities of diversion and substitution of funds,
which was strong at the end of 1977, has led the Borrower to substantially
increase its end-use supervision over past agricultural subloans. Also,
inflation has come down to levels at which real interest rates, if not positive,
are at least no longer negative. About one-fourth of funds for credit to
agroindustries have been committed to 28 subloans. The loan is being committed
faster than anticipated.  Withdrawal applicatTIons for US$3.1 million equivalent
have recently been received.
20. Ln. No. 1450 Telecommunications IV; US$60 million, July 1977.
Effective Date: October 3, 1977.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982.
The project is in a preliminary state. Completion of procurement of
goods, which is currently in progress, is likely to be delayed by about a year
due to the additional time required by the entity to call for bids. This
slippage is, however, expected to be offset by speedy bid evaluation and
contract signature.
21. Ln. No. 1451 Second Small-Scale Industry Project; US$15 million,
September 1977.
Effective Date: February 14, 1978.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1980.
Disbursements have not yet started. Initiation of the project has
been delayed as a result of recent changes in management. Commitments and
disbursements are expected to accelerate in the future.
22. Ln. No. 1471 Highways VII; US$90 million, July 1977.
Effective Date: November 28, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The Rehabilitation Program is underway, about three months behind
schedule. Stabilization works are being carried out, with work totalling
US$35.4 million completed; conditions for disbursement of loan funds for
this program are expected to be fulfilled shortly. Implementation of the
maintenance program is in process, about six months behind schedule. Prepara-
tion of studies is proceeding satisfactorily.
23. Ln. No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
September 1977.
Effective Date: March 9, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Progress since loan signing is generally satisfactory. The prject
organization is fully staffed except for minor delays in consultant recruitment.
Appropriate 1978 programming for major project components has been completed
and the Government has budgeted adequate funds to carry them out. Only
implementation of the Bolivar nutrition test and a pilot family food production
program is running somewhat behind schedule but is planned to begin in May.
Coordination, management, and mofito-riag and evaluation -mechanisms are
operating effectively. The loan became effective March 9, 1978.
24.       Ln. No. 1523 Second Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$13.8
million, June 1978.
This loan was signed on June 20, 1978, and has not yet become
effective.
25.       Ln. No. 1558 Urban Development Project; US$24.8 million, July 1978.
This loan was signed on July 21, 1978, and has not yet become
effective.
26.       Ln. No. 1582 San Carlos I iydro Power Project; US$126 million,
July 1978.
This loan was signed on July 14, 1978, and has not yet become
effective.
27.       Ln. No. 1583 500 kV Interconnection Project; US$50 million,
July 1978.
This loan was signed on July 14, 1978, and has not yet become
effective.
28.       Ln. No. 1593 Cartagena Industrial Export Processing Zone; US$15
million, August 1978.
This loan was signed on August 1, 1978, and has not yet become
effective.
29.       Ln. No. 1598 Seventh Development Finance Companies Project; US$100
million, July 1978.
This loan was signed on July 27, 1978, and has not yet become
effective.



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 15 months
(b) Agency which prepared project: Government/DAAC
(c) First presentation to Bank: April 1977
(d) First mission to review project: July 1977
(e) Departure of appraisal mission: January 23, 1978
(f) Completion of negotiations: August 21, 1978
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: December 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
No special implementation actions are required.
Section III: Special Conditions
The following special assurances have been obtained:
(a) A study of the potential uses of the site would be carried out
by the Government by January 1, 1981, and (paragraph 49); upon
completion of the new airport for Medellin, the site of the
existing airport would be sold, with the proceeds of such sale
accruing to FAN.
(b) the Government would not undertake further expansion (beyond
the works included in the project and those included in the
1978-83 Aviation Development Program) of the existing Cartagena
airport facility; to provide for Cartagena's aviation needs
through the year 2000, a Master Plan would be prepared by the
Government and discussed with the Bank by June 30, 1980
(pagragraph 49);
(c) by June 30, 1979, the Government would present to the Bank for
discussion the master plan study of the Bogota airport
(paragraph 49);



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(d)  by January 1, 1980, the Government would present to the Bank for
discussion the asset valuation study of FAN's assets (paragraph 49);
(e) consultants and technical assistants would be engaged for the
project under terms of reference and conditions satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Bank (paragraph 49);
(f) by January 1, 1980, the results of the study of airport user
*                      charges would be furnished to the Bank and, based upon the
comments of the Government and the Bank, an improved schedule
of charges would be put into effect (paragraph 49);
(g) by January 1, 1980, the Government will present to the Bank the
review of domestic air fare and freight rate-setting procedures.
Improved guidelines satisfactory to the Bank would be put into
effect by June 30, 1980 (paragraph 49);
(h) taking account of the results of a study included in the project,
the Government would prepare a program to improve customs
procedures and put improved procedures into effect by
June 30, 1979 (paragraph 49);
(i) individual aviation infrastructure investments would not
be undertaken in excess of US$1.0 million unless economically
justified as part of the agreed National Aviation Development
Program and adequate financing were available to FAN.
Moreover, proposed investments not included in the Program
aggregating in a fiscal year the equivalent of 20% of
planned investments for the Program in such year would not
be undertaken without the agreement of the Bank
(paragraph 52);
(j) FAN would not incur long-term debt unless net revenues for
the immediately preceeding fiscal year, or for a 12-month
period ended prior to such incurrence (whichever is greater),
would be at least 1.5 times the maximum long-term debt service
requirement for the upcoming fiscal year (paragraph 52);
(k)  over 1979-82, airport user charges would be maintained in
real terms at the level of January 1, 1978 charges
(paragraph 52);
(1) DAAC/FAN would achieve annual rates of return on net fixed
assets of 6% in 1980, 7% in 1981, 8% in 1982 and thereafter
(paragraph 52); and
(m)  the Government will annually review DAAC/FAN's financial
performance in order to determine the need to continue



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
budgetary support over the forthcoming fiscal year, through
1982. Further, the Government will take all action necessary
to enable DAAC/FAN to achieve financial autonomy by 1983
(paragraph 52).
Section IV: Special Conditions of Effectiveness and Disbursement
An additional condition of effectiveness would be the execution and
delivery of a satisfactory subsidiary agreement between the Government and FAN
(paragraphs 51 and 52). Further, prior to disbursement of loan proceeds for
training of DAAC personnel, the Government would conclude agreements with
entities acceptable to the Bank for provision of such training (paragraph 46).



78-                   7t                     7             7                                                         OCTOBER 1976
A        IL    A NT       /   c            o                                                                      SOUTH AMERCb
I2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
j ~~                                             VENEZULEN
-10
4C M.Morthg.  SUCRE                                        r   " d
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R                                                      E  N   E MoZrr  U CRE   L  A,>t
CO~~~M         COROB
A N TV  AUP  E   A U C
C H 0 C 0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~< 
ii VejDoG - - -t_R_                                               C ASANARE
_2    . C  M   B l A0                        4~If    |ICMlA
E>Bt e, " , ' . .' . , i > !                   E    T 
_CA_V+.tl.laei, ,.peRU^
er' 9 ~~c5< 
N  A  I                                                           V,  ,, U   P. E  . ...  S.Dr
~~~<  ' ' .~~~~~~c,er.t''irtEw ,  '                 d f
O, . ,sIA..:   
.   -:.   
L ~ ~~ ~   ~~~~            ~~~~~~~~~~~ 8t  '  71t 



