Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF028367
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Biodiversity in Priority Areas Project)
between and among
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT AND THE UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
acting as Implementing Agencies of the Global Environment Facility
Dated December 19, 1997
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF028367
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 1997, between and among REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS (the 
Recipient), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and 
UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (UNDP), the last two entities acting as 
implementing agencies of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant 
funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of 
the GEF.
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements are continued 
in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank establishing the GEF Trust Fund;
(C)
UNDP, pursuant to Resolution No. DP/1994/9 of May 13, 1994 of its 
Executive Board, accepted to participate as an implementing agency of the GEF;
(D)
the Bank and UNDP have agreed  to act as co-implementing agencies of the 
GEF for this Project in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in Article 
II of this Agreement; 
(E)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
Page  2
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance 
from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund in the financing of the Project, and the Bank 
and UNDP have determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the 
provisions of Resolutions No. 94-2 and DP/1994/9 referred to above;
(F)
the Project will be carried out by the Recipient’s Honduran Corporation 
for Forestry Development (Corporación Hondureña de Desarrollo Forestal - AFE-COHDEFOR) 
with the Recipient’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Recipient will 
make available to AFE-COHDEFOR the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant as provided in 
this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank and UNDP have agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), 
(10), (11), (15), (18) and (20) , 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Sections 5.01, 5.04, 5.05, 5.06, 5.07, 5.08 and 5.09, 
as modified below;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and 
(k), 6.03 as modified below, and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii) Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 
9.08 and 9.09, as modified below;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04, as modified below;
(x)
Article XI (as modified below); and
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04, as modified 
below.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
two new paragraphs shall be added to the end of 
Section 2.01 to read as follows: (A) “the term 
‘Special Drawing Rights’ and the symbol ‘SDR’ mean 
special 
drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in 
accordance with its Articles of 
Agreement”; and (B) “the term 
‘UNDP’ means the United 
Nations Development Programme”;
(ii)
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, other than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 
(f) 
thereof and the last use of such term in Section 
5.01 thereof, 
means the Bank acting as co- 
implementing agency of the 
GEF, except that in 
Section 6.02, the term “Bank” shall also 
Page  3
include the 
Bank acting in its own capacity;
(iii)
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
opened 
by UNDP on its books in the name of the 
Recipient to which 
the amount of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant is credited;
(vii)
the term “Closing Date” wherever used in the General 
Conditions means the date specified in the Global 
Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement after 
which the 
Bank and UNDP may, by notice to the 
Recipient, terminate 
the right of the Recipient to 
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account; 
(viii) the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to 
read: “Except as the Bank, UNDP and the Recipient 
shall 
otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: 
(a) on 
account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is 
not a member of the Bank or for 
goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank 
and UNDP, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of 
the Charter 
of the United Nations.”;
(ix)
in Sections 5.05, 5.06, 5.07 and 5.09 the term “Bank” 
is replaced by “UNDP”, wherever it appears in such 
Sections;
(x)
the sentence “except that the Borrower may not so 
cancel any amount of the Loan in respect of which the 
Bank 
shall have entered into a special commitment 
pursuant to Section 
5.02.” in Section 6.01 is 
deleted;
(xi)
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (j) in 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: 
“an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen in 
which any further 
disbursement under the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant would exceed the 
resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF”; 
(xii)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:  “Section 6.03.  
Cancellation by the Bank.  If: (a) the right of the 
Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account 
shall have been suspended with respect 
to any amount of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant for a 
continuous period of thirty days; or (b) 
at any time, 
the Bank and UNDP determine, after consultation with 
the Recipient, that an amount of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant will not be required to finance the Project’s 
costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant; or 
(c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by representatives of the Recipient or of 
a beneficiary 
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant during the 
procurement or the 
execution of such contract, 
without the Recipient having 
taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy 
the situation, and establishes the amount of 
Page  4
expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant; or (d) at any 
time, the 
Bank determines that the procurement of any 
contract to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant is 
inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred 
to in the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement and establishes the 
amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant; or (e) after 
the 
Closing Date, an amount of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account.”; and
(xiii) the term “UNDP” shall be inserted after the term 
“Bank” wherever it appears in Sections 2.01 (11), 
4.01, 
5.04, 6.01, 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 
9.09, 10.01, 10.04, 
11.02, 11.03, 12.01 (c), 12.03 
and 12.04 and in the first 
sentence of Sections 4.09, 
5.01 and 6.02 to reflect the 
understanding referred 
to in Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“AFE-COHDEFOR” means the Honduran Corporation for Forestry Development 
(Corporación Hondureña de Desarrollo Forestal) of the Recipient, established pursuant 
to Decree Law No. 103 dated January 10, 1974 (as such Decree Law has been amended to 
the date of this Agreement), or any successor thereto, acceptable to the Bank and 
UNDP; 
(b)
“Beneficiary” means a rural community, local group, non-governmental 
organization, private entity or municipality which will carry out an Eligible 
Subproject (as hereinafter defined) and meets the eligibility criteria set forth in 
the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined);
(c)
“DAPVS” means the Protected Areas and Wildlife Department (Departamento 
de Areas Protegidas y Vida Silvestre) of AFE-COHDEFOR;
(d)
“Decree No. 31-92” means the Decree Law (Decreto Ley) of the Recipient 
dated March 5, 1992 which established the necessary mechanisms to modernize and 
develop the agricultural sector of the Recipient and such term includes the 
regulations to such Decree Law, as such Decree Law and regulations have been amended 
to the date of this Agreement;
(e)
“Decree No. 104-93” means Decreto No. 104-93 of the Recipient dated May 
27, 1993 which sets forth, inter alia, the procedures for the establishment of 
Protected Areas (as hereinafter defined) and such term includes the regulations to 
such Decree, as such Decree and regulations have been amended to the date of this 
Agreement;
(f)
“Eligible Subproject” means a project for the conservation and/or 
sustainable use of biodiversity and for any other investment for productive purposes  
and which meets the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter 
defined);
(g)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Recipient to the Bank and UNDP which includes as annexes thereto: (i) the performance 
indicators and targets required to monitor the progress of the Project and the 
achievement of its objectives; and (ii) the principles and guidelines to prepare 
resettlement plans, as referred to in Sections 4.04 and 4.10 of this Agreement, 
respectively;
(h)
“Implementing Organizations” means a private entity, acceptable to the 
Bank and UNDP, which will participate in the carrying out of the Project as provided 
in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement;
Page  5
(i)
“Indigenous Peoples Development Plan” means the Recipient’s plan dated 
August 7, 1997, acceptable to the Bank for the development of the affected indigenous 
population under the Project, including the actions to be undertaken by the Recipient 
and AFE-COHDEFOR to mitigate any adverse impact concerning such population;
(j)
“Operational Manual” means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank and UNDP, 
to be adopted by AFE-COHDEFOR which sets forth, inter alia: (i) the terms and 
conditions of the Subsidiary Agreement; (ii) the criteria for selecting and approving 
Eligible Subprojects; (iii) the terms and conditions of Subgrant Agreements; (iv) the 
minimum contribution of the Beneficiaries to finance an Eligible Subproject; (v) the 
procurement arrangements  to be followed by the Recipient in the carrying out of the 
Project; (vi) the contents of the plans referred to in Part B.1 of the Project; (vii) 
the criteria to select the area for the construction of the visitors’ center and park 
guard facilities mentioned in Parts B.4 and B.5 of the Project, respectively; (viii) 
the terms and conditions of the Participation Agreement; (ix) the procedures for 
approving Subgrants; and (x) the procedures to be followed by the Bank and UNDP as 
joint implementing agencies under the Project;
(k)
“PCU” means the unit referred to in Section 4.06 of this Agreement;
(l)
“Protected Area” means any of the areas listed in the Operational Manual, 
legally designated or to be designated by the Recipient to be under special management 
regime for the primary purpose of ensuring its biodiversity and ecological integrity 
in accordance with Decree No. 104-93;
(m)
“SAG” means the Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock (Secretaría de 
Agricultura y Ganadería) of the Recipient; 
(n)
“SERNA” means the Secretariat of Natural Resources and the Environment 
(Secretaría de Recursos Naturales y del Ambiente) of the Recipient;
(o)
“Subgrant” means a grant made by AFE-COHDEFOR with part of the proceeds 
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to a Beneficiary to partially finance an Eligible 
Subproject;
(p)
“Subgrant Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
4.01 (d) (i) of this Agreement; and
(q)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 4.01 
(b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Bank and UNDP Relationship
Section 2.01. The Bank and UNDP hereby agree to act jointly as implementing 
agencies of the GEF under the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The parties to this Agreement hereby agree that  UNDP shall 
have the exclusive responsibility of administering the disbursements of the proceeds 
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
(b)
UNDP shall carry out the responsibility mentioned in paragraph (a) above 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative 
and financial practices.
Section 2.03. UNDP shall: (a) consult with the Bank with respect to the carrying 
out of its responsibilities under Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and (b) not later 
than 30 days after the conclusion of each calendar quarter, starting in 1998, prepare 
and furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request with respect to the carrying out of its responsibility under 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Page  6
Section 3.01. The Bank and UNDP agree to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant in an amount in various currencies equivalent to five million one hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR5,100,000).
Section 3.02.  The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for: (a) amounts paid (or, if  UNDP in consultation with the Bank shall so 
agree, to be paid) by AFE-COHDEFOR to a Beneficiary under a Subgrant to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Eligible Subproject in respect 
of which the withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account is requested; and (b) 
expenditures made (or, if  UNDP in consultation with the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying 
out of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
Section 3.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Bank, in consultation with UNDP shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Recipient and UNDP of such later date.
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall cause 
AFE-COHDEFOR pursuant to the Subsidiary Agreement (as provided in paragraph (b) of 
this Section) to carry out  the Project with the assistance of SAG and SERNA and the 
participation of the Implementing Organizations, as the case may be, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering and technical practices and with due regard to ecological and 
environmental practices, and in accordance with the Operational Manual, and shall take 
or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable AFE-COHDEFOR to carry 
out the Project, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with the carrying out of  the Project by AFE-COHDEFOR.
(b)
The Recipient shall make the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
available to AFE-COHDEFOR under a subsidiary agreement (the Subsidiary Agreement) to 
be entered into between the Recipient and AFE-COHDEFOR, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank and UNDP, which shall include inter alia, AFE-COHDEFOR’s 
obligation to carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of this 
Agreement. 
(c)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Recipient, the Bank and UNDP and to accomplish the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant and, except as the Bank and UNDP shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
(d)
(i) For purposes of carrying out Part C of the Project, the Recipient 
shall cause AFE-COHDEFOR to transfer, on a grant basis, part of the proceeds of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant to each Beneficiary pursuant to an agreement (the Subgrant 
Agreement) to be entered into between AFE-COHDEFOR and each Beneficiary under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and UNDP, which shall include, inter alia, the 
obligation of AFE-COHDEFOR to finance not more than 75% of the total cost of an 
Eligible Subproject; and (ii) except as the Bank and UNDP shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall cause AFE-COHDEFOR to not amend, assign, terminate, abrogate, waive or 
fail to enforce any Subgrant Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 4.02. Except as the Bank and UNDP shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 4.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall cause AFE-COHDEFOR to:
Page  7
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and UNDP, and 
furnish to the Bank and UNDP not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient,  the Bank and 
UNDP, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank and UNDP a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan.
Section 4.04. The Recipient shall cause AFE-COHDEFOR to maintain policies and 
procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof in 
accordance with the performance indicators and targets set forth in the Implementation 
Letter.
Section 4.05. (a) The Recipient shall cause AFE-COHDEFOR to establish and 
thereafter operate and maintain, during Project implementation, a unit (the PCU) under 
DAPVS to be responsible for the coordination of the Project activities, with functions 
and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank and UNDP.
(b)
The Recipient shall cause AFE-COHDEFOR to ensure that the PCU is at all 
times headed by a Project coordinator and assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all 
with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank and UNDP.
Section 4.06. (a) The Recipient shall cause AFE-COHDEFOR to, at the request of 
the Bank and UNDP, exchange views with the Bank and UNDP with respect to the progress 
in the carrying out of the Project, the performance of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters related to the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall cause AFE-COHDEFOR to promptly inform the Bank and 
UNDP of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of  
the  Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant for the 
Project, or the performance of AFE-COHDEFOR of its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement.  
Section 4.07. (a) Without limitations to the provisions of Section 9.06 of the 
General Conditions, the Recipient shall cause AFE-COHDEFOR to not later than thirty 
days after each calendar quarter until the completion of the Project, beginning in the 
second quarter of 1998, prepare and furnish to the Bank and UNDP a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank and UNDP shall reasonably request with respect to 
the progress made by AFE-COHDEFOR in the carrying out of the Project during the 
calendar quarter preceding the date of presentation of each such report.
(b)
In each of the reports to be furnished not later than July 31 of each 
calendar year (as provided in (a) above), the corresponding report shall also: (i) 
recommend, if applicable, the actions to be taken to ensure the efficient 
implementation of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and (ii) 
describe an investment plan of the activities to be carried out during the succeeding 
calendar year, including the amount of counterpart funding required to carry out such 
activities. 
(c)
As part of the report to be furnished not later than July 31, 2000 (as 
provided in (a) above), the Recipient shall cause AFE-COHDEFOR to also prepare and 
include, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and UNDP, an evaluation of 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project since its initiation (such 
evaluation to be measured in accordance with the  performance indicators and targets 
referred to in Section 4.04 of this Agreement). 
Section 4.08. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Recipient shall, and shall cause AFE-COHDEFOR to,  not later 
than July 31 of each year of Project implementation, starting in 1998, review jointly 
with the Bank and UNDP the progress made by AFE-COHDEFOR in: (i) carrying out the 
Project; and (ii) achieving the objectives of the Project, based on the indicators and 
targets and the corresponding reports referred to in Sections 4.04 and 4.07 of this 
Agreement, respectively.  As part of each such review the Bank and UNDP may require 
AFE-COHDEFOR to prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank and UNDP, to make 
Page  8
adjustments in Project implementation.  In such event, the Recipient shall cause 
AFE-COHDEFOR to not later than forty five days after the conclusion of each such 
review furnish such action plan to the Bank and UNDP and shall thereafter carry out, 
or cause to be carried out, such action plan in accordance with its terms.
Section 4.09. The Recipient shall obtain the Bank and the UNDP’s approval before 
AFE-COHDEFOR initiates any Project activity to be carried out in any part of the 
Recipient's territory bordering on the territory of another country.
Section 4.10. (a) In the event that a management plan to be designed and 
prepared under Part B.1 of the Project indicates that resettlement of population is 
required in the area in which such plan will be implemented and/or that individuals 
living in such area will become Affected Persons as a result of the implementation of 
such plan, the Recipient shall, prior to the carrying out of any activity under Part B 
of the Project (other than the design of management plans) for such particular area: 
(a) prepare (in accordance with the principles and guidelines set forth in the 
Implementation Letter) and furnish to the Bank and UNDP a resettlement plan for such 
Affected Persons, satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) promptly thereafter, carry out or 
cause to be carried out the corresponding resettlement plan referred to in (a) herein 
in accordance with its terms.
(b)
For purposes of this Section, the term “Affected Persons” means persons 
who on account of the execution of Part B.2 of the Project had or would have their: 
(i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any 
house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or 
movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, 
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, and such term 
also means individually all who qualify as Affected Persons.
Section 4.11. The Recipient shall, and shall cause AFE-COHDEFOR to, carry out, 
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan.
ARTICLE V
Financial Conditions
Section 5.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any provision therefor.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section including for each 
fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank and UNDP;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank and UNDP as soon as available, 
but in any case not later than six months after the 
end of 
each such year, the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank and UNDP shall have 
reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank and UNDP such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Bank and UNDP shall from time to time 
reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate 
Page  9
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank and 
UNDP has received the audit report for the fiscal 
year 
in which the last withdrawal from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant 
Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank and UNDP’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of  
this 
Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank and UNDP
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
That AFE-COHDEFOR shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Agreement.
(b)
That Decree No. 104-93 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to 
affect, in the opinion of the Bank and UNDP, the ability of  the Recipient to 
establish Protected Areas under the Project.
(c)
That Decree No. 31-92 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to 
affect, in the opinion of the Bank and UNDP, the ability of AFE-COHDEFOR to carry out 
the Project.
(d)
That as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that 
AFE-COHDEFOR will be able to perform its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement.
(e)
That the Recipient or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have 
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of  AFE-COHDEFOR, or for the 
suspension of its operations.
(f)
That the Recipient shall have taken any action which, in the opinion of 
the Bank and UNDP, shall have adversely affected the legal status of any Protected 
Area under the Project. 
ARTICLE VII
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of 
the General Conditions:
(a)
That the Operational Manual has been adopted by AFE-COHDEFOR.
(b)
That the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed by the parties thereto.
(c)
That the PCU has been established and the Project coordinator has been 
appointed, as provided in Section 4.05 of this Agreement.
Page  10
(d)
That the Recipient shall have submitted to its Congress draft legislation 
for the establishment of the areas of  Patuca, Tawahka and Punto Isopo as Protected 
Areas.
Section 7.02. The date March 19, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Finanzas
Tegucigalpa, M.D.C.
Honduras
Cable Address
Telex:
HACIENDA
1308
Tegucigalpa
FINANZAS HO
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For UNDP:
United Nations Development Programme
Edificio Cicsa
Colonia Palmira
Tegucigalpa, Honduras
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By /s/ Benjamin Zapata
Authorized Representative
Page  11
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT and the UNITED 
NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
as co-implementing agencies of the Global Environment 
Facility
By /s/ Zafer Ecevit
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
By  /s/ Sarah Burns
United Nations Development Programme
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works:
(a) under Part B.4
   360,000)
70%
     of the Project
   )
   )
(b) under Part B.5     720,000)
     of the Project
   )
(2)
Goods:
(a)
under Part B.4   220,000)
100% of foreign
of the Project
    )
expenditures and
    )
50% of local 
    )
expenditures
    )
(b)
under Parts B.2, 430,000)
B.3, B.5 and
    )
B.6 of the Project 
    )
    )
(3)
Consultants’ Services:
(a)
under Parts B.2  780,000)
100%
and B.3 of the 
    )
Project
    )
    )
(b)
under the other  110,000)
Parts of the 
    )
Project 
    )
(4)
Training
    650,000
100%
(5)
Salaries and
Operating Costs:
Page  12
(a)
under Part B.6   430,000)
90% during the first
of the Project
    )
two years after the
    )
Effective Date; 60%
(b)
under the other  150,000)
during the third and
Parts of the Project    )
fourth years after 
    )
the Effective Date 
    )
and 40% thereafter
(6)
Subgrants
  1,100,000
100% of the 
amounts disbursed
(7)
Unallocated
    150,000
TOTAL
  5,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient;
(c)
“Training” means expenditures incurred by AFE-COHDEFOR in the carrying 
out of the training activities under the Project, including the travel and per-diem 
cost of the trainees; and
(d)
“Salaries and Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred for: (i) the 
salaries of DAPVS’ staff to be hired under the Project; (ii) recurrent costs 
associated with the implementation of the Project, including: (A) operation, 
maintenance and leasing of: (1) vehicles (including fuel, repairs and spare parts); 
and (2) office equipment and office facilities under the Project; (B) insurance for 
equipment and vehicles procured under the Project; (C) office materials and office 
utilities associated with the functioning of the PCU; and (D) communications expenses 
required for the implementation of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR510,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) (a), (2) (a), (3) (b), (4), (5) 
(b) and (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after August 1, 1997;
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (b), (2) (b), (3) (a) 
and (5) (a) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for the financing of 
activities within each of the areas of Patuca, Tawahka, Punta Isopo, Warunta, Rus-Rus, 
Caratasca and Mocorón unless the corresponding area has been established as a 
Protected Area; and
(c)
payments made for each Subgrant under Category (6) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless: (i) the corresponding Eligible Subproject has 
been approved by DAPVS in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the 
Operational Manual; and (ii) the corresponding Subgrant Agreement has been executed by 
the parties thereto. 
4.
UNDP may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods 
(other than vehicles) costing less than $150,000 equivalent with the exception of the 
first two contracts to be awarded under Part C.2 (a) of Section I of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement; (b) contracts for works costing less than $500,000 equivalent with the 
exception of the first two contracts to be awarded under Part C.2 (b) of  Section I of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (c) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent; (d) contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants costing less than $25,000 equivalent; and (e) Training, Salaries and 
Page  13
Operating Costs and Subgrants as set forth in Categories (4), (5) and (6) of the table 
in paragraph 1 thereof, all under such terms and conditions as UNDP shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient.
5.
If UNDP in consultation with the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
payment made from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not 
consistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon 
notice from UNDP, refund to UNDP for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an 
amount equal to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by UNDP.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to promote the integrity of the Honduran section 
of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor, ensuring the conservation and sustainable use 
of biological resources in such section.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient, the Bank and UNDP may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Strengthening of the capacity of DAPVS to manage the Protected Areas, through 
the provision of technical assistance and training and the hiring of personnel 
required therefor.
2.
Design and implementation of a training program consisting of, inter alia, 
workshops, seminars and study tours (in Honduras and abroad) for the benefit of 
Implementing Organizations to assist DAPVS in the management of the Protected Areas.
3.
Strengthening of the capacity of the PCU to coordinate the carrying out of the 
Project, through the provision of technical assistance and the acquisition and 
utilization of the goods required therefor.
4.
Carrying out of workshops and seminars in the Recipient’s territory to build 
consensus among the population with respect to the national biodiversity conservation 
strategy.
Part B: Management of Protected Areas
1.
Design and preparation of a management plan for each Protected Area.
2.
Implementation of the management plans referred to in Part B.1 above.
3.
Demarcation of the boundaries of the core and buffer zones adjacent to the 
Protected Areas, including the demarcation of land in possession of indigenous 
communities in accordance with the corresponding management plan.
4.
Construction of one visitors’ center in one Protected Area.
5.
Construction of park guard facilities in each Protected Area, including the 
acquisition and utilization of the goods required for the operation of such 
facilities.
6.
Hiring of guards for the protection of the Protected Areas referred to in Part 
B.5 above.
Part C:
Natural Resource Management
Making Subgrants. 
Part D:
Biological Monitoring 
Design and implementation of a monitoring system within AFE-COHDEFOR to detect 
Page  14
biological changes in the Honduran section of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor, 
including the acquisition and utilization of the equipment and the provision of 
technical assistance and training required therefor.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods (other than 
vehicles) shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods (other than vehicles) and works to 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each and $500,000 equivalent or 
more each, respectively.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient.
Part C:
Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Vehicles estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more per contract shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods (other than vehicles) estimated to cost more than $25,000 
equivalent but less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
of $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Works estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more but less than 
$500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $1,700,000 shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Procurement of all goods and works under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section shall be carried out using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.
3.
International and National  Shopping
Page  15
(a)
Goods (other than vehicles) estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or less  
per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b) 
Vehicles estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount of $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank and UNDP, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
5.
Community Participation
Goods and works to be financed by Subgrants shall be procured in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods to be awarded under  Parts B.1 and 
C.1 of this Section; (b) the first two contracts to be awarded under Part C.2 (a) of 
this Section; (c) each contract for works to be awarded under Part B.1 of this 
Section; and (d) the first two contracts to be awarded under Part C.2 (b) of this 
Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
Page  16
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under the Project estimated to cost $50,000 or less, up to an aggregate 
amount of $350,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services under the Project, up to an aggregate amount of $842,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said  paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2  (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more but less than $200,000 equivalent, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of 
paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000, the terms of reference shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section III.
Special Provisions 
A.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall expressly 
govern all procurement of goods and works referred to in Part C.2 of Section II of 
this Schedule. The principle of procurement referred to in paragraph 2 below shall 
also govern all procurement of goods referred to in Part B and C.1 of this Section:
Page  17
1.
Contracts  shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid in accordance with 
criteria set forth in the bidding documents, and without taking into account, in the 
evaluation, the financial cost of foreign exchange components.
2.
Foreign bidders shall not, as conditions for submitting bids, be required to: 
(a) be registered in Honduras; (b) have a representative in Honduras; (c) be 
associated with Honduran suppliers or contractors; and (d) certify that, in their 
country of origin, Honduran suppliers or contractors are allowed to participate in 
competitive bidding procedures under equal conditions with other bidders.
3.
Contracts shall not be divided for the sole purpose of reducing contracts 
amounts.
B.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of 
this Schedule:
1.
Foreign consultants shall be permitted to participate in the selection process 
even if there is availability of Honduran consultants for the services being procured.
2.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered with Honduran 
associations.
