                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 34758

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                                (TF-28367)

                                                  ON A

                     GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT

            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.1 MILLION (US$ 7.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS

                                                 FOR A

                           BIODIVERSITY IN PRIORITY AREAS PROJECT




                                           December 20, 2005




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2005)

                           Currency Unit = Lempiras
                               Lps 18.88 = US$ 1
                              US$ 0.053 = Lps 1

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1    December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFE-COHDEFOR  State Forestry Administration/Corporation for Forestry Development (
              Administración Forestal del Estado-Corporación Hondureña de Desarrollo
              Forestal)
BPPR          Forest and Rural Productivity Project
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
COLAP         Local Committee for Protected Areas Management (Consejo Local de Área
              Protegida)
CONAPH        Honduran National Council on Protected Areas (Consejo Nacional de Áreas
              Protegidas de Honduras)
CORAP         Regional Committee for Protected Areas Management (Consejo Regional de
              Área Protegida)
DAPVS         Department of Protected Areas and Wildlife (Departamento de Áreas
              Protegidas y Vida Silvestre)
FHAP          Honduran Fund for Protected Areas (Fondo Hondureña de Áreas Protegidas).
GEF           Global Environment Facility
GOH           Government of Honduras
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Banco Internacional
              de Reconstrucción y Fomento)
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IHT           Honduran Tourism Institute (Instituto Hondureño de Turismo)
MBC           Mesoamerican Biological Corridor
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
PAAR          Rural Land Management Project (Proyecto de Administración de Áreas
              Rurales)
PACTA         Access to Land Pilot Project
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PATH          Land Administration Project
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PROBAP        Biodiversity in Priority Areas Project (Proyecto de Biodiversidad en Áreas
              Prioritarias)
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
QSA           Quality of Supervision Assessment
REHDES        Honduran Ecological Network for Sustainable Development (Red Ecologista
              Hondureña para el Desarrollo Sostenible)
SAG           Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock (Secretaría de Agricultura y
              Ganadería)
SERNA         Secretariat of Natural Resources and Environment (Secretaria de Recursos

          Naturales y del Ambiente)
SINAPH    National Protected Areas System of Honduras (Sistema Nacional Hondureño
          de Áreas Protegidas)
UNDP      United Nations Development Program

                    Vice President:     Pamela Cox
                  Country Director      Jane Armitage
                    Sector Director     John Redwood
                Task Team Leader:       Douglas J. Graham

                                          HONDURAS
                         Biodiversity in Priority Areas Project (GEF)


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                                        Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                              1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                             1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                   2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                      5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                      11
6. Sustainability                                                                          12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                           14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                         16
9. Partner Comments                                                                        18
10. Additional Information                                                                 18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                       19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                       21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                       23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                       24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                       27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                          28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                      29
Annex 8. Borrower's Summary ICR                                                            30
Annex 9. Natural Resource Management in Buffer Zones financed through the                  39
Community Projects Fund
Annex 10. Proposed Transition Strategy                                                     41
Annex 11. Map - Biodiversity in Priority Areas Project - Land Use and Project Protected    44
Areas

Project ID: P044343                                                  Project Name: Biodiversity in Priority Areas Project
                                                                     (GEF)
Team Leader: Douglas J. Graham                                       TL Unit: LCSEN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 21, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Biodiversity in Priority Areas Project (GEF)             L/C/TF Number: TF-28367
   Country/Department: HONDURAS                                                           Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (67%); Central
                            government administration (22%); Sub-national government
                            administration (11%)
                  Theme: Biodiversity (P); Environmental policies and institutions (P);
                            Participation and civic engagement (P); Land administration and
                            management (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/27/1996                                     Effective: 12/01/1997                08/20/1998
     Appraisal: 05/27/1997                                         MTR: 02/28/2000                  10/26/2001
      Approval: 10/07/1997                                      Closing: 01/31/2003                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Republic of Honduras/AFE-COHDEFOR (State Forestry Administration /
                                           Corporation for Forestry Development)
                      Other Partners:      United Nations Development Programme

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Jane Armitage                                  D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director:                John Redwood                                   Maritta Koch-Weser
Team Leader at ICR:             Douglas J. Graham                              Augusta Molnar
ICR Primary Author:             Gunars Platais; Elsie B. Garfield;
                                Douglas J. Graham; Teresa M.
                                Roncal


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The overall objective of the GEF-financed Biodiversity in Priority Areas Project (PROBAP), which was
partially blended with the IDA-financed Rural Land Management Project (PAAR) and jointly supervised
with UNDP, was to contribute to the integrity of the Honduran section of the Mesoamerican Biological
Corridor (MBC) through better conservation of biodiversity in core areas and more sustainable use of
biodiversity in buffer zones of priority protected areas. This was to be achieved by: (a) improved
institutional capacity for parks management; (b) better and more participatory protection of selected
protected areas (PAs); (c) support for sustainable natural resource management activities in the buffer
areas; and (d) strengthening national biological monitoring capacity. While PAAR worked at the policy
level on land tenure and forest ownership issues, the joint effort would strengthen the Honduran Protected
Areas System (SINAPH) and the State Forestry Administration / Corporation for Forestry Development
(AFE-COHDEFOR) with respect to implementing management plans and providing technical assistance to
hillside farmers and forest producers. It would also improve infrastructure in select protected areas in order
to increase income and thus sustain SINAPH over time.

Despite the fact that 24% of the national territory is classified as protected areas, many of these same areas
were rapidly and systematically deteriorating. This was a result of the advance of the agricultural frontier,
forest fires, unsustainable extraction of forest products, and poor natural resource management.

In this difficult context, the project objectives were clearly defined in an attempt to address the following
key problems: (a) insufficient institutional capacity to change protected areas from "paper parks" to
actively managed entities; (b) key areas without boundaries demarcated, management plans or community
participation in management decisions; (c) lack of community participation in land use planning; and (d)
lack of significant biodiversity monitoring in the MBC or the participation of local communities in these
efforts. These objectives reflected country priorities at the time of appraisal and were further consistent
with the 1993 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which addressed, among other issues, improving natural
resource management related to forestry, protected areas management, and biodiversity conservation.

The project was planned to promote the conservation of globally significant biodiversity within the MBC.
At the local level, sustainable natural resource management would generate increased income -- particularly
within marginalized rural communities -- as well as protect important environmental services. At the
national level, improved institutional capacity would provide benefits to the national economy. For
instance, it was expected that the project would serve to boost environmentally-friendly ecotourism, thereby
diversifying local incomes and supporting the financial sustainability of the protected areas system. At the
global level, the project would protect globally significant biodiversity in priority areas. However, given
the difficult context that emerged after project preparation -- Hurricane Mitch, which was one of the worst
natural disasters in Latin America in the twentieth century, and the ensuing financial crisis as Honduras
struggled to rebuild a devastated economy -- the development objectives are considered to have been overly
ambitious, particularly as they relate to government execution.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's objectives were not changed.

3.3 Original Components:
The project financed the following four components:

3.3.1. Strengthening of DAPVS and Local Capacity for Protected Areas Management (US$2.6 million, 28% of



                                                     - 2 -

total project cost): This component supported: (a) development of in-service training courses and periodic
in-depth courses for AFE-COHDEFOR's Protected Areas Division (DAPVS) staff; (b) curricula and
courses for regional committee members, NGOs involved in protected areas and buffer zone activities, and
staff of complementary biodiversity projects in the project area; (c) demand-driven training and study tours
or interactions among members of the Local Protected Area Committees (COLAPs), including
community-based organizations, productive organizations, indigenous organizations and federations, and
private sector stakeholders; and (d) a project coordinator, operational expenditures, monitoring and
evaluation, and special studies. In addition, funds were provided for studies and consensus-building
activities to complement the national biodiversity strategy and improve the capacity for the development of
management plans for core and buffer areas of the SINAPH.

3.3.2. Management of Globally Important Protected Areas (US$4.6 million, 48% of total project cost): This
component financed: (a) management plans for priority protected areas and which did not have
complementary financing from other donors for preparation of participatory management and operational
plans; (b) demarcation of core and buffer zones of priority protected areas, with complementary
delimitation of lands with indigenous property claims; (c) construction of a visitors' center in the Atlantic
zone to expand the potential to attract and manage tourists in one protected area; (d) recruitment of
personnel to manage select protected areas; and (e) construction of park guard facilities in some protected
areas, including the acquisition and utilization of goods required for the operation of these facilities.

3.3.3. Improving Natural Resource Management in Buffer Zones (US$1.9 million, 21% of total project cost):
This component financed buffer zone investments identified during the preparation of the protected areas
management plans in the La Mosquitia region (including Patuca-Tawahka, Caratasca, Warunta, Rus-Rus).
Recipients were groups of individuals within the communities in the buffer zones of the protected areas.
Financing was channeled to groups selected by the COLAPs. In parallel, residents within buffer zones of
all protected areas under the project received technical assistance to draft financing proposals.

3.3.4. Biological Monitoring (US$0.4 million, 3% of total project cost): This component supported the
establishment of a monitoring system to determine major changes in the status of biodiversity in the
Honduran portion of the MBC. Specifically, the project financed: (a) installation of computer and software
in four regional offices and at DAPVS headquarters; (b) purchase and interpretation of satellite images to
generate a baseline and comparative analyses of the project area; (c) two overflights and four field visits to
the project area; (c) collection and analysis of data derived from on-the-ground surveillance by park guards
and others; and (d) annual workshops on biological monitoring.

Project components and activities were designed in a manner that was consistent with the objective of
contributing to the integrity of the Honduran portion of the MBC, through improved biodiversity
conservation in priority protected areas and the sustainable use of biodiversity in buffer zones of those
areas. During the first four years of the project, there was a full-time MBC focal point in Honduras --
financed from a regional UNDP/UNEP/GTZ/World Bank/Central American Commission on Environment
and Development (CCAD) project -- who interacted closely with the PROBAP project. Indeed, the
PROBAP project provided the institutional structure within which the MBC focal point was able to
advance biodiversity conservation issues in Honduras.

The project components were directly related to the project's objectives and the implementing agency's
capacity to carry them out. Recognizing that in order to protect core conservation areas the project would
need to strengthen management of natural resources within buffer zones, the project took into account
lessons learned from previous GEF-financed (and other) projects and allocated 21% of project resources to
this end. Project preparation and implementation likewise recognized that, in order to have an effective


                                                      - 3 -

support from local communities, the project would need to strengthen not only the management capacity of
those local communities but also the management capacity of the implementing agency. Correspondingly,
the first component was designed to address these weaknesses and 28% of project resources were allocated
to this task. The second component -- Management of Globally Important Protected Areas -- allocated 48%
of the budget to key activities that were gleaned from years of experience generated from working on
protected areas management. In particular, the participatory management plans are of critical importance
and served as a vital subcomponent of the project.

3.4 Revised Components:
No major changes were made in project components. In order to respond to emerging priorities during
implementation, four minor adjustments were made: (i) in Component 2, creation of protected areas in the
La Mosquitia was removed from the project to respond to a request from indigenous peoples to address
issues relating to indigenous land rights prior to establishing new protected areas; (ii) in Component 2,
rather than focusing funding on one international-level visitor center, it was decided to finance three
smaller-, locally-oriented visitor centers; (iii) in Component 3, $200,000 was used to finance emergency
subprojects within the project area in the aftermath of Hurricane Mitch. The subproject funds were
allocated more quickly than would have been the case and were focused on emergency natural resource
management needs of communities; that said, investments were consistent with the project objectives and
Grant Agreement; and (iv) in Component 3, $500,000 was redirected from the protected areas management
plan activities to an indigenous land tenure study in the La Mosquitia, as it was determined that
uncertainties relating to indigenous land rights needed to be better understood to ensure the long-term
conservation and sustainable use of natural resources in the La Mosquitia.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
In line with the Quality Assurance Group's (QAG) 2002 Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA)*,
overall quality at entry is rated Satisfactory. The project objective was consistent with the 1993 CAS,
which in turn reflected the priorities established in the GOH's development plan. Peer reviewers and Bank
management endorsed the project design and objectives, which were consistent with the CAS. The QSA
also noted that one of the most innovative aspects of the project was that it was the first GEF-financed
project to be jointly prepared and supervised with UNDP. While administrative differences proved to be a
challenge, it was ultimately beneficial to the project as UNDP has an in-country presence which facilitated
day-to-day implementation of the project. UNDP was instrumental in project monitoring and providing
technical assistance related to programming, planning and administration of funds and oversight of the
budgetary and financial process. Local UNDP staff also provided technical assistance in reviewing terms of
reference, reports, selecting project staff and consultants and maintaining close contact with the Project
Implementation Unit.

The project addressed Honduras' most important protected areas issues while addressing issues of rural
poverty. However, it was found that the project had three principal risks: (1) the advance of the agricultural
frontier could render ineffective certain investments to conserve priority natural habitats; (2) complex land
tenure issues could undermine indigenous involvement in the project; and (3) weak institutional capacity.
These risks were addressed satisfactorily in the project design and the QSA supported the Bank's decision
to proceed with the project despite those risks.

* While the main purpose of the Quality of Supervision Assessment is to assess the quality of operations during
implementation, this exercise also delved into design aspects.




                                                             - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's outcome is rated as Satisfactory. The achievement rating for the project development
objective in the project's final ISR was noted as "Moderately Satisfactory" but the current rating system in
ICR does not permit this nuance. If this project had fallen under the new ICR rating system ("Harmonized
Evaluation Criteria for ICR and OED Evaluations"), which is due to take effect in late FY06, the project's
final outcome would have been rated as "Moderately Satisfactory".

The project had significant and positive impacts at the national, regional, and local levels. It focused on
three areas of the country: Atlántida, La Mosquitia, and Olancho. This combined area includes four
departments and 16 municipalities. The project had a special emphasis in the latter two departments, where
development assistance has traditionally been scarce given regional isolation. PROBAP made specific
investments in 12 protected areas of global significance. It was particularly relevant in the context of
national and regional efforts to test biodiversity conservation and protected area management systems that
are compatible with national policies, including the decentralization policy and the national Poverty
Reduction Strategy. The area in which PROBAP was present corresponds to 38% of the total protected
areas under SINAPH (see Annex 11). However, due to obstacles encountered during implementation, the
national impact was more modest than initially anticipated.

In terms of the objectives of the Global Environment Facility (GEF), the goals of conserving and
sustainably managing globally important biodiversity resources were met. Under the project, the second-
and third-largest protected areas in the country were established (Patuca National Park and Tawakha
Indigenous Reserve, respectively) and important advances were made in protecting biodiversity in all key
sites of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor (MBC) in Honduras. For example, collaboration networks
were established that work toward the protection and sustainable use of biological corridors in Atlántida --
along the northern Caribbean coastline -- and in the area of the proposed Corazón Transboundary Reserve.
Deforestation rates in the Patuca, Tawahka, and Rus-Rus Reserves have stabilized at 0.81% per annum,
below the national average of 1.21%.

The contribution to sustainable natural resource management goals of the World Bank's 2000 and 2003
Country Assistance Strategy is real but modest. These strategy documents promote sustainable
development in priority areas through improved natural resource management, including decentralization
and transfer of natural resource management responsibilities to local communities. The project supported
this recommendation by increasing and improving participatory protection of selected protected areas and
also by introducing biodiversity-friendly natural resource management practices through local community
organizations and NGOs.

As a result of the support to the political and institutional framework of SINAPH, particularly to the
Department of Protected Areas and Wildlife (DAPVS) and to the Honduran National Council of Protected
Areas (CONAPH), the project was able to improve the institutional capacity for strategic planning, priority
area setting, and identification of co-funding.

The project had a significant impact on the management of buffer zones of priority protected areas due to
its ability to bring about a change in the attitudes of communities and civil society at the local level within
or adjacent to priority protected areas. The result was greater local participation in the management and
sustainable use of natural resources. It bears noting that many of the local communities which benefited
from the project are located in remote areas with high levels of poverty and extreme poverty, with relatively
little institutional presence of the national government.



                                                      - 5 -

Project activities were successfully implemented and their impacts were positive and relevant to the
country. The project team was able to realize these successes despite numerous delays* . Although in
retrospect one may judge that the initial project development objectives were overly ambitious, great strides
were made not only in consolidating priority protected areas within the MBC in Honduras but rather in
sustaining the entire protected areas system. During the life of the project, PROBAP constituted more than
half of the national government's operational budget for the management of the entire SINAPH. That said,
at the national level, the project laid the foundation for financial sustainability of the SINAPH by
establishing the Protected Areas Fund which will finance a decentralized, deconcentrated protected areas
management system. The overall achievement of project objectives and outputs is therefore rated
Moderately Satisfactory.

* Delays were mainly due to Hurricane Mitch, a weak institutional counterpart (AFE-COHDEFOR), lack of counterpart
funding during most of the project, and the drastic reduction in personnel due to a restructuring of AFE-COHDEFOR.

4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 Strengthening of DAPVS and Local Capacity for Protected Areas Management
The component is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

From an institutional perspective, the project strengthened protected areas management by different
stakeholders at the local, regional, and national levels. This includes local community organizations,
nongovernmental organizations, co-managers of protected areas, local governments, and governmental
institutions.

A detailed analysis of the strategies adopted by the project reveals a range of positive innovations,
successful processes, and substantial accomplishments. The component produced the following outputs:

l As a result of the support to SINAPH and particularly to the Department of Protected Areas and
    Wildlife (DAPVS) and to the National Council of Protected Areas (CONAPH), the following outcomes
    are noteworthy: a) SINAPH's Strategic Plan (2004) establishing short-, medium-, and long-term
    actions; b) instruments for protected area management including rationalization and identification of
    protected priority areas, which have served as an input for other national strategies (e.g., the 2004
    National Ecotourism Strategy of the Honduran Institute of Tourism (IHT) and the 2005-2010
    Institutional Plan of the Honduran Ecologist Network for Sustainable Development (REHDES); c) the
    creation of the Honduran Fund of Protected Areas (FHAP), as a financial mechanism for the
    sustainability of the priority protected areas; and d) a co-management policy which has allowed for the
    decentralization of protected areas management under transparent operational guidelines;
l The above-mentioned activities have facilitated the participation of local, regional, and national
    stakeholders in protected area management. That said, the financial resources required to implement all
    of the management plans have not yet materialized;
l A greater capacity of the principal actors to: a) manage protected areas; b) prepare and implement
    management plans; c) prepare and implement technical and administrative directives; and d) endow
    infrastructure and equipment to NGOs and AFE-COHDEFOR in Olancho, Atlántida, and La
    Mosquitia;
l The creation of grassroots organizations with an entrepreneurial spirit and a willingness to participate
    in conservation activities was critical in promoting sustainability of locally-managed PAs, although
    issues such as monitoring and capital for operating costs, as well as their role in the community's
    organizational system have yet to be resolved;
l Processes of strengthening through training, technical advice, infrastructure, and financing are



                                                               - 6 -

    acceptable and, despite the obstacles encountered, have progressed satisfactorily;
l Under the capacity building plan, 6,244 hours/person of training were provided. This is equivalent to
    866 persons from the co-managing NGOs, DAPVS, and other institutions who are contributing to
    protected areas management in priority areas.


4.2.2 Management of Globally Important Protected Areas
This component is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

Solely from the geographical area covered (1.2 million hectares), PROBAP activities were of national and
global importance. This area includes strengthening management in twelve protected areas of global
significance, located in the area of influence of 4 departments and 16 municipalities. PROBAP's area of
influence corresponds to 38% of the National Protected Areas System of Honduras (SINAPH).

The Atlántida region has good road infrastructure, a solid NGO base, various community organizations,
strong international donor activity with more than two decades of presence, and robust government support
as reflected in the region's development plans. These conditions made it possible to leverage project
activities which is seen in the impact it has had on the supported priority areas.

In the Olancho and La Mosquitia regions, several noteworthy outcomes can be highlighted which
corroborate the important impact of the project. These include: a) development and strengthening of entities
and key actors in the management of protected areas which were non-existent before the project; b)
introduction of efforts related to sustainable natural resource management and adaptation of such programs
to ethnic groups with their own view of conservation; c) development of new participatory conservation
modalities, with decisionmaking led by local communities; and d) participatory management plans in the
demarcation of priority protected areas.

The emergence of a new generation of technical and para-technical experts trained in a diversity of
conservation themes was relevant not only for the project but also for Honduran civil society. PROBAP
was also responsible for the strengthening of the network of service providers working in protected areas.

The project was also responsible for producing many reports on conservation and protected areas including
studies, diagnostics, manuals, systemizations, and operational plans. The most important outputs include:
l Establishment of the Patuca National Park and Tawahka Indigenous Reserve which are the second- and
    third-largest protected areas in the country, respectively.
l Establishment of a biologically-viable, in situ, Minimum Conservation System representative of
    existing   biodiversity.   Thirty-eight   protected    areas were     prioritized for conservation    of
    globally-significant biodiversity and provision of other environmental goods and services. [Note:
    PROBAP financed activities in 12 of these 38 protected areas.] Under this system, it is estimated that
    the priority areas within SINAPH conserve between 70 to 90% of the country's biodiversity (Dobson
    1996; D. Vreugdenhil 2002). This proposal has been accepted by the Government of Honduras and is
    widely accepted by other stakeholders in Honduras. The proposed Forest and Protected Areas and
    Wildlife Law builds on the concept of the Minimum Conservation System.
l Six management plans covering 793,290 hectares of protected areas, corresponding to 25% of the
    SINAPH. These management plans reflect a local, regional, and national consensus consistent with
    modern concepts of core conservation areas and buffer zones.
l 468 km (compared to the 350 km target) of physical delimitation and demarcation of priority protected
    areas.
l Construction of three visitors' centers, an environmental training center, and seven knowledge centers



                                                      - 7 -

    equipped and operating in the priority areas of Pico Bonito, Cuero y Salado, and Jeannette Kawas. The
    administration of these areas is being carried out under an agreement with co-managing NGOs. In
    addition, two eco-lodges were constructed, one in the community of "Las Mangas" in Ceiba and the
    other in the community of Mistruk, in Puerto Lempira. These are managed by local community
    enterprises.
l The establishment of a network of NGOs and local community organizations with increased capacity to
    execute, with strengthened technical staff and a commitment to the conservation of the protected areas
    under their responsibility. In addition, new organizations emerged in Olancho and La Mosquitia and
    were strengthened under the project. These are key to the management of protected areas which did not
    exist prior to PROBAP. These organizations are conservation pioneers in departments which have been
    traditionally under-represented in assistance efforts by international donors nor government institutions.
l The emergence of a new generation of technicians and para-technicians trained in a diversity of
    conservation topics is important not only for the project but for the entire conservation sector in
    Honduras.

Despite these successes, declining government support for protected areas in Honduras brings into question
the sustainability of some actions. For example, one visitor center collapsed during a tropical storm in late
2005 due to a failure to complete physical works. The recent establishment of the Protected Areas Fund to
cover protected areas' recurrent expenses, supported under this project, will be an important step toward
sustainability.

While the management of a number of protected areas is being led by NGOs, not all areas received the
funding necessary to follow through with established management plans. To a large extent, the
sustainability of the management of protected areas of globally significant importance hinged, from the
outset, on the approval and implementation of the Protected Areas Fund which would generate sufficient
resources to cover these expenses, including recurrent costs. The Fund had been created but was not yet
operational at project closure. Follow-up on the Fund will continue under several Bank-financed natural
resource management projects beyond the life of the this GEF-financed project.

4.2.3 Improving Natural Resource Management in Buffer Zones
This component is rated Satisfactory and produced the major outputs described below:
l 115 rural communities (2,562 families) located in highly disadvantaged zones benefited from with 34
    subprojects totaling US$1.2 million (see Annex 9 for a list of subprojects financed). In this process, 34
    community leaders were trained, 21 communities increased their management capacity, and 7
    subprojects have achieved significant levels of sustainability. The other 14 will require follow-up
    support from international donors or the Government of Honduras.
l Twelve grassroots organizations benefited from a process of institutional strengthening in terms of
    organizational, technical, leadership, accounting, and administrative aspects. As a result of this
    process, eight organizations have legal status and the status of four others is pending. All 12
    organizations have their own strategic plan for community development and are improving their ability
    to manage resources.
l Links were established with various on-the-ground counterpart organizations, with a wide variety and
    level of management experience and capacity, and willingness to monitor local community initiatives.
    The direct participation of Honduran NGOs in subproject execution, acting as support organizations or
    technical monitors for local community entities, allowed the project to play a relevant role in the
    context of the ongoing debate and management of environmental institutions at national and regional
    levels.
l Subprojects helped create social capital, promote strategic alliances, and create new structures in the
    zone. These local investments have allowed greater linkages between grassroots organizations and


                                                     - 8 -

     monitoring organizations. These relationships will enable the sustainability of subprojects.
l One product of particular importance is the preparation of a proposed Buffer Zone Management
     Strategy. This document constitutes the conceptual and methodological basis to carry out the definition
     of national-level institutional policies and strategies, which in turn will contribute to the design and
     implementation of operating rules in priority areas.
l The "Diagnostic of Land Status and Tenure in Garífuna and Miskita Communities" study defined the
     land tenure problem in Garífuna and Miskita communities and identified community measures to
     resolve land conflicts. As an outcome of this study, an indigenous-led land commission (TASBA) in
     was created in La Mosquitia. This study served as the basis for a series of local-level proposals,
     particularly in the region of La Mosquitia, which were presented to the National Agrarian Institute
     (INA).
l The most significant aspect stemming from project activities financed under this component is that in a
     context of extreme poverty and social exclusion, the conservation of protected areas and their buffer
     zones will contribute to the long-term sustainability of local communities.

Local rural communities expressed, through surveys and regional workshops in Olancho and Atlántida, that
their participation in subprojects increased their knowledge on alternative production methods while
improving local livelihoods. Subprojects incorporated activities which contributed to developing a positive
attitude towards local community resource management and conservation, while diversifying incomes of
local communities. In extremely poor communities where there was close contact with protected areas
staff, the project supported wildlife management (e.g., white tailed deer, iguanas), ecotourism and
reforestation activities.

PROBAP also supported the strengthening of local organizations as a basic condition for the promotion of
sustainable natural resource management activities. The social networks that resulted from project
activities contributed to improved communication with other local organizations. These relationships have
been an important factor in subproject sustainability.

4.2.4. Biological Monitoring
The component is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The key output expected was the establishment of a
biological monitoring system that makes it possible to determine major changes in the status of biodiversity
in the project's priority protected areas. Component achievements include:
l A Monitoring System was designed, was approved by DAPVS, and is being implemented in 19 of the
     38 priority protected areas covering 2.1 million hectares (i.e., 68% of the current SINAPH).
l In AFE-COHDEFOR's restructuring (2004), AFE-COHDEFOR has officially approved the creation
     of a Monitoring Unit within DAPVS in order to monitor actions that the project initiated.
l A computerized database with approximately 10,000 entries on protected areas, which may be used to
     perform statistical analyses. The database combines Visual Basic and Arc View. Fourteen
     non-governmental organizations are participating in this process, as well as three international
     cooperation projects: Río Plátano Reserve Project, Improving Our Heritage Project, and
     REHDES­NEPHENTES Tourism Project*.
l Increased understanding of the status of biodiversity in priority protected areas, given a number of
     studies and analyses performed in priority protected areas involved. Findings include: a) sighting and
     registration of species such as the Lesser Yellow-headed Vulture (Cathartes burrovianus), Harpy
     Eagle (Harpia harpyja), White Bat (Ectophylla alba), Giant Anteater (Myrmercophaga tridactila),
     Annulated Tree Boa (Corallus annulatus), and Jaguar. Some of these species are newly reported in
     Honduras and others had not been reported since 1984; b) annual study of the life cycle of the Scarlet
     Macaw (Ara macao), a species emblematic of the country, highly threatened and on the IUCN Red List
     and in CITES Appendix 1; c) scientific study of the status of the Emerald Hummingbird's habitat in


                                                      - 9 -

    the Arenal Dry Forest; and d) multitemporal analysis of Patuca, Tawahka, and Rus-Rus areas.
l Data collection and partial evaluations were accompanied by 37 reconnaissance overflights (close to 70
    hours of flight) and 15 land trips involving 105 days of field activities.
l 32 organizations participated directly or indirectly in activities related to biological monitoring. These
    include co-managing NGOs, universities, government institutions, international cooperation projects,
    local government representatives, and various grassroots organizations. It is important to highlight the
    fact that various international researchers understand and utilize the results generated by the biological
    monitoring and have generated new information building upon PROBAP-financed activities.
l 104 resource wardens were trained in biological monitoring activities. This has made it possible for
    increased understanding and participation -- particularly by local communities -- in research being
    performed in protected areas.

Despite the significance of the monitoring component and the importance of park rangers as the principal
driving force in the field behind this activity, nearly all of their contracts were not renewed at the end of the
project. This effectively reduced or eliminated field monitoring capacity. The project was not able to
consolidate the monitoring component despite having executed tasks as outlined in the project document.
The satellite images were purchased but were not used to create the monitoring baseline. Information
generated was to have been placed on the website for public use but this did not occur. In summary, despite
some successes, the project did not leave a functional and sustainable biological monitoring system to the
country.

* Honduran Pilot Sustainable Tourism Project (REHDES-NEPHENTES)

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial rate of return is typically not calculated for GEF-financed biodiversity conservation projects.
However, the financial sustainability of SINAPH is a key element of the project concept and an important
step was taken with the creation of the Protected Areas Fund in 2005.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact is considered to be Modest.

The project's role in improving the country's ability to make effective use of its human and financial
resources in relation to protected area management was significant. PROBAP had a good degree of
flexibility in seeking options and making use of strategic alliances with NGOs that co-manage protected
areas in Atlántida, local development organizations in Olancho, and technical monitoring in La Mosquitia.
However, management mechanisms involving more stakeholders (e.g., mayors' offices, projects, networks)
must be improved in order to make project results stronger and sustainable in the long term.

The project's support through DAPVS provided AFE-COHDEFOR with the tools (e.g., administrative,
analytical) necessary for decision making, strengthening operational capacity of principal stakeholders
involved with protected area management, introducing new concept of co-management. It also opened
spaces for the restructuring and consolidation of the National Protected Areas System (SINAPH).

Despite the 2004 restructuring of AFE-COHDEFOR and the subsequent weakening of DAPVS at the end
of the project, the project was successful in creating a protected areas management capacity outside of
government institutions. The effective participation of local communities and institutions in the



                                                      - 10 -

management of protected areas is perhaps the single most important contribution to the sustainability of the
protected areas system in Honduras.

The project, in conjunction with the PAAR Project (and the follow-on Forestry and Rural Productivity
project currently under implementation), laid the groundwork for the new Forestry and Protected Areas
Law that is currently under consideration in Congress. PAAR dealt with policies and issues about people
living in forests and led the dialogue with the government on the Forestry and Protected Areas law, as well
as on the Protected Areas Fund; PROBAP focused on forest conservation. Furthermore, PROBAP's results
and lessons learned contributed strategically to establishing national goals set out in the Forests and
Biodiversity Subprogram of the National Forestry Program (PRONAFOR).

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The destruction caused by Hurricane Mitch in 1998 was profound. The effects of the damage are still
present physically and psychologically in Honduras, particularly in rural areas. It is estimated that over
7,000 people died during the hurricane.

The storm's devastation dramatically changed Honduras' economic outlook. Already one of the poorest
countries in Central America, it was significantly weakened by Hurricane Mitch. It sustained
approximately US$3 billion in damage, an amount equivalent to nearly 60 percent of its 1999 GDP.
Hardest hit was the agriculture sector. The hurricane destroyed up to 70% of Honduras' basic crops,
robbing the people not only of daily foodstuffs, but also critical exports. Activities in the project were
delayed by Hurricane Mitch and had serious difficulties in the following year due to problems attributable
to post-hurricane impacts.

Subsequently, in 2001 Tropical Storm Michelle pounded Honduras, forcing the government to once more
declare a state of emergency. This impacted project execution and further delayed project implementation.

The closing date of the Project was extended by 2.5 years due to two main factors. As indicated above,
natural disasters slowed project implementation. In addition, project effectiveness was delayed related to a
condition of effectiveness related to the submission of draft legislation to Congress related to the
establishment of Patuca, Tawahka, and Punta Izopo protected areas. A disbursement condition for the
Management of Globally Important Protected Areas Component contributed to the delay and eventually
was waived by the Bank.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Institutional instability and lack of follow-through by COHDEFOR, the main counterpart agency, were the
principal reasons, beyond natural disasters, for slowness of project execution. Changes in government, with
the consequent replacement of most civil servants within AFE-COHDEFOR, contributed to implementation
problems.

Second, the Government did not provide the required counterpart. At the end of the project, this resulted in
the cancellation of US$205,888 of the GEF grant. Unfortunately, this was money earmarked for
construction of sorely needed infrastructure in protected areas. To a large extent, the lack of counterpart
funds led to the partial collapse of the Pico Bonito Visitors' Center, damaged during a recent tropical
storm. With appropriate counterpart funds, a needed retention wall and bridge would have been
constructed.




                                                     - 11 -

Another important consideration was that the counterpart agency, AFE-COHDEFOR, faced a crisis in
2004 stemming from corruption and violence that broke out as a result of confrontation between
conservation groups and the timber industry. This especially affected areas in Olancho where the project
was operating. As a result, the President of Honduras named a committee to take over management of
AFE-COHDEFOR and develop transparent rules and procedures for the effective control of the forest
sector. This generated a transitional phase characterized by a partial paralysis of the AFE-COHDEFOR.
At this time, Congress is discussing a proposed Forest and Protected Areas and Wildlife Law, which would
eliminate AFE-COHDEFOR and AFE-COHDEFOR's DAPVS, while creating a cabinet-level Ministry of
Forestry and Protected Areas with two main departments, one for forests and the other for protected areas.
At the time of the ICR, this proposed law remains under discussion in Honduras.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
In the early years, project management problems were eventually resolved by replacing the project
coordinator and restructuring the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The Operational Manual and Task
Management Manual were updated and an acceptable accounting system was installed. Quarterly audit and
informational reports were established for presentation to AFE-COHDEFOR, to UNDP and to the World
Bank. A more systematic monitoring plan was implemented with closer supervision by World Bank and
UNDP missions.

A special 2000­2001 audit found several ineligible expenses. The new PIU team spent a significant amount
of time documenting and justifying these expenses. The PIU documented all but US$8,426 of the ineligible
expenses under review. This sum was returned by AFE-COHDEFOR to the World Bank. All of this
activity unfortunately diverted attention from implementation and thus contributed to project delays.

The project has been successful, despite institutional problems with the counterpart agency,
AFE-COHDEFOR, due to the quality and commitment of the staff within DAPVS, and especially of the
PIU.

5.4 Costs and financing:
As previously mentioned, the only significant change in project costs was a reorientation of US$500,000 to
an indigenous land study. The indigenous land study responded to indigenous communities who maintained
that the land tenure situation needed to be resolved before establishing protected areas. This reallocation
was not between components but rather a prioritization within Component 3. Similarly, the post-Hurricane
Mitch reallocation was within the same component.

Disbursement holdups were significant due to delays in the provision of counterpart funding.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project's overall sustainability is rated as Likely despite several issues mentioned below. The project
laid the foundations for sustainability, notably decentralizing and deconcentrating management of the
national protected area system, and strengthening the capacity of local communities and NGOs to
co-manage priority protected areas. In conjunction with the approval of the new forestry law, this will
allow for the improved protected areas management by local stakeholders.

Project-financed studies (e.g., "SINAPH Strategic Plan", "National System of Prioritized Protected
Areas"), are considered by experts as the fundamental basis for the consolidation of a national program of
in situ biodiversity conservation. The Forest Law proposal is being discussed based on the prioritized
system of protected areas.


                                                    - 12 -

The project built on a rich experience of projects and dialogue with the forestry and agricultural sectors and
was able to benefit from that experience by blending the project with the IBRD-financed Rural Land
Management Project (PAAR) and by ensuring continuity and consistency in policies and strategic
positioning on questions such as land rights, forestry, indigenous peoples, and protected areas.* As
designed during the PROBAP project preparation, PAAR would have a follow-on phase to provide
continuity to the policy dialogue on the critical issues of land management. Indeed, three projects evolved
out of PAAR, all of which are currently under implementation. These include: Access to Land Pilot Project
(PACTA), the Land Administration APL Project (PATH), and the Forest and Rural Productivity Project
(BPPR). PACTA grew out of the experience of the implementation of PAAR and lessons learned from
several other projects on land issues (e.g., market based approaches, legal access to land); PATH focuses
on the critical issue of land administration; BPPR focuses on increasing the economic benefits and
environmental services derived from forest ecosystems in selected low income municipalities with high
agro-forestry potential.

Insofar as PROBAP was a partially-blended operation with PAAR, concrete steps have been taken to date
by the GOH for forestry sector reform, reinforced by the restructured AFE-COHDEFOR. These reforms
continue to be supported under the Bank-financed BPPR project. This continued engagement with the
Government of Honduras on natural resource management will be further strengthened under the
multi-country GEF-financed Transboundary Corazón Project currently under preparation. Nevertheless, the
changes in the legal and institutional framework of AFE-COHDEFOR (accompanied by the drastic
reduction of human and financial resources) have significantly affected the implementation of activities and
the achievement of PROBAP's results and objectives.

The strengthening of local capacity remains one of the project's most important accomplishments, as does
the development of SINAPH management instruments. However, the institutional strengthening of DAPVS
itself cannot be considered sustainable given the declining government commitment and funding for
protected areas particularly towards the end of the project.

The efforts of PROBAP to provide systematic capacity building in tune with the needs of DAPVS, were
executed satisfactorily. Nevertheless, implementation of management plans depends on trained human
resources which the institution was not able to retain (e.g., dismissal of technical staff and park rangers
during the AFE-COHDEFOR restructuring in 2004).

PROBAP supported the production of several essential management tools for the management of the
protected areas: SINAPH Strategic Plan, Rationalization of SINAPH, SINAPH Financial Sustainability
Strategy, design of the Protected Areas Fund (in coordination with the PAAR Project), Manual of
Technical and Administrative Standards for SINAPH Protected Areas Management, Manual of Technical
and Administrative Standards for Wildlife Management, Guidelines for Preparing Protected Areas
Management Plans, Study of the Implementation of Community Organizations (CORAPs and COLAPs),
and Guidelines for Establishing Boundaries and Demarcating Protected Areas. However, some of these
instruments are not well known or used by AFE-COHDEFOR, which, while undergoing this transition
period with limited human and financial resources, has had a limited capacity to absorb the wealth of
knowledge generated by PROBAP.

* For more information, see World Bank. Honduras Rural Land Management project ICR­Report No. 30234.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The recipient has proposed a good transition strategy for the project (Annex 10). Elements of the strategy



                                                        - 13 -

that require a significant role of the State are not considered entirely feasible but the transition of many
project investments to the non-governmental sector holds considerable promise. The main elements of this
transition strategy focus on: a) implementing the Protected Areas Fund; b) promoting the
officially-approved SINAPH Strategic Plan nationally and internationally; c) continuing support to
community organizations; d) continuing to strengthen monitoring capacity at the government and local
community level; e) developing the business plan for Pico Bonito and Cuero y Salado Protected Areas; and
f) coordinating and collaborating with the Transboundary Corazon Project.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
As determined in the 2002 QAG review, Bank performance during project preparation was Satisfactory.
The Bank preparation team took into account government policies and strategies that were in effect at that
time and included broad alliances with other major donors, most notably with UNDP. It was during this
time that an agreement was reached to jointly supervise the project. Considerable efforts were made to
clarify initial arrangements with UNDP but this proved challenging due to institutional differences. The
mix of staff and consultants involved in project preparation was satisfactory, with specialists in
biodiversity, indigenous and social issues, and agricultural/forestry policies.

Two shortcomings can be noted. First, the Bank and UNDP failed to concretely and clearly establish
procedures for project joint supervision. Neither the informal arrangements nor the legal agreement signed
between the Bank and UNDP were sufficient to prevent problems from emerging in subsequent years
relating to relative responsibilities for supervision of financial management and procurement by the
Borrower and relating to reimbursement of supervision costs. Second, in retrospect, the Bank probably
erred in its estimates of the Recipient's execution and absorption capacity.


7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision was Satisfactory. Uniquely for GEF-financed projects in Latin America, this project was
jointly-supervised with UNDP-Honduras. This partnership was positive for the quality of supervision.
UNDP staff responded to project needs on a day-to-day basis and particularly contributed to administrative
supervision but also contributed to project technical issues. Bank staff visited the country on supervision
missions, and were responsible for the bulk of supervision of technical issues. The fact that the Bank
project team was involved in three or four other similar projects in Honduras (as well as other projects in
the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor in Central America and Mexico) and that the Bank team worked
closely together as a team greatly facilitated a constant and close supervision of the project. The QAG
review of Quality of Supervision in 2002 noted that supervision was sometimes inadequate in the early
years of the project but strengthened considerably after the Mid-Term Review and overall was Satisfactory.

Supervision missions were composed of a broad mix of international and local professionals. The core
supervision team was maintained throughout the project, notwithstanding a change in task management in
2002 when the original TTL went on external assignment from the Bank. A total of 33 supervision
missions, including the mid-term evaluation, were carried out. On safeguards, the most significant Bank
operational policy that was triggered was the OP on Indigenous Peoples. A Bank indigenous people's
specialist participated in 12 of 33 supervision missions, as well as during project preparation. For the last
three years of the project, the team also included an indigenous specialist in the Bank's Honduras Country
Office. The Bank's first task manager was an anthropologist and indigenous people's specialist. As a result,
the project was very responsive to indigenous peoples' issues, such as the reallocation of project funds to
cover the study on indigenous land tenure in the Mosquitia. Minor safeguard issues in subprojects were


                                                     - 14 -

considered as a part of regular supervision missions (the Bank staff member who assumed responsibility
for the project in 2002 is a core member of LCR's Safeguards Unit and had considerable expertise in Bank
safeguards in general).

Procurement and weak project management were indeed major concerns in the period leading up the
Mid-Term Review. The QAG reviewers noted that closer supervision in these areas by the Bank and
UNDP early on would have strengthened overall supervision. The MTR did not result in a restructuring of
the project's objective and components; however, the local Project Coordinator was replaced at the time of
the MTR and the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was restructured. This had immediate positive effects,
particularly with regard to solving administrative difficulties. Eventually, all audit and financial
management problems were solved satisfactorily.

UNDP, in close collaboration with the PIU, supported all administrative activities, monitored compliance
with procedures established in the Grant Agreement, maintained records of project operations, and followed
through on procurement, disbursements, and budgetary issues, by and large to the Bank's satisfaction.
When there were discrepancies, these were addressed promptly and resolved to all parties' satisfaction
within a reasonable amount of time.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall performance is considered Satisfactory. This rating takes into account the joint supervision with
UNDP.

The PAAR and PROBAP projects were developed as one of the first GEF-IBRD partially blended
operations in the Latin America region. PAAR became effective December 1997 and PROBAP in August
1998. From 1998 to 2001, the projects had a very tight coordination with the PAAR project's Biodiversity
Subcomponent located in the offices of DAPVS where PROBAP was also located. These years were quite
productive, with PAAR leading the policy dialogue with the Government and PROBAP dealing with the
practical issues of biodiversity conservation and natural resources management in the field.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Preparation performance was Satisfactory with an adequate contribution by the Borrower during the year
required to design the project. Excellent local consultants hired by the Borrower played instrumental roles
in project preparation. The less-than-optimal involvement of key staff from AFE-COHDEFOR itself, and
in particular from the Protected Areas Division (DAPVS), probably contributed to weaknesses in the
project design in terms of defining the government's role in the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance was Unsatisfactory. This is principally due to two problems. First, there was a
failure to provide timely and sufficient counterpart financing as defined in the Grant Agreement.
Insufficient counterpart funds eventually resulted in an under-execution of the Grant and the return of
$205,888 of grant funds to the GEF. Delays in counterpart funding could have resulted in major difficulties
in implementation had it not been for UNDP's willingness to frequently provide bridge funding for the
project. Second, the Government gradually reduced its support to protected areas in the country,
eliminating funding and staffing for DAPVS following the significant social and economic upheaval which
occurred after Hurricane Mitch, and failed to seriously pursue the agreed-upon establishment of a Protected
Areas Fund whose design had been ready since 2003 until late in the project.




                                                    - 15 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in AFE-COHDEFOR was Satisfactory. Early
problems with project administration were subsequently resolved when a strong new team was put in place
after the MTR. Under difficult circumstances, the PIU team achieved many important goals under the
project and was able to complete the bulk of project objectives. The support of AFE-COHDEFOR, the
institution which housed the PIU, was more variable over the lifetime of the project. Under some general
managers, there was strong support for the project whereas under others, the project and protected areas
issues in general languished.

During the first three years, PROBAP had a close coordination with the PAAR Biodiversity Subcomponent
Coordinator's office located in the offices of DAPVS where PROBAP was also located. As indicated
above, these years were quite productive. However, the Coordinator -- and indeed the entire PAAR project
-- eventually moved to the Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock (SAG), weakening coordination after
the MTR

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall rating for Borrower performance is considered Satisfactory. [Note: If this project had fallen
under the new ICR rating system ("Harmonized Evaluation Criteria for ICR and OED Evaluations"), which
is due to take effect late in FY06, this rating would be rated as "Moderately Satisfactory".] This overall
rating should be seen as reflecting an unsatisfactory Government performance balanced by quite a
satisfactory performance from the Implementation Unit.          As indicated previously, the project had
significant positive impacts in the field, despite faltering and inconsistent government performance. The
project developed strong local capacity for Protected Area management and leaves behind a Protected
Areas Fund which will decentralize from the State much of the responsibility for day-to-day management of
the protected areas.

8. Lessons Learned

On the basis of the project assessment above, the following lessons can be drawn for similar biodiversity
conservation projects:

Promote full community involvement at all stages of project design, implementation, monitoring, and
evaluation. Implementation of the local subprojects corroborated the fact that this involvement improves
ownership of the project by local organizations. At the same time, the involvement of communities in the
planning and implementation of sustainable resource management and biodiversity protection was shown to
be important for the development of strategic protected area management plans in accordance with local
needs.

Combine conservation efforts with activities aimed at meeting socioeconomic needs. This is fully
consistent with the project's approach of providing financial support for community­based conservation by
complementing protection with sustainable use in buffer zones. The Community Project Fund under
implementation by PROBAP is a good example of combining conservation efforts with socioeconomic
needs.

Coordinate conservation activities with those involving land management. PROBAP activities explored
synergies with the land management activities of the PAAR project and thus obtained results that would
otherwise not have been possible. While PAAR dealt with the policy dialogue on forests and people in
forests, PROBAP complemented this by focusing on conservation and sustainable management of those
forests.



                                                    - 16 -

Ensure flexible, long-term approaches. Effective conservation of protected areas requires flexible,
long-term approaches that include adaptive management based on feedback from experience. This means
that management plans need to be revised, evaluated, and updated periodically with the participation of
local communities.

Promote collaboration with NGOs, local governments, and other public institutions. The project
confirmed that a strong partnership and collaboration among public authorities, local governments, NGOs,
and communities is very important for project implementation, particularly when the public sector partner
is weak. This partnership has been shown to be very effective in the preparation and implementation of
management plans for protected areas, demarcation of boundaries, consultation processes, identification,
design, monitoring, and evaluation of community projects.

Ensure that local committees are representative and flexible. The local committees of protected areas
(COLAPs) must be flexible and composed mostly of local members who have a real interest and
involvement in protected areas. Public institutions such as AFE-COHDEFOR, local government, and
others may participate as facilitators of the participation processes.

Coordinate efforts effectively at the national level. Despite the fact that consolidation of the National
Council of Protected Areas (CONAPH) is still a pending activity, the improvement of coordination at the
national level among governmental organizations was found to be necessary. If CONAPH were well
structured, civil society might have had a more coherent voice that could have exerted influence at the
policy and regulatory levels in favor of the reforms that the project sought (e.g., the Protected Areas Fund,
strategic plan for SINAPH, policy on land rights of the indigenous people located in protected areas).

Pay attention to socioeconomic and political conditions. The importance of paying attention to the
broader political and socioeconomic environment within which project activities take place cannot be
overstated. In this case, it meant the project's involvement in the proposed forestry sector reforms, and
other issues related to the protected areas and biodiversity conservation, such as the discussions on the
Protected Areas Fund and institutional reforms of the forestry sector.

Build flexibility into project design. The project was experimental in various aspects, including the
application of concepts in planning and management of protected areas, declaration of new protected areas,
community participation in the protection and management of priority protected areas, and the processes of
building local and national capacity. The project's flexibility in forging strategic alliances with
co-management NGOs in Atlántica Region, local development organizations in Olancho, and technical
assistance and supervision of subprojects in La Mosquitia proved essential in implementing activities and
realizing stated objectives.

Clarify institutional responsibilities for project execution. The project was executed by
AFE-COHDEFOR and jointly supervised by the World Bank and UNDP. This situation brought many
complications to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the execution of the project. Having to respond
to the rules and regulations of two international bureaucracies complicated administrative processes,
affecting procurement and disbursement.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:



                                                     - 17 -

The General Administrator of AFE-COHDEFOR conveyed to the Bank the Government's
comments on the ICR in a letter dated December 20, 2005. The following is a translated version
of the comments. "As the implementing agency of the project we would like to express our
satisfaction with the process and transparency with which the project was implemented. We also
recognize with satisfaction the evaluation of the project's performance. We recognize the
significant impact the project had in consolidating Honduras' Protected Areas and in initiatives
such as the Strategic Protected Areas Plan, the support to the SINAPH, the Protected Areas Fund
and the support in building infrastructure. We also recognize that because of lack of time and
financial resources visitor centers were not built. We note the unfortunate loss of the Pico Bonito
National Park Visitor Center due to Tropical Storm Gama and the lack of counterpart funding for
complementary work. Nevertheless, we recognize that one incident does not minimize the support
and consolidation of Honduras' Protected Areas System provided by the project."


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Comments from UNDP were received and incorporated into the document.

10. Additional Information




                                               - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
No discernible decline in core area forest and No discernible decline.                       No decline from baseline was the target so it
habitat cover from baseline.                                                                 was not entirely achieved but core areas have
                                                                                             remained intact. Multitemporal analysis
                                                                                             indicated that deforestation in the Patuca,
                                                                                             Tawahka and Rus-Rus reserves were of the
                                                                                             order of 0.81% annually which contrasts with
                                                                                             the national average of 1.21%
Decline in corridor gene flow of indicator
species. This indicator was eliminated in July
2004 as it is unmeasurable and not a realistic
indicator.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Institutional Capacity: Number of              Eleven plans                                  PAD (p. 112) projected 4 major management
management plans that reflect consensus                                                      plans and 7 minor plans. 6 plans have been
built at national, regional, and local levels                                                prepared and approved under project,
around the concept of core and buffer zones                                                  covering about 790,000 ha. Plans for the
(11 plans by year 3).                                                                        Mosquitia were not prepared as instead the
                                                                                             project funded a land tenure study.


(2) The Department of Protected Areas and Increase from the baseline, to be subjectively DAPVS received training and had adequate
Wildlife (Departamento de Areas Protegidas     measured.                                     staff. However, with AFE-COHDEFOR's
y Vida Silvestre, DAPVS) is better able to                                                   drastic staff reduction, this department now
implement management plans.                                                                  has minimal capacity to implement
                                                                                             management plans. However, the project
                                                                                             successfully invested in management
                                                                                             capacity at the local level.


Area demarcated with the participation of      350 km                                        468 km demarcated in a participatory
communities (demarcation of 50 km of core                                                    manner.
areas by year 2 and at least 75 km annually
thereafter) (350 km total)


Key Protected Areas: Physical presence of      In place and maintained.                      The bulk of planned infrastructure was built:
infrastructure and equipment in place and                                                    12 buildings (4 visitor centers, 7 smaller park
maintained (by year 3).                                                                      buildings, 1 house for technical staff) plus
                                                                                             remodelling of 4 park offices and
                                                                                             construction of park gates are in place.
                                                                                             Construction in Olancho and La Mosquitia
                                                                                             were not feasible due to lack of counterpart
                                                                                             funds.


(3) Number of communities actively involved Increase from the baseline to 50                 During the life of the project, 34 sub-projects
in subproject preparation and implementation   communities.                                  (representing $1.2 million) were carried out in
(increase from baseline).                                                                    115 communities enabling establishment of
                                                                                             14 sustainable micro-enterprises benefiting
                                                                                             most of these communities. This was more
                                                                                             than double the 50 communities envisioned.


Natural Resource Management: Increased         Increase from the baseline. Estimated in July Between 2003 and 2004, 24 sub projects
knowledge and adoption of                      2004 to be 100.                               were undertaken benefiting 2,562 families
biodiversity-friendly land use alternatives by                                               and whose activities responded to food
communities in the buffer zones (# of                                                        security in poor communities while
individuals, increase from baseline).                                                        incorporating conservation measures which




                                                                 - 19 -

                                                                                            generated a positive attitude towards natural
                                                                                            resource management.


Natural Resource management: Increase in       Increase from baseline. Value still to be    The sub-projects were a window for the
the number of beneficiaries in buffer zones    defined in July 2004.                        project to work with communities in the buffer
that take an active role in protected areas                                                 zones. These effectively contributed to the
management (increase from baseline).                                                        creation of social capital, strategic alliances
                                                                                            and new infrastructure.



Natural Resource Management: Number of         20                                           While many of the 34 sub-projects dealt with
projects supported by the fund with benign                                                  the critical needs of food security, they also
land use (increase from baseline).                                                          were imbued with conservation and natural
                                                                                            resource management practices that
                                                                                            improved land use.


Monitoring Component: Establishment of         Functioning of database and computers        The software to run the database was not put
database by 1998 and installation of           being used regionally for monitoring         into place until early 2005 and therefore the
computers in four regional offices and the     purposes.                                    computers in the regions, while installed, did
central office by year 2.                                                                   not have access to the data generated
                                                                                            throughout the project.


Monitoring Component: Number of local          Increase from baseline. A more precise value 104 park rangers and NGO personnel were
participants involved in monitoring activities to be determined (July 2004).                trained for monitoring. Unfortunately, 90% of
(increase from baseline).                                                                   these rangers contracts were not renewed
                                                                                            because of fiscal constraints.

1End of project




                                                                 - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                               Appraisal     Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                               Estimate         Estimate          Appraisal
                      Component                               US$ million     US$ million
1. Strengthening of DAPVS & Local Capacity for                    2.60               3.80               170
Protected Areas Management
2. Management of Globally Important Protected Areas               4.60               2.30                55
3. Improving Natural Resource Management in Buffer                1.90               1.50                81
Zones
4. Biological Monitoring                                          0.40               0.40               133

Total Baseline Cost                                               9.50               8.00
                        Total Project Costs                       9.50               8.00
                  Total Financing Required                        9.50               8.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                         1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB               NCB                   2         N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                     Other
1. Works                           0.50               1.70            0.20             0.00          2.40
                                  (0.40)            (1.00)           (0.20)           (0.00)         (1.60)
2. Goods                           0.20               0.50            0.80             0.00          1.50
                                  (0.10)            (0.20)           (0.60)           (0.00)         (0.90)
3. Services                        0.00               0.00            1.30             0.00          1.30
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)           (1.20)           (0.00)         (1.20)
4. Training                        0.00               0.00            0.80             0.00          0.80
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.70)           (0.00)         (0.70)
5. Operating costs                 0.00               0.00            1.60             0.00          1.60
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)           (1.00)           (0.00)         (1.00)
6. Sub grants                      0.00               0.00            1.90             0.00          1.90
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)           (1.60)           (0.00)         (1.60)
   Total                           0.70               2.20            6.60             0.00          9.50
                                  (0.50)            (1.20)           (5.30)           (0.00)         (7.00)
Goods category includes US$ 0.5 million for vehicles that were procured through the "other" method.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB               NCB                   2         N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                    Other
1. Works                           0.00              0.60            0.30             0.00          0.90
                                  (0.00)            (0.40)           (0.20)          (0.00)         (0.60)
2. Goods                           0.00              0.50            0.40             0.00          0.90
                                  (0.00)            (0.30)           (0.30)          (0.00)         (0.60)
3. Services                        0.00              0.00            3.00             0.00          3.00
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)           (3.00)          (0.00)         (3.00)



                                                 - 21 -

    4. Training                             0.00               0.00              1.00             0.00              1.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.00)            (0.00)           (1.00)
    5. Operating costs                      0.00               0.00              1.40             0.00              1.40
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.00)            (0.00)           (1.00)
    6. Sub grants                           0.00               0.00              0.80             0.00              0.80
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.60)            (0.00)           (0.60)
       Total                                0.00               1.10              6.90             0.00              8.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.70)            (6.10)            (0.00)           (6.80)
   Goods category includes US$ 0.2 million for vehicles that were procured through the "NCB" method.
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Strengthening of DAPVS       2.00         0.60         0.00        3.40         0.40       0.00       170.0     66.7      0.0
& Local Capacity for
Protected Areas
Management
2. Management of Globally       3.10         1.30         0.00        1.70         0.60       0.00       54.8      46.2      0.0
Important Protected Areas
3. Improving Natural            1.60         0.20         0.30        1.30         0.00       0.20       81.3      0.0      66.7
Resource Management in
Buffer Zones
4. Biological Monitoring        0.30         0.10         0.00        0.40         0.00       0.00       133.3     0.0       0.0
Total                           7.00         2.20         0.30        6.80         1.00       0.20       97.1      45.5     66.7




                                                           - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              02/19/96                  2    TASK MANAGER (1),
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              03/18/96                  1    CONSULTANT (1)
              4/23/96                   2    BIODIVERSITY SPECIALIST
                                             (1), CONSULTANT (1)
              8/26/96                   1    INDIGENOUS SPECIALIST (1)
              1/6/97                    6    TASK MANAGER (1),
                                             BIODIVERSITY SPECIALIST
                                             (1), PROJECT SPECIALIST (1),
                                             INDIGENOUS SPECIALIST (1)
                                             CONSULTANTS (2)
              3/13/97                   8    TASK MANAGER (1),
                                             BIODIVERSITY SPECIALIST
                                             (1), PROJECT SPECIALIST (1),
                                             INDIGENOUS SPECIALIST (1),
                                             NATURAL RESOURCES
                                             SPECIALIST (1), GENDER
                                             SPECIALIST (1),
                                             CONSULTANT (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/29/97                  6    TASK MANAGER (1),
                                             BIODIVERSITY
                                             SPECIALIST (1), PARKS
                                             SPECIALIST (1),
                                             SOCIOLOGIST (1),
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1), LAWYER
                                             (1)
              11/97                     2    BIODIVERSITY SPECIALIST          HS             HS
                                             (1), SOCIOLOGIST (1)

 Supervision
              02 & 03/1998              1    BIODIVERSITY                     S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              05/1998                   2    BIODIVERSITY SPECIALIST          S               S
                                             (1), SOCIOLOGIST (1)
              10/1998                   2    BIODIVERSITY SPECIALIST          S               S
                                             (1), INDIGENOUS SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              12/11/1998                6    TASK MANAGER (1); UNDP           S               S
                                             REPRESENTATIVE (1);
                                             PROTECTED AREAS EXPERT
                                             (1); INDIGENOUS EXPERT (1);
                                             TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MGMT. (1)



                                              - 24 -

01/1999        3 TASK MANAGER (1),            S    S
                 BIODIVERSITY SPECIALIST
                 (1), FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                 (1)
03/1999        5 TASK MANAGER (1),            S    S
                 BIODIVERSITY SPECIALIST
                 (1), OPERATIONS
                 SPECIALIST (1), LAND
                 TENURE SPECIALIST (1),
                 INDIGENOUS SPECIALIST (1)
06/25/1999     5 TASK MANAGER (1),            U    S
                 BIODIVERSITY SPECIALIST
                 (1), INDIGENOUS SPECIALIST
                 (1), OPERATIONS
                 SPECIALIST (1), FINANCIAL
                 SPECIALIST (1)
01/17/2000     4 BIODIVERSITY SPECIALIST      S    S
                 (1); NRM ECONOMIST (1);
                 GENDER SPECIALIST (1)
07/19/2000     6 TASK MANAGER (1),            U    S
                 BIODIVERSITY SPECIALIST
                 (1), OPERATIONS
                 SPECIALIST (1), INDIGENOUS
                 SPECIALIST (1), FORESTER
                 (1), NRM ECONOMIST (1)
02/06/2001     1 BIODIVERSITY SPECIALIST      S    S
                 (1)
02/06/2001     3 TASK MANAGER (1); INDIG.     U    S
                 SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                 MGMT. (1)
10/2001 MTR    3 TASK MANAGER (1),            S    S
                 BIODIVERSITY SPECIALIST
                 (1), FINANCIAL/
                 PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                 (1)
02/2002        1 TASK MANAGER (1)             S    S
04/19/2002     1 TASK MANAGER (1)             S    S
10/2002        2 TASK MANAGER (1),            S    S
                 INDIGENOUS SPECIALIST (1)
02/22/2003     1 TASK MANAGER (1);            S    S
02/22/2003     4 TASK MANAGER (1);            S    S
                 SUBPROJECTS (1); INDIG.
                 SPECIALIST (1);
                 SUPERVISION (1)
08/2003        2 TASK MANAGER (1),            S    S
                 AGRICULTURAL
                 ECONOMIST (1)
11/2003        2 TASK MANAGER (1),            S    S
                 SUBPROJECTS SPECIALIST
                 (1)
03/25/2004     2 TASK MANAGER (1); INDIG.     S    S
                 SPECIALIST (1)



                 - 25 -

               03/25/2004              1    TASK MANAGER (1)                  S    S
               06/2004                 1    TASK MANAGER (1)                  S    S
               07/2004                 1    TASK MANAGER (1)                  S    S
               09/2004                 2    TASK MANAGER (1),                 S    S
                                            INSTITUTIONAL SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
               02/2005                 1    TASK MANAGER (1)                  S    S
               04/2005                 1    SUBPROJECTS SPECIALIST            S    S
                                            (1)

 ICR
               06/2005                2     TASK MANAGER (1),                 S    S
                                            INDIGENOUS
                                            SPECIALIST (1), ICR
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
               10/2005                1     TASK MANAGER (1)                  S    S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            71.9                        129.00
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   5.7                        14.20
  Supervision                          127.3                        374.80
  ICR                                     1.5                          5.50
  Total                                206.4                        523.50




                                            - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU
Despite faltering and inconsistent government implementation, the project was able to deliver significant
results that made a lasting impact on protected areas management in Honduras. Overall, the Borrower's
performance is rated as Satisfactory.




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. PROBAP-Project Appraisal Document ­ Biodiversity in Priority Areas, September 11, 1997
2. Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement, December 19, 1997.
3. Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement - Amendment, June 15,1999.
4. GEF Project Document ­ Honduras ­ Biodiversity in Priority Areas Project. Report No. 16859 HO.
September 1997.
5. Tripartite Commissions progress reports (GOH, UNDP, WB), 13 May, 2005 and 28 June, 2005.
6. PAAR ­ Project Appraisal Document ­ Rural Land Management Project, February 28, 1997.
7. PAAR ­ Implementation Completion Report ­ Rural Land Management Project, October 14, 2004.
8. Rivas, Carlos. Informe Final. Pre-Evaluación Medio Termino PROBAP. September, 2001.
9. Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA5), September 18, 2002. GEF HN-Biodiversity Conservation
10. AFE-COHDEFOR/DAPVS. Junio 2005. Informe Final ­ Proyecto Biodiversidad en Áreas Protegidas
Prioritarias.
11. Evaluación Final del PROBAP ­ Proyecto Biodiversidad en Áreas Protegidas Prioritarias.
12. Supervision Mission Aide Memoires and PSRs
13. Diamond, N., G. Platais, N. Nkrumah, A. Isaac, 2002. Participatory Conservation Principles for
Practitioners. World Bank, Environment Department, Washington, DC.
14. PROBAP. 2005. Recopilación de Documentos y Videos de Areas Protegidas y Monitoreo. (CD and
DVD set with collection of Project documents).




                                                 - 29 -

Annex 8. Borrower's Summary ICR

Biodiversity in Priority Protected Areas Project

Presentation
Protected areas constitute an important segment of our country's conservation sector. They contribute
significant economic, social, and environmental goods and services to society.

Although nearly 24% of the country's territory has been considered a protected area, much of it has
continued to deteriorate systematically, with a high level of acceleration in recent decades. This is mainly
due to the advance of the agricultural frontier, forest fires, irrational extraction of forest products, and poor
natural resources management practices in general.

In order to reduce these problems and strengthen the National System of Protected Areas (SINAPH), the
Biodiversity in Priority Areas Project (PROBAP) was executed from October 1998 to June 2005. The
project was co-executed by the State Forestry Administration (COHDEFOR) as the national agency, with
UNDP and the World Bank as collaborators. The project received financial support from the Global
Environment Facility (GEF) and the Government of Honduras. Throughout its execution the project made
considerable efforts to reverse the process of destruction in the principal protected areas that form the
Honduran portion of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor (CBM).

The protected areas assisted by PROBAP are priorities within the context of the Mesoamerican Biological
Corridor (CBM), and as a whole total 1.2 million hectares of large rainforests, pine forests, wetlands, etc.,
considered the country's largest biodiversity reserves.

Throughout the forest regions of Olancho, Atlántida, and La Mosquitia and with the technical and financial
support of PROBAP, COHDEFOR carried out the following actions: protection, demarcation, surveillance,
participatory planning and management; construction of and equipment for tourism and management
infrastructure; training; institutional strengthening; and biological monitoring. Furthermore, the project
financed productive projects that benefited 115 ethnic and Ladino communities located in the buffer zone of
priority protected areas.

In addition, the project carried out efforts to strengthen SINAPH, supporting the corresponding institutions
in the formulation of policies, regulations, technical standards, and training, and generally contributing to
create proper technical, legal, and political conditions for the system's functional development.

Although the project achieved significant impacts and results in its seven years of execution, major efforts
are still needed to achieve SINAPH's sustainability, for which concerted efforts are required in close
coordination with relevant stakeholders. This final report reflects the effort and principal results achieved
by the project in terms of SINAPH's sustainability. We hope that other national and international
collaborators and institutions will contribute to this effort and that our experiences will be valid in meeting
the project's objectives.

Project description
In accordance with the GEF Operational Program, the project's overall objective is to contribute to the
integrity of the Honduran section of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor, through better conservation of
biodiversity in clusters (zonas núcleo) and sustainable use of natural resources in buffer zones. This will be
achieved through: (a) improved institutional capacity for protected area management; b) better protection of


                                                      - 30 -

selected areas; (c) support for more friendly use of natural resources in buffer zones; and (d) strengthening
of the biological monitoring capacity at national level.

The project began in September of 1998 and ended on June 30, 2005. The original financing totaled
US$9.5 million, of which US$7.0 million was a donation from the Global Environment Facility (GEF),
US$2.2 million was from the Government of Honduras, and US$0.3 million came from beneficiaries.
PROBAP is part of a larger biodiversity conservation program in Honduras, and was associated with the
Rural Areas Administration Project (PAAR) which was a World Bank loan to the Government of
Honduras.

The State Forestry Administration (COHDEFOR), through the Department of Protected Areas and
Wildlife (DAPVS), is responsible for project execution. A Project Coordination Unit was established. It is
responsible for proper technical execution of the project, financial and administrative management,
coordination, monitoring of activities, etc. In addition, operational centers were established in La
Mosquitia, Olancho, and La Ceiba. Many of the project's investments and interventions were decentralized
and executed by nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and grassroots organizations that co-managed
protected areas, joint efforts (mancomunidad) by municipalities, consulting firms, individual consultants,
etc.

In general, the project is aimed at the conservation and management of biodiversity in priority protected
areas, with the sustainable and equitable use of the benefits derived from them, by means of four
components: (a) strengthening of DAPVS and of local capacity for protected area management; (b)
management of globally important priority areas; (c) improvement in the management of natural resources
in buffer zones; and (d) biological monitoring.

The project's geographic area is estimated at about 1.2 million hectares and includes 11 protected areas in
3 regions: (a) Caribbean Region: Pico Bonito National Park, Cuero and Salado Wildlife Refuge, Punta
Izopo National Park, Jeannette Kawas National Park and Texiguat Wildlife Refuge; (b) La Mosquitia
Region: Laguna de Caratasca, Rus Rus, Warunta, and Mocorón (all proposed areas); and (c) Olancho
Region: Patuca National Park and Tawahka Asagni Reserve. These areas have been prioritized at national
and international levels due to their rich biodiversity, suitable degree of conservation, and their wide variety
of ecosystems, including wetlands, rainforests, pine forests, and cloud forests.

Description of project setting.
Due to its geographic location, Honduras is a country with rich biodiversity and large areas of intact
natural forests. The project covers approximately 1.5 million hectares of rainforests, wetlands, pine forests,
cloud forests, etc., which are distributed among 11 protected areas under relatively intact conditions.
Consequently, this is the area where most of the Honduran section of the Mesoamerican Biological
Corridor is located.

With the exception of the Atlántida region where there is greater economic development and whose
protected areas have a strong potential for tourism, the rest of the project area is somewhat inaccessible and
lacks institutional presence. Communities, most of which are of ethnic origin (Miskito, Tawahka, and
Garífuna), are poor with few opportunities for access to education, land, credit, technical assistance, etc.
They practice subsistence agriculture; fishing and hunting are also very important. This aspect clearly
identifies the importance of natural resources for their survival.




                                                      - 31 -

Despite their economic potential, protected areas have contributed little to poverty reduction and the
country's development. Moreover, deforestation (slash and burn) is acknowledged to be one of the greatest
environmental problems, causing the loss of forest cover at a steady rate of about 100,000 ha/year in the
past decade. Honduran Forestry Agenda, 2004. The Nacional Forestry Program

In terms of institutional aspects, PROBAP found limited support in COHDEFOR, the national institution
whose mandate is to manage protected areas. The national crisis in the forestry sector gave rise to a
framework of institutional limitations and obstacles with regard to regulatory and control capacity, as well
as limitations on counterpart financing, technical support, and monitoring. Finally, the restructuring of
AFE-COHDEFOR (2004) and the anticipated changes in the new legal proposal (Forestry Law, Protected
Areas and Wildlife), which is under discussion in the National Congress, created a transition phase that has
drastically reduced the availability of DAPVS's human resources and budget.

In addition, at its start-up the project was affected by various natural phenomena, including Hurricane
Mitch in 1998, which made it necessary to allocate funds ($200,000) and logistics to emergency projects in
the area of influence.

Although substantial changes have been noted in the management focus and there is a better capacity
among stakeholders, with concrete actions on the ground, the factors presented previously, many of which
were beyond the project's control, limited to a certain extent the proper execution of the project.

Compliance with project objectives
In country terms, PROBAP's actions were considered significant because the project had an influence on
three major regions of the country: Atlántida, La Mosquitia, and Olancho, including 4 departments and 16
municipalities. In addition the project made individual investments in 12 protected areas of global
importance and benefited a broad range of stakeholders at local, regional, and national levels. The land area
assisted by PROBAP corresponds to 38% of SINAPH.

It is important to mention that the project's objectives and actions are consistent with the Poverty
Reduction Strategy (ERP) which constitutes one of Honduras' most important national planning and
management instruments. Compliance with project objectives is presented below.

Objective of the Country Assistance Strategy: Sustainable management of natural resources and
poverty alleviation.

Key indicator: Protected areas are adequately managed and contribute to socioeconomic
development through the development of environmental goods and services for local communities.
Impacts:
(a) The project improved protection, established management measures, and carried out studies in 12
priority protected areas covering a total of 1.2 million hectares, which represent 38% of the SINAPH total;
(b) the project placed under effective management 6 priority protected areas covering a total of 793,289.7
has; (c) these six protected areas contribute to local economic development through the active incorporation
of nearly 115 communities (2562 families); (d) establishment of cooperation networks that work together
on the protection and sustainable use of biological corridors.

Objective of the GEF Operational Program: Conservation of biodiversity of global importance in the
Honduran portions of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor (MBC) through the sustainable use of
its components, just and equitable distribution of its benefits, halting the decrease in genetic material.



                                                      - 32 -

Key indicator: Creation of a corridor consisting of continuous blocks of complementary conservation
and sustainable use, taking into account the dynamic needs and interests of stakeholders.
Impacts:
a) Establishment of the Caribbean Biological Corridor and support for the establishment of the Corazón
Biological Corridor (binational with Nicaragua); (b) establishment of two Cooperation Networks to work
together on the protection and sustainable use of the Caribbean biological corridors, in Atlántida, and in the
Corazón Transboundary Reserve in Olancho; (c) deforestation rates in the Patuca, Tawahka, and Rus Rus
Reserves have remained steady at around 0.81% per year (5,268 has), in contrast to the national rate of
1.2% per year (Rivera 1998). Deforestation fronts are basically located in the buffer zone, in highly
inaccessible sectors or areas.

Project Development Objective: To put in place measures to ensure the long-term conservation of the
MBC in important areas.
Impacts:
a) Definition of a Strategic Plan for SINAPH, establishing short-, medium-, and long-term measures and a
concrete policy for the management of protected areas; (b) definition of a minimum, biologically viable,
on-site conservation system that is representative of existing biodiversity and is cost effective; and (c)
definition of the Honduran Fund for Protected Areas (FHAP) as the financial instrument to carry out the
environmental mandate of protected area conservation and to contribute to poverty reduction in Honduras.

Project results by component:
Institutional Strengthening Component
In its institutional aspects the project was aimed at strengthening the various stakeholders in the
management of protected areas, at local, regional, and national levels. It included grassroots organizations,
nongovernmental organizations co-managing protected areas, local governments, and government
institutions.

The following impacts are highlighted under this component:
l Support to the political and institutional framework of SINAPH, especially of the Department of
    Protected Areas and Wildlife and of the National Council on Protected Areas (CONAPH).
l Greater capacity of the principal actors involved to manage protected areas, prepare and implement
    management plans, prepare and implement technical and administrative regulations, and provide
    infrastructure and equipment to NGOs and AFE-COHDEFOR (Olancho, Atlántida, La Mosquitia
    offices).
l Under the emerging training plan, 6,244 hours/person of training were provided, equivalent to 866
    people from co-managing NGOs, DAPVS, and other actors, thus contributing to an improvement in the
    capacity of organizations involved to manage priority protected areas.

Component: Management of Protected Areas of Global Importance
In country terms, PROBAP's actions were significant inasmuch as its geographic scope is estimated at 1.2
million hectares, including 12 protected areas of global importance, in an area of influence consisting of 4
departments and 16 municipalities. The area served by PROBAP corresponds to 38% of the SINAPH total.

The principal impacts are described below:
l Establishment of an on-site, biologically viable Minimum Conservation System that is representative of
    the existing biodiversity, at an effective cost.
l 6 Management Plans in an equal number of protected areas covering 793,289.7 has. (25% of the
    SINAPH total).


                                                     - 33 -

l 468 kilometers of physical delimitation and demarcation of key protected areas in the most critical
     sections.
l Construction of 3 visitors' centers, 1 environmental training center, and 7 information centers equipped
     and operating in the Pico Bonito, Cuero and Salado, and Jeannette Kawas priority areas.
l A network of nongovernmental and grassroots organizations with a greater execution capacity, highly
     qualified technical staff, and a commitment to the conservation of protected areas under their
     responsibility.
l The emergence of a new generation of technicians and para-technicians trained in a wide range of
     conservation issues is highly relevant not only for the project but for the entire conservation sector in
     Honduras.

Component: Management of Natural Resources in Buffer Zones
The project had a significant impact on the management of buffer zones due to its ability to change the
attitudes of various local-level stakeholders and social groups located within or adjacent to protected areas
of priority importance and at national scale. This resulted in greater participation by local communities in
management activities and the sustainable use of natural resources. It is important to mention that many of
the communities addressed by the project are located in somewhat inaccessible areas, with high levels of
poverty and little institutional presence.

The major impacts are described below:
l 115 rural communities (2,562 families) located in highly disadvantaged areas were benefited with 34
     subprojects totaling US$1.2 million.
l 12 grassroots organizations entered into a process of institutional strengthening with regard to
     organizational, technical, leadership, accounting, and administrative aspects.
l Links were established with various counterpart agencies, with a wide variety and level of presence on
     the ground, management experience and capacity, and willingness to monitor local community
     initiatives, among other aspects. The direct participation of most of Honduras' nongovernmental
     environmental organizations allowed the project to take a relevant position in the context of
     institutional and environment discussions and management at national and regional levels.
l The subprojects contributed to the creation of social capital, strategic alliances, and new structures in
     the zone.
l One outcome of particular importance is the preparation of the proposed Buffer Zone Management
     Strategy.
l The study entitled "Diagnostic of Land Tenure and Status in Garífuna and Miskito Communities"
     defined the problem of land tenure in Garífuna and Miskito communities and identified community
     mechanisms for land-related conflict resolution.
l The most significant aspect stemming from project actions under this component is that, in a context of
     extreme poverty and social exclusion, the conservation of protected areas and their buffer zones may
     contribute to the comprehensive improvement of the population's quality of life, ensuring the
     achievement of higher levels of long-term support and monitoring.

Biological Monitoring Component
The major impact expected under this component is the establishment of a biological monitoring system to
make it possible to determine major changes in the status of biodiversity in the project's priority protected
areas.

The principal impacts are described below:
l A monitoring system designed by PROBAP has been accepted by DAPVS and is being carried out in
     19 of the 38 priority protected areas.


                                                     - 34 -

l In its restructuring proposal, AFE-COHDEFOR has officially approved the creation of a Monitoring
    Unit within DAPVS.
l A computerized comparative database with approximately 10,000 entries on protected areas, which
    may be used to perform a series of statistical analyses.
l There is a better understanding of the status of conservation and biodiversity in priority protected
    areas, because a series of studies and analyses have been performed in the protected areas involved.
l Data collection and partial analyses were accompanied by 37 reconnaissance overflights (nearly 70
    hours of flight) and 15 land trips.
l 32 organizations participated directly or indirectly in activities related to biological monitoring. It is
    important to note that various international researchers understand and utilize the results generated by
    the biological monitoring and some are providing new information.
l 104 resource wardens were trained in the execution of biological monitoring activities.


Project Administration

The administrative unit provides support to the technical activities being carried out. It oversees compliance
with the administrative procedures established in the Grant Agreement, keeps proper records of project
operations, and monitors all matters related to procurement, disbursement, budget execution, etc.

Its principal results are as follows:
l An accounting system was implemented. This allowed the proper recording of all project operations.
l It complied, to the satisfaction of the World Bank and UNDP, with all conditions imposed in the
    Midterm Review that was carried out in 2001.
l It justified 98% of questionable expenditures found in the 1999, 2000, and 2001 audits.
l In the 2002, 2003, 2004, and 2005 audits, no questionable expenditures were found.
l The project's financial execution was US$8.02 million, of which US$6.8 million correspond to the
    grant (97% executed).

Principal factors that influenced project execution
Positive factors:
The biological wealth and the large areas of natural forest contained in the 12 protected areas in which the
project operates have allowed various types of institutions to pay greater attention to the region's problems.
As a result, other international agencies such as UNESCO, the Nature Conservancy (TNC), the European
Union, USAID, and ACDI have assigned priority to this zone and have proposed short- and medium-term
actions, in addition to and in support of the actions undertaken by the PROBAP Project. One example is
the initiative of the Corazón Transboundary Biosphere Reserve of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor,
for which the GEF is proposing a project to conserve the area. On the Caribbean coast, two projects have
served as important partners with PROBAP: the REHDES-NEPHENTES Sustainable Tourism Project and
the Ministry of Tourism's World Bank­financed Sustainable Coastal Tourism Project.

The strong ecotourism potential of Caribbean protected areas (Pico Bonito, Cuero and Salado, Jeannette
Kawas, Punta Izopo, among others) allowed the Central Government, through the Ministry of Tourism, to
prioritize investments in these protected areas. This situation facilitated PROBAP's investments in the
construction of ecotourism and management infrastructure, by which important synergies were achieved
with the private tourism sector in the region and with the nongovernmental organizations that are
co-managing the protected areas.

The existence of nongovernmental and grassroots organizations that are managing protected areas or



                                                    - 35 -

working on buffer zone development processes created a favorable environment for project actions.
PROBAP found that these organizations were excellent partners in the execution of many of the actions
executed by the project and that they facilitated the expected impact. This situation was more evident in the
Caribbean region where there is a greater tradition of work by environmental NGOs that have
co-management agreements with COHDEFOR.

The presence of indigenous peoples settled in the project areas, particularly the Miskito and Tawahka, who
have a tradition of natural resources conservation, facilitated field activities. Important synergies were
achieved with them in matters of conservation and sustainable development.

Negative factors:
In terms of institutional aspects, PROBAP found limited support in COHDEFOR, the national institution
whose mandate is to manage protected areas. The national crisis in the forestry sector gave rise to a
framework of institutional limitations and obstacles. For example:

l The lack of timely availability of counterpart resources caused the World Bank and UNDP to freeze
    grant funds, making it necessary to suspend contracts or scheduled procurement until this situation was
    resolved. This situation produced gaps in the execution of the POA and the procurement plan during
    the last two years of the project.
l The strong restructuring which COHDEFOR underwent in 2004, when nearly 50% of its staff was
    fired, limited the institution's regulatory and control capacity as well as technical support and
    monitoring in field work, and forced the project to concentrate more of its own efforts on achieving the
    objectives.
l COHDEFOR's priorities are aimed at forest management and the uses of pine and broadleaf
    (latifoliate) forests. This requires most of the institution's scarce economic and human resources,
    relegating protected area and wildlife activities to a somewhat lower level of importance.

During the first two and a half years following the project's launch, a series of administrative and technical
problems were clearly identified in the World Bank's 2001 Midterm Review. This situation caused the
World Bank and UNDP to establish a series of conditions that COHDEFOR would need to fulfill in order
to continue with normal project execution. Compliance with these conditions caused the UCP to
concentrate greater efforts the following year on resolving the problems found, rather than on project
execution per se.

With the exception of the Atlántida region where there is greater economic development and whose
protected areas have a strong potential for tourism, the rest of the project area is somewhat inaccessible and
lacks institutional presence. Communities, most of which are of ethnic origin (Miskito, Tawahka, and
Garífuna), are poor with few opportunities for access to education, land, credit, technical assistance, etc.
They practice subsistence agriculture; fishing and hunting are also very important. This aspect clearly
identifies the importance of natural resources for their survival.

Despite their economic potential, protected areas have contributed little to poverty reduction and the
country's development. Moreover, deforestation (slash and burn) is acknowledged to be one of the greatest
environmental problems, causing the loss of forest cover at a steady rate of about 100,000 ha/year in the
past decade. Areas of project intervention, especially Patuca and Tawahka, are located on more active
colonization fronts. In the Patuca region, the problem has become alarming and to a large extent is
provoked by inadequate policies on land tenure and the relocation of communities.

In addition, at its start-up the project was affected by various natural phenomena, including Hurricane


                                                     - 36 -

Mitch in 1998, which made it necessary to allocate funds ($200,000) and logistics to emergency projects in
the area of influence.


Sustainability of project actions

The project document states that sustainability will be promoted through:
l Improvement of the skills of local and national institutions in charge of managing protected areas and
    natural resources.
l Support for SINAPH's self-financing by means of a financial mechanism that ensures the
    sustainability of protected areas.
l Increase in public support for protected areas and participation in their management, working closely
    with stakeholders.
l Institutional strengthening of SINAPH.
l Investments that promote better management of protected areas.


Although the project addressed all the above issues, there are several elements that place in doubt the
sustainability of project actions. The most important of these is the fact that the forestry sector has been
subjected to systematic instability which has not allowed the institution to assign due relevance to the
protected areas. Therefore, the Department of Protected Areas and Wildlife (DAPVS) operates at very
minimum capacity and has not developed the skills to internalize all of PROBAP's contributions.

In addition, the lengthy approval process of the proposed new Forestry Law dealing with Protected Areas
and Wildlife has created uncertainty and many expectations about the institutional framework. According
to consultations and the opinions of many specialists in the forestry and conservation sector, this decreases
the possibilities for any project's sustainability. It is important to mention that many initiatives are awaiting
a decision in this regard to be able to get underway.

In light of the above and in terms of the results of the project's progress evaluation and final assessment,
the approval of the proposed Forestry Law on Protected Areas and Wildlife could increase the likelihood of
sustainability for actions generated by the project, since the strengthening of the institutional framework
and the allocation of greater financial resources are proposed.

However, during its execution the project generated a number of synergies with other projects and
collaborating agencies in order to create conditions of sustainability so that project­generated mechanisms
and processes can be monitored. These alliances should be continued and strengthened by DAPVS to
ensure support after the project's conclusion.

The project supported the initiative of the Protected Areas Fund, the SINAPH Strategic Plan, the
Co-Management Policy, and a Minimum System of On-Site Conservation. These are key, urgent aspects
and their application will make it possible to ensure the long-term conservation of protected areas.
However, their implementation is subject to approval by high-level government authorities dealing with
natural resources. Once approved and put into practice, these mechanisms may create an important synergy
among government institutions, NGOs, grassroots organizations, local governments, and international
cooperation agencies, and facilitate available resources in benefit of protected areas.


Conclusions


                                                        - 37 -

l The analysis of project progress, in terms of key indicates, shows that the expected results have been
  generated, creating the bases for greater effectiveness of the SINAPH in general, and of stakeholders
  associated with PROBAP's areas of influence, in particular. Moreover, it made a significant
  contribution to the indicators proposed in the Poverty Reduction Strategy (ERP).
l The results and lessons learned and generated by PROBAP have made a strategic contribution to the
  national targets contemplated in the Forests and Biodiversity Subprogram of the National Forestry
  Program (PRONAFOR), such as:
l Consolidating SINAPH's prioritized areas with basic instruments: management plans, public use plans,
  demarcations, basic infrastructure, surveillance, and a management monitoring system.
l Establishing regional protected areas systems as a mechanism to provide non-prioritized protected
  areas with basic management instruments.
l Supporting the development of ecotourism clusters in the protected areas proposed in the National
  Ecotourism Strategy, taking into consideration the development of ethnic groups.
l Making compatible the policies and regulations for the management of public protected areas.
l Establishing the regulations for biodiversity conservation on private lands.
l Consolidating the authorities in charge of participation and coordination at national, regional, and local
  levels for the SINAPH.
l Establishing the National Fund for Protected Area Management.
l Periodically reviewing the criteria for organizing areas within the SINAPH.
l However, some results were only achieved around the second half of the project (2002­2005). This has
  generated greater demands for consolidating the processes, in order to ensure the impact's
  sustainability, especially with regard to infrastructure subprojects and works.
l Actions related to the strengthening of the DAPVS in the final stage of the project have been aimed at
  defining the new legal framework, since this is COHDEFOR's only project that deals with the
  strengthening of the SINAPH in general. However, some of these actions have not become effective
  because this framework has not yet been defined. It is worthwhile to mention that the budget allocated
  for this purpose represents a high percentage.
l Some processes related to protected area management (implementation of management plans,
  operational plans, and biological monitoring) have not been fully assumed by DAPVS and its
  co-management partners, due in part to the weakness of the State Forestry Administration resulting
  from a very lengthy transition period, but also because the NGOs lack a strategy to implement them.
  This gap would require an additional NGO monitoring effort and may not be sustainably supplied
  solely by the hiring of resource wardens, as contemplated in the 2004­2005 POA.
l With regard to subprojects, the grassroots organizations supported by the project are playing an active
  role in the management of protected areas. However, considering that the monitoring provided in some
  cases has been aimed more toward formulation than technical and organizational assistance, and due to
  the short duration of subprojects and various logistical limitations (distances between communities), the
  following situations have occurred:
l Technical gaps related to subproject implementation have remained, in terms of the demonstration of
  biodiversity-friendly land use alternatives.
l Several organizations, particularly in the Patuca sector, which came into being as a result of the
  subprojects, merit a strong process of organizational strengthening; otherwise they run the risk of
  dissolving.




                                                   - 38 -

    Annex 9. Natural Resource Management in Buffer zones financed through the Community
    Projects Fund

    The sub-projects were distributed as follows:


                PROBAP Region               Number of subprojects              Financing in       Percentage
                                                    executed                     Lempiras

                      Olancho                           11                       6,117,691          50.9

                      Atlántida                          5                       2,561,687          21.3

                   La Mosquitia                          6                       3,330,317          27.8

                      TOTAL                             22                      12,009,695           100



    Details of subprojects:


                 Project name                                                                     Number    Characterization
                                                       Participating Communities          Region     of     of participants
                                                                                                  Families
Proyecto de desarrollo de las mancomunidades de     Los Encuentros, Eben Ezer, Sinaí,     Olancho   390         Ladinos
Los Encuentros, Río Blanco, Catacamas               Santa Marta, Naranjito, Samaria,
                                                    Jardines
    Proyecto de Desarrollo de la Región de          La Suiza, Moriah, Villanueva, San     Olancho   155         Ladinos
    Yamales Medio Trojes-Sub-sector 2               Antonio, Santa Rosa No.1
                                                    Villa Nueva.
    Proyecto de Desarrollo de la Región de          El Porvenir de Yamales, San           Olancho   125         Ladinos
    Yamales arriba Trojes Sub-sector 1              Marquitos, Villa Santa, San Luis,
                                                    Rancho Grande
                                                    y El porvenir, Municipio de Trojes
    Proyecto de Conservación y Producción para el Yapuwas, Kamakasna y Parawas            Olancho    96        Tawahka
    desarrollo de las comunidades del sector 1 de la
    zona del Patuca medio en la reserva de la
    biósfera de Biosfera Tawahka Asangni
    Proyecto de conservación y producción para el Krautara, Krausirpi                     Olancho   170        Tawahka
    desarrollo de las comunidades del sector No.2
    de la zona del Patuca medio en la Reserva de
    Biosfera Tawahka Asangni
    Proyecto de conservación y producción para el   San José del Guano, Palmira de Río    Olancho    90         Ladinos
    desarrollo de las comunidades del sector No.1   Frío, Nuevo Paraíso
    de la zona Wampú Medio en la Reserva de
    Biosfera Tawahka Asangni
    Proyecto de conservación y producción para el   Villa Linda Wampú, San Isidro         Olancho   160         Ladinos
    desarrollo de las comunidades del sector No.2   Wampú, Villa Progreso Wampú,
    de la zona de Wampú Medio.                      Minas de Oro Payabila,
                                                     Payabila.
    Fincas demostrativas                            La Unión Capapán, Villa Linda, Las    Olancho    15     Ladinos Tawahka
                                                    Flores, Santa Cruz, El Jilguero,
                                                    Villanueva, Agua Caliente, Delicias
                                                    de Cuyamel, Montaña Verde, La
                                                    Esperanza
    Uso eficiente de la tierra                                                            Olancho    12     Ladinos Tawahka



                                                                - 39 -

                                                                              n.d.
    Plantas Medicinales                                                                            Olancho   16   Ladinos y Tawahka
                                                                              n.d.
    Manejo Productivo de cacao y especies menores                                                  Olancho   15   Ladinos y Tawahka
                                                                              n.d.
    Fortalecimiento de la pesca artesanal                     Los Cerritos, Miami, Las Tusas, El Atlántida   22        Ladinos
    cooperativista y disminución del impacto sobre Marion, Los Cocos, Tornabé y San
    la Laguna de los Micos.                                   Juan.
    Cobijando al Mundo desde el Parque Nacional               El Olvido, El Pital, La Ceiba      Atlántida   63        Ladinas
    Pico Bonito
    Proyecto de diversificación productiva y                  Boca Cerrada, Salado Barra, Barra  Atlántida   180       Ladinos
    reducción de la pobreza en comunidades rurales del Cuero y Thompson/Rosita
    de Cuero y Salado.
Ecoturismo en Cuero y Salado                                                                     Atlántida   35   Ladinos y Garífunas.

Diversificación productiva y reducción de la                 Hicaque                             Atlántida   70        Ladinos
pobreza en comunidades rurales de Punta Izopo
    Mairin Nani Pawanka Wal                                   Sikia Auya                         La          63        Miskitos
                                                                                                 Mosquitia
    Pawanka Raya                                              Walpiakiakira                      La          30        Miskitos
                                                                                                 Mosquitia
    Proyecto de Desarrollo y Conservación                    Ahuasbila                           La          280       Miskitos
    Comunitaria Ahuasbila                                                                        Mosquitia
    Proyecto de Conservación y Manejo Integral de Mocoron, Coop.Tenky Dawan                      La          300       Miskitos
    los bosques de Mocorón                                                                       Mosquitia
    Proyecto de Desarrollo y Conservación                    Suhi                                La          120       Miskitos
    Comunitaria Suhi                                                                             Mosquitia
    Grupo de mujeres organizadas de Mocorón                  Mocorón                             La          55        Miskitos
    MOMANASTA (elaboración de artesanías)                                                        Mosquitia
    Manejo de fauna silvestre (venados)*                      Rus Rus                            La          20   Miskitos y ladinos
                                                                                                 Mosquitia
    Manejo de cultivos productivos (marañón) y su Cauquira                                       La          80   Ladinos y Misquitos
    procesamiento artesanal.*                                                                    Mosquitia

    Nota: n.d. No datos disponibles.
    Fuente: Documentos de sub-proyectos y Florez (2005).
    * Estos subproyectos no se incluyen en el listado de Florez (2005)




                                                                         - 40 -

    Annex 10. Proposed transition strategy

    Plan de Seguimiento a los procesos desarrollados por PROBAP.


          PROCESOS / ACTIVIDADES                         Unidad      Unidad de     MES
                                                       Responsable     Medida      ES
1. Fondo de Áreas Protegidas.                         DAPVS                       Ag  Sep Oct Nov Dec
a. Coordinar con SERNA y participar activamente       GG/VS        Reuniones      X   X   X   X   X
en la ejecución del plan de acción presentado por
la consultoría.
    b. Participar en la reunión del CONAPH para la GG/DAPVS        Asamblea           X
    elección de la Asamblea General y del Consejo
    Asesor del FHAP.
    c. Participar en la socialización y promoción del GG/DAPVS     Reuniones              X   X   X
    FHAP.
    d. Presentar el FHAP a funcionarios de            DAPVS        Reuniones          X
    COHDEFOR
    e. Mantener un diálogo permanente con             GG/DAPVS     Correos,       X   X   X   X   X
    funcionarios del Banco Mundial y otros                         reuniones,
    cooperantes sobre el avance del proceso del                    informes
    FHAP.
2. Plan Estratégico del SINAPH.                      DAPVS                         Ag Sep Oct Nov Dec
a. Socializar y promover el Plan Estratégico del      DAPVS        Reuniones      X   X   X
SINAPH a lo interno de COHDEFOR
    b. . Promover la aprobación oficial del Plan      GG/ UPEG/    Resolución         X
    Estratégico del SINAPH por parte de               DAPVS        Gerencial
    COHDEFOR.
    c. Coordinar con SERNA la aprobación del          GG/ DAPVS    Resolución             X
    Plan Estratégico del SINAPH, por parte del
    CONAPH
    d. Socializar y promover el Plan Estratégico del GG / DAPVS /  Reuniones              X   X   X
    SINAPH a nivel nacional.                          CONAPH       regionales
    e. Promover a nivel de la cooperación             GG/ DAPVS/   Reunión                    X   X
    internacional el Plan Estratégico del SINAPH y CONAPH
    otras acciones iniciadas por PROBAP.
3. Regionalización del SINAPH.                       DAPVS                        Ag  Sep Oct Nov Dec
a. Socializar y promover la regionalización del       DAPVS        Reuniones,     X   X   X
SINAPH a lo interno de COHDEFOR.                                   Talleres
    b. Promover la aprobación oficial de la           GG/ DAPVS /  Resolución         X
    regionalización del SINAPH por parte de           UPEG         Gerencial
    COHDEFOR.
    c. Coordinar con SERNA la aprobación de la        GG/ DAPVS    Resolución             X
    regionalización del SINAPH y definir las áreas                 CONAPH
    prioritarias a apoyar.
    d. Socializar y promover la regionalización del   GG/ DAPVS/   Talleres,              X   X   X
    SINAPH a nivel nacional.                          UPEG         reuniones.
    e. Promover a nivel de la cooperación             GG / DAPVS   Reunión.                   X   X
    internacional la regionalización del SINAPH.
    d. Coordinar con SERNA la creación de áreas       GG/DAPVS     Plan de trabajo        X   X   X



                                                          - 41 -

   protegidas en la Mosquitia y otras áreas
   propuestas en el estudio de racionalización y
   definir un plan de trabajo para ello.
4. Consolidación De Organizaciones de base.        DAPVS / DSSF                   Ag Sep Oct Nov Dec
a. Establecer contacto con organizaciones de base  DAPVS/ DSSF Reuniones          X  X   X   X   X
y ONG relacionadas y conocer situación actual.
   b. Promover las organizaciones de base y su                   Reuniones               X   X   X
   plan estratégico.
   c. Establecer contacto con otros proyectos para GG/ DAPVS /   Reuniones               X   X   X
   el seguimiento de las organizaciones de base y  DSSF
   su plan de trabajo.
   d. Definir conjuntamente con las                DAPVS/ DSSF Plan de trabajo X     X   X
   organizaciones de base un plan de apoyo a las
   mismas.
   e. Mantener una base de datos de las            DSSF          Informe          X  X   X   X   X
   organizaciones de base.
   f. Gestionar la personería jurídica de las      Depto. Legal. Personería              X   X   X
   Organizaciones de Base que aun no lo tienen.                  Jurídica.
5. Programa de monitoreo biológico.                DAPVS                          Ag Sep Oct Nov Dec
a. Promover la creación de la Unidad de            GG/ DAPVS     Resolución       X  X
Monitoreo Biológico en el DAPVS y la aprobación                  Gerencial
de todos los manuales.
   b. Promover el Programa de Monitoreo            DAPVS         Reuniones        X  X   X   X
   Biológico a nivel interno.
   c. Coordinar con SERNA (DIBIO y SINIA) el       GG/ DAPVS     Reuniones        X  X
   establecimiento de la base de datos en la página
   web.
   d. Coordinar con la Red Hondureña de            GG/ DAPVS     Reuniones        X  X
   Desarrollo Sostenible el establecimiento de la
   base de datos en la página web.
   e. Definir un plan de capacitación para el tema DAPVS         Plan de             X   X
   de monitoreo biológico tanto a nivel central                  capacitación
   como a nivel regional con las ONG co
   manejadoras de áreas protegidas.
   f. Promover la base de datos de monitoreo       GG / DAPVS    Reuniones        X  X   X   X   X
   biológico a nivel nacional.
   g. Establecer y oficializar contactos con       DAPVS         Convenios        X  X   X   X   X
   Universidades e investigadores nacionales e
   internacionales para promover la investigación
   en las áreas protegidas.
   h. Administrar la base de datos.                DAPVS / DGIG Informes          X  X   X   X   X
6. Plan de negocios de Pico Bonito y Cuero y       DAPVS                          Ag Sep Oct Nov Dec
Salado.
a. Establecer contacto con la Plataforma de        DAPVS         Reuniones, giras X              X
Turismo compuesta por REHDES y la Cámara de                      de trabajo.
Turismo de Ceiba y consensuar plan de trabajo.
   b. Coordinar con IHT acciones tendientes a      DAPVS         Reuniones        X  X   X   X   X
   fortalecer la Plataforma de Turismo e                         Giras
   implementar el plan de trabajo sobre los centros
   de visitantes.
   c. Revisar los convenios de co manejo a fin de  DAPVS         Convenios        X  X



                                                       - 42 -

    incorporar lo relacionado con el equipamiento y
    la administración de los centros de visitantes.
    d. Promover la aprobación de los nuevos         GG/ DAPVS   Convenios       X  X
    convenios de co manejo.
    e. Promover y gestionar financiamiento ante la  GG / DAPVS  Reuniones       X  X   X   X   X
    cooperación internacional para el apoyo en la
    implementación del plan de negocios
    f. Establecer un plan de monitoreo para la      DAPVS       Plan de trabajo    X   X   X   X
    ejecución del Plan de Negocios de Pico Bonito y
    Cuero y Salado.
7. Reserva Transfronteriza Corazón.                 DAPVS                       Ag Sep Oct Nov Dec
a. Dar a conocer a nivel de COHDEFOR la             DAPVS       Reuniones       X  X
situación de la Reserva Patuca, Tawahka y Rus
Rus y discutir acciones para la zona.
    b. Dar a conocer a nivel interinstitucional la  GG/ DAPVS   Reuniones          X   X   X
    situación de la Reserva Patuca, Tawahka y Rus
    Rus a fin de coordinar acciones para la zona.
    c. Coordinar con SERNA acciones en el área de GG/ DAPVS     Reuniones y            X   X   X
    estudio.                                                    plan de trabajo
    d. Incorporarse en las reuniones de la          GG/ DAPVS   Plan de trabajo X  X   X   X   X
    preparación del Proyecto Corazón.




                                                        - 43 -

Annex 11. Map - Biodiveristy in Priority Areas - Land Use and Project Protected Areas
(IBRD 28851)

[INSERT MAP No.: IBRD 28851]




                                          - 44 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 28851

                                                      88°                                                               86°                                                                      84°
            B E L I Z E                                                                                                                                                                                    H O N D U R A S
                                                                                                                                                                           BIODIVERSITY IN PRIORITY AREAS PROJECT
                                                                                                             ISLAS DE
                                                                                                             LA BAHIA                                                             Land Use and Project Protected Areas
                                                               ATLANTIDA

16°                Gulf of Honduras
                                                                                                   CORDILLERA                                                                                              0       25        50      75         100 Kilometers                   16°
                                                                         Punta
                                                                  Punta                        NOMBRE DE DIOS
                                                                         Izopo     Cuero y
                                                                    Sal            Salado        Pico                                                                                                       0            25             50                    75 Miles
                                                                                                Bonito

   GUATEMALA                                                                                                                   C O L O N
                                                 CORTES             AT L A N T I D A
                                                                                                                    RioAguan                Sico
                                                                                                                                         Rio           Paulaya
                                                                                                                                                    Rio
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Caratasca                     C a r i b b e a n
                                                                                 Texiguat

                                                                                                            La
                                                   Ulua                                                                                                                   G R A C I A S A D I O S
                                S A N TA                                YORO                             Muralla
                                                Rio                                                                                                                  Warunta                                                                     S e a
                              B A R B A R A
                                                             Rio ulaco
                                                                    S                                                                                                                           Mocorón


         C O P A N                              Lake                                                                                                                                                               Kruta
                                              Yojoa                                                                  O L A N C H O
                                                                                              Rio                                                                                      Rus Rus

                                                          COMAYAGUA                              Guayape                                                          Tawahka



     OCOTEPEQUE                                                             FRANCISCO                                                                         Patuca
                                                                                                                             Rio                                                                      MOSQUITIA
                                      I N T I B U C A                        MORAZAN                                            Patuca                                   PATUCA
                  L E M P I R A                                                                                                                                         TAWAHKA
                                                                                                     RioJalán

                                                                         La Tigra                                                                                       LAND USE:
                                                        L A                                                                                        Coco
                                                                                                                                                Rio

14°                                                   P A Z        TEGUCIGALPA                                                                                           PINE, OAK FORESTS
                                                                                                   EL PARAISO                                                                                                                                                                    14°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       This map was produced by the
                                                                                                                                                                         BROADLEAF                                                     Map Design Unit of The World Bank.

    EL SALVADOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                        The boundaries, colors, denominations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       and any other information shown on
                                                                                                                                                                         MANGROVE                                                      this map do not imply, on the part of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       The World Bank Group, any judgment
                                                                                                                                                                         AGRICULTURE                                                   on the legal status of any territory, or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       any endorsement or acceptance of
                                                             VA L L E                                                                                                                                                                  such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                         PASTURE


                                                                             CHOLUTECA                                                                                   WETLANDS                                      90°          86°                82°                  78°

                                                                                                                                                                                                             18°                                                                 18°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            JAMAICA
                                                                                                                                                                        SELECTED PROTECTED AREAS            MEXICO          BELIZE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C a r i b b e a n
                                                                                                                                                                        PROJECT PROTECTED AREA GROUPS            GUATEMALA
                                                                                                                N I C A R A G U A                                                                                              HONDURAS                           S e a
                                                                                                                                                                                                              14°         EL                                                     14°

                                                                                                                                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL                              SALVADOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NICARAGUA

                                                                                                                                                                        RIVERS

      P A C I F I C   O C E A N                                                                                                                                         DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                 10°                          COSTA RICA                            10°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P A C I F I C
                                                                                                                                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                   O C E A N                             P A N A M A


                                                   88°                                                                 86°                                                                        84°                  90°          86°                82°                COLOMBIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AUGUST 1997

