Document of
THE WORLD BANK
Report No.: 26269
PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSEMENT REPORT
NIGER
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(Credit 2581-NIR)
PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2939-NIR)
PUBLIC FINANCE REFORM CREDIT
(Credit 3134-NIR)
PUBLIC FINANCE RECOVERY CREDIT
(Credit 3418-NIR)
July 1, 2003
Counrty Evaluation annd Regional Relation.s
Operations Evaluation Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.00 = CFAF 710 (2002)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAADIE               Centre Autonome d'Amortissement de la Dette Interieure de l'Etat
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CET                  Common Extemal Tariff
CNSS                 Caisse Nationale de Securite Sociale
COPRO-NIGER          Societe Nigerienne de Commercialisation
ERC                  Economic Recovery Credit
ESAF                 Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
HIPC                 Highly Indebted Poor Countries
HDR                  Human Development Report
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
I-PRSP              Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
NIGELEC              Societe Nigerienne d'Electricit6
ONPPC                Office National des Produits Pharmaceutiques et Chimiques
PAGEF                Projet d'Appui a la Gestion Economique et Financiere
PE                   Public Enterprise
PEAC                 Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit
PEIDP                Public Enterprise Institutional Development Project
PER                  Public Expenditure Review
PESAP                Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program
PFP                  Policy Framework Paper
PFRC                 Public Finance Reform Credit
PFRecC               Public Finance Recovery Credit
PIP                  Public Investment Program
PRGF                 Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PSAC                 Public Sector Adjustment Credit
PSD                  Private Sector Development
SAL                  Structural Adjustment Loan
SNE                  Societe Nationale des Eaux
SONIDEP              Societe Nigerienne des Produits Petroliers
SONITEL              Societe Nigerienne des Telecommunications
SDR                  Special Drawing Right
UEMOA                Union Economique et Monetaire Ouest Africaine
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program
VAT                  Value Added Tax
Director-General, Operations Evaluation                 Mr. Gregory K. Ingram
Acting Director, Operations Evaluation Department       Mr. Nils Fostvedt
Senior Manager, Country Evaluation and Regional Relations  Mr. R. Kyle Peters
Task Manager                                            Ms. Poonam Gupta
PPAR prepared by                                        Mr. Pierre de Raet



OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and Independence in evaluation.
About this Report
The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
purposes: first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is
producing the expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through
the dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lending operations. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are
innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical approaches selected for assessment support larger evaluation
studies.
A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.
About the OED Rating System
The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
Institutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory






Contents
Ratings and Responsibilities ..............................,.i
Preface.                                                                         iii
Summary                                      .v
1. Introduction .
2. Background                                    .2
Country Strategy                            .3
3. Objectives and Design                              .6
Relevance of Objectives .10
4. Implementation .11
5. Outcome and Assessment .17
Outcome .17
Institutional Development Impact .17
Sustainability .18
Bank Performance .                                                        19
Borrower Performance .20
6.     Main Findings and Program Impact .22
7. Lessons Learned .25
Text Tables
Table 2.1:  Key Economic Indicators, 1990-1993            .4
Table 6.1:  Key Macro-economic Indicators-Targets vs. Actuals, 1994-2001 . 23
Table 6.2:  Civil Service Wage Bill, 1993-2001 .24
Figure
Figure 1.1: Four Assessed Projects and Related Credits .I
Figure 4.1: Fiscal Profile (1990-2001) .11
Annexes
Annex A: Key Social Indicators .27
Annex B: Economic Recovery Credit .28
Annex C: Public Sector Adjustment Credit .31
Annex D: Public Finrance Reform Credit .35
Annex E: Public Finance Recovery Credit ................................,.,.,,,,,.,,,..44
Annex F:  Key Economic Indicators ................................ ,51
Annex G: Basic Data Sheets .52
Annex H: Comments from the Government .60
This report was prepared by Pierre de Raet (Consultant), with Poonam Gupta as Task
Manager. Betty Casely-Hayford and Agnes Santos provided administrative support.






Ratings and Responsibilities
Economic Recovery Credit
ES                     PPAR
Outcome                            Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory
Sustainability                    Uncertain               Highly Unlikely
Institutional Development Impact   Negligible             Negligible
Bank Performance                  Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance               n.a.                   Highly Unsatisfactory
Public Sector Adjustment Credit
ES                     PPAR
Outcome                           Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory
Sustainability                    Likely                 Unlikely
Institutional Development Impact  Modest                 Modest
Bank Performance                  Satisfactory           Satisfactory
Borrower Performance              Satisfactory           Satisfactory
Public Finance Reform Credit
ES                   PPAR
Outcome                                Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory
Sustainability                         Unlikely               Highly Unlikely
Institutional Development Impact       Modest                 Modest
Bank Performance                       Satisfactory           Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                   Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory
Public Finance Recovery Credit
ES                   PPAR
Outcome                                Satisfactory            Satisfactory
Sustainability                         Likely                  Likely
Institutional Development Impact       Modest                  Substantial
Bank Performance                       Satisfactory            Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                   Satisfactory            Satisfactory



Key Project Responsibilities
Project                  Staff                Appraisal             Completion
ERC                      Task Manager            Amadou Cisse          Amadou Cisse
Division Chief          Jean-Louis Sarbib     Charles P. Humphreys
Director/Country Director Katherine Marshall  Theodore 0. Ahlers
Public Sector Adj. Credit  Task Manager          Antonella Bassani     Antonella Bassani
Division Chief          Charles P. Humphreys  Charles P. Humphreys
Country Director        Theodore 0. Ahlers    Theodore 0. Ahlers
Public Finance Reform Cr.  Task Manager          Antonella Bassani     Jean-Luc Bernasconi
Division Chief          Charles P. Humphreys  Charles P. Humphreys
Country Director        Theodore 0. Ahlers    Antoinette M. Sayeh
Public Finance Recovery Cr. Task Manager         Jean-Luc Bernasconi   Jean-Luc Bernasconi
Division Chief          Charles P. Humphreys  Cadman Atta Mills
Country Director        M. Plessis-Fraissard  Antoinette M. Sayeh



Preface
This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on four lending
operations to the Republic of Niger in the 1990s, a period marked by considerable
political instability, the devaluation of the CFA franc, and attempts by the Government to
overcome the critical development and poverty challenges faced by the country.
The Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) (Credit 2581-NIR), in the amount of SDR
18.2 million, was approved on March 17, 1994, became effective on March 25, 1994, and
was closed on June 30, 1995, the original closing date. The one-tranche operation was
fully disbursed. The Credit was complemented by a Supplemental Credit, in the amount
of SDR 6.9 million, to the 1991 Public Works and Employment Credit (Credit 2209-
NIR), approved on November 10, 1994.
The Public Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC) (Credit 2939-NIR), in the amount
of SDR 21.6 million, was approved on March 20, 1997, became effective on March 21,
1997, and was closed on March 31, 1998, the original date. The Credit was a one-tranche
operation fully disbursed.
The Public Finance Reform Credit (PFRC) (Credit 3134-NIR), in the amount of
SDR 48.0 million, was approved on October 13, 1998, became effective on October 20,
1998, and was closed on June 30, 2000, the original date. The Credit was a three-tranche
operation, the first one of which, for SDR 18.0 million, was fully disbursed upon
effectiveness, while the second and third tranches, for SDR 15.0 million each, were
cancelled.
The Public Finance Recovery Credit (PFRecC) (Credit 3418-NIR), in the amount
of SDR 26.5 million, was approved on September 14, 2000, and became effective on
October 13, 2000. The Credit was of one tranche. A Supplemental Credit, in the amount
of SDR 9.4 million, was approved on December 22, 2000. The Credit was closed on
June 30, 2001, the original date. Both the original and the supplemental credits were
fully disbursed.
This PPAR is based on all relevant Bank and Fund documents. A mission visited
Niger in January 2003 to discuss performance with officials who implemented the
projects, representatives of civil society, and members of the Bank resident mission. By
letters of June 6, 2003 and June 20, 2003, the Government requested to make some
corrections, which were incorporated. These letters, along with an unofficial translation,
are in Annex H.






v
Summary
1.    The four operations must be seen against the background of unsuccessful
adjustment during the 1980s and a painful transition to democracy in the early 1990s.
Even after achieving a multi-party system in 1993, the ensuing years were marked by
political instability, social unrest, rebellions in the northern and eastern parts of the
country, and two coups d 'Etat, the first one in January 1996 by General Bare, and the
second one in April 1999, in which the latter, President since mid-1996, was assassinated.
2.    In response to the devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994 and the sharp fall
in oil prices between 1992 and 1994, the March 1994 Economic Recovery Credit (ERC)
was a one-tranche operation whose objectives were to support the post-devaluation
reform program and help mitigate the adverse social impact of the change in parity in the
short-term. After the return of relative stability under a military regime in 1996, the
March 1997 Public Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC) was designed to support the public
finance component of the medium-term program agreed with the Fund, with focus on the
long-standing and interlinked public finance and public enterprises (PE) problems.
3.    Based on progress achieved under the PSAC, the October 1998 Public Finance
Reform Credit (PFRC) aimed at restoring the credibility in the Government's ability to
manage public finance in a responsible way by focusing on the reduction of salary arrears
to civil servants and other arrears to Government suppliers which had dramatically
increased over the preceding two years. After the coup of April 1999, the fiscal situation
deteriorated so much that the conditions for release of the second and third tranches could
not be met and the latter were cancelled. Only after a return to power of a civilian
Government in early 2000, was it possible to prepare a new medium term program under
the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility. The September 2000 Public Finance
Recovery Credit (PFRecC) aimed at resuming the agenda left incomplete under the PFRC
and at compensating for the fall in revenue following the introduction of the common
external tariff of the Union Economique et Monetaire Ouest Africaine (UEMOA) in
January 2000. By end 2000, an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and the
decision point under the Highly Indebted Poor Countries initiative were approved.
4.    The implementation of the first three projects was adversely affected by the civil
unrest and political instability that prevailed throughout the 1990s, by resistance to
reforms, and, to a lesser extent, by droughts. Virtually all measures were taken with delay
or not at all. Progress was achieved in tax administration and collection, but efforts at
widening the tax base produced meager results. As a result, the revenue to GDP ratio
stayed below 10 percent, severely constraining fiscal management. The wage bill was
contained, but at the expense of eroding the human resource base of the administration.
Budget allocations to the social sectors were raised, but not sufficiently to have a major
impact. The settlement of large domestic arrears proved an elusive goal and is still being
addressed today. Although a privatization law was enacted, PE reforms met with strong
resistance and were very slow. Progress under the fourth operation, the PFRecC, was
notably different: the new civilian Government was strongly committed to the program
while project design was well tailored to the Government's priorities and focused on
remedying past loopholes. Only under this last project were the foundations laid for a
medium-term improvement in public resource management.



vi
5.    ERC: the assessment confirms the ES rating of unsatisfactory for outcome and of
negligible for institutional development impact. It downgrades the sustainability rating
from uncertain to highly unlikely because of lack of ownership at the political and
administrative levels and very weak resilience to exogenous factors. Bank performance
is downgraded from satisfactory to unsatisfactory because the Bank misjudged the depth
of the political crisis, wrongly interpreted the Government's declaration for reforms as
true commitment, and overlooked the lack of commitment within the administration. The
Borrower performance is rated highly unsatisfactory (it was not rated in the ES).
6.    PSAC: the outcome is downgraded from satisfactory to moderately satisfactory
because the all-important objective of raising revenue was not attained. However,
expenditures were contained and the wage bill was on target. The privatization program
was only partly implemented due to strong resistance and to legal and administrative
obstacles that had been underestimated or neglected by the Bank and the Government at
the time of preparation/appraisal. The sustainability is downgraded from likely to
unlikely because there was not enough time before the April 1999 coup to fully
internalize improvements in a sustainable manner. The other ratings are confirmed:
modest institutional development impact, and satisfactory Bank and Borrower
performance.
7.    PFRC: the ES ratings of unsatisfactory outcome, modest institutional
development impact, satisfactory Bank performance, and unsatisfactory Borrower
performance are confirmed. Sustainability is downgraded from unlikely to highly
unlikely on the basis that of the objectives that were achieved, in the case of the civil
service reform, some positive measures taken under the PSAC were reversed.
8.    PFRecC: all original ratings of satisfactory outcome, likely sustainability, and
satisfactory performance for both the Bank and Borrower are confirmed. The rating for
institutional development impact is upgraded from modest to substantial because the
revenue agencies were strengthened with better staff and the flow of information
improved, budgetary procedures were streamlined and strengthened, legal requirements
applicable to fiscal reporting and external auditing were reinstated after a 20-year
interruption, and an appropriate framework for the settlement of domestic arrears was
established.
9.    The main lessons are:
(i) except for the obvious sine qua non condition of political stability,
ownership by the Government is not sufficient to ensure success; support
within the administration and better communication between the
Government and civil society are necessary;
(ii) in countries with a large informal sector and a low tax base, the Bank and
the Fund should explore ways to adapt taxation to the particularities of the
country, for instance through modest taxation of the agricultural sector (as
was the case in Niger prior to the discovery of uranium);
(iii) addressing the problem of very weak institutional capacity cannot be limited
to a piecemeal approach via different operations but requires a full-fledged
medium-term strategy agreed with the authorities, targeted at least at the



vii
central ministries and combined with a monitoring and evaluation system in
the country;
(iv) in countries endowed with very limited resources, devaluation
unaccompanied by longer-term investment and institutional support of the
few existing productive sectors is unlikely to generate a lasting supply
response, even if the macro policies are sound;
(v) adjustment operations must include a domestic Monitoring and Evaluation
mechanism to enable senior officials to assess progress and initiate
corrective actions; and
(vi) single tranche operations justified by the contention that future lending will
depend on continued performance are not a guarantee of good performance.
Gregory K. Ingram
Director-General
Operations Evaluation






1.     Introduction
1.1   The four operations selected for assessment provide an opportunity to review
Niger's adjustment efforts in the 1990s and determine whether after the 1994 devaluation
of the CFA franc progress was made in launching the basis for sustainable long-tern
growth and reducing poverty.
1.2    Since the mid-1980s, Niger has struggled to develop policies and mechanisms to:
(i) adjust to the difficulties anrsing from the collapse of the uranium market in the early
1980s and diversify the sources of growth; (ii) improve the management of public
resources; (iii) liberalize economic activity and develop the private sector; and
(iv) strengthen the basis for long-term growth.
1.3   The Bank has financed 8 operations to help address these issues: four in the
1980s, two adjustment operations, two technical assistance projects,' and four in the
1990s. The latter are reviewed here: the Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) of 1994, the
Public Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC) of 1997, the Public Finance Reform Credit
(PFRC) of 1998, and the Public Finance Recovery Credit (PFRecC) of 2000. The time
sequence of these 8 operations is in Figure 1.1.
Figure 1.1: Four Assessed Projects and Related Credits
Projects     SDR   84  85  86  87   88  89  90  91  92   93  94  95   96  97  98   99  00  01
PAGEP (TA)    11.0
SAL I*        18.3
PESAP**       46.0
PEIDP (TA)     4.3
ERC***        18.2
PSAC          21.6
PFRC          48.0 1
PFRecC****    26.5                                                                    ..1.
In bold: Projects included in this assessment
* Accompanied by a SRD 36.0 million Credit under the Special Facility for Africa
** Accompanied by a SDR 15.4 million Credit under the Special Facility for Africa
*** Complemented by a Supplemental Credit of SDR 6.9 million to the Public Works and Employment Project
**** Supplemented by a Credit of SDR 9.4 million
The SAL-I - Credit 1660-NIR in 1986, the Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program - PESAP -
Credit 1833-NIR in 1987, the Projet d'Appui a la Gestion Economique et Financiere - PAGEF - Credit
1493-NIR in 1984, and the Public Enterprise Institutional Development Project - PEIDP - Credit 1838NIR
in 1987. The PEIDP was closed only in 1995.



2
2.    Background
2.1   Niger faces forrnidable obstacles to long-term development. It is landlocked and
remote from the sea, and has a meager resource base, recurrent droughts, environmental
degradation, heavy dependence on a single export, uranium, and a very weak human
resource base. The population, growing at 3.4 percent p.a., is estimated at about
11.5 million, with 79 percent in rural areas and about 85 percent concentrated in a narrow
corridor of 100-150 kmn along the border with Nigeria. The informal sector is very large,
at some 70 percent of GDP, and highly integrated with the economy of northern Nigeria.
Niger is one of the least advanced countries in terms of poverty and human development:
per capita GNP stood at about US$ 180 in 2001 (WB Atlas method), and the country
ranked 161 out of 162 listed in the UNDP's 2001 Human Development Index. Based on
the m6st recent data (1992-93), the incidence of poverty is at 63 percent and of extreme
poverty at 34 percent.2 Life expectancy is 46 years, adult illiteracy is 84 percent, gross
primary school enrollment is 42 percent (33 percent for girls), infant mortality is
11 percent, under-five mortality 25 percent, and child malnutrition 40 percent.
HIV/AIDS prevalence is relatively low at 0.8 percent. Niger's key social indicators are in
Annex A. Institutional development impact is very low.
2.2   Since independence in 1960 the country's political landscape has been marked by
two distinct periods: 1974 to 1991, and 1991-onwards. From 1974 to 1991, Niger was
dominated by two military regimes. The first, from 1974 to 1987, was under the
authoritarian leadership of General Kountche while the second, from 1987 to 1991 was
led by General Ali Saibou who established a single-party state. Since 1991, it has known
a long period of instability, during which attempts to establish a multi-party democracy
have been disrupted by political turmoil, social tensions, and two coups d'Etat. The
operations under review fall within this latter period.
2.3   The discovery of uranium in the late 1960s led to a boom over the second half of
the 1970s and early 1980s, with two major consequences. First, the boom led to the
emergence of a strong and rapidly growing public sector and introduced serious
distortions in the structure of the economy. Second, Niger, traditionally vulnerable to
erratic rainfall, became also subject to the vagaries of the intemational uranium market.
The plunge of uranium prices in the early 1980s revealed not only the structural
weaknesses of the economy but also the boom-induced distortions and the mounting debt
obligations.
2.4   In 1983, the Govenmment sought the assistance of the IMF and the Bank to
formulate a reform program. The program focused on improving public resource
management and launching structural reforms aimed at diversifying the economy. The
difficult political and social context and the complexity of the reform program led to
disappointing results. The two adjustment operations financed by the Bank were rated
unsatisfactory by OED with sustainability highly unlikely.3 After the death of General
Kountche in 1987, a weaker military regime was not able to contain the calls for a multi-
2 Based on the household survey of 1992-93. Work on a new household survey began in 2002, drawing on
the results of the 2001 population census, but was interrupted as of January 2003 for lack of financing.
3OED Perfornance Audit Report No. 12104 of June 29, 1993.



3
party system. Economic management became weaker and political commitment to
reforms diminished, while the CFA franc became increasingly overvalued vis-A-vis the
Nigerian currency. By 1991, the IMF-supported program derailed as political instability
and social turmoil intensified. A National Conference, held in late 1991, appointed a
transitional Government that made vain attempts at stabilization. The Conference led to
the adoption of Niger's first multi-party constitution in December 1992, and by March
1993, a newly elected civilian Government took office, based on a fragile coalition of
several parties.
2.5   The results of the first adjustment period (1983-93) were disappointing. Real
GDP average was -0.6 percent over the period. The fundamental structural issues
remained. A thin revenue base due to a very large informal sector, strong wage bill
pressure, and an inefficient public enterprise sector led to persistent budgetary crises. In
Niger's context, raising revenue proved to be a much greater challenge than reducing
expenditure. Data for Government revenues, including grants, show that Niger's
revenues are much lower than for Africa as a whole and for selected Francophone
countries of the sub-region, standing at 12.8 percent of GDP on average for 1991-93,
against 24.7 for Africa, 17.1 for Guinea, 19.2 for C6te d'Ivoire, 19.5 for Senegal, 21.0 for
Mali, and 25.0 for Mauritania.
2.6   In August 1993, the authorities attempted to adopt some internal adjustment
measures, such as a decrease of 13 percent in public sector wages, and protection
measures against fraudulent imports. Despite this, the current fiscal deficit rose from
3.1 percent of GDP in 1991 to 3.9 in 1992 and 5.2 percent in 1993, and the overall fiscal
deficit, excluding grants, stood at 9.4 percent of GDP by end 1993. Revenue fell to a
level such that 87.6 percent were absorbed by the wage bill, despite the cut in salaries. In
addition, the latter went up to four months in arrears in 1993, while further arrears
accumulated on account of debts owed by the Government to public utilities. In addition,
the overvaluation of the CFA franc made it increasingly difficult for the formal sector,
largely dominated by public enterprises, to compete and the agricultural sector to
diversify. Table 2.1 presents key economic data for the early 1990s.
Country Strategy
2.7   The 1992 CAS (March 1992) acknowledged that circumstances did not allow for
substantial reforms until political stability retumed. Although the thrust of the strategy in
the 1980s was kept, flexibility became the key operational feature of the Bank's agenda,
which was to respond quickly to the changing political and social situation, while
maintaining essential activities and keeping the dialogue open. The CAS proposed a
flexible operational program limiting lending for the time to a "core program" of
investment operations. Shifting to an "expanded core program" or a "full program" was
to be triggered by progress towards a viable macro-economic framework and agreement
on a Policy Framework Paper (PFP), respectively. Also, a lower lending profile was to
allow for deepening the analytical work, including the preparation of a Poverty
Assessment, thus laying the foundations for adjustment lending at a later stage when the
situation would allow.



4
Table 2.1: Key Economic Indicators, 1990-1993
(in percentage of GDP, unless otherwise indicated)
1990    1991    1992   1993
Real GDP (% increase)                           -1.3    2.5    -6.5     1.4
CPI - African (% increase)                      -2.0   -1.9    -2.9    -0.9
Terms of trade (% change)                       -9.8   -1.8    -8.4    -1.3
Total Revenue                                   10.3    8.5     8.2     7.3
Total exp. + net lending                        22.7    16.9   16.8    16.8
Current exp.                                    13.3    11.1   12.6    12.8
Primary budget bal. (comit.)                   -10.1    -6.5   -6.9    -7.7
Current budget bal. (comit)                     -3.5   -3.1    -3.9    -5.2
Overall bal. Excl. grants                      -12.4   -8.4    -8.6    -9.4
Wage bill/total revenue                         53.0    69.6   76.3    87.6
Exports fob                                     12.2    12.2   11.3    11.3
Imports cif                                     21.9    18.3   14.4    14.8
Current act. Def. (excl. off. Transfers)       -11.8   -7.4    -6.7    -7.7
Debt outstanding                                63.9    64.6   69.6    57.3
Debt service                                    3.8     3.7     3.9     4.2
Debt service/XGNS                               21.3    26.6   27.4    26.8
Source: IMF
2.8   In late 1993, discussions between France and the CFA countries about the
devaluation of the CFA franc intensified, as the fixed rate of CFA francs 50 for FF 1.0
was to be changed to CFA francs 100 (presently, the CFA franc is fixed to the Euro).
The Government of Niger had some hesitation about the devaluation on economic
grounds as Niger did not have important agricultural sub-sectors prone to a strong supply
response as some of its neighbors had, e.g., CMte d'Ivoire with cocoa. When the
countries of the monetary union decided in favor of a change in parity, the Government
prepared a set of reforms that could form the basis of a new PFP, together with a program
aimed at protecting vulnerable groups from increased import prices in the months
following the change in parity.
2.9   The 1994 CAS argued for adding supporting actions to facilitate a supply
response. It proposed to revert to a "full program" of adjustment and investment
operations. However, it was recognized that, if the medium-term program, still under
preparation at the time, were to go off-track, the Bank would revert to a "core program."
Therefore, the implementation of the lending program was to determine the level of IDA
commitments, especially in the light of a history of poor portfolio performance.
2.10  This medium-term vision was quickly overshadowed by reality. Without true
ownership of the program at the political and administrative levels, and with persistent
political and social turmoil, the efforts at stabilization were short-lived, and, by mid-1994
(hardly two months after the CAS discussion), the Stand-By and the Bank program had
derailed completely, prompting the Bank to return to a "core program."



5
2.11  Continued instability persisted through the end of 1995, and led to a coup by
General Bare Mainassara in January 1996. The latter declared his commitment to the
reform process and established a strict timetable for a return to democracy by year-end
(which indeed took place). The situation stabilized after the coup, and, in June, a new
Policy Framework Paper (PFP) was agreed, with a three-year (1996-98) arrangement
under the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) focusing on regaining control
over public finance and addressing impediments to growth and poverty reduction, the two
key objectives of all IMF programs since the 1980s.
2.12  The 1997 CAS (October 1997) provided the opportunity to undertake a frank
reassessment of Niger's bleak situation. It also reflected the findings of the Poverty
Assessment Report, which had highlighted the severity of Niger's poverty, including the
critical water shortage. Both factors pleaded for redirecting the strategy toward a longer-
term focus on poverty. The CAS acknowledged, however, that this challenge could be
overcome only in the long run by developing human capital and identifying new sources
of growth, notably by economic integration with Nigeria and the UEMOA coastal
countries. In support of this new approach, and in the face of persistent fragile public
finances, the CAS stressed that public resource management needed continued attention
as a pre-requisite to deeper reforms. Another factor conditioned the focus of Bank,
operations since 1998. By 1997, the problem of domestic and external arrears had
become particularly acute as a result of an increasingly tight treasury situation
exacerbated by the suspension of a substantial portion of external aid in response to
political crises.
2.13  After the April 1999 coup, in which President Bard was assassinated, political and
social instability led to a rapid deterioration in the fiscal situation with salaries unpaid and
some reform measures reversed by the transitional Government. The dire fiscal situation
was exacerbated by two factors: (i) the almost total withdrawal of extemal assistance (by
end 1999, cumulative civil service salary arrears reached 13 months); and (ii) the fall in
revenues following the introduction on January 1, 2000 of a common external tariff
(CET) by the UEMOA countries, which had penalized Niger more severely than other
countries because of its large informal trade with Nigeria.
2.14 It was not until the return of a democratic civilian Government in early 2000, that
better political and social cohesion could take hold and measures to redress the situation
taken. The Government set four priorities for 2000, all geared to improving the balance
between revenue and expenditure: (i) paying civil service salaries on time; (ii) servicing
the external debt to prompt a resumption of external assistance; (iii) formulating its
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) to obtain the support of the Fund and the Bank;
and (iv) reaching the decision point under the Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC)
initiative. An Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) was prepared and
conditions for achieving the decision point under HIPC were met and approved by the
Board in December 2000.
4 Over the 30-year period since independence, real GDP had increased on average by 0.3 percent per year
while population had doubled, growing at 3.3 percent p.a. Over that period, GDP had increased only twice
for more than two years consecutively.



6
3.    Objectives and Design
3.1   The Economic Recovery Credit (ERC - March 1994). The overall objective of the
ERC was to support the post-devaluation reforn program of the Government, and
specifically:
* support the measures aiming at minimizing the negative social impact of the
devaluation in the short-term;
* provide the necessary financial assistance during the transition period in which
follow-up operations were being prepared; and
* support the policy dialogue between the Government and IDA.
3.2   As those approved for all CFA countries at the time, the ERC was meant to be a
short-term shot in the arm and not a vehicle to address broader issues. It was prepared
quickly and its design was very much influenced by the special circumstances
surrounding the devaluation, including the general euphoria of the time. The Credit was
subject to approval of a Stand-by (approved on March 4, 1994), that was expected to be
replaced by an ESAF as soon as a medium-term program could be agreed. It was a single
tranche operation based on actions taken prior to Board presentation and without
conditions of effectiveness. The actions taken prior to Board were: (i) realignment of the
exchange rate; (ii) tax measures to increase revenue; (iii) freezing of petroleum, water
and electricity prices and freeing up of agricultural prices; (iv) customs tariff measures;
(v) increase in the Central Bank discount rate from 10.5 to 14.5 percent; and (vi) a
supplementary allocation of CFAF 10 billion in the revised 1994 budget for social safety
net measures.
3.3   Since there was only one tranche disbursed on effectiveness, there were no further
conditions, except the general provision that further lending by the Bank would be based
on a judgment made on progress achieved on a wide agenda of measures, all to be taken
by end-1994. These covered broadly the following: (i) several revenue mobilization
measures focusing on tax simplification and administration and unification of the VAT
rate at 17 percent; (ii) control of the wage bill and of scholarships, redirection of
expenditure in favor of materials and supplies; (iii) elimination of all external arrears,
substantial reduction in internal arrears, and inventory of all domestic arrears and their
formal regularization; (iv) formulation of a Public Investment Program (PIP); (v) raising
the discount rate from 10.5 percent to 14.5 percent; (vi) introduction of a comprehensive
tariff reform, including reduction in some tariffs; (vii) reforms in public enterprises (PE);
(viii) adoption of measures to promote Private Sector Development (PSD); and (ix)
accompanying social measures to protect the vulnerable groups. In the optimistic mood
of the moment, reform measures were added to the program with seemingly little
consideration for the Government's ownership of the program and/or its capacity to carry
it out in a timely manner, all the more so since preparation had been minimal. Similarly,
in the prevailing context, the risks were considered as moderate. Annex B lists the
actions taken prior to Board presentation and the matrix of reform areas that would be
monitored by the Bank.
3.4   The Credit was complemented in November 1994 by a Supplemental Credit of
SDR 6.9 million to the 1991 Public Works and Employment Credit project on the ground



7
that the devaluation resulted in a substantial short-term increase in urban poverty
expected to persist until the supply response to the devaluation materialized.'
3.5    The Public Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC - March 1997). The Bank focused
on the long-standing and interlinked public finance and PE problems. As part of the
ESAF program, the Government had decided to renew efforts at restructuring the PE
sector and, in November 1996, had created a Privatization Agency.6 Thus, the Bank
decided to support an initial phase of PE privatization and restructuring.' The objective
of the Credit was to help sustain the Government's stabilization and public sector
adjustment effort, which aimed at restoring macroeconomic balance and confidence in
the economy and at improving the management of public resources. The specific
objectives were:
*   revenue enhancement through: (i) simplification of the tax system;
(ii) strengthening of tax administration; and (iii) widening of the tax base;
*   expenditure restructuring by reducing the share of the wage bill, subsidies and
transfers in current expenditure in favor of primary education, basic health care
and road maintenance;
*   reducing arrears; and
*   implementation of the privatization program.
3.6    Despite a return to relative stability under the Bare Government, the design of the
PSAC was very much conditioned by the experience of the past turbulent years. The
President's report acknowledged that a return to a "full program" as advocated by the
1994 CAS was no longer appropriate for three reasons: (i) the uncertainties of the
political situation; (ii) Niger's poor implementation track record; and (iii) the need to re-
examine the medium-term priorities in light of a more realistic assessment of Niger's
growth prospects. As a result, instead of a multi-tranche second SAC, as envisaged under
the 1994 CAS, a smaller one-tranche operation was proposed for two reasons: (i) to
support the authorities' commitment to the program as demonstrated by the adoption of
measures prior to Board presentation; and (ii) to decrease, to the extent possible, the risk
of policy reversal. Emphasis was again on actions taken prior to Board presentation and
there was no condition of effectiveness.
3.7    Actions taken prior to Board related to: (i) revenue mobilization measures
adopted between September 1996 and February 1997; (ii) a 1997 budget law with larger
allocations to the social sectors and the maintenance of infrastructure; and (iii) initial
5 The Region submitted a package of five supplemental credits for Sahelian countries as the last in a series
of special operations in response to the CFA devaluation. Several EDs expressed strong reservations to
these operations on the basis of substance (response time; equality in client orientation; resource
mobilization efforts) and procedure (operational guidelines on supplemental credits). In the case of Niger,
the criticism was particularly severe because of a lack of medium and longer-term planning capacity, the
poor perfornance in carrying the PFP program, and the absence of a macro-economic framework.
6 The PE reforrn, initiated with the PESAP in 1987, had largely failed. There had been no substantial
improvement in the financial position of PEs and no or little development of the private sector. In fact,
reform efforts had been abandoned altogether in the late 1980s and sector performance had further
deteriorated in the early 1990s.
7A second and more in-depth phase of restructuring was to be supported by a PE stand-alone operation (the
Privatization and Regulatory Reform Technical Assistance Project of August 1998 - still ongoing).



8
structural reformns of the civil service and the PE sector, including the adoption of a new
privatization law and the decision to privatize 12 key PEs. As in the case of the ERC, the
conditionality was limited to the provision that further lending by the Bank would be
based on a judgment made on progress achieved on a series of measures within specific
reform areas to be taken in 1997 and 1998. These covered: (i) revenue enhancement
concentrating on simplification of the tax system, tax administration, and widening of the
tax base; (ii) expenditure restructuring; and (iii) implementation of the PE privatization
program. The detailed actions taken prior to Board presentation and the areas targeted for
reform are listed in Annex C.
3.8   The Bank and the Government agreed to set up an Inter-ministerial Committee
chaired by the Prime Minister to monitor and evaluate progress under the various
components of the program. The committee was to be assisted by three technical groups
(public finances; PE privatization and restructuring; civil service reform), that were to be
responsible for implementing the program. The operation was considered of high risk in
the light of the past troubled years (instability; shortfall in external assistance for
1997-98; and poor implementation capacity).
3.9   The Public Finance Reforn Credit (PFRC - October 1998). The objective of the
Credit was to help sustain the implementation of the economic reform program in
1998-99. The specific objectives were to:
* restore credibility in the Government's ability to manage public finance in a
responsible way by ensuring budgetary orthodoxy and the orderly clearing of
domestic arrears;
* enhance domestic revenue mobilization by supporting measures to consolidate
and reinforce the tax reform efforts implemented in 1996-97 (first phase of the
program); and
* launch a medium-term effort to improve the efficiency and equity of public
spending.
3.10  The design of the PFRC was dictated by internal considerations within the Bank
and by the determination of the Bare Government shown in implementing the program.
For internal efficiency reasons and to build a longer-term Government's commitment to
reform, the Bank chose to have a single operation with three-tranches for US $64 million.
Again, there were no conditions of effectiveness or of release of the first tranche as the
Government had implemented a series of measures prior to Board presentation. These
related to four areas: (i) budgetary orthodoxy covering budget and payment procedures,
audit, and completion of a PER; (ii) creation of an ad hoc Commission for the
verification, validation and settlement of domestic arrears; (iii) revenue mobilization
covering tax administration, tax exemptions, and strengthening of tax offices; and
(iv) civil service reforrn.
3.11  Independently of the conditions for second and third tranche release (see below),
the reform areas for the remaining of 1998 and for 1999 were: (i) improvement in
financial and accounting orthodoxy; (ii) settlement of domestic arrears; (iii) strengthening
of revenue mobilization with emphasis on widening the tax base; (iv) control and
restructuring of expenditure, including control of the wage bill and reallocation of



9
resources to the priority sectors; and (v) continued PE reform. Annex D provides a
detailed list of the actions taken prior to Board and of the measures to be taken under
different reform areas during project execution.
3.12  Release of the second and third tranches was subject to continuing satisfactory
performance on the macro-economic front and implementation of the program. In
addition, the second tranche of US$ 20.0 million was contingent upon: (i) presentation to
Parliament of a draft 1999 budget consistent with the program and reflecting the
recommendations and findings of the PER; (ii) settlement of domestic arrears in a net
amount of at least US$ 20 million equivalent according to the priorities agreed upon in
the settlement plan; and (iii) completion of the verification and validation of all intemal
arrears not yet verified and validated, and presentation to the Bank of a settlement plan
satisfactory to the Bank. The third tranche of US$ 20.0 million was contingent upon:
(i) presentation to Parliament of the expenditure audit covering the execution of the
budgets for each fiscal year from 1991 through 1997; and (ii) settlement of a second net
amount of domestic arrears of at least US$ 20.0 million equivalent according to the
priorities agreed upon in the domestic arrears payment plan. In addition, the Bank and
the Government agreed on a set of key performance indicators relating to the most
important conditions (Annex D). Despite the relative stability under the Bare
Government, the operation was also rated as presenting high risks (renewed political and
social instability; weak implementation capacity).
3.13  The Public Finance Recovery Credit (PFRecC September 2000). On the basis of
the commitment demonstrated by a new civilian Government and the IMF's PRGF
program, the Credit's main objectives were to help sustain the stabilization and fiscal
management component of the program and to compensate for the tariff revenue shortfall
caused by the reduction in tariffs in the context of the implementation of the trade
liberalization agenda of the UEMOA. Specifically, the objectives were to be achieved by
focusing on the following seven policy areas:
* increasing tax revenue;
* improving budget preparation and expenditure programming;
* improving expenditure management (budget execution);
* strengthening fiscal reporting and expenditure evaluation mechanisms;
* establishing effective budget audits;
* reviving the domestic arrears settlement process; and
*  accelerating structural reforms with direct fiscal impact, i.e., civil service reform
and privatization.
3.14  Again, the Credit was a single tranche operation without conditions of
effectiveness and based on actions taken prior to Board presentation falling under the
following broad categories: (i) the resumption of regular and timely payment of civil
service salaries to restore credibility and forestall social unrest; (ii) the revision of the
2000 budget law, including expenditure restructuring in favor of the social sectors;
(iii) the implementation of the new UEMOA tariff structure (effective on January 1,
2000); (iv) the introduction of a new tax regime, including an increase in the VAT rate
from 18 to 19 percent; (v) the improvement in various budgetary procedures and controls;



10
and (vi) structural reforms in the civil service and in the PE sector. In addition, given the
failure and ineffectiveness of the ad hoc Commission, which had been set up prior to the
PFRC to settle the domestic arrears, the Government decided to remove the verification
and settlement process of arrears from political interference, and created an autonomous
center under the chairmanship of the Director of Cabinet of the President (the Centre
Autonome d'Amortissement de la Dette Interieure de l'Etat - CAADIE), which took over
the responsibilities of the defunct ad hoc Commission.
3.15  There was no other conditionality than the provision that further Bank lending
would be conditional to a satisfactory judgment on the progress achieved in the seven
reform areas mentioned above. Annex E provides a detailed list of the actions taken prior
to Board as well as those under the seven reform areas for implementation in 2000-01.
3.16  The PFRecC was, in several respects, the continuation of the PFRC and the two
operations must be seen in conjunction. It had ostensibly a limited purpose: an "urgent"
recovery in fiscal management aimed at laying the foundation for resuming a wider
agenda,8 as well as rebuilding confidence in the donor community, whose resumption of
assistance was critical. As in the case of the PSAC and the PFRC, and notwithstanding
the commitmnent of the new civilian Government, the operation was considered of high
risk (political and social instability; incapacity to mobilize sufficient external resources to
resolve the financial crisis of 2000; the realization of a low-case macro-economic
scenario; and weak implementation capacity). The PFRecC openly recognized the
necessity to close the 2000 financing gap in view of the hesitancy of donors to resume
their assistance. In this line, and with the situation exacerbated by the increase in oil
prices in 2000, the Board approved in December of that year, a Supplemental Credit of
SDR 9.4 million to compensate Niger for the additional fiscal burden caused by this
increase.9 This Credit was also disbursed upon effectiveness without conditions.
Relevance of Objectives
3.17  The objectives of the four operations were at the time and remain highly relevant
to the development priorities of Niger and to the Bank's past and current country
assistance strategy. However, none of the four operations directly addressed the need for
better and sustained communication on the reform agenda between the Government and
other stakeholders, including members of the National assembly, key civil servants,
unions, and student organizations.
8 The PFRecC was followed by a Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit (PEAC) in October 2001.
9 The Bank extended a Supplemental Credit to several African countries for that purpose.



4.     Implementation
4.1    The projects focused on macro-economic stabilization and on controlling the
persistent budgetary crises. Six major themes were covered: (i) revenue mobilization,
(ii) civil service reform and the wage bill, (iii) expenditure restructuring, (iv) budgetary
orthodoxy, (v) arrears, and (vi) PE reform and privatization. There was one subsidiary
theme: (vii) the mitigation of the negative social impact of the 1994 devaluation on
vulnerable groups under the ERC. Annex F presents key economic indicators for the
period 1990-2001 and Figure 4.1 illustrates the fiscal profile over the decade.
Figure 4.1: Fiscal Profile (1990-2001)
--- Total revenue  Current expenditure  + Overall bat Excl. grants (corrit.)
15
1 0
0
0
-5
-10
-15
90  91 92 93 94    95 96 97 98 99 00 01
15
10
o 0O
C, -5
90  91  92  93 94  95  96  97 98  99 00   01
Source. IMF
4.2    The Economic Recovery Credit. Implementation was limited and fragmented.
The lack of ownership and the derailment of the program in mid-1994 prevented the
adoption of many of the targeted measures or delayed them considerably beyond the end
of 1994. The GDP growth target of 3.9 percent for 1994 was slightly exceeded due to a
good rainy season, but the 4.2 percent forecast for 1995 and 1996 was not reached.
Inflation was contained within the forecast as a result of the prudent policy of the central
monetary authority of the UEMOA. The current account target was achieved in 1994 due



12
to a good performance of agricultural exports following the change in parity and reduced
import of capital goods.
4.3   The overall fiscal deficit worsened, reaching 12.5 percent of GDP against a target
of 9 percent for 1994. Most of the revenue mobilization measures were either not taken
or delayed beyond the end of 1994. The revenue/GDP ratio fell to 6 percent in 1994, the
lowest level ever. Stabilizing the level of the wage bill, a key objective, proved an
elusive goal under the prevailing political and social circumstances. The ratio of the wage
bill to total revenue reached 90.8 percent in 1994 and fell only to 73.2 percent in 1995.
4.4   Arrears were partially settled. At end 1993,' the stock of external arrears was
estimated at some 133 percent of total revenues (at the new parity) and at some 50
percent for internal arrears. Only 65 percent of external arrears were settled in 1994
against a target of 100 percent, while the bulk of non-wage domestic arrears was left
untouched. An inventory was not completed and a formal mechanism for their
regularization not set up.
4.5   Expenditure restructuring and improvement in budgetary orthodoxy were
minimal, as only a three-year rolling PIP was prepared in 1994, but without any
accompanying institutional strengthening.
4.6   Reforms in the PE sector and promotion of PSD were minimal. The ERC
provided for several actions in the PE sector: (i) an inventory of cross-debts of the sector
and the preparation of a timetable to clear them; (ii) independent audits of NIGELEC
(electricity), ONPPC (pharmaceuticals), SONIDEP (petroleum), and CNSS (social
security); (iii) liquidation of COPRO-NIGER (distribution); and (iv) implementation of
the reforms of the uranium sector and of NIGELEC. These were either partially taken or
delayed: an inventory of cross-debts was partially done while independent audits were
carried out on time for NIGELEC and CNSS, but considerably delayed beyond end 1994
for ONPPC and SONIDEP. The liquidation of COPRO-NIGER was delayed to 1995 and
the reforms in the uranium sector and of NIGELEC were still underway in 1996. For
PSD, the ERC envisaged the elimination of the Government monopoly over hiring and
the revision of the Labor Code. Neither was done.
4.7   Achievements in limiting the negative impact of the devaluation on vulnerable
groups were modest as a result of insufficient counterpart funds and administrative
delays. The revised 1994 budget had allocated CFAF 10 billion for social safety
measures, including: (i) eliminating tariffs on rice and sugar for 3 months; (ii) freezing of
the price of kerosene for 3 months and limitation of the increase in the price of gas oil to
30 percent; (iii) ensuring the proper supply of free essential drugs in public health
facilities; (iv) supplying the markets with essential foodstuffs (cereals, sugar, cooking oil)
at subsidized prices to break speculative commercial practices; and (v) increasing
significantly in real terms current expenditure for health and education. Some of those
measures were taken, some were partially taken or not at all, as only CFAF 2.6 billion
were effectively allocated (see Annex B for details on implementation of measures).
i It is difficult to obtain a clear picture of the arrears situation at any given time because definitions varied
and partial estimates were made at different times. In addition, new arrears accumulated quite regularly
throughout the decade.



13
4.8   The Public Sector Adjustment Credit. Implementation was partially successful
due to the relative stability under the Bare Government. In 1997, macro-economic
performance deteriorated owing to a drought, with GDP reaching 2.8 percent against a
target of 4.3 percent, but a more responsible fiscal management led to a reduction in the
overall deficit to 7.5 percent against a target of 8 percent. Inflation declined fairly rapidly
after 1994 to reach an average of 2.4 percent over 1997-2000, well within the range
prescribed by the UEMOA. Again, the current account deficit was smaller than projected
on account of reduced economic activity, but wider than in 1996 reflecting a decline in
agricultural exports due to the drought.
4.9   Most of the revenue mobilization measures relating to simplification of the tax
system and tax administration were taken. The improvement in the revenue/GDP ratio
achieved in 1995 and 1996 was sustained in 1997, reaching 8.4 percent, but still well
below the target of 9.8 percent.
4.10  Expenditure containment and restructuring were also more forcefully addressed.
Control over personnel expenditure was strengthened and the wage bill target met, and
scholarships reduced. Allocations for education and health were increased, but fell short
for the road fund (see Annex C for details). On arrears, settlement was minimal because
of the shortfall in external assistance due to continued political uncertainty. In 1997 and
1998, their clearance was through settlement of cross debts, while external assistance was
targeted to the extent possible at arrears to suppliers in the health and education sectors.
Some measures were also adopted to avoid accumulation of new arrears. Budgetary
discipline was strengthened, mostly with respect to budget execution.
4.11  The Government tackled structural reforms that had remained dormant since the
1980s. In 1997, it initiated the rationalization of the civil service and payroll system: the
salary scale was revised by eliminating distortions in the remuneration system and by
reducing base wages and housing allowances; a civil service census was completed; a
redeployment program for the health sector and the tax collection agencies was launched;
and the civil service roster and payroll files were harmonized and integrated. Reforms
were maintained through 1998 and strengthened in December 1998 with the adoption of a
civil service statute introducing mandatory retirement after 30 years of service or 55
years of age, and basing promotion on merit.
4.12 Similarly, since 1996, the Government had been active, with the support of the
Bank, in reviving the PE reform. The PSAC had a fairly tall agenda in this area, with all
actions to be completed by end 1998. Twelve enterprises, including the three major
utilities, the petroleum company, and eight smaller enterprises had been targeted for
privatization, three for liquidation, and eight more for restructuring. By early 1997, the
privatization strategies for the three utilities and the petroleum company had been
adopted. Finally, the program had called for the settlement of all cross-debts.
4.13 In contrast to the good performance at preparation stage, implementation of the
PE reform agenda was partial and very slow reflecting strong resistance by the unions,
weak technical and administrative capacities, and poor coordination among the different
agencies involved (the Implementation Completion Report of the PSAC recognizes that
the calendar had been too optimistic). Implementation accelerated somewhat by end



14
1997, after the Government and the Bank signed a memorandum of understanding
spelling out the modalities of the process, the guidelines to ensure the transparency in the
preparation of the transactions, and the measures to strengthen the privatization agency.
As of August 1998, only three small companies had been sold and three liquidated, while
the restructuring of eight companies was still underway. In August 1998, advisors were
recruited to help prepare the bidding documents for the three utilities.
4.14 The Public Finance Reform Credit. Implementation was very much mixed and
broke down completely after the April 1999 coup. No specific growth targets were set
for 1998 and 1999 in the President's Report, but growth was projected to average
4.5 percent over 1998-2001. Due to exceptional rainfall in 1998, GDP grew by
10.4 percent, but fell -0.6 percent in 1999. With both current expenditure and revenue
targets not achieved, the overall fiscal deficit, excluding grants, widened substantially in
1999, to 9.0 percent of GDP.
4.15  The wage bill could not be contained and domestic arrears could not be settled,
leading to the cancellation of the second and third tranches of the Credit. The wage bill
target was slightly surpassed in 1998, but was overshot by 13 percent in 1999 following
the rapid deterioration in fiscal management after the April coup. With assistance from
the Bank during project preparation, an inventory of domestic arrears as of end 1997 had
been prepared, as well as a detailed plan for their settlement in 1998-99 (at March 31,
1998, domestic arrears were estimated at 11 percent of GDP). The ad hoc Commission
set up to implement the plan, carried out a substantial amount of technical work in
verifying the claims but proved ineffective in achieving the settlement objectives, mainly
because of persistent infighting among agencies of the ministry of finance. After the
coup, the fiscal situation deteriorated so rapidly, due to the laxity in fiscal management
under the transitional Government and the immediate suspension of most extemal
assistance, that the conditions for tranche release could no longer be met. The
Government undertook an organizational audit of the Treasury, but the first remedial
actions, aimed at restoring accounting discipline, were not taken before the end of 2000.
4.16 Revenue mobilization failed to meet the targets and attempts at widening the tax
base were disappointing. The revenue/GDP ratio improved in 1998 due to the good GDP
performance. However, at 9.1 percent, it did not reach the target of 9.9 percent, nor in
1999, when it fell to 8.8 percent against a target of 10.3 percent. Virtually all measures
adopted to strengthen revenue mobilization were implemented with delay or not at all.
While the ERC and the PSAC had focused on simplification of the taxation system and
on tax administration, the PFRC put greater emphasis on widening the tax base, mainly
by reducing the scope and number of exemptions under the Investment Code and the
special tax regimes applicable to petroleum and mining. There was also greater emphasis
on combating fraud and enforcing sanctions on fraudulent agents, as the number of
exonerations had substantially increased in 1997-98. However, little progress was
achieved in widening the tax base.
4.17 The Government showed commitment in undertaking the first PERs in health and
education, with good results. Some expenditure restructuring was achieved, as the focus
on efficiency of public spending shifted to a more comprehensive approach than in the
past through PERs and implementation of their recommendations via the budget. PERs



15
for health and education were completed in 1998, as well as audits of the allocation
mechanisms for subsidies to major autonomous public agencies (radio, TV, etc.) and for
student scholarships. Most of their recommendations were included in the 1999 budget
with increased allocations for non-wage spending. The Government demonstrated
ownership in these exercises and the PER process was well received at the time by the
ministries concerned.
4.18  Progress in reforming the PE sector was limited to the selection of private
investors invited to bid for the telecom and water companies, and for two cellular phone
licenses.
4.19  The Public Finance Recovery Credit. The transitional Government following the
April 1999 coup left an extremely precarious fiscal situation to its successor. Salary
arrears accumulated very quickly, up to seven months during 1999, for a cumulative total
of 13 months. On the basis of estimates made in March 2000, the stock of domestic
arrears stood at CFA 295 billion or 23.7 percent of GDP, at end 1999. Against this
background, implementation of the project must be regarded as mostly successful. No
specific growth targets were specified for 2000-03 in the President's Report, but an
average GDP growth of 3.9 percent was forecast, supported by a projected increase in the
investment ratio. In the event, GDP declined by 1.4 percent in 2000 due to renewed
drought, but increased by 7.6 percent in 2001, as a result of good rainfall. With
revenue/GDP ratios higher than targeted and expenditure kept under control, the overall
fiscal deficit decreased from 9.0 percent in 1999 to 7.6 and 7.4 percent in 2000 and 2001,
respectively.
4.20  Revenue mobilization targets were achieved in both 2000 and 2001. Several
factors contributed to this result: more realistic targets had been set than in the past; the
VAT rate was raised to 19 percent to compensate for the revenue losses incurred with the
introduction of the CET; and the exchange of information between revenue agencies on
large taxpayers was much improved and facilitated by the effective application of the
single taxpayer identification number. However, as in the case of the PFRC, efforts at
reducing tax exemptions largely failed.
4.21  Current expenditure was contained. Control of the wage bill remained a
challenge and targets for 2000 and 2001 were slightly exceeded. Expenditure
restructuring was strengthened with a second round of PERs for education and health and
a first PER for the rural sector. These were completed in early 2000, leading to increased
allocations for health and education in the revised 2000 budget. A budget-wide PER,
capitalizing on the regularization of budgetary accounts for 1997-00 (see below), was
delayed, as the Govermnent and the Bank agreed to include not only trends in allocations
but also management processes, as well as to associate other donors to the exercise. The
full PER was due to start in spring 2003.
4.22  The budgeting cycle was strengthened and a return to budgetary orthodoxy was
initiated with good results, with particular attention to the respect of legal requirements
and administrative procedures. The budget preparation framework had remained weak
for most of the decade. Several programming issues were tackled successfully and
progress was achieved in most of them, but problems remained in rationalizing and



16
limiting allocations for scholarships, autonomous entities, and utility consumption. The
Government launched corrective measures in budget execution, such as a strict forward-
looking cash management system and the prioritization of expenditure, but, here also,
progress was limited as some institutional arrangements failed to function properly.
4.23  Fiscal reporting was improved, building on the potential offered by the
computerization of budget execution and of payroll/personnel management. But delay
was encountered in institutionalizing the reconciliation of data between the different
agencies of the Ministry of Finance, especially between budget execution and the
Treasury's balance sheet." Progress was also achieved in restoring bookkeeping
discipline, in reorganizing the Treasury, and in preparing a reconciled balance of entry
for the Treasury for 2000.
4.24 External budget oversight and audit were reestablished in accordance with Niger's
constitution, a requirement not met since the mid-1980s. In agreement with the Bank and
the Fund, the year 1997 was taken as reference year. In December 2002, the Chamber of
Accounts sent to the National Assembly for approval the draft budget execution laws for
1997-2000, which were adopted. As of January 2003, the Chamber had completed a
detailed audit of the 1997 accounts and had requested clarifications from the Treasury on
some issues. Similarly, a draft budget execution law and the closed Treasury accounts
for 2001 had been sent to the Cabinet for approval but not yet received by the Chamber.
The work of the latter is considerably hampered by a lack of adequate resources.
4.25  An effective settlement plan of domestic arrears was agreed. The Government, in
agreement with the Bank, chose to accord absolute priority to the payment of salaries on
time (which has been the case since early 2000), leaving salary and other arrears to be
liquidated gradually and after a complete reevaluation of the work performed by the ad
hoc Commission, including updating the settlement strategy. Under the CAADIE, CFAF
26 billion were settled in 2001-02 out of the total of CFAF 295 billion at end 1999.
4.26  Structural reforms in the civil service and in the PE sector made progress, as the
agenda left incomplete under the PFRC was resumed. After the April 1999 coup, some
aspects of the civil service reform had been reversed by the transitional Government
when the implementation of the retirement provisions had been suspended following the
rapid accumulation of salary arrears and related social tensions. In early 2000, the
retirement reform was re-enacted with modalities of its implementation agreed with the
main trade unions. The PE reform agenda regained some momentum in 2001 with the
transactions for SONITEL and SNE completed and the licenses for mobile phone
awarded. However, the program encountered not only long delays, but also several
important changes, including privatization strategies for some companies, particularly for
SONIDEP. As of January 2003, only six companies had been privatized, including the
telecom and water companies. NIGELEC was at pre-qualification stage and studies were
underway for the opening of capital of SONIDEP; completion of the transactions for the
latter two was expected for June 2003.
' Progress in this area is expected in 2003, as the new UEMOA budget nomenclature and chart of accounts
were introduced into the 2003 budget.



17
5.    Outcome and Assessment
Outcome
5.1   The outcome of the Economic Recovery Credit is rated unsatisfactory, as in the
ES, because the fiscal and structural reforms were not implemented. This was the case
also for the subsidiary objective of mitigating the negative impact of the devaluation on
vulnerable groups.
5.2   The outcome of the Public Sector Adjustment Credit is rated moderately
satisfactory, compared to satisfactory in the ES, because it partly achieved the objective
of sustaining the stabilization and public sector adjustment efforts. Some specific
objectives were achieved such as the reduction and containment of the wage bill and the
redirecting of expenditure to the social sectors. However, revenue targets were not
achieved while the revival of the structural reforms in the PE sector met with serious
obstacles, including strong resistance from the unions, poor commitment within the
administration, and long delays in implementation.
5.3   The outcome of the Public Finance Reform Credit is rated unsatisfactory, as in
the ES, because the key objectives were not achieved: the overarching objective of
restoring credibility in the sound management of public finance through a very
substantial reduction in domestic arrears was not attained. In fact, arrears built up.
Similarly, the objective of raising revenue was not achieved. The only area of progress
was in expenditure restructuring where PERs were undertaken in the education and health
sectors. It is difficult to judge whether, in the absence of the April 1999 coup, the
limited progress achieved under the PSAC could have been sufficiently sustained and
strengthened to enable the Government to meet the second and third tranche conditions.
5.4   The outcome of the Public Finance Recovery Credit is rated satisfactory, as in the
ES, because its major objective of sustaining stabilization and fiscal management efforts
as well as compensating for the shortfall in revenue caused by the introduction of the
CET was met. Also, most of its specific objectives were achieved.
Institutional Development Impact
5.5   The Economic Recovery Credit. The institutional development impact is
negligible, as in the ES. The reforms supported by the Credit did not achieve the
objective of anchoring the stabilization program and capitalizing on the benefits of the
devaluation.
5.6   The Public Sector Adjustment Credit. The project achieved modest institutional
development impact, the same rating as in the ES. Some positive changes were made in
the institutional environment for managing resources: (i) the revenue agencies were
strengthened and their functioning improved; (ii) the civil service and the payroll system
were rationalized; (iii) additional allocations to the social sectors were institutionalized;
(iv) some budget execution procedures were streamlined; and (v) a legal framework for
privatization was adopted, a privatization agency was created, and transactions for some
of the major utilities were launched. However, there were significant factors limiting



18
progress in institutional strengthening: (i) the Government was distracted by security
issues in some parts of the country; and (ii) a lack of cooperation and coordination
between various agencies, especially within the ministry of finance.
5.7   The Public Finance Reform Credit. The institutional development impact is rated
modest, as in the ES. Improvement was limited to a few areas, such as the setting up of
the Large Taxpayer Unit to follow up on the tax obligations of large taxpayers and
improve coordination among revenue agencies, and the introduction of the PER process
in education and health. But the organizational audit of the Treasury, launched under the
project, remained dead letter with the Government failing to follow up on the report
recommendations. Similarly, the intensive preparatory work on the settlement plan of
domestic arrears did not have any institutional impact, as divisions and frictions between
the ad hoc Commission and other agencies, especially the Treasury, led to paralysis.
5.8   The Public Finance Recovery Credit. The institutional development impact is
rated substantial, compared to modest in the ES, because progress was made in most
areas: the revenue agencies were strengthened and the exchange of information between
them improved; the civil service reform was reinstated; the PER process was broadened
to involve other donors, although actual work was delayed. But it is especially in the area
of budgetary orthodoxy that the greatest impact took place with the strengthening of
budget preparation and execution, and renewed fiscal reporting and auditing. Finally, the
failure of the PFRC to set up a viable framework for the settlement of arrears was
remedied by the abolition of the ad hoc Commission and its replacement by the
CAADIE, which has performed effectively since.
Sustainability
5.9   The Economic Recovery Credit. The overall sustainability is rated highly
unlikely, compared to uncertain in the ES. Government and stakeholders' ownership was
negligible, while economic resilience and resilience to exogenous influences were very
weak. In addition, there was no improvement in institutional capacity, a key requirement
for achieving success and mitigating the high risks prevailing in Niger. When the
program derailed in mid- 1994, donors' confidence in the program became hesitant and
their reduced support accelerated its demise.
5.10  The Public Sector Adjustment Credit. Its overall sustainability is rated unlikely,
compared to likely in the ES. Although the risks to civil disturbance had somewhat
abated under the military regime at the time, there was not enough time to fully anchor
the institutional improvements made in a sustainable manner. Indeed, commitment to the
program weakened in the second half of 1997, while continued frictions between the
different agencies of the ministry of finance proved to be very damaging for coherent
policy-making and implementation.
5.11  The Public Finance Reform Credit. The overall sustainability is rated highly
unlikely, compared to unlikely in the ES, on the basis that the objectives were not
achieved and that, in some cases like the civil service reform, actions taken under the
PSAC were reversed.



19
5.12   The Public Finance Recovery Credit. The overall sustainability is rated likely, as
in the ES, on the basis of the commitment shown by the Government during preparation
and implementation of the project. Progress is likely to be consolidated and built-upon
with renewed political stability.
Bank Performance
5.13   The Economic Recovery Credit. This assessment rates Bank performance as
unsatisfactory, 12 compared to satisfactory in the ES. Although OED had recently issued
its audit of the 1980 adjustment operations (Report No. 12104, 1993), the Bank failed to
take past experience into account in conceiving and designing the project. The Bank
rightly seized the opportunity of the devaluation, but, in the euphoria of the moment,
rushed to throw in a long list of actions, which proved too broad and too demanding for a
technically weak Government to absorb in 12 months at a time of high political
uncertainty. The Bank misjudged the depth of the political crisis at the time; it wrongly
interpreted the Government's declaration for reforms as long-term commitment and
overlooked the lack of commitment among senior and middle-level officials; it neglected
to assess the institutional capacity of the administration, especially at a time when many
changes in high-level personnel had taken place; and finally, it ignored the increasing
informalization of Niger's economy since the 1980s.
5.14 During implementation, the Bank failed to readjust the dialogue on possibly more
focused or realistic measures that the Government could have taken. Instead, the
documents show that, while acknowledging the volatility in the political and sQcial
situation and continued poor performance, the 1995 supervision missions showed lack of
judgment in advocating a deeper and broader cooperation in the form of a SAL II.
5.15   The Public Sector Adjustment Credit. Bank performance is rated satisfactory, as
in the ES, both for quality at entry and supervision. The preceding turbulent years and
the poor performance under the ERC led the Bank to adopt a much more cautious
approach as demonstrated by intemal memoranda.'3 As a result, preparation was closely
coordinated with the Fund on the basis of the 1996 ESAF, and support was better
identified and directed to some components of the program. The Bank had a clear vision
and understanding of the short-term requirements to redress fiscal management, even
though the broader and longer-term lessons of the 1980s were overlooked. The dialogue
during preparation over content and design was based on an agenda well known and
shared by both parties, although not necessarily by lower level officials. This had not
been the case for the ERC. Only the agenda with respect to PE reform was much too
ambitious for the time imparted and unrealistic given the social context. There was a
12 It is difficult to assess the quality at entry and the supervision performance of the Bank for the ERC as
there are very few documents from that period in Bank files. For instance, until December 1994, there is
not a single BTO or Aide-memoire following supervision missions. The assessment is therefore based on
the content of the project as described in the President's Report, the 1995 supervision missions, the ICR,
and discussions with Bank staff and the authorities.
1 The exchange of intemal memoranda surrounding the concept paper review, the ROC meeting, and the
submission to senior management before Board presentation of the PSAC shows the unusual doubts and
caution expressed by many. Clearly, the Bank had become conscious of the risks of pursuing adjustment
lending in the circumstances.



20
broad commonality of views, irrespective of the fluid political situation or capacity to
deliver. Both parties knew and understood what needed to be done, the consequences,
and the risks.
5.16  Bank supervision was close and recognized early on slippages in implementation
and reacted accordingly. When weak technical and administrative capacities caused delay
in implementing the privatization program, the Bank and the Government signed a
memorandum of understanding spelling out modalities and guidelines to ensure
transparency in transactions and to strengthen Governnent capacity. Similarly, the Bank
reacted fairly quickly in recommending a series of measures aimed at redressing the
situation after it had become clear that lack of coordination between ministries and
weakened commitment had caused the program to slip during the second half of 1997.
5.17  The Public Finance Reform Credit. Bank performance is rated satisfactory, as in
the ES, for both quality at entry and supervision. As in the case of the PSAC, preparation
was well coordinated with the Fund and the authorities, notably for the formulation of the
detailed plan for the settlement of domestic arrears. After the program derailed in 1999,
the Bank showed initiative and flexibility in proposing to and agreeing with the new
civilian Government a set of short-term and well focused measures that could help restore
fiscal credibility, transparency and accountability under the.next operation, the PFRecC.
5.18  The Public Finance Recovery Credit. Bank performance is rated satisfactory, as
in the ES. As soon as the new civilian Government was in place in early 2000, close
cooperation with the Fund resumed on the preparation of a PRGF and the I-PRSP. The
Bank showed more cognizance of past difficulties and obstacles in designing the project
than had been the case in the other operations: objectives and reform areas were more
limited and more precise, a necessary requirement for a country with very weak
institutional capacity. Moreover, attention very much focused on identifying with the
authorities past problems and issues that called for immediate action. At the same time,
the Bank and the authorities designed a new institutional framework for the settlement of
domestic arrears, a problem that had become acute and politically explosive after the
further accumulation of salary arrears in 1999. Supervision was also satisfactory.
Borrower Performance
5.19 The Economic Recovery Credit. This assessment rates the performance as highly
unsatisfactory, compared to not available in the ES. In late 1993 and early 1994, the
Govemment had serious reservations on the need to devalue and was ill-prepared for
addressing its consequences as well as seizing its opportunities. As a result, with
ownership absent, the Government clearly "went along" with an agenda that was not
shared and insufficiently assessed in terms of consequences, risks, and requirements for
its success. Nor was it ready - and sufficiently supported by extemal assistance from
donors other than the Fund and the Bank - in laying the foundations to capture the
potential increase in competitiveness offered by the devaluation or in seizing the
opportunity to adopt painful structural reforms, notably in the PE sector. In addition, the
period was marked by frequent changes in senior officials, arbitrary political
appointments, persistent strikes by the unions, and low morale of civil servants.



21
5.20  The Public Sector Adjustment Credit. Performance is rated satisfactory, as in the
ES. The Bare Government took an active part in the preparation of the 1996-98 ESAF
and showed deterrnination in implementing the program between mid-1996 and mid-
1997 despite strong resistance by the unions to the reduction in wages and the
privatization program. However, there were long delays in implementation due to a lack
of commitment within the administration and lack of cooperation and coordination
between key agencies; implementation slipped considerably during the second half of
1997.
5.21  The Public Finance Reform Credit. Performance is rated unsatisfactory, as in the
ES. The Government was fully committed to the program at preparation, with some
senior staff actively participating in formulating the content and design of the project.
However, implementation suffered from lack of coordination and cooperation among
agencies and administrative resistance. This was notably the case in several areas of
budgetary orthodoxy, including the lack of effective functioning of the ad hoc
Commission and the failings of the expenditure regulation mechanism. In both cases,
divisions and frictions between the Treasury and other agencies of the ministry of finance
led to paralysis.
5.22  The Public Finance Recovery Credit. The rating is satisfactory, as in the ES.
Despite the difficult situation inherited from the transitional administration, the
democratically-elected Government of early 2000 was quick to address the most urgent
matters, such as paying the salaries on time to inspire renewed confidence in the civil
service and the administration. It actively prepared with the Bank a set of short-term
measures to redress the most urgent fiscal imbalances and to restore credibility in public
finances. This was done with clear-sightedness in defining and selecting the priority
actions to be taken under the PFRecC. At the same time, the Government engaged in
discussions with the Bank and the Fund on medium-term policies, a dialogue which
quickly led to an agreement on a PRGF and an I-PRSP. During implementation, the
Government continued to exhibit commitment, even when slippages occurred. However,
ownership of the program within the administration was insufficient.



22
6.    Main Findings and Program         Impact
6.1   The implementation of the four projects was adversely affected by continuous
political and social instability and the inability of the different Governments to control
the persistent budgetary crises, and, to a lesser extent, by exogenous factors such as
droughts. These factors thwarted attempts at pursuing the reforms in a consistent and
sustained manner. Progress was made only when a stable and relatively strong
government, whether military or civilian, was in place, but these periods were short and
the gains fragile. In Niger's context, the current Government has been in place for a
relatively extended period, since early 2000.
The main findings are:
6.2   Awareness of public finance. Despite all the difficulties encountered, the Bank
and Fund operations helped Niger survive the troubled decade of the 1990s and keep a
window on the world. They largely contributed to help: (i) address the daunting fiscal
management problems faced by the country; and (ii) create an awareness in the public
opinion and civil society that public finance matters and requires a sound, responsible,
and transparent management. Stakeholders, such as unions and students, who used to
staunchly oppose the very notions of liberalization, privatization, fiscal discipline, and the
like, have now become open to dialogue in the quest for solutions acceptable to all.
6.3   Ownership. While ownership generally existed at the highest level of the
administration, except for the ERC of 1994, there was little or no commitment at lower
levels of the administration (even as recently as 2000 for the PPFRecC), or within civil
society. There was-and still is-a deficit in participation and communication from the
top down and among the different branches of Government. Key senior officials of the
three branches of the Government are undoubtedly not sufficiently associated to the
preparation and content forrnulation of economic programs, with the risk of
misunderstandings, frustration, and low morale. There is a clear need for the
Government and the Bank to actively promote the dissemination of information.
6.4   Realism. When compared to targets, the results achieved over the decade are
undoubtedly meager. But were the targets realistic and achievable under the
circumstances or was there a lack ofjudgment in setting them too high, irrespective of the
relevance of objectives? There was a wide gap between the reality in the country and the
expectations raised-and the messages sent-by the Bank through both the CASs and the
first three operations. Indeed, the latter were over-ambitious in their quantitative targets
in the light of the 1980 performance, the difficult transition to democracy, and the well-
known weak institutional capacity of the country. In this connection, the 1994
devaluation raised unwarranted expectations and blurred the reality of the preceding
decade. But, surprisingly, even after the troubled early 1990s, the Bank continued to
exhibit unfounded over-optimism. The last operation seems to have recognized this
misjudgment by being more realistic and more selective in its focus. This finding is best
illustrated by comparing target and actual data for the key benchmarks under each of the
four operations (Table 6.1). The same applies to the objectives set for the settlement of
arrears and privatization.



23
Table 6.1: Key Macro-economic Indicators - Targets vs. Actuals, 1994-2001
(in percentage of GDP, unless otherwise indicated)
ERC           PSAC               PFRC                   PFRecC
1994          1997         1998        1999        2000        2001
Prog.   Act.   Prog.  Act   Prog.  Act. Prog.  Act.  Prog.  Act. Prog.  Act
Real GDP (%         3.9    4.0     4.3   2.8    4.4   10.4 4.5   -0.6    3.5  -1.4  3.7  7.6
increase)
CPI- African (%     37.0   35.6    3.0    2.9   3.0   4.5  3.0   -2.3    5.1  2.9   1.2  4.0
increase)
Gross dom. inv.            10.4   13.1   10.9   11.1  11.4 11.7  10.2   10.1  10.8  11.0  11.5
Gross dom. savings  2.0    0.0     4.5   3.1    4.5   2.4  4.6    2.6    2.6  3.3   3.4  3.2
Total revenue       9.0    6.0     9.8    8.4   9.9   9.1  10.3   8.8   8.2   8.6   8.9  9.2
Over. fis. bal. (ex.  -9.0  -12.5  -8.0  -7.5   n.a  -8.2  n.a   -9.0   -7.9  -7.6  -7.1  -7.4
grants/comit.)
Cur. act. bal. (ex. off.  -16.0  -14.9  -12.1  -8.9  n.a  -9.5  n.a  -7.8  n.a  -7.5  -9.0  -7.5
Trans.)
6.5    Impact on growth and poverty. The impact of the program on growth was
small. Over the eight-year period, 1994-2001, GDP growth averaged 3.6 percent, slightly
above the rate of increase in population. As a result, poverty was stabilized at best,
although there are no data to compare the beginning and the end of the period.
6.6    Devaluation impact. Its impact was short-lived and the opportunity it offered to
enhance competitiveness and reverse a rapidly deteriorating situation was largely missed.
Three factors appear responsible for this: (i) the paucity of Niger's resources; (ii) the then
Government-weak politically-was not only ill-prepared for it, but was also very
skeptical about its economic justification, and, as a result, its attitude was more one of
"wait and see" than one of being pro-active in designing supporting and accompanying
measures; and (iii) the Bank and the donors were naYve in expecting a lasting response
from the agriculture sector beyond a solely "mechanical" and short-term reaction to a
change in parity. They failed to provide the necessary support to enable some key
agricultural sub-sectors to respond in a more lasting way.
6.7    Revenue mobilization and the informal sector. Together with the settlement of
domestic arrears, revenue mobilization was the most challenging objective of the
program, but unfortunately remained an elusive goal. Some progress was achieved,
thanks to simplification of the taxation system and improvement in tax administration,
but was limited because almost all measures were taken partially or implemented with
delay. However, little progress was achieved in broadening the tax base, even though the
last two operations emphasized the reduction of tax exonerations.
6.8    The record on revenue mobilization calls for the following observations. Despite
all the efforts, the revenue/GDP ratio, at 9.2 percent in 2001, not only remained low by
any standard, but also did not even revert to its 1990 level. This was due to external
shocks, persistent instability and weak administrative capacity, but more importantly to
Niger's large informal sector. The situation in Niger compares as follows to other
African countries. For the period 1991-01, Government revenues, including grants, stood
at 12.7 percent of GDP on average against 24.2 percent for Africa as a whole, 14.4 for
Guinea, 18.8 for Cote d'Ivoire, 19.7 for Senegal, 20.6 for Mali, and 27.0 for Mauritania.



24
6.9   The conclusion on revenue mobilization should not be based on the fact that, for
the first three operations, the gap between the targeted and actual revenue to GDP ratio
was as much due to overoptimistic-and unrealistic-forecasts as to the factors
mentioned above. Rather, the analysis shows that the critical and continued bottleneck to
sustainable improvement in fiscal management was and remains Niger's inability to raise
revenue by widening its tax base, a key challenge for a country with 70 percent of its
GDP in the informal sector. The contribution of the agricultural sector (including
livestock) to GDP is about fifty percent of GDP, that of the rest of the informal sector,
mostly trade, is about 20 percent, and that of the formal sector (about the only segment
constituting the tax base) is about 30 percent.
6.10  This assessment concludes that the Bank, together with the IMF, focus on three
aspects with respect to the tax base and the informal sector. First, examine what and how
taxes were levied on agriculture and livestock prior to 1974 (these were taxed until that
date). Second, find ways to tax livestock herders and traders, and other traders who trade
mostly with Nigeria. These segments are known to be well off enough to be taxed.
Third, in addition to discussions with the administration in Niamey, consult with
representatives of the targeted segments and with local tax officials in the main livestock
regions and in those bordering Nigeria. Unless progress is made in this area, any
Government in Niger, for the foreseeable future, will be faced with the necessity of
relying on external assistance to provide even the minimal public services expected from
the State.
6.11 Wage bill and human capital. Weak performance in revenue mobilization,
combined with the relative lack of compressibility in salaries and in personnel, prevented
the wage bill/revenue ratio to fall much below a range of 40 to 45 percent depending on
the level of revenues collected (Table 6.2). The 2001 performance reflects higher
revenues associated with a good GDP performance.
Table 6.2: Civil Service Wage Bill, 1993-2001
(in CFAF billion, unless otherwise indicted)
1993    1994   1995  1996   1997   1998   1999  2000  2001
Target             -      44.3    -     -    44.1   44.0   44.7   51.4  49.6
Actual            40.3    47.4   49.7  33.4  44.2   45.1    50.6  51.8  50.4
Wage bill/total   87.6    9.8    73.2  42.3  48.7   40.3   46.2   47.0  38.1
revenue (in %)
6.12  One of the major findings of this assessment is the concern expressed to the OED
mission by many Niger's officials and representatives of civil society about the fall of
quality in education. There was a perception among them that a reduction in the wage
bill and the accompanying compression of the civil service in the 1990s was an important
factor explaining the decline in educational quality. This issue was raised often in
interviews. Since the OED mission was unable to verify these claims, it would be
important for the Region to discuss these concerns with all parties (Government officials,
members of Parliament, educators, parents, etc.), disseminate widely the Bank's own
assessment of the factors affecting the quality of education and how this has been
reflected in the Bank's strategy and lending operations. The concern expressed raises



25
the question whether the Bank might have placed undue emphasis on a reduction of the
wage bill without a longer-term civil service reform policy.
6.13  Capacity building. In the same vein as the paragraphs above, the Bank is
helping to strengthen Niger's capacity in key areas of public sector management through
the PEAC, an IDF grant, and the forthcoming PER/CFAA exercise. However, this
assessment recommends that the Bank first agree with the authorities on a strategy for
capacity building in public sector management in the medium-term, prioritize areas for
action, identify activities which other donors will support and direct Bank support to
areas unlikely to be supported by donors but which are critical for long-term capacity. In
addition, Bank support should have clear monitorable indicators to indicate progress in
strengthening the central ministries and other agencies or entities (such as the staff of the
Finance Committee of the National Assembly, the Court of Accounts, etc.) responsible
for sound public resource management.
7.    Lessons Learned
7.1   An assessment of Niger's adjustment program in the 1990s brings to mind how
relevant the lessons from the 1980s are still valid. Very little has changed in Niger and
the nature and challenge of the obstacles to sustainable development are basically the
same. This is true for fiscal management, as for many other aspects of the economy. This
calls for both realistic determination and patience. It seems that the lessons leamed from
the two adjustment operations of the 1980s (SAL I and PESAP - Report No. 12104,
1993) were hardly absorbed. These lessons were, and still are, very pertinent. Surely,
many of the issues raised by the 1993 Audit can be addressed only after fiscal adjustment
is sufficiently achieved, as the Bank consistently argued in its CASs. But, at the same
time, the record seems to point out that some persistent obstacles to improved fiscal
management cannot be removed without tackling some longer-term issues, notably by
exploring ways to extend the tax base to the informal sector.
7.2   Ownership. Except for the obvious sine qua non condition of political stability,
the case of Niger shows that ownership at the cabinet level is not sufficient to ensure the
success of an adjustment program. Much greater attention is needed during preparation
to associate and listen to three groups of actors: (i) the senior and middle-level officials
responsible for implementing the program; (ii) representatives of the legislative and, if
necessary, of the judiciary; and (iii) the other stakeholders in civil society who will be
affected by the program, such as labor unions and students organizations, two groups
usually vocal on the political scene of low-income countries and vulnerable to any
adjustment operation. Niger's experience demonstrates the need to spend more effort and
resources to improve communication, dissemination of infornation, and coordination not
only within the administration itself, but also between the different Government bodies
that will be involved in program execution. A participatory approach similar to that
currently applied in preparing PRSPs should become normal practice. This requires of
course considerable efforts in terms of time and resources from the Bank and donors.
7.3   Informal sector and taxation. In countries with a very large informal sector,
greater attention should be directed at identifying, jointly with the IMF, the conditions



26
under which the taxation system can be adapted to the particular characteristics of the
economy. In the case of Niger, farmers and livestock growers were taxed until 1974,
when it was abolished after the discovery of uranium.
7.4    Capacity building. Addressing the problem of very weak institutional capacity
in a piecemeal approach through different lending operations and at different times does
not seem to produce the desired results, at least for the proper functioning of the central
ministries. The record points to the need for trying another approach, i.e., formulating a
full-fledged strategy based on strengthening capacities in key areas of public sector
management, tax administration, and other critical government structures. In so doing,
all stakeholders should be involved at all stages: conception, design, and execution.
Again, this requires considerable time and resources.'4
7.5    Devaluation. In countries with very scarce resources, a change in parity alone is
unlikely to produce lasting positive effects, unless it is supported by a well prepared
program of accompanying measures directed at improving production and marketing and
by sound macro-economic policies.
7.6    Monitoring and evaluation. Preparation and appraisal of reform programs
should include the establishment of domestic monitoring and evaluation mechanisms to
promote sharing of information, transparency, and accountability within the
administration. It should be a joint effort by the Bank and the borrower. The information
collected on the execution of the programs must be made public."5
7.7    Tranching. Single tranche operations are often accompanied-sometimes
justified-by the warning that future adjustment lending will be withheld if, after Board
approval, no progress is made in the areas targeted for reform, as measured against
monitorable benchmarks. On the basis of the Niger experience in the 1990s, it is not
evident that this type of warning is effective or followed by the Bank itself.
'4 In commenting on this statement the government indicated that, in recognizing the need to strengthen
capacity in the public sector, the Ministry of Economy and Finance set up in 2001 a multidisciplinary
structure, called Groupe d'Appui a la Gestion Economique, whose main areas of intervention include the
preparation of a financial and economic repot on Niger, statistical and economic analysis based on a
macroeconomic model, and technical support to structures in charge of monitoring economic and financial
programs.
The government's comment on this point is that information on the execution of programs must be made
public provided there are notable improvements in the quality and timeliness of the information.



27                                          Annex A
Niger - Key Social Indicators - 2002, unless otherwise indicated
Population (million)                                                                 11.5
Population (annual growth rate)                                                       3.4
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line) - 1992-93 *                     63
Extreme poverty (% of population below national extreme poverty line) - 1992-93 *     34
Urban population (% of total population)                                              21
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                                      46
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                                              114
Under-five mortality (per 1,000 live births)                                          250
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                            40
Access to an improved water source (% of population)                                   59
Illiteracy (% pf population age 15+)                                                   84
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)                                 42
Male                                                                                 50
Female                                                                               33
Source: Niger- CAS December 16, 2002
Note: * : These data are based on the most recent household survey dating back to 1992-93.
Work on a new survey began in 2002, based on the results of the 2001 population census.



Annex B                              28
Economic Recovery Credit (1994)
Actions taken prior to Board presentation were the following:
a)    Realignment of the exchange rate, fixed at 100 CFAF for 1 FF effective January
12, 1994;
b)    Adoption of a number of tax measures to increase tax revenue, based on the
recommendations of the December 1993 IMF technical mission;
c)    Limitation of the civil service wage bill in the revised 1994 Budget to CFAF 44.3
billion (representing an overall nominal increase of 14 percent over 1993);
d)    Administered prices (petroleum products, water and electricity) set as specified in
the Government's Statement of Economic and Social Policies;
e)    Free agricultural producer pricing maintained and restrictions on rice marketing
eliminated;
Customs tariff amended as follows:
*  doubling of standard values, schedule values, and minimum administrative values
(these values were to be eliminated in a subsequent tariff reform);
*  50 percent cut on cumulative taxes and duties on essential and intermediate
goods;
*  transitional clauses applied exclusively to imports not yet cleared through
customs, but already paid at the old exchange rate; and
*  ad hoc exemptions eliminated, except those related to projects, diplomatic
privileges, and special conventions.
g)    Allocation in the revised 1994 Budget of CFAF 10 billion (US$16 million) for
social safety net measures, including:
* elimination of tariffs on rice and sugar for three months;
* freezing the price of kerosene for three months and limiting the increase in the
price of gas oil to 30 percent;
* ensuring proper supply of free essential drugs in public health facilities;
* supplying the markets with essential foodstuffs (cereals, sugar, cooking oil) at
subsidized prices to break speculative commercial practices;
* increasing significantly in real terms current expenditure for health and education
and ensuring the availability of free essential drugs in public health facilities.
h)    Increase in the Central Bank discount rate from 10.0 percent to 14.5 percent.



29                         Annex B (continued)
Economic Recovery Credit Action Matrix for 1994
Objectives                          Measures      Actual at time of ICR
Taken
I .  Macroeconomic Framework
-   Realignment of the exchange rate, fixed at 100  January 12,    Done
CFAF for I FF                                  1994
2.  Public Finance
-   Adoption of a revised Budget for 1994 in agreement  March 1994  Done
with the IMF
-   Adoption of a revised system of public accounts  December 1994  Done
a   Revenue
-   Regular payment of mining royalty              Immediate       Done with much delay
-   Advance payment of BIC and IRVM, and dividends  Immediate      Not Done
by Uranium companies
-   Unification of the VAT at 17 percent           January 1, 1995  Done
-   Introduction of the VAT: water, electricity,   July 1, 1994    Done except for transportation
transportation
-   Road toll: Numbered tickets with printed price  Immediate      Done in June 1994
-   Automobile sticker                             Immediate       Done in January 1995
-   Administration: Strengthening of tax audits    Immediate       Done with delay
-   Administration: Definition of tax collectors and  Immediate    Done
collection targets
-   Strengthening of collection of tax arrears     Immediate       Done in September 1994
-   Passing Collections Code in Parliament (New    New 1994        Done
Budget)                                        budget
-   Merging of IGR, ICTS, simplification of rates  January 1, 1995  Done for January 1996
-   BIC exemptions (Investment Code)              July 1, 1994     Not yet completed
-   Informal sector - stricter application of profit tax  January 1. 1995  Done January 1, 1996
-   Administration: strengthening of desk audits  Immediate        Done with delay
-   Property Tax: levied on all homeowners        Immediate        Done for 1996 tax law
b. ExRenditure
-   Set wage bill ceiling at CFAF 44.3 billion     Immediate       Actual wage bill of 47.4 bn
-   Maintain the number of civil servants below 39,080  1994       Number reached 40,761
-   Eliminate extemal payments arrears (CFAF 102   1994            Only 65 billion eliminated
million)
-   Reduce domestic arrears by at least CFAF 17.5  1994            Partially done
billion
-   Make an inventory of all domestic arrears and  March 31, 1994  Inventory not complete
regularize them formally
-   Set a scholarship ceiling at CFAF 4.8 billion and  1994        CFAF 5.5 billion paid. Eligibility
maintain eligibility criteria                                  criteria unclear
-   Increase outlays for materials and supplies from  1994         Outlays increased to CFAF 28.1
. CFAF 16 billion in 1993 to CFAF 28 billion in 1994              billion
-   Raise public investment expenditures from CFAF 27  1994        CFAF 109.9 budgeted
billion in 1993 to 70 billion in 1994
3. Public Investment Proeramming
-   Prepare a three-year rolling Public Investment  April 1994     Done
Program for 1994 -96
Strengthen institutional setting for planning, programming  1994   Not done
and implementation of public investment
4. Monetary and Financial Sector Policy
-   Increase the discoumt rate of the Centra Bank froml0.5%  January 18,  Done
to 14.5%                                       1999
-   Closing and liquidation of Caisse Nationale de Credit July 1, 1994  Done
Agricole
-   Completing the restructuring of the Banque Islamique  1994     BIAO done in September 1995,
du Niger (BIN), the Medridien BIAO (MIB), the                  others in progress
Banque Commerciale du Niger and the Nigeria
Intemational Bank-Niamey



Annex B (continued)                               30
Objectives                            Measures       Actual at time of ICR
Taken
5. Trade Policv
-   Double standard values, schedule values, and     Immediate        Done
minimum administrative values
-   Cut by 50% cumulative taxes and duties on        Immediate        Done
essential and intermediate goods
-   Eliminate ad-hoc tariff exception                Immediate        Not done
-   Introduce transitional clauses for imports paid  Immediate        Done
before the parity for change
-   Introduce comprehensive tariff reform            April 30, 1994   Done in September 1994
6. Price Policv
Set new prices for petroleum products, water and  Jan - April 1994  Done
electricity
Maintain free agricultural producer pricing      1994             Done
7. Public Enterprises
-   Make an inventry of noss-debts ofthe public sector ard  April 1994  Partially done
prepare a timetable to clear them
-   Conduct independent audits for NIGELEC, ONPPC,   1994             Done on time for NIGELEC and
SONIDEP, CNSS                                                     CNSS; delayed for the rest
-   Liquidate COPRO-NIGER                            1994             Started in January 1995
-   Implement refomis of the uranium sector and the  1994             Reform underway
Electricity Company(NIGELEC)
8. Promotion of the Private Sector
-   Eliminate Govemment monopoly on hiring           1994             Not done
-   Revise Labor Code                                1994 - 1995      Not done
9. Accompanvinz Social Measures
Eliminate tariffs on rice and sugar for three months and  Jan - April 1994  Done
set total taxation at 10% thereafter
Freeze the price ofkerosene forthreemonths and increase  January 1994  Not done
theprioe of gas-oil by less than 30%
Take steps, eventually, to supply the markets with essential  1994  Partially done
goods (cerea sugar, cooking oil) at subsidized prices
Increase substantially in real tems appropriations for non -  Immediate  No substantial increase
salary expenditures in education and health in the
revised Budget
-   Ensure adequate supply of free essential drugs in public  1994     Partially done
health facilities and promote the supply of low-cost
generic drugs in private phammacies
-   Provide alocation in the revised 1994 Budget of CFAF 1 0  Immediate  Partially done
billion for the foregoing social measures



31                            Annex C
Public Sector Adjustment Credit (1997)
The following actions were taken by the Government between September 1996
and February 1997.
Public Finances
a)    Reduction of the 1996 wage bill to CFAF 42.1 billion (cash basis).
b)    Increase of budgetary revenue in 1996 to CFAF 79 billion.
c)    1996 overall budget deficit (on a commitment basis and excluding grants) limited
to 4.7 percent of GDP.
d)    Adoption of the 1997 budget law, including:
*  limiting the wage bill to CFAF 44.1 billion;
* increasing the health sector allocation for non-wage current expenditures from
CFAF 7.2 billion in 1996 to CFAF 8.2 billion in 1997 (representing an increase of
14 percent);
* increasing the education sector allocation for non-wage current expenditures from
CFAF 4.6 billion in 1996 to CFAF 5.3 billion in 1997 (representing an increase of
14 percent);
*  increasing the allocation for road maintenance from CFAF 2.6 billion to CFAF
3.1 billion;
*  increasing material and equipment allocations for tax and customs services from
CFAF 459 million in 1996 to CFAF 798 million in 1997;
* introducing a number of tax refo,rm measures including: (i) the streamlining of
taxation on petroleum products through a change in the price structure; (ii) the
application of a revised grid for the unified income tax on wages and salaries
(IUTS); and (iii) a reduction in the maximum length of tax holidays for certain
investments from 15 years to 5 years, and a restriction in the number of qualifying
investments eligible for such treatment.
e)    Completion of inventory of domestic arrears and adoption of plan for their orderly
settlement.
f)    Initiation of civil service census.
Public Enterprises
g)    Adoption of revised PE privatization law.
h)    Adoption of decree to privatize 12 key public enterprises.
i)    Adoption of privatization strategies agreed with IDA for the public utilities (SNE,
NIGELEC and SONITEL) and the petroleum company (SONIDEP).
j)    Initiation of hiring process for financial advisors to complete privatization
transactions for the 12 targeted companies.



Public Sector Adjustment Credit (Economic Policy Matrix)                                                                                                    >
Objective                 Measures taken                                 Program measures              Responsible authority    Actual at time of ICR
and timetable            _
1. Public finance
1.1 Revenue                                                                                                                                                 o
- Simplify the tax system  - Unification of the three VAT rates at 17%  - Enforce the property tax and  Ministry of Finance 1997                           a;
and broaden the tax base  - Merging of the general income tax (IGR) and the  the tax on rental income
- Strengthen the tax and  schedular tax on wages and income (ICTS) into a  - Harmonize the real estate laws
customs departments      single tax on wages and salaries (IUTS)       - Strengthen the cadastralae
- Improve collection     - Consolidation of all import levies into two taxes  services
procedures and provide the  (customs duty and statistical tax), and a reduction  - Reduce the volume of
collection services with  in the number of rates to three (10, 15 and 35%)  exemptions
means of bringing        - Elimination of duties on non-uranium exports and  - Strengthen supervision over the                 8.4%
coercive action against  unification of re-export duty rates at 10%    system of exemptions and special
tax defaulters           - Reform of informal sector taxation through  conventions
- Increase budgetary     introduction of a single professional tax (palente                           Ministry of Trade, 1997
revenue from 7.3% of     synthlelique) encompassing all former taxes
GDP in 1996 to 9.8% in   - Establishment of a pre-shipment import inspection
1997.                    system (October 1996)
- 74% increase in budgetary allocations for tax and
customs department operations in 1997
- Redeployment of tax and customs department staff
- Streamlining of taxation on petroleum products
through a change in the price structure
- Application of revised grid for the unified income
tax on wages and salaries
- Reduce the maximum length of tax holidays for
new investments from 15 to 5 years and restrict the
number of qualifying investments eligible for such
treatment
1.2 Ex enditure
- Reduce the share of the  - Reduction of the wage bill from CFAF 49.7 billion  - Keep the wage bill within  - Ministry of Finance  CFAF 44.2 billion
wage bill and scholarships in  in 1995 to CFAF 44.1 billion in 1997 through a  limits compatible with revenue
total expenditure         reduction in base salaries and benefits        growth, assigning priority to the
social sectors
- Increase the share of non-  - Adoption of a new salary scale           - Continue to implement cuts in  - Ministry of Civil Scrvice
wage current expenditures  - Cuts in scholarships (from 4.2 billion to 3.5 billion  scholarships and subsidies  - Ministry of Equipment,  CFAF 3.2 billion
for the basic social services  in 1997) and in transfers and subsidies   - Exercise strict control over all  1997
(education and health) and  - 14% increase in allocations for non-wage current  public expenditure                                                   _



Objective                 Measures taken                               Program measures              Responsible authority    Actual at time of ICR
and timetable
for the tax administration  expenditure in the education and health sectors in  - Revise the civil service                    CFAF 3.2 billion
agencies                  1997                                         regulations
- Rationalize the civil   - Increase in allocations to the Road Fund from 2.6  - Carry out a civil service census
service and payroll system  billion in 1996 to 3.1 billion in 1997     - Apply a restrictive hiring                           12% increase on average
policy
- Introduction of a central                            Objective met
computerized civil service                             CFAF 1.1 billion
(personnel and payroll) database
- Increase non-wage expenditure
in the health and education
sectors in line with the
recommendations of the Public
Expenditure Review
1.3 Payment arrears
- Restore the Government's  - Adoption of a plan to reduce the domestic arrears  - Implemented a settlement plan  - Ministry of Finance  CFAF 13.8 billion cleared
credibility and solvency  on the Treasury's books at December 31, 1996 by  for 19.2 billion in 1997, and                     in 1997 and CFAF 11.8
19.2 billion                                 continue this operation in 1998.                      billion in first half of
- Inventory of other accounts payable                                                               1998; measures adopted to   t
avoid accumulation of new
arrears
2. Public Enterprises
- Government divestiture to  - Adoption of the ordinance establishing conditions                     - Ministry of Economic
lcssen the burden of non-  for privatization and its implementing decree
viable public enterprises on  - Creation of a privatization agency to implement
public finances           the privatization program                                                  - Reforms & Privatization
- Adoption of a divestiture strategy and timetable
- Reduce factor costs and  for SNE, NIGELEC, SONIDEP, and SONITEL      - Bring to the point of sale  - June, September &      OLANI & SNC:
increase enterprise       - Abolition of monopolies on imports of petroleum  OLANI, SNC, and ABATTOIR  October 1997,          completed. Bids were
competitiveness           products and drugs                                            .            respectively            issued for management of
- Increase private sector  - Liquidation of FIPMEN (Small and Medium-Size  - Request bids for concession  - January 1998      Abattoir, but no investor
activities                Enterprise Promotion Fund)                   contract for NIGELEC                                   came forward; bids will be
- Restructure enterprises                                              - Request bids for lease contract                      re-issucd in 1998.
remaining within the                                                   for SNE - - Bring to the point of  - January 1998      SONITEXTIL: Completed       t
govemment portfolio                                                    sale majority of shares of                             SNE: Under preparation
- Liquidate nonviable                                                  SONITEL                       - July 1997             (financial advisors for      o
enterprises                                                            - For SONIDEP, creation of a                           preparation of bids
private company to manage                              documents have been
. _____________________________________________  storage facilities and adoption of                  --__if_r i.n A--t 10(I W



Objective                 Measures taken                                Program measures             Responsible authority    Actual at time of ICR
_ _________________________________                                         and   tim etable
regulatory framework for private                                                   X
imports of petroleum products
- Bring to the point of sale
SPEHG, SONITEXTIL, RINI,
ONAHA, and OFEDES
- Restructuring of 8 enterprises                                                  Zs
remaining in thegovernmcnt
portfolio: ORTN (Radio
andTelevision Office), CPCT
(Credit Agency), Credit du
Niger, SONICHAR, SONUCI
(Urban Planning and Real
Estate Building Company),
ONPPC, SNTN (National
Transportation Company),
CNUT (Council oflPublic
Transportation Users)
- Liquidation of 3 enterprises:
ONT (National Tourism Office),
SONHOTEL (Hotel                                                                    1
Management Company), and
LABOCEL (Central Livestock
Laboratory)
3. Legislative and
regulatory framework      - Revision of the Labor Code and its implementation                                                 N.A.
- Create an environment   decrees
conducive to private sector  - Abolition of the monopoly on mining freight
development               - Adoption of Book 3 of the Commercial Code
- Simplify the regulatory  (Contracts and bankruptcy laws)
and legislative framework  - Adoption of pharmaceutical legislation and
abolition of the monopoly on drugs import
- Legislation supplementing the Rural Code (decree
regulating the development of rural natural
resources, decree governing herders' access to
grazing lands, decree goveming organization,
functions, and operations of institutions enforcing
the guiding principles of the Rural Code)



Annex D                            35
Public Finance Reform Credit (1998)
Actions taken prior to Board presentation were the following:
Budgetary Orthodoxy
a)    Completion of a comprehensive inventory of domestic arrears and adoption of a
plan for their orderly settlement and of measures to avoid their future recurrence;
b)    Launching of a comprehensive audit of the Treasury, including of its accounts to
ensure reconciliation between actual expenditures and budgeted amounts for the
1982-97 period;
c)    Elimination of all expenditure payments outside normal budgetary procedures
(PPAs);
d)    Adoption of implementation decree keeping expenditures strictly in line with
resources mobilized;
e)    Following the completion of the civil service census in September 1997, removal
from the payroll and civil service roaster of 319 employees whose status had been
found to be irregular;
f)    Integration of the civil service database and payroll files to ensure full control of
the government wage bill; and
g)    Completion of a Public Expenditure Review with detailed recommendations and
an action plan for their implementation, including through the 1999 Budget Law.
Revenue Mobilization
h)    Making fully operational the large taxpayer unit in the tax administration office
and providing it with adequate personnel and material to enhance its
effectiveness;
i)    Introduction of the single taxpayer identification number system for all revenue
agencies and introduction of computerized value records;
j)    Completion of a review of procedures for tax exonerations granted under the
petroleum and mining code and under the tax regime for the uranium sector and
implementation of their recommnendations;
k)    Elimination of all ad hoc exemptions and no granting of new exonerations under
the investment code to enterprises to be privatized starting from September 1,
1998;
1)    Provision to the General Tax Directorate of an additional 75 permanent staff and
30 fixed-term employees to accelerate revenue collection, and provision to tax
agencies of CFAF 1 billion for equipment and supplies to strengthen their
effectiveness;
m)    Effective implementation of the system of Treasury checks for the payment of
import duties under externally-financed government procurement contracts; and
n)    Extension to NGOs of the system of Treasury checks to pay import duties and
other applicable indirect taxes.



Public Finance Reform       Credit Policy Matrix
Objective         Measures                        Status of Execution       Performance Indicators         Responsible           Actual at time of
Authority              ICR
Restore
Credibility of                                                                                                                                            -
Finances
I. Control the    - Harmonization of the results of the  Done: an integrated civil  Contain the wage bill at CFAF  - Ministry of Finance,  1998 wage bill: CFAF
wage bill and the  civil service census, the payroll and  service database will be  44.0 billion in 1998 and CFAF  Economic Refoms and  48.6 bn.; 1999 wage;
civil service size  the civil service database     completed by December    44.7 billion in 1999; existence in  Privatization (MF)  bill: CFAF 50.8 bn.
1998                     1999 of an integrated database                        Integrated database
linking the payroll, the civil                        fully installed and
service database and other                            operational in 2000 but
ministries.                                          adjustments still
- Set up a mechanism for keeping                          Gap betwecn expenditure                              necessary to clean
expenditure strictly in line with                         commitments and intemal                              database;
resources mobilized                                       resources mobilized+ extemal
resources.
2. Re-establish   I) adopt implementation decree for  Done; quarterly reports of  Permanent application of the                   Expenditure regulation
financial and     the setting of this mechanism   expenditure commitments   mechanism.                                           mechanism installed in
accounting        2) strengthen the role of the   Permanent measure                                                              1999 but unsuccessful;
orthodoxy and     Treasury Committec
budgetary         - Audit of the Treasury         The audit was launched in  Implementation of the         MF with extemal       Treasury audit
discipline                                        August 1998; the audit will recommendation of the Treasury  -support           completed in 1999;
be completed by January  audit during the period 1998-99.                      Action plan adopted in
31, 1999                                                                       September 2000 and
first recommendations
implemented in late
2000;
- Prepare Treasury accounts (TA)  Presentation of the year-  Availability of the TA and draft  General Budget  Budget review law for
for 1988 to 1996 and year-end    end expenditure and audits  EA up to the year 1997 on the  Directorate(GBD)   FY 1997 and FY 1998
expenditure audits (lois de      covering the execution of  basis of the results of the Treasury  Trcasury (T)  sent to Parliament in
reglement) (EA) for 1982 to 1997  the budget for each fiscal  audit; experience of a                           2000 and 2001
year from 1991 to 1997 to  computerized program to prepare                    respectively; (d)
the Parliament during the  the TA and EA, including the                        Treasury accounts for
first half of 1999       procedure manual                                      FY 1997 transferred to
Chamber of Accounts
in 2000.
3. Avoid a new                                                              No new accumulation of domestic  MF
build-up of                                                                 arrears starting from July 1, 1998
domestic arrears
during 1998 and



Objective         Measures                        Status of Execution      Performance Indicators         Responsible            Actual at time of
Authority              ICR
1999              - TOTAL ELIMINATION of PPAs.    The elimination was      Possibility of reviewing at any  MF
This elimination was accompanied  effective on April 1, 1998  moment the list of operations
by a return to and strict respect of,                    recorded in the Treasury account
expenditure procedures                                     112-61-10 to verify the lack of
- Measures taken for urgent                              PPAs
expenditures that are a source of
PPAs
a) medical evacuation and official  Done                 Implement plan to reduce the cost
travels; creation of "regies                              of medical evacuations by
d'avances", study of medical                             December 1998
evacuations to identify measures to
better control them
b) creation of "deposit accounts" for  Done
other potential sources of PPAs
(Security fund, Parliament,
expenditures for the peace process,
etc)
Measures to avoid the accumulation                       No new accumulation of arrears                        New arrears estimated
of new domestic arrears                                  for water, electricity and                            by authorities to have
(a) expenditures for water,                              tclephone Govcmmcnt                                   risen by CFAF 8.5 bn
electricity and telephone                                consumption starting July 1, 1998                     in 1998 and by 36.9 in
- strengthen management of water,                        (on the basis of SNE/NIGELEC                          1999, including on
electricity and telephone billing                        /SONITEL billing and "base point                      utility expenditure
(including through the unit created                      age" stes / DCF of MF)
for this purpose )
- provide adequate budgetary    Revised 1998 Budget Law
allocations in the revised 1998  and 1999 Budget Law
Budget Law and the 1999 Budget
Law to cover actual consumption
- idcntification and implementation  See detailed measure in the  Reduction of 20% of Government               Utility expenditure
of measures to reduce Government  Footnote 2 of the Letter of  consumption of water, electricity               rose in 1998 before
consumption of these services   Development              and telephone (on the basis of                        coming down to 1997-
(b) expenditure for embassies                             1997 consumption levels) by                          levels in 1999.
- strengthen monitoring of embassy  Permanent measure    December 31, 1999                                     Consumption
accounting                                                                                                     estimated to have
- conduct an inspection of the  Permanent measure                                                              declined by about 10%
occasion of every change of official                                                                           year-on-year in 2000.
in charge of making payment and
accounting procedures



Objective         Measures                          Status of Execution       Performance Indicators          Responsible            Actual at time of
Authority              ICR
(c) investment expenditure
-include the counterpart funds for  Permanent measure
investment projects among
obligatory expenditure
(d) Subsidies and scholarships    Audit is ongoing         Implementation of the audit's                           Studies complctcd in      Z
- audit of the University, the ORTN,                        recommendation in 1998                                 1999. Implementation      3
the ENA and the INRAN                                       Application of the audit's                             of some recommenda-
- audit of the management of      Audit is ongoing         recommendations in 1998                                 tions initiated in 2001
university scholarships and                                                                                        (census of scholarship
finalization of the census of                                                                                      rccipicnts).
university students
(e) Other expenditures
- strict application of the system of  Permanent measure
expenditure control and regulations
- subject delegated expenditures to  Permanent measure
the expenditure control and
regulation system
- conduct an inspection on the    Permanent measure
occasion of every change of official
in charge of making payments and
accounting procedures
4. Preparation and  - Inventory of domestic arrears  Done                                                     Ad hoc
implementation of                                                                                             Commission + T+ Gen.
a domestic arrears                                                                                            Dir. Of Econ. Reforms
settlement plan                                                                                              (GDER) + Public
Enterprise Dir. (PED) +
GBD+Dir. Public Debt
(DPD)
I) The inventory of domestic
arrears has been completed on the
basis of information provided by
relevant units (T-GDER-PED-
GBD-DPD) with assistance of                                                                Ad hoc Commission +
consultants                                                                                T+ GDER + PED +
The stock of arrears amounts to                                                            GBD +DPD
CFAF 118 billion as of March 31,
1998



Objective         Measures                         Status of Execution      Performance Indicators          Responsible            Actual at time of
Authority              ICR
- Implementation of the settlement                        Cash settlement of domestic                            Preliminary estimates
plan                                                      arrears in a net amount of US$20                       show that the
1) The modalities and priorities for  Implementation of the  million in 1998 according to the                   equivalent of about
the settlement of these arrears are  settlement plan in 1998 -  modalities and priorities of the                 USD 19 million of the
detailed in the Letter of        99                       settlement plan detailed in the                        pre-1998 stock were
Development Policy                                        Letter.                                                settled between 1998
2) These arrears will be validated  Implementation of the  Cash settlement of domestic                           and 2000.
by an ad hoc commission whose    settlement plan in 1998 -  arrears in a net amount of
attributions are detailed in the Letter  99               US$20million in the first quarter
of 1998 according to the
modalities and priorities of the
settlement plan detailed in the
Letter.
Improve the       - Finalize the draft Public      August 1998              Execution of the 1999 budget    PER Committee
efficiency of     Expenditure Report(PDR)                                   which integrates the
public spending   - Draft 1999 Budget Law          October 31, 1998         recommendations of the PER      General Budget         The 1999 budget law
satisfactory to IDA and reflecting                                                        Directorate           included recommen-
the PER recommendations                                                                                          dations from the PER     w
in terms of increased
allocations for non-
wage current
expenditures in health
and education. Share in
allocation of these
expenditures increased
further in FY 2000.
Revenue
Mobilization and
reduction of tax
exonerations
I. Strengthen     - strictly limit exonerations to goods  Measures strictly applied  Inexistence of exonerations Basic  Min. of Commerce+  Total exemptions
control of        and services listed in conventions  by DCRES;             documents for monitoring ALL    General Customs        reported by customs
exonerations and  annexes                          communication sent to    exonerations: reports of        Directorate            decreased from 38.1 %
reduce their                                       concerned enterprises to  exonerations granted are prepared  (GCD)+General Tax  of taxable value in
number and                                         ensure the strict respect of  periodically and will be used for  Directorate    1997 to 36.8% in 1998    o
scope.                                             the conventions          the monitoring of exonerations                         and 34.2% in 1999.
(all codes)
granted outside of the scope of the                                             s:



Objective         Measures                        Status of Execution       Performance Indicators         Responsible           Actual at time of
Authority              ICR
conventions annexes
- ensure better control of the final  Permanent measure:  Number of surveillance missions
destination of exempted goods    control activities, mobile  and contested cases
units and DECD/ST
- Strictly apply the Investment Code
(IC):
I) withdraw exonerations when a  Communication sent to   Inexistence of exonerations on
company does not complete the    concemed enterprises; the  equipment goods for enterprises
investment program within 12     measure is being applied  which havc not executed their
month period                                              investment program within a 12
month period
2) non-renewal expiring exemptions  Communication sent to  Inexistence of exonerations for
granted under the Investment code  concerned enterprises; the  enterprises whose agreement
measurc is being applied  validity for the exploitation phase
has expired
3) decision to exclude all       Completed                No new exoneration granted
enterprises that will be privatized                       under the provision of the
starting from Septl, 1998 from                            Investment Code to the
exemptions under the provision of                         enterprises that will be privatized
Investment Code                                          from Sept. 1, 1998
- conduct a review of existing
procedures for exonerations granted  Completed            Application in 1998 of the
under the petroleum and mining                            recommendations of the review
code and under the tax regime for
the uranium sector and whose
recommendations will be
implemented during 1998
- introduce a system of Treasury  Completed               Progressive disappearance of
checks as a means to monitor                              exonerations under Codes 8 & 9
exemptions related to imports under
foreign-financed government
procurement contracts
- extend to NGOs the system of   Completed                No exoneration granted for NGO-
Treasury checks to pay import                             financed public procurement
duties and other applicable indirect                      contract
taxes
- eliminate all ad hoc exemptions  No ad hoc exemptions has  No new ad hoc exemption granted
been granted since January  (code 12)'



Objective         Measures                        Status of Execution      Performance Indicators         Responsible            Actual at time of
Authority              ICR
- eliminate exemptions from duties  1998
and taxes on all imports of     Complcted                No cxoncration granted from
lubricants and spare parts with a                        duties and taxes on imports of
unit value under CFAF 100,000                             lubricants and spare parts with a
unit value under CFAF 100,000
-introduce a system of exemptions  Under preparations    Application of the mcasure by
applicable to petroleum products                         March 31, 1999
based on the advance payment of
customs duties and taxes and their
reimbursement on the basis of
delivery receipts
2. Simplify the
taxation system,
broaden the tax
base and
strengthen the tax
administration    - introduce the single taxpayer  Completed               Increase budgetary revenues from  GTC+ GDC+ Treasury  Budgetary revenues to
identification number system to all                      8.4% of GDP in 1997 to 9.9% in                        GDP:
revenue agencies                                          1998 and 10.3% in 1999                               1998: 9.1%
- simplify the property tax and                                                                                1999: 8.8%
transfer responsibility for its
collection from the Treasury to the
General Tax Directorate (GTC)
- set up the Large Taxpayer Unit  Completed
- launch the activities of the VAT  The unit started audit  Performance indicators: from July                  Collections from
monitoring unit                 activities in Feb. 1998; as  to December 1998: CFAF                            verification:
of April 30, 1998, 53    200,000,000; January to                               H2/ 1998: CFAF 203       >
verifications were       December 1999: CFAF                                   million                  t:
launched, 36 were        700,000,000                                           1999: CFAF 1,312
completed. VAT assessed:                                                       million
CFAF 132,580,894; IUTS:
CFAF6,609,316; penalties
for VAT:
CFAF79,650,567; IUTS:
CFAF 8,232,948                                      . .



Objective         Measures                          Status of Execution       Performance Indicators          Responsible            Actual at time of         >
Authority              ICR                       0
- prepare computerized value      Completed                 Use of a comparative value
records for use by the General                             records system by thc GCD
Customs Directorate (GDC)
- Open Niamey /road and           Niamey/road and           Reduction of the differences   GTD                                               o
Niamey/right pilot revenue offices  Niamey/right bank pilot  between the GCD and the
revenue offices           Treasury data on intemational
established; extension to  trade taxes collected to improve
other offices in 1998-99  revenue mobilization
- use statements of reconciliation  use of the first        Quarterly reports on the use of  GTD
between the ADVs of COTECNA       reconciliation statement is  statcmcnt of reconciliation
and the customs declarations      ongoing; permanent
- Provide in 1998 the tax agencies  measure
with a budgetary allocation of                                                             GCD
CFAF I billion for logistical     Execution of the 1998     Execution of the 1998 budget
equipment                         budget
- Recruit at the General Tax Direct-
orate an additional 75 permanent                                                           GCD                                              to
staff and 30 fixed-term employees  1998



43                  Annex D (continued)
Public Finance Reform Credit
Key Performance Indicators
The following key performance indicators were agreed between IDA and the
Government to evaluate implementation progress and outcomes of the program supported
by the PFRC:
* Increase in budgetary revenues from 8.4 percent of GDP in 1997 to 9.9 percent in
1998 and 10.3 percent in 1999;
* Contain the wage bill at CFA 44.0 billion I 1998 and 44.7 billion in 1999, and
establish by start of 1999 an integrated database for the civil service, the payroll,
and the other ministries;
* Implement the recommendations of the audit of the Treasury during 1998-99;
* No accumulation of new intemal arrears starting from July 1, 1998;
* Elimination of the use of advance expenditure payments procedures (PPA);
* Execution of the 1999 budget reflecting the PER recommendations, and
* No granting of new exonerations under the provisions of the Investment Code to
enterprises to be privatized starting from September 1, 1998.
Detailed performance indicators were defined in the policy matrix of the Letter of
Development Policy.



Annex E                                   44
Public Finance Recovery Credit (2000)
Actions taken between December 1999 and Board presentation in September
2000 were the following:
a)     Revision and implementation of a new tariff structure, in accordance with the
requirements of the WAEMU treaty, with the effect of reducing the maximum
tariff rate from 25 to 20 percent, the (non-weighted) average tariff form 22.3 to
12.3 percent, and the statistical tax on imports from 5 to 1 percent';
b)     Enactment of new legislation setting forth a new tax regime and increasing the
value added tax rate from 18 to 19 percent;
c)     Enactment of a revised budget law for FY 2000 based on revenue projections
consistent with tax collection capacity and increase, under the said budget law, of
the budgetary allocations for the health and education sectors3;
d)     Adoption of adequate steps to reduce the government's utility and
telecommunications bill, including through the enforcement of regulation
discontinuing government subsidies of private utility consumption of public
officials4;
e)     Re-enactment of the legislation governing the civil service retirement and pension
regime5 and agreement with the main federations of trade unions (Union des
Syndicats de Travailleurs du Niger and Confederation Nationale des Travailleurs)
on the implementation of the reform;
f)     Enactment of legislation establishing a Road Maintenance Fund, and transferring
road maintenance operation to private sector operators6;
g)     Launching the privatization process with respect to SONITEL and SNE by
selecting, through a transparent pre-qualification process, potential private sector
investors, and formally inviting such investors to submit bids;
1 Ordinance No. 99165 of December 20, 1999.
2 Law No. 2000-003 of May 2, 2000.
3 In particular, the 2000 Budget Law included all-time highs in terms of (i) the share of health allocations in
total current spending (8.2 percent) and of non-wage and non-subsidy health expenditure in total current
spending (3.8 percent); (ii) the share of basic education allocations (primary, secondary, literacy) in total
current spending (14.1 percent), and the share of non-wage expenditure for primary education in total
spending for basic education (13.1 percent). The revised Budget Law also elimninated any allocation to the
budget line debited in the past years for the discretionary settlement of domestic arrears.
4 Decree No 99-363 of August 31, 1999.
5 Ordinance No. 98-380 of December 24, 1998.
6 Respectively Ordinance No. 99-55 of November 22, 1999, and Decree No. 2000-101 of April 7, 2000.



45                   Annex E (continued)
h)    Launching the process of awarding two cellular phone licenses to private
operators by formally inviting private companies, through advertisement in the
international press, to submit bids to that effect;
i)    Adoption of instructions requiring all government agencies to execute their
expenditures in accordance with the relevant payments procedures in effect in
Niger, and confirming the ban on exceptional payment procedures;7
j)    Regularization of all advance payments of public expenditure made during FY
2000, in accordance with relevant budgetary and Government accounting rules
and standards;
k)    Implementation of the regulation establishing the Treasury Committee (Comite
National de Suivi de la Tresorerie de 1 'Etat) , by making the Committee fully
operational, and ensuring adequate financial reporting (budget execution reports,
monthly financial plans) to guide expenditure and cash management;
1)    Establishment of adequate financial control mechanisms to monitor the
expenditures of all autonomous public sector agencies or enterprises that benefit
from government subsidies (Correspondants du Tresor);
m)    Submission to the National Assembly of a draft Loi de Reglement for FY
1997;
n)    Adoption of an action plan, for the reorganization of the Treasury Department
(Tresorerie Generale), based on the recommendations of the functional audit
performed in 2000; and
o)    Completion of an evaluation report on the work of the former Arrears Settlement
Commission (Commission ad hoc de Gestion des Arrieres Interieurs de 1' Etat).
7 Prime ministerial instruction No. 536, dated May 29, 2000.
s Ministerial instruction No. 491/MF/RE, dated November 29, 1999.



Public Finance Recovery Credit - Fiscal Management Reform                    program     Policy Matrix
Objectives       Prior actions               Future measures and timetable                   Performance bench         Responsible     Actual at time of ICR        >
marks                     authority                                   a
1. Increase      - The Common Extemal Tariff  (a) Continued reduction in tax exemptions      Reach fiscal revenue to   MOC, GCD,
Efficiency of    of the WAEMU is              - Improve monitoring of tax exemptions and take  GDP targets:            GTD
Revenue          implemented, reducing the    additional measures to streamline granting of   FY 2000: 8.2 %                           FY 2000: 8.6%
Mobilization     maximum tariff from 25 to    exemptions (2001 Budget Law)                    FY 2001: 8.9 %                           FY 2001: 9.2%
20%                          - Improve system of exemption control on extemally                                                                    o
financed procurement (Q4/2000)
- Domestic tax system was    (b) Improve taxpayer monitoring systems         Increased domestic tax    TR, GCD,
revised to reduce corporate  - Effective use of TIN database                 revenue performance:      GTD, GBD
income tax (form 45 to 42.5  - Formalize exchange of data between PSI agent GCD  FY 2000: CFAF 47.6 billion           FY 2000: CFAF 44.3
%),and raise VAT (from 17 to  on trade values; strict enforcement of controls when  FY 2001: CFAF 51.2                billion
19%/.)                       data diverges. (Q4/2000)                       billion                                   FY 2001: CFAF 60.3
billion
(c) Improve revenue collection outside the capital
- Redeployment and training of tax collection agents;  Improved customs tax  GCD
- Stricter monitoring of tax performance in major  performance:
urban centers                                   FY 2000: 55.7 billion                    FY 2000: CFAF 58.5
FY 2001: 59.7 billion                    billion
(d) Improve efficiency of petroleum products taxation                                     FY 2001: CFAF 64.8
(Q2/2001)                                                                                 billion
2. Improve       - A revised Budget law was  (a) Rationalize budget allocations for non-wage  Avoid new domestic       GDB, Utility
Budget           adopted, based, on revenue  spending items:                                 arrears on utilities      companies
Preparation      projections consistent with  - Utilities: Determine consumption standards for  consumption,                          In FY 2000, utility
and              current tax collection      water, electricity and telephone (Q2/2001)      autonomous agencies                       consumption remains a
Expenditure      capacity.                                                                   spending, or              GDB, TR,        problem in some
Programming                                                                                  scholarships              MHE, other      ministries, but stringent
line ministries  measures have been
taken (e.g. cut-off in
services) and bills are
paid on time;
- Subsidies: budget allocations on recipient agencys                                      Limited implementation
submission of previous year accounts, current year                                        of the rationalization in
estimates, and a budget proposal for the future fiscal                                    the determination of
year (Q4/2000)                                                                            subsidies in FY 2001;
- Establish financial management and accounting
systems for autonomous agencies (EPA, EPIC;
Q3t2001)
- Scholarships: Update student database to control                                        Limited change in
eligibility; review allocation criteria (Q4/2000)                                         scholarship allocations
mechanisms for FY 2001



Objectives      Prior actions             Future measures and timetable                 Performance bench       Responsible    Actual at time of ICR
marks                    authority
(b) Rationalize budget allocation for personnel
spending:
- Effective use of the integrated  - Determine the volume of departures and new
civil service database for  recruitment, and evaluate fiscal impact (wages and
payroll management         pensions) by using the integrated payrollpersonnel
database (ongoing)
- c) Introduce medium term budget programming  - Sector-wide budget   GBD, pilot
procedures                                   shects
- Prepare sector budget envelopes integrating  - Determination of     MTEF
investment and recurrent budgets(Q4/2000)    medium-term aggregate    ministry
- Introduce concepts of Medium-Term          fiscal targets           (MPH)
Expenditure Frameworks (MTEFs), integrating  - Evaluation of sector
aggregate fiscal discipline and poverty reduction  expenditure targets linked
objectives (Q3/2001)                         to sector development
(d) Reform Budget nomenclature in line with  strategy                               New budget nomen-
Regional guidelines (Q2/2001)                                                       clature finalized; to be
implemented for the
execution of the 2003
budget.
3. Improve      - Advance payment         (a) Enforce budgetary discipline with respect to  - Volume of regies  GBD, TR,
Expenditure     procedures formally banned  urgent expenditure requests (missions, medical  d'avances; 30 days.  GFI
Management      and regularized [Board    emergencies,..)
condition]                  - Strictly and parsimoniously apply existing rules
for urgent expenditure management (regies
d'avance) (ongoing)
- Establishment of a       (b) Rationalize expenditure regulation and cash  - Non-accumulation of  GBD, TR,    Outstanding arrears for
Treasury Committee         management                                   new domestic arrears     GCD, GTD      FY 2000: CFAF 0.2
- Weekly operational cash management plans   from 2000 onward                       billion;
validated by Treasury Committee (Q3/2000)
- Evaluation of the existing budget regulation
mechanisms, and adoption of corrective
measures for the 2001 budget execution
(Q4/2000)
- Establishment of financial  (c) Strengthen of control over non-wage current  - Reduce utility
control on expenditures of  expenditure                                 consumption in real      GBD, TR
state autonomous agencies-  - Further reinforce oversight over EPA/EPIC  terms over 2000-2001
expenditure (ongoing)
- Interruption of utility  - Complete remaining technical measures needed
delivery in case of non- .  to prevent abusive consumption of utility
payment                    consumption (Q2/2001)



Objectives     Prior actions             Future measures and timetable                Performance bench       Responsible   Actual at time of ICR
marks authority
- Fully integration of    (d) Strengthen wage bill control                                  _.        Y                                 1
personnel and payroll files;  - Undertake clean-up of indemnity allocation by  - Respect wage bill
edition of salaries from the  eliminating all legally unjustified allowances  targets:        GBD, MLMA
new integrated database   (QI/2001)                                   2000: CFAF 51.4                       FY 2000: CFAF 51.8
- Design strategy for the streamlining and  billion                               billion
reduction of indemnities (Q4/2000)          2001: CFAF 49.6                       FY 2001: CFAF 50.4        o
billion                               billion
(e) Reform public expenditure process       - Action plan for       GBD, TR
- Revise commitment and accounting procedures  expenditure process
of deconcentrated expenditures (delegations de  form finalized
credit) (Q2/2001)
- Shorten processing time between initial
commitment proposal and effective initiation of the
expenditure (Q2/200 1)
- Prepare action plan for the reform of the
expenditure process following recommendations
of an "organic" PER (Q3/2001)
- Preparation of an action  f) Reorganization of the Treasury and     - Volumes of suspense   TR
plan in follow-up to TR   modernization of accounting procedures      accounts
audit and IMFIFAD         - Streamline and clarify accounting         - Revised accounting
mission reports (completed)  nomenclature, harmonized with budget     nomenclature                                                    oo
- Re-establishment of same-  nomenclature reform (Q4/2000)
day accounting practices  - Reduction in use of suspense accounts
(ongoing)
- Generalize double-part accounting for tax
collecting agencies, in-country TR network
(Q2/2001)
4. Strengthen                            a) Improve timeliness and quality of fiscal  - Regular reconciliation  GBD, TR,    Fully integrated data
Fiscal                                   reporting                                   between GDB budget      GCD, G'l'D    available
Reporting and                            - Institutionalize and formalize regular data  information and TR
Expenditure                              reconciliation meetings between concemed agencies  balance of accounts with
Evaluation                               (ongoing)                                   explanation of
Systems                                  - Adopt provisional balance of entry for 2000  divergences                         Balance of entry has not
Treasury balance sheet (Q4/2000)            - 2000 Balance of entry               been fully reconciled
with outtum of previous
- Introduction of a new   (b) Expand utilization of the budget information  - Regular fiscal reports  GBD, CIS,  year in 2000;
computerized budget       system:                                                             TR, Spending
information system        - Expansion to spending units and the Treasury Dept.  - Integrated budget  Agencies  Integrated FMIS
(Q3/2001)                                   management information                established in early 2002;
- Introduction of automated control procedures  system in place
(QI/2001)



Objectives      Prior actions              Future measures and timetable                Performance bench       Responsible    Actual at time of ICR
_________________________marks                             authority   ._-_________
- Regular production of budget execution tables
(Q3/2000)
- Integration of revenue and payroll data into the
budget information system (Q2/2001)
- Completed sectoral Public  (c) Strengthen expenditure evaluation mechanisms  - 2001-02 budget
Expenditure Reviews        - Integrate recommendations of completed sector  allocations for health,
(Health, Education, Rural  PERs in Budget preparation process (Q4/2000)  education, rural
sector).                   - Undertake and complete budget-wide PER for  development, HIV/AIDS                 Start on PER delayed
1997-99 focusing on: (i) inter-sectoral expenditure  reflecting PER                 (expected completion:
trends; (ii) review of budgetary procedures  recommendations                        mid-2003)
- Completed budget-
wide PER
5. Restore Ex   Budget execution laws for  (a) Re-establish the regular production and  - Published budget review  GBD, NA     Budget review laws/
Post External   1997 is submitted to the  submission of budget review laws (lois de     laws for 1998, 1999                    Treasury accounts for
Audit of the    National Assembly         reglements)                                                                          1998-99 submitted.
Budget                                    - Submit 1998 Budget review law for 1998 to the                                      Budget review law for
National Assembly (4/2000)                                                          2000 sent to Parliament
- All 1999 expenditures are regularized and budget
review law for 1999 submitted to the National
Assembly (Q2/2001)                                                                                              "o
- Work plan is prepared and adopted to ensure
regular production of budget execution laws by
the Budget Directorate (Q1/2001)
- The 1997 accounts are    (b) Restore State Court control over Treasury  - Completed Chamber of  TR. CHAC     2000 accounts closed in
transferred to the State   closing balances(comnptes de gesJion)        Accounts Report for 1997               late 2001. First audit
Court's Chamber of         - The 1998 accounts are closed and transferred to  Budget                           report expected by mid-
Accounts                  the Chamber of Accounts (Q1/2001)                                                    2002; Budget Review
- The and 1999 accounts are closed and                                              Law for 2000 completed
transferred to the Chamber of Accounts                                              in March 2000. Closed
(Q4/2001)                                                                           accounts for 2000 sent o
- Work plan is prepared and adopted to ensure                                       the Chamber of Accounts
regular closing of accounts by the Treasury
(QI/2001)
- Chamber of Accounts report on 1997 accounts is
submitted to National Assembly (Q3/2001)                                            _
6. Revive       - Evaluation report on the  - Revise institutional framework for arrears  - Up-dated arrears-   CAADIE,        Strategy finalized in      o
Domestic        past settlement initiatives is  settlement, including clarification of the decree  statistical table  DGB, TR  September 200 1;
Arrears         prepared, and achievements  creating the "autonomous center for the    and up-dated settlement                 CFAF 37.8 billion
Settlement      of previous work (physical  amortization of the State's intemal debt"  strategy                                cleared in FY 2001
Process         and electronic archives,  (CAADIE, Q4/2000)                                                                    (including supplementary



Objectives      Prior actions              Future measures and timetable                Performance bench        Responsible   Actual at time of ICR
marks                    authoritv
claims verification work) are  - Take stock of all internal arrears by year-end                                settlement period)
preserved                  1999, undertake proper statistical and accounting
classification (Q4/2000)
- Update settlement plan to include all arrears,
identify transparent settlement modalities
according to the nature of the arrears and                                                                      o
financing strategy (Q4/2000)
7. Accelerate   - Civil Service retirement  (a) Civil service reform                    - New budgetary positions  MF, MLMA,
Structural      reform was re-enacted      - Revise-nomenclature of budgetary posts     nomenclature             MPH, MNE
Reforms with                               attached to a civil service position and update  - Sectoral human resource
Fiscal Impact                              database with revised budgetary posts (Q212001)  management plans
- Initiate process of decentralization of budgetary  (health, education)
positions (Q3/2001)
- Prepare human resource management plans for
key ministries focusing on redeployment and
alternative recruitment strategies (Ql/2001)
- Pre-qualified investors for  (b) Privatization and regulatory reform program  - Completed tele-  MP[RSE,
SONITEL, SNE were          - Staffing and operational establishment of the  communications sector  MC, MF
selected and invited to    Multi-sector Regulatory Agency (QI/2001)     liberalization              ,.
submit financial bids.     - Designation of the investor to take over the  (attribution of cellular            March 2001: two mobile
- Invitations to submit    SONITEL strategic capital share, and attribution  phone licenses,                   phone licenses sold to
financial offers for two   for two cellular phone licenses to the private  SONITEL privatization)              private sector operators;
cellular phone licenses    sector (Q4/2000)                                                                    telephone company
launched                                                                                                       privatized on December
2001.
- Designation of the investor to take over the  - Completed SNE,                    Water distribution
management contract of the water distribution  NIGELEC transactions                 company privatized.
company SNE (QI/2001)
- Designation of the investor to be granted the                                      Selection of the pre-
concession for the power distribution company                                       qualified investors for the
NIGELEC (Q3/2001)                                                                   power company end June
2001 and process to be
finalized by end
December.
- Designation of the shareholders for to take over                                  Limited progrcss
the petroleum import company (Q2/2002)
- Reform the petroleum pricing system (Q 1/2001)                                    New petroleum pricing
system established
(August 2001).



Niger - Key Economic Indicators 1990-2001
(in percent of GDP, unless otherwise indicated)
1990    1991     1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001 Est.
Real GDP (% increase)                -1.3     2.5    -6.5      1.4     4.0     2.6     3.4    2.8     10.4    -0.6    -1.4       7.6
GDP per capita (US$)                                         225.0                    210.0                  197.0    169.0     180.0
CPI - African (% increase)           -2.0    -1.9    -2.9     -0.9    35.6    10.9     5.3    2.9     4.5     -2.3    2.9        4.0
Terms of trade (% change)            -9.8    -1.8    -8.4     -1.3    -13.7    4.9    -8.7    -7.6    5.8
Terms of trade 1995= 100 (% change)                                                   -16.7   -1.1    9.8     9.3     -12.8      3.8
National Accounts                    1990    1991    1992     1993    1994    1995    1996    1997   1998     1999    2000      2001
Consumption                          96.0    92.5     95.6    96.7    100.0   100.2   97.6    96.9    97.6    97.4    96.7      96.8
Gross inv.                           11.4     7.8     5.4     5.7     10.4     7.3     9.7    10.9    11.4    10.2    10.8       11.5
Public inv.                                                   4.2      6.6     5.2     4.6    5.8     6.5     6.4      5.9       6.5
Private inv.                                                   1.9     2.3     1.8     4.7    4.8     4.6     3.6      4.6       4.8
Gross dom. savings                    4.0     7.5     4.4     3.3      0.0    -0.2     2.4    3.1     2.4     2.6      3.3       3.2
Public savings                                                                -1.0     1.0    0.2     1.2     -0.6    0.9        2.0
Private savings                                                                0.8     1.4    2.9     1.2     3.2      2.3       1.3
Resource gap                         -4.1    -1.7     -1.1    -2.4    -10.3   -7.5    -7.3    -7.7   -9.0     -7.6    -7.5      -8.2
Public Finance, Revenue, Tax         1990    1991    1992     1993    1994    1995    1996   1997    1998    1999     2000      2001
Total revenue                        10.3     8.5     8.2     7.3      6.0     7.2     7.8    8.4     9.1     8.8      8.6       9.2
Tax revenue                           7.9     7.0     6.7     6.6      5.4     6.6     6.7    7.3     7.9     8.1      8.0       8.7
Total exp. + net lending             22.7    16.9     16.8    16.8    18.6    15.2    13.1    16.0    17.3    17.9    16.2      16.6
Currentexp.                          13.3     11.1    12.6    12.8    12.5    11.3     9.3    11.1    11.6    12.4    11.2      11.0
Capital exp.                          8.9     5.4     4.7     4.3      5.8     4.6     4.1    5.1     5.7     5.6      5.2       5.7
Primary budget bal. (comit.) I/      -10.1   -6.5    -6.9     -7.7    -9.9    -5.7    -3.7    -6.0    -6.6    -7.5    -5.9      -5.6
Current budget bal. (comit) 2/       -3.5    -3 1     -3.9    -5.2    -6.4    -1.4    -1.5    -2.7    -2.5    -3.6    -2.6      -1.8
Basic fiscal bal. (comit.) 3/        -2.1     0.0     -2.4    -3.7    -4.8    -3.7     0.0    -3.0   -1.7     -4.8    -3.0      -3.4
Overall bal. excl. grants (comit.) 4/  -12.4  -8.4   -8.6     -9.4    -12.5   -8.0    -5.3    -7.5   -8.2     -9.0    -7.6      -7.4
Overall bal. excl. grants (cash) 5/  -11.8   -5.3    -5.1     -5.5    -19.5   -6.2    -8.9    -8.6    -8.5   -5.1    -16.3      -8.6
1990    1991     1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000      2001
Wage bill (CFA billion)              36.7    38.7     38.9    40.3    47.4    49.7    33.4    44.2   45.1     50.6    51.8      50.4
Wage bilVtotal revenue               53.0    69.6     76.3    87.6    90.8    73.2    42.3    48.7   40.3     46.2    47.0      38.1
Scholarships (CFA billion)                            3.6     5.6      3.5     4.5     2.2    3.2                      3.0       2.8
External Sector .                    1990    1991    1992     1993    1994    1995    1996   1997    1998    1999     2000      2001
Exports fob                          12.2    12.2     11.3    11.3    14.4    15.3    16.4    14.7    16.1    14.2    15.7      14.5
Importscif                           21.9    18.3     14.4    14.8    21.0    20.3    21.3    20.2   22.7     19.5    21.9      n.a.
Current act. def. (incl. off. transfers)  4.4  -0.6   -1.9    -0.7    -6.4    -7.9    -5.5    -7.2    -7.3    -6.8    -5.8      -5.7
Current act. def. (excl. off. transfers)  -11.8  -7.4  -6.7   -7.7    -14.9   -8.9    -7.6    -8.9    -9.5    -7.8    -7.5      -7.5
I/ Primary budget bal. = Budget rev. minus total exp., excluding int. payments
2/ Current budget bal. = Budget rev. minus current exp.
3/ Basic fiscal bal. = Budget rev excluding grants minus total exp. and excluding foreign-financed investment projects
4/ Overall bal. = Budget rev. minus total exp. excluding grants
5/ Overall bal = Budget rev. minus total exp. excluding grants plus arreas
Sources: IMF
For 1990: SM/95t34- 2/10/95
For 1991: SM/97/188 - 7/14/97
For 1992-93: SM/98/207 - 8/14/98
For 1994: SM/00/265 - 11/29/00
For 1995-2000: SM/02/24 - 1/24t2002 and EBSIO2n of 1/18/02



Annex G                                           52
Basic Data Sheet
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT (CREDIT 2581-Nm)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal          Actual or           Actual as % of
estimate       current estimate      appraisal estimate
Total project costs                               25.0               25.0                  100
Loan amount                                       25.0              25.0                   100
Cofinancing
Cancellation
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY94
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                  25
Actual (US$M)                             25.8
Actual as % of estimate                  103.2
Date of final disbursement                               April 28,1995
Project Dates
Planned                         Actual
Initial Discussions with IDA               January 10-14, 1994             January 10-14, 1994
Appraisal                                  January 17-25, 1994             January 1994
Negotiations                               February 28, 1994               February 28, 1994
Board Presentation                         March 17,1994                   March 17, 1994
Effectiveness                              March 31, 1994                  March 25, 1994
Closing date                               June 30, 1995                   June 30, 1995
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Planned              Revised              Actual
Weeks      USS      Weeks       US$      Weeks       USS
Preappraisal - Appraisal          0          0        0          0         2.7      9,300
Appraisal-Board'                  0          0        0          0          0         0
Board - Effectiveness             0          0        0          0          0         0
Supervision                       0          0        0          0          9      .16,200
Completion                        8        7,600      13      19,000       8.1     31,800
Total                             8        7,600      13       19,000     19.8      57,300
Mission Data
Date       No. of   Staff  Specializations     PerformanceRating            Types of
(month/year)  persons   days    represented                                    problems
in field
Implementation Development
Status       Objectives
Preparation &  January 1994   3        8      2 Economists
Appraisal                                      1 Country
Officer
Appraisal
Supervision I  Nov. 10-22,    1        12      Economist
1994
Supervision II  May 3-13, 1995  1      10     Economist       Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory Project
Management.
Performance
Supervision Ill  Sept. 17-25,  1       8      Economist
1995
Completion     April 1-12,1996 2       11     Consultant
Economist



53                         Annex G (continued)
Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency: Ministry of Finance
FoLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Operation                                             Purpose.          Year of Approval  Status
Public Sector Adjustment Credit               To improve fiscal        FY97            Closed
management



Annex G (continued)                              54
Basic Data Sheet
PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CREDIT 2939-NIR)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal         Actual or           Actual as % of
estimate       current estimate    appraisal estimate
Total project costs                              30.0              30.0                  100
Loan amount                                      30.0              30.0                  100
Cofinancing
Cancellabon
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY97
Appraisal esbimate (US$M)                        30,000
Actual (US$M)                                    29,725
Actual as % of appraisal                          99
Date of final disbursement:                                                             March 21, 1997
Project Dates
Original                       Actual
Idenbficaton                              October 1-5,1996               October 1-5, 1996
Preparation                               October 31-November 13, 1996   October 31-November13, 1996
Appraisal                                 February 6-12, 1997            February 6-12, 1997
Negobations                               February 12-13, 1997           February 12-13, 1997
Letter of Development Policy              February 14, 1997              February 14, 1997
Board Presentation                        March 20,1997                  March 20, 1997
Signing                                   March 21, 1997                 March 21, 1997
Effectiveness                             March 21, 1997                 March 21, 1997
Single Tranche Release                    March 21,1997                  March 21, 1997
Closing date                              March 31, 1998                 March 31, 1998
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Planned            Revised             Actual
Weeks      US$     Weeks      US$     Weeks      US$
Preparation -Appraisall        56.0     157.8     56.0     157.8     62.9     160.0
Appraisal                      11.6      25.3     11.6      25.3     7.7       21.7
Negotiations - Board           7.1       17.7      7.1      17.7     8.0       18.7
Supervision                    34.5      97.7     34.5      97.7     20.6      57.1
Completion                     3.0       4.1       3.0      4.1      4.6       7.4
Total                          112.2    302.6     112.2    302.6    103.8     264.9
Mission Data
Date       No. of  Staff days  Specializations   PerformanceRating      Types of problems
(month/year) Persons*   in field   represented
Imp. Status  Deve. Obj.
Identification/  11/96     6        12        Macroeconomists, S             S           none
Appraisal                                      Privatzation spec.
Appraisal-    02/97        8        10         Macroeconomists, S             S          none
Board                                          Privatization spec.
Supervision   05/97        8        8         Macroeconomists, S              S          none
privatizabon spec.
10/97        6        2          Macroeconomists, S             S
prvatization spec
02/98        5        6          Macroeconomists, S             S
privatization spec
Completion
* Excluding consultants



55                         Annex G (continued)
Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency: Ministry of Finance
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Operation                                      Purpose.     Year of Approval      Status
Public Finance Reform Project                To improve    FY99             Closed
fiscal
management



Annex G (continued)                                56
Basic Data Sheet
PUBLIC FINANCE REFORM (CREDIT 31 34-NIR)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal          Actual or           Actual as % of
estimate       current estimate     appraisal estimate
Total project costs                                64.0              25.0
Credit amount                                     64.0               25.0                  37.3
Cofinancing
Cancellabon
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY99
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                64.0
Actual (US$M)                            23.0
Actual as % of appraisal                 38.8
Date of final disbursement:                 January 26, 2000
Project Dates
Original                       Actual
Preappraisal                                                                          03/05/98
Appraisal                                                                             05/04/98
Approval                                                                              10/13/98
Effectiveness                                          10/20/98                       10/20/98
Closing date                                          06/30/2000                     06/30/2000
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle          No. Staff Weeks        US$ ('000)
Identificabon/Preparation            27.2                 57.6
AppraisaYNegotiabon                  18.1                 44.6
Supervision                          34.2                 64.2
ICR                                   3.1                 6.0
Total                                79.5                172.4
Mission Data
Date      No. of   Specializations represented Performance Rating
(monthlyear) persons
Implementation Development
Status       Objective
ldenbficabon/        March-April  2        Economists
Preparation          1998
2        Public Sector Specialists
2        Sector Specialists (health,
educaton)
2        Consultants (public finance
specialists)
AppraisaUNegotiabons May-Sept.    2        Economists
1998
Supervision          October      2        Economists
1998- March
2000
2        Consultants (public finance
specialists
Completon                         2        Economists



57                         Annex G (continued)
Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency: Ministry of Finance
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Operation                                       Purpose     Year of Approval      Status
Public Finance Recovery Credit                To improve   FY01             Closed
fiscal
management



Annex G (continued)                               58
Basic Data Sheet
PUBLIC FINANCE RECOVERY CREDIT (CREDIT 341 8-NIR)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal          Actual or          Actual as % of
estimate       current estimate     appraisal estimate
Total project costs                               47.00             47.00                  100
Original Credit amount                            35.00             35.00                  100
Supplemental Credit                               12.00             12.00                  100
Cofinancing
Cancellation
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY01
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                      47.0
Actual (US$M)                                  47.0
Actual as % of appraisal                       100
Date of final disbursement                                     October 18, 2000
Project Dates
Original                       Actual
Identification - Preappraisal                                                        07/18/2000
Appraisal                                                                            08/01/2000
Approval                                                                             09/14/2000
Effectiveness                                         10/13/2000                     10/13/2000
Closing date                                          06/30/2001                     06/30/2001
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Actual/Latest Estimates
No. Staff weeksx                 US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation I              4.9                           9.8
AppraisaUNegotiation                      8.9                           28.8
Supervision                               13.8                         44.8
ICR                                       1.9                           6.5
Total                                     29.5                          89.9
Mission Data
Date        No. of       Specializations           Performance Rating
(month/year)   persons        represented
Implementation   Development
Progress        Objective
Identification/       July 2000           2     Economists
Preparation
AppraisaVNegotiations  August 2000        2     Economists
Supervision            February 2001      2     Economists                    S                S
May-June 2001      2      Economists                    S               S
2      Public Finance Speciaists
Completion             Feb.-June 2002     2     Economists                    S                S



59                        Annex G (continued)
Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency: Ministry of Finance
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Operation                                Purpose.         Year of Approval      Status
Public Expenditure Adjustment    Support fiscal management    FY02        Fully disbursed
Credit



.Annex H                             60
Government's Comments dated June 6, 2003 on the Draft Niger PPAR
REPUBUQUE DU NIGER                     Niamey,le t   6e
MINIsTRE DE LA PRIVATISATION ET DE
LA RESTRUCTURATtON DES ENTREPRISES
CELLIULE DE CoORDMAT ION DU PROGRAMME
DE PRIVATXSATTO
LA MINISTRE
N           vP/RE/CCPP~$                    I-)
Monsieur R. Kyle Peters
Chef de Divlslon - D4partement
de I'Evaluation R6trospective des
Op6rations
Fax: 2025223124
Washlngton DC
QObht: Evaluation r4trospective des opdratlons de la
Banque Mondiale au Niger
gflrce : Votre projet de rapport du 23 mai 03
Apres examen de votre projet de rapport, j'ai l'honneur de porter 3 votre
connaissance les observations suivantes:
A la page 15
- point 4.12: lire ac au debut de 1997, les strategies de privabsation des
trois sod6t6s de services pubfics et de la sodite p6troli6re avalent &e
adopt4es. au lleu de : au debut de 1977...
- point 4.13: supprimer les deux demiWres phrases sulvantes:
a Toujours en 1998, le monopole dimportatlon des prodults petroliers a
&e aboll et un cadre reglementalre a 6te adopte pour les importateurs
du secteur prIvY. Ennn, un protocole a ete signe avec une societe
privke en vue de gerer les installatons de stockage de la SONIDEP X.
Ces propositons dtaient contenues dans le sch6ma Initial et n'ont
jamais ete mises en ceuvre.
A la oage 36-Annexe C
- g) Au lieu de w Adoption d'une lol r6vls6e concemant la privatisation
des entreprises prtv6es. * lire a Adoptlon dune ordonnance
modifiant l'ordonnance 96 - 75 du 11 decembre 1996 portant
conditions g6n6rales de privatisation >.
A la 2aQ 39
- derniire colonne du tableau : SONIDEP : Cadre de r6glementation
llabor4 au lieu de adopt6 et protocole pour la creation d'une soclit6
prIvWe tbil au lieu de condu avec un groupe prtve.



61                   Annex H (continued)
A la iagxS2
- g) supprimer le terme d'achat car dans le cas de la SNE, il s'agit
d'un affermage. Idem a la page 58 au 2  bret du point 7.
Veuilez agreer, Monsieur, I'expresslon de mes sinc6res salutabons.



Annex H (continued)                 62
Government's Comments dated June 6, 2003 on the Draft Nieer PPAR
(Unofficial Translation of French Letter)
Republic of Niger                                 Niamey, June 6, 2003
Ministry of Privatization and
Enterprise Restructuring
Privatization Program Coordination Unit
The Minister
No. 00199 MP/RE/CCPP                              To
Mr. R. Kyle Peters
Senior Manager
Operations Evaluation Department
Washington, D.C.
Subject: PPAR of World Bank Operations in Niger
Reference: Your draft report of May 23, 2003
After reviewing your draft report, I have the honor to inform you of the following:
At page 15:
para. 4.12: read "at the beginning of 1997, the privatization strategies of
the three utilities and of the petroleum company had been adopted,"
instead of: at the beginning of 1977.
para.4.13: delete the last two sentences: "Also in 1998, the import
monopoly for petroleum products was cancelled and a regulatory
framework goveming private sector importers adopted. Finally, a protocol
was signed with a private company to manage the storage facilities of
SONIDEP." These proposals were part of the initial plan, but were never
implemented.
At page 36 Annex C
-     g) instead of "Adoption of revised privatization law" read: "Adoption of
an ordinance modifying the ordinance 96-75 of December 11, 1996 on the
general conditions of privatization."
At page 39
last column of table: SONIDEP: Regulatory framework formulated
instead of adopted and protocol for the creation of a private company
instead of concluded with a private group.



63                  Annex H (continued)
At page 52
g) delete the word purchase, because in the case of SNE, it is a
concession. Idem at page 58 at item 2 of paragraph 7.
Sincerely,
Signed: Mrs. TRAPSIDA, Fatima.



Annex H (continued)                64
Government's Comments dated June 20, 2003 OD the Draft Niger PPAR
REPUBLIQUE DU NIGER                           Niamey, le
MINISTERE DES FINANCES ET DE L'ECONOMIE                         IN 2003
DIRECTION GENERALE DES PROGRAMMES
DIRECTION DES ETUDES FINANCIERES iET
DES REFORMES
NJb 0 206 9 /MF/EIL_1DEF/RIF          Le Ministre,
A
Monsieur R. Kyle Peters
Chef de Division
Departement de l'Evaluation
R6trospective des Operations
Fax no 202-522-3124
Obiet: Observations sur le Rapport d'Evalhiation Retrospective
Monsieur le Chef de Division,
J'ai l'honneur de vous faire parveriv les observations au sujet du document
&tabli par le Departement de l'evaluation rdtrospective des operations.
Page 2 / point 2.2:
Formuler la deuxieme phrase ainsi qu'il svit: "De 1974 a 1991, il a e domin6 par
deux regimes militaires. Le premier, de 1974 'a 1987, etait place sous la direction
autoritaire du General Kountche tandis que le second, de 1987 a 1991 fut dirige par
le General Ali SAIBOU qui instaura alors le parti unique."
Le reste sans changement.
Paee 23 I point 5.20 : Lire "Credit d'aju4tqment du secteur public" et non " Credit
d'ajustement du secteur prive".



65                  Annex H (continued)
Page 29/ point 7.4: ajouter A la fin du paragraphe
Cependant, le Ministere des Finances et de I'Economie, conscient de cette
necessite, a mis en place en aouit 2001 une structure multidisciplinaire appel6e
Groupe d'Appui a la Gestion Economique dont les principaux domaines
d'intervention sont entre autres la realisation d'un rapport economique et financier
sur le Niger, I'analyse statistique et econometrique a partir d'un modele
macroeconomique, I'appui technique aux structures chargees du suivi des
programmes economiques et financiers.
Pare 30 / point 7.6 : Reformuler la derniere phrase ainsi qu'il suit:
Les inforrmations recueillies sur 1'execution des programmes doivent etre rendues
publiques dans la mesure ou l'on constate. une certaine amelioration dans leur
flabUitit et leur regularite.
Paee 51 ( suite de r'Annexe E) L'intitult du credit est "Credit A I'ajustement des
finances publiques ( 2000).
Paue 68 ( Fiche de donnees de base) I'intituIe ainsi que le numrro du credit
semblent incorrects. n s'agit en fait dul f Credit a l'ajustement des Finances
Publiques ( Credit 3428-NI) >>.
Je vous prie d'agreer, Monsieur )ql! Chef de Division, 1'expression de ma
haute consideration.
Pou       otu
Le Secr6 '
HABOU:



Annex H (continued)                 66
Government's Comments dated June 20, 2003 on the Draft Ni2er PPAR
(Unofficial Translation of French Letter)
Republic of Niger                          Niamey, June 20th, 2003
Ministry of Finance
General Directorate for Programs
Directorate for Financial Studies and Reforms
No. 02069/MF/E/DGP/DEF/R                   The Minister
To
Mr. R. Kyle Peters
Senior Manager
Operations Evaluation Department
Fax No. 202-522-3124
Subject: Remarks concerning the Country Assistance Evaluation.
To the OEDCR Senior Manager,
I have the honor to send you some remarks concerning the document that the Operations
Evaluation Department elaborated.
Page 2 / paragraph 2.2:
Formulate the second sentence the following way: 'From 1974 to 1991, it was dominated
by two military regimes. The first one, from 1974 to 1987, was an authoritarian regime
led by General Kountche while the second one, from 1987 to 1991 was under the control
of General Ali SAIBOU who then instituted the single party.'
The rest does not change.
Page 23 / paragraph 5.20: Read 'public sector adjustment credit' and not 'private sector
adjustment credit'.
Page 29 / paragraph 7.4: Add at the end of the paragraph:
Nevertheless, the Ministry of Finance and the Economy, which is conscious of this
necessity, has set up in August of 2001 a multidisciplinary structure named Economic
Management Support Group, whose principal fields of intervention are the elaboration of
an economic and financial report on Niger, the statistical and econometric analysis



67                  Annex H (continued)
starting from a macroeconomic model, and the technical support provided to the
structures in charge of the economic and financial programs follow-up.
Page 30/ paragraph 7.6: Rewrite the last sentenced as indicated below:
The collected information concerning the implementation of programs must be made
public when a subsequent improvement of their liability and regularity is observed.
Page 51 / (continuation of Annex E): The name of the credit is 'Public Finance
Adjustment Credit (2000)'.
Page 68 (Basic data annex): The name and the credit number appear to be incorrect. It
is in fact the 'Public Finance Adjustment Credit (Credit 3428-NIR)'.
Sincerely yours.
HABOU HAMIDINE



