Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22453
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-31340; PPFI-QOO10; PPFI-Q0880)
ONNA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 64.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR THE
SUPPORT TO A PUBLIC FINANCE REFORM PROGRAM
06/27/2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 2001)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
CFAF 746.96 = US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00 = SDR 0.7407
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB           African Development Bank
BCEAO          Banque Centrale des Etats de l 'Afiique de l 'Ouest (Central Bank of West African
States)
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
ENA            Ecole Nationale d'Administration (National School of Administration)
ESAF           Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
HIPC           Highly Indebted Poor Country
IDA            Intemational Development Agency
IFC            Intemational Finance Corporation
IMF            Intemational Monetary Fund
KfW            Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaujbau (Gemiany's development agency)
MIGA           Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
NIGELEC        Societe Nigerienne d' Elctricite (Power Generation and Distribution Company)
ORTN           Office de Radiodifiusion et de Television du Niger (National Radio-TV
Broadcasting Company)
PER            Public Expenditure Review
PFP            Policy Framework Paper
PFRC           Public Finance Reform Credit
PPA            Paiements Par Anticipation (advance expenditure payments)
PRGF           Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PSAC           Public Sector Adjustment Credit
SAC            Structural Adjustment Credit
SNE            Soci&tg Nationale des Eaux (National Water Distribution Company)
SONITEL        Societe Nigerienne des Telecommunications (Telecommunuications Company)
VAT            Value-Added Tax
UEMOA          Union Economique et Monetaire ouest Africaine (West African Economic and
Monetary Union)
Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    Antoinette M. Sayeh
Sector Manager/Director:    Charles Humphreys
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Jean-Luc Bemasconi



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGER
PUBLIC FIN. REFORM
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 10
6. Sustainability                                                                     11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    13
9. Partner Comments                                                                   15
10. Additional Information                                                            17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 25
This document has a restricted distribution  and may be used by recipients only  in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID. P055186                                        Project Name: PUBLIC FIN. REFORM
Team Leader: Jean-Luc Bernasconi                          | TL Unit: AFTM4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 27, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: PUBLIC FIN. REFORM                              L/C/TF Number: IDA-31340;
PPFI-QOOI O;
PPFI-Q0880
Country,'Department: NIGER                                                 Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/suibsector: BF - Public Financial Management; ME - Economic
Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/05/98                                 Effective:  10/20/98           10/20/98
Appraisal:  05/04/98                                   MTR:
Approval:  10/13/98                                 Closing: 06/30/2000           06/30/0200
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: Government of NigerlMinstry of Finance
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                          Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager:     Antoinette M. Sayeh                         Theodore 0. Ahlers
Sector Manager:      Charles Humphreys                           Charles Humphreys
Team Leader at ICR:   Jean-Luc Bemasconi                         Antonella Bassani
ICR Primary Author:   Amadou Ibrahim; Jean-Luc
Bernasconi
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly UnsatisfactoTy, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, NNegligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
1.    Background. Niger's macroeconomic reform track record has been poor prior to 1996.
This resulted from regular political tensions after the National Conference of 1991, episodes of
social unrest led by the powerful trade unions, lack of political commitment to address the
economic challenges facing Niger's development, and the country's high vulnerability to
exogenous shocks, including climatic conditions and unfavorable trends in the terms of trade. In
June 1996, the new Cabinet emerging from national elections adopted a new medium-term
macroeconomic program which was supported by a three-year ESAF arrangement (1996-1999),
as well as a single-tranche IDA adjustment credit (the Public Sector Adjustment Credit, PSAC,
Cr. 2939-NIR). The program's overall performance was rated as satisfactory after completion of
the two first mid-term reviews of the ESAF in 1997/98. The PSAC also closed with a satisfactory
rating as a number of important structural reforms had been initiated in 1997 and the first half of
1998 (see Implementation Completion Report of the PSAC, Report No. 18382).
2.    These positive developments provide the context for the preparation of the three-tranche
Public Finance Reform Credit (PFRC, Cr. 3134-NIR) which was meant to further support the
implementation of the program by fostering macroeconomic stability and supporting the budget
for 1998-1999, as well as sustaining the implementation of specific administrative and structural
reforms, mainly in the area of public finance. A first tranche of the PFRC was disbursed upon
effectiveness in October 1998, on the basis of a series of prior actions implemented by the
Government. As described more in detail below, while the last mid-term review (March 1999) of
the ESAF was concluded satisfactorily, a sudden deterioration in the political climate following
the publication of the results of the February local elections led to a coup d 'etat in which a
military junta took power after the assassination of the President. This tragic events in tum led to
the immediate interruption of non-project assistance from donors, preventing the completion of
the last ESAF mid-term review as the program was no longer financed. As a result, the last two
tranches of the PFRC could not be disbursed because of the Government's incapacity to meet
tranche-release conditions, which were mainly linked to a sizeable settlement of domestic arrears.
The economic and financial performance during the transition regime was poor, as new arrears
were accumulated, including six months of civil service salaries. Despite these financial
difficulties, the military junta gave way to a democratically elected civilian government at the
beginning of 2000. The new authorities took firm steps to restore financial stability and resurne
the structural reformn program. These efforts received the support of the Bank in the form of a
new single-tranche recovery credit, while the PFRC was canceled upon closing in June 2000.
3.    Credit objectives. The main objective of the PFRC was to further restore the credibility
in public finances following the initial promising developments observed in 1997. In addition, the
credit also aimed at supporting efforts to enhance domestic revenue mobilization and improve the
efficiency and equity of public spending. In October 1997, the Board of the World Bank discussed
the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Niger which focused on the following three main
objectives: (i) human resources development; (ii) improvement in the management of water
resources; and (iii) promotion of economic openness to international and regional trade, as well as
of an enabling environment for private sector growth. In order to attain these objectives, the CAS
-2-



implied as prerequisite that sound public finance management will need to ensure the availability
and efficient use of public resources for effective delivery of social services, and be conducive to
private sector development. Thus, the credit objective was deemed to be fully consistent with the
CAS. The objectives and specific components of the Government's program to be supported are
outlined hereafter.
4.    Restoration of the credibility of public finances. Specific sub-components or outputs of
the Government's program under this objective included:
(a) Strengthened control over the wage bill and size of the civil service, including
quantitative targets (see Annex 1) and effective implementation in 1999 of an
integrated database linking the payroll and the civil service database;
(b) Re-establishment of financial and accounting orthodoxy and budgetary discipline,
including the setting up of an expenditure regulation mechanism to keep current
outlays strictly in line with cash resources, the completion of an organizational audit
of the Treasury, and the closing of Treasury accounts for the years 1988 to 1996 as
well as the preparation of the corresponding budget execution laws (lois de reglement
) for 1982 to 1997;
(c) Non-accumulation of new domestic arrears from 1998 on, through the abolition of
extra-budgetary advance payments procedures, the regular payment of water,
electricity and telephone bills to government and the reduced government
consumption of these utilities, and the evaluation of the subsidy and scholarship
allocation mechanism, which was a source of arrears accumulation;
(d) The preparation and implementation of a domestic arrears settlement plan, which
would comprise a thorough inventory of the stock of domestic arrears and the
settlement plan according to the modalities and priorities agreed between the GON
and IDA.
5.   Enhance domestic revenue mobilization. With one of the lowest tax revenue-to-GDP
ratio, Niger set as a high priority improving the efficiency of its revenue collection. The program
focused mainly on the reduction in the scope and number of tax exemptions, as well as a
simplification of the taxation system which would aim at broadening the tax base and
strengthening administrative efficiency. A quantitative target of increasing budgetary revenue
from 8.4 percent of GDP in 1997 to 9.9 percent in 1998 and 10.3 percent in 1999 was set as a
benchmark to evaluate the impact of the proposed measures (details provided in Annex 1).
6.    Improve the efficiency of public spending. With respect to this important objective, the
credit mainly focused on the completion of regular public expenditure reviews (PERs) in the
health, education and the rural sectors, as well as the implementation of the reviews'
recommendations in the budget formulation process.
7.    Credit design. Contrary to what had been initially foreseen in the CAS, adjustment
- 3 -



support following the PSAC was not to take the form of two single-tranche operations, but a
model of a three-tranche operation was retained, in order to benefit from economies of scale in
the project's preparation, as well as to foster medium- to long-term commitment of the
Government to the objectives of the reform program. In practical terms, the disbursement of the
first tranche was meant to be triggered upon effectiveness by the implementation of key prior
action, while the two subsequent tranches would be conditional upon a limited number of very
specific actions which were seen as priorities of the reform program. Specifically, the second
tranche of SDR 15.0 million (US$ 20.0 million equivalent) would be released upon: (1)
presentation to the parliament of a draft 1999 budget consistent with the program outlined in the
Letter of Development Policy, and taking into account the recommendations and findings of the
1998 PER; (2) settlement of domestic arrears in a net amount of at least US$ 20 million
equivalent according to the priorities agreed upon in the domestic arrears plan; and (3) completion
of the verification and validation of all its internal arrears not yet verified and validated and
presentation to IDA of a settlement plan satisfactory to IDA. The third tranche of SDR 15.0
million (US$ 20.0 million equivalent) would be released contingent upon: (1) presentation to the
parliament of the budget execution laws (lois de reglement) covering the execution of the budgets
for each fiscal year from 1991 through 1997; and (2) settlement of a second net amount of
domestic arrears of at least US$ 20.0 million equivalent according to the priorities agreed upon in
the domestic arrears payment plan.
8.    The operation was prepared over an eight-month period, with substantial input from the
borrower. As highlighted in the President's memorandum, the operation was evaluated to be of
high risk, mainly because of Niger's track record of political instability and low implementation
capacity. The focus on the prior actions was regarded as a mitigating factor against possible
policy reversals, while Government had committed to set aside budgetary resources to finance the
technical assistance expected to be needed in the course of the program's implementation.
3.2 Revised Objective:
9.    The objectives and design of the credit were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
10.   The operation being a standard structural adjustment credit, it had no specific
components. The components of the Government's program supported by the operation are
described above in section 3.1.
3.4 Revised Components:
11.   Not applicable.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
12.   The quality at entry of the Credit is rated as satisfactory to highly satisfactory. The
objectives of the credit were consistent with the 1997 CAS. The Credit design also built upon the
successful experience of the PSAC, and lessons learned from other countries (e.g. the domestic
-4 -



arrears settlement process in Togo). The initial conditions for the program's preparation were
caracterized by an institutional environment in which the preoccupation of the Government
remained primarily focused on the day-to-day constraints of the management of public finances
and the orderly payment of sensitive expenditures like salaries. The discussion around the Credit
were therefore quite successful in broadening the scope of the policy dialogue to medium-term
issues by identifying key priorities for a sustainable return to budgetary discipline.Quantitative and
qualitative indicators for each of the Government program's component were clearly defined to
measure performance under the credit. Taking into account the weak institutional capacity, the
Government set up with the assistance of IDA its own technical assistance program to support
budgetary reform, especially with respect to restoring discipline and orthodoxy at the Treasury.
Because it was evaluated to be the single most important constraint to the restoration of the
State's credibility in the management of its resources, the issue of the domestic arrears overhang
featured prominently in the program and constituted the main tranche release conditions. This
component was given particular attention in the credit's preparation, including through very
thorough consultation with the borrower. A comprehensive inventory of the stock of arrears at
end- 1997 was completed (Government domestic arrears totaled CFAF 1 18 billion or about 1 1
percent of GDP), and several institutional measures were taken to ensure proper implementation
of the settlement plan, including the establishment of an ad hoc Commission to validate claims and
organize their settlement. Considering the large size of arrears, and the likely budgetary revenue
flows over the duration of the credit, an auction mechanism was designed to ensure that arrears
would be paid in a transparent and financially sustainable fashion. To minimize the
non-accumulation of new payment arrears, very precise measures were identified notably in the
area of curbing excess public consumption of utilities and banning extra-budgetary advance
payment practices. In the course of the Credit's preparation, the policy dialogue also inlcuded
crucial sector issues, especially with respect to the delivery of basic social services. In the
framework of the preparation of the first Public Expenditure Reviews (PERs), which were
initiated during the credit's preparatory phase, the policy dialogue in the health and education
sectors was enriched to better include efficiency and cost considerations. For instance, close
collaboration between the Bank's macroeconomic and human develeopment teams supported the
Government's design of innovative mechanisms to promote low-cost delivery of basic education,
through the adoption of a recrtuitment process for contractural teachers.
13.   In addition, the design of the credit and of the tranche-release mechanism suited the Bank'
s preoccupation with sound utilization of the proceeds of adjustment credits. The amount of
arrears to be settled to allow disbursement matched the amount of the tranche to be released, thus
ensuring that IDA financing would finance the arrears settlement process witout being intercepted
for other payments, in full consistency with the overall objectives of the financial and
macroeconomic program. While it became impossible to meet these financial objectives after the
events of April 1999, it is not unlikely that the program would have been completed satisfactorily
in the absence of these sudden and unexpected developments. The Credit recognized the risks
linked to political instability and possible policy reversal. Yet the extreme situation of a violent
coup was of course not envisaged, especially at a time when prospects for stability had been
improving for almost two years.
-5 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
14.   As described in the introduction, achievements under the Govenmuent's reform program
were significantly affected by the political turmoil of April 1999 and the subsequent sudden
shortfall in extemal resource availability. While the military junta which held power until the end
of 1999 complied with its objective of an orderly return to civilian rule, this transition period was
also marked by significant slippages in macroeconomic management, including the sizeable
accumulation of new domestic arrears. The institutional environment surrounding the program
supported by the Credit also deteriorated markedly, as the junta left little discretion to the
Minister of Finance who had elaborated the program, in the management of public finances,
eventually leading to his resignation. Other key cadres of the Ministry were also replaced, while
the morale of the ones who remained was deeply affected by the political uncertainty. This
environment was clearly not conducive to the further implementation of reforms, despite the
assurances given by the transition regime. Given these developments and the non-attainment of
key performance criteria (see below), the overall assessment of the program's achievements is
unsatisfactory. Correspondingly, the IDA Credit supporting the implementation of the program,
as it could not disburse two of its three tranches, is also evaluated to have been unsatisfactory
with respect to reaching its development objectives. However, it should be noted that some
important progress was recorded under the different components of the Government's reform
program prior to the 1999 events.
15.   Macroeconomic performance. Over the period considered, growth showed the volatility
which is typical of Niger's economy that is dominated by rain-fed agriculture. Real GDP grew by
10.4 percent in 1998 due to exceptional rainfall and then stagnated in 1999 (-0.6 percent), with
the average of 5 percent slightly exceeding the program target of 4.5 percent. Clearly, this
achievement was largely due to a positive climatic shock, and not to the sustainable factors
envisaged in the program. The investment-to-GDP ratio declined from 11.3 percent in 1998 to
10.2-10.4 percent during 1999/2000 instead of rising to around 13 percent as foreseen in the
program. The external current account deficit (excluding official transfers) reached 12.5 percent
in 1998, 10.1 percent in 1999 and 11.8 percent in 2000 from 11.7 percent in 1997 and against an
objective of 10 percent in 2000. Inflation reached 4.5 percent in 1998 before declining to 2.3
percent in 1999 and stabilizing at 2.9 percent in 2000, complying with the 1998-2000 annual
inflation rate target of 3 percent.
16.   Budgetary reform and the restoration of credibility in fiscal management. Public
expenditure management is the area where major slippage occurred recurrently in Niger reform
program. The wage bill amounted to CFAF 48.6 and 50.8 billion respectively in 1998 and 1999
against targets of CFAF 44.0 and 44.7 billion and overall current spending exceeded program
targets in both years. Progress was nevertheless realized in the implementation of administrative
reforms, including:
*  the enforced abolition of advanced expenditure payments (paiements par anticipation);
* the closing of Treasury accounts for FY 1997 in order to re-establish budgetary
- 6 -



accountability and extemal review procedures (while it was initially foreseen in the program to
regularize and close all accounts for the period 1987-1997, the Government realized that this
achievement would come at a high cost and cause delays given the state of archives in the
Treasury, and decided instead, in agreement with Bank staff and recommendations from IMF
technical assistance, to focus on the most recent fiscal year, i.e. 1997);
* the completion of an organizational audit of the Treasury (1999);
*  the enforcement of the closing deadline for expenditure commitments;
* the adoption of an expenditure regulation mechanism relating expenditure commitments to
actual budgetary revenues (1998);
* the adoption and implementation of measures for the orderly reduction of Government
consumption of water, electricity and telephone to ensure timely payments of these services
(these measures included capping utility consumption by high-level government officials
through a system of budgetary allowances in lieu of the open-ended system previously in
place, cutting illegal installations and connections, optimizing water and electricity
consumption through the installation of a variety of technical devices, restricting the use of
inter-urban and international telephone communications, and above all, the encouragement to
the state-owned public utility companies to cut their services in case of excess consumption
and resulting non-payment of bills);
* the adoption of a civil service statute, introducing mandatory retirement after 30 years of
service or 55 years of age, and basing promotion on merit (December 1998).
17.   Not all of the above measures showed the desired impact. After progress was realized in
1998, the implementation of important measures adopted to reform the civil service retirement
system as well as to encourage voluntary departures was put on hold in 1999 by the transition
regime. The indemnity system, which supplements ordinary civil service salaries remains poorly
managed and opaque. The payroll database, which was successfully developed under the program,
provides an adequate, yet not fully exploited, information management tool to undertake such
tasks, and modernize human resource management in the public administration. The restoration of
ex-post budgetary control progressed throughout 1998 and much of 1999, although at a slower
pace than anticipated. Accounts for fiscal 1997 were only definitely closed under the new
Government in 2000, and the corresponding budget execution law was sent to Parliament that
same year. With regard to the organizational audit of the Treasury, a detailed diagnostic report
was submitted to the authorities in the summer of 1999 by the team of local experts hired with the
support of the Credit. Here as well, action as a response to the audit was only taken by the newly
appointed authorities in 2000, starting with measures to restore accounting discipline.
18.   The rapid build-up of new arrears in 1999, and the difficulties to avoid new arrears in
1998 already, demonstrated that the measures adopted to regulate expenditure and manage
liquidity were not successful. Clearly, the shortfall in external resources following the coup was a
major factor to this situation, but some "structural" weaknesses in expenditure control had not
been fully addressed before that. The budget regulation mechanism failed because of the
introduction of regulatory loopholes. The system meant to replace the advance payment practices
to cope with unexpected expenditures (imprest account system) failed to reach its objectives
because regularization discipline was not observed. Measures to control Government
consumption of water, telephone, and electricity (a large source of domestic arrears) only yielded
-7 -



their first results in the first quarter of 2000, during which consumption was down by 9.5 percent
year-on-year. Another source of concern which was not adequately addressed, related to the lack
of oversight over the spending of autonomous state agencies, which often rely on the budget
subsidy to cover operating costs but are not subject to ex ante or simultaneous expenditure
control. An audit of the subsidy allocation mechanism was completed under the program, but was
not followed up with actual measures.
19.   With respect to the settlement of existing domestic arrears, the Government developed a
domestic arrears reduction plan with IDA assistance, defining the priorities and modalities for the
clearance of these arrears, and established an institutional framework for the implementation of
the plan in the form of an ad hoc Commission in charge of validating outstanding claims.
However, as mentioned above, the sudden shortfall in available financing after the coup made it
impossible to sanction the Commission's important groundwork with actual cash settlements.
20.   Rating. From the assessment of achievements and shortcomings described above, this
component of the program is rated as unsatisfactory. However, as noted later, some of the
progress realized laid a quite solid foundation for the formulation of subsequent programs, like
the one supported by the 2000 single-tranche Recovery Credit.
21.   Revenue mobilization. Budget revenue increased from 8.4 percent of GDP in 1997 to
8.9 percent in 1998 before slipping back to 8.5 percent in 1999 against objectives of 9.9 and 10.3
percent respectively. On the revenue side as well, some important administrative reforms were
adopted to limit exemptions and foster revenue collection, including:
X  The non-renewal of tax exemptions under the investment code and exclusion of privatized
enterprises from the provisions of this code, as well as elimination of other ad hoc tax
exemptions;
*  The introduction of a system to control exemptions from imports duties under extemally
financed government procurement contracts (1998);
* The introduction of computerized value data for use by the customs department (1998);
* The establishment of a VAT auditing unit (1998) and of a large taxpayer unit in the
General Tax Directorate (1998);
* The completion of an inventory of tax arrears and cancellation of non-collectible tax
arrears (1998);
* The harmonization of penalties for non-compliance with the tax code (1998).
22.   The measures adopted in 1998, like the elimination of the systematic renewal of
exemptions under the investment code or the non-recourse to ad hoc exemptions continue to be
enforced. But the total amount of exemptions remains high (see Annex 1). With regards to the
General Customs Directorate (GCD), the newly established duty collection units in Niamey are
operational. Another newly established entity, namely the Large Taxpayer Unit at the General Tax
Directorate (GTD), has been relatively effective in 1999. Controls, reassessments and the
recovery of tax arrears and penalties have picked up in 1999, although the focus seems to have
been put on penalty collection rather than normal tax dues. While a desirable measure in order to
streamline tax collection responsibilities, the transfer of the property tax collection from the
- 8 -



Treasury to the GTD has not yielded the expected results in terms of enhanced revenue
performance, mainly because of the (human) resources needed for the collection of that tax, and
the inadequate underlying information necessary for its assessment (unreliable cadastral survey).
Still, the transfer of all tax collecting responsibilities to the GTD was completed in 2001, in line
with recommendations from the Bank and the IMF's Fiscal Affairs Department.
23.   Rating. Given that the measures under the program did yield positive, although modest,
results in terms of increased revenue collection, and that they have proven sustainable, the rating
under this component is satisfactory.
24.   Efficiency and equity of public spending; The PERs of the health and education sectors
were finalized in July 1998 . Two audits on the allocation mechanism for subsidies to major
autonomous public agencies (ENA, University, ORTN) and student scholarships were also
finalized in July 1999. The analysis of the subsidy and scholarship allocation systems yielded little
change in the budget formulation process before the year 2000 (i.e. before the preparation of the
2001 budget) despite World Bank repeated encouragement to take action. The second-round
sector PERs for health and education were completed in the first quarter of 2000, together with a
first rural sector PER. The degree of ownership of the reviews by the Government is very high
strong, especially in the concemed sectors. Most importantly, the introduction of the PER process
in the health and education sectors has proven sustainable, as subsequent reviews have been
regularly undertaken since then. In line with the Credit's objectives, most recommendations of the
1998 reviews were included in the 1999 budget law, including increased allocation for non-wage
recurrent spending in health and education. Another major achievement of the process to date, has
been the capacity building in the concerned line ministries. The PER process significantly
reinforced these agencies' capacity to analyze the budgetary and financial implications of their
programs. In the health sector, financial programming tools developed in the framework of the
PER were widely disseminated within the sector, including at the deconcentrated level, where the
local health districts now develop their own financial plans on the basis of the cost analysis
undertaken during the PER process. In the education sector, the findings of the reviews have
allowed the Ministry of Education to adequately cost its upcoming 1 0-year plan in a
programmatic fashion, e.g. by integrating investment and recurrent costs. However, the rather
chaotic budget execution during the transition regime, and the fiscal austerity implied by the
stabilization objective in 2000, make it difficult to assess the actual impact of these measures on
the ground. The authorities remain committed to the PER process, and a budget-wide PER is
scheduled to be undertaken in 2001/02.
25.   Rating: while the impact attained under this objective in terms of the actual quality of
spending remains uncertain and needs to be paid particular attention in the future, the Credit's
objective focused mainly on establishing a sound and nationally-owned PER process. Therefore,
this component is rated as satisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
26.   The components of the Government's program supported by the credit are rated above.
-9-



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
27.   Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
28.   Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
29.   Besides the development objectives of the credit described above, it was also expected
that the capacity to implement the reform program, principally within the Ministry of Finance,
would be strengthened as measures were implemented. To that end, the Government decided to
establish a technical assistance program financed by its own budgetary resources (the financing of
this allocation was made possible after the release of the Credit's first tranche, although no direct
earmarking link had been established). While the work performed by the local experts recruited
under the Government's project did eventually yield significant outcomes (especially the closing
of Treasury accounts and the organizational audit of the Treasury), the actual impact on the daily
work of the administration has remained limited in the period under consideration. Only recently
have some important institutional development measures been implemented. Of course, the
inability of the transition regime to pay its civil servants for much of 1999 contributed to lower the
morale and thus undermined the impact of any capacity strengthening measure. Still, the program
supported by the Credit has had some impact on institutional development, including the
streamlining of tax administration (see above) and the effective establishment of a single civil
service database integrating administrative and salary data. Also, the regular undertaking of PERs
in the health and educations sectors has raised the capacity of these ministries to adopt a strategic
framework which integrates financial and economic considerations. Actual impact of this new
paradigm on the quality and coverage of social services delivery needs yet to be developed.
30.   With respect to the central sub-component of the program, i.e. the settlement of domestic
arrears, the important institutional achievements realized to implement the plan were undermnined
by the non-materialization of actual compensation after the coup. As a result, and while they
recognized the essential importance of resolving the domestic arrears issue, the new authorities
that came to power in 2000 decided to dismantle the ad hoc Commission, which had in their
opinion lost credibility, and replace if with a new entity. Nevertheless, in doing so, the authorities
have drawn lessons form the past experience of the former Commission. In particular, the
Commission had managed to set up a verification/validation mechanism for those payment arrears
which had not followed all the regular public expenditure procedures. This mechanism will be
retained in the new arrears clearance arrangements.
31.   Rating. Despite a few substantial results, the overall rating for impact in terms of
institutional development is modest.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of.government or implementing agency
- 10 -



32.   The military coup of April 1999 was clearly a major factor in the unsuccessful outcome of
this operation and has to be regarded as an exogenous shock in the framework of the Credit or of
the Government program it supported. The violence of the coup led Niger's most important
partners such as France and the European Union to immediately suspend their cooperation and
cancel the outstanding disbursements foreseen in support of the 1999 budget. As the stabilization
and reforrn program was no longer financed, this in turn prevented the IMF to complete the
ESAF's third mid-term review. As a direct consequence, the conditions for the Credit's tranche
release could not be met, in particular the reduction in the stock of domestic arrears. While the
end-1997 stock of arrears had been reduced between 1998 and 1999, a large amount of new
domestic payment arrears had been accumulated simultaneously, including civil service wages. All
these developments led to the cancellation of the undisbursed amount (US $ 40 million) and of the
credit at its scheduled closing date (June 30, 2000).
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
33.   Implementation difficulties of the reforn program before the coup were largely
attributable to weak coordination between Government agencies (e.g. between the Ministry of
Finance and some line Ministries or other central agencies), or even between units within the same
Ministry (e.g. between the arrears settlement Commission and the Treasury). Often, these
divergences reflected differences of views within the Cabinet or among senior technical staff on
the appropriate pace of the reform program. The Govemment has also shown signs of weaknesses
vis-a-vis stakeholders in the reforn programs, such as the powerful trade unions. Moreover,
frequent turnover of high level staff in key official position contributed to weakening
implementation capacity.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control.-
34. Although there is not project implementation agency stricto sensu for this adjustment credit,
regular reporting requirements on the progress of the reform program fell under the responsibility
of the technical units in the Ministry of Finance. While dissemination of the results of some
diagnosis studies to other branches of government could have been more efficient and timely,
reporting was generally adequate, even in times when the concemed cadres accumulated several
months of unpaid salaries (much of 1999).
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
35.   Not applicable.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
36.    Despite the halt in the reform process during the months of political transition in 1999,
the new Government, appointed in 2000 after the presidential and legislative elections, designed
its own reform program that borrowed to a significant extent from the objectives of the 1996
program. As described in previous sections, a number of institutional achievements of the
program survived the political turmoil and are expected to deploy to full effects in 2001 (e.g. the
- 11 -



reforms in the administration of domestic revenue collection). The awareness within the
administration of the crucial importance of appropriate fiscal management has risen, and the value
of restoring discipline in budgetary procedures remains high on the Government's agenda, a
prominence which was to a large extent promoted throughout the implementation of the program
supported by the Credit. Since most of the program's outcomes could not be achieved, these
cannot be regarded as having met the criteria of sustainability, but the partial implementation of
the program has paved the way to renewed efforts after the political transition. However, Niger
remains highly vulnerable to exogenous shocks, including political unrest, which cannot predicted.
Therefore, and despite some of the promising signs mentioned above, the sustainability of the
reform program supported by the Credit is rated as unlikely.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
37.   A new single-tranche operation was approved in September 2000 in support of the new
Government's efforts to restore financial stability and resume structural and administrative
reforms. The design of this program and of the supporting Credit built upon the objectives and
findings of the PFRC, especially with respect to budgetary management and civil service reform.
The successful implementation of the new operation should consolidate prior results achieved
under the credit under review.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
38.   The credit was prepared through intensive consultation with the Govermment, the IMIF and
other concemed partners in development. The Bank made all necessary efforts to support the
Govemrnment in identifying its main policy challenges and identified what seemed to be the
appropriate responses in the context prevailing at the time. The credit was appraised in May
1998, shortly after the successful mid-term review of the second year of the program supported
by the IMF's ESAF, thus relying on the necessary assurances for a sound macroeconomic
framework. During appraisal, the design of the project was simplified to facilitate implementation.
Precise performance indicators were defined for each component of the reform program. The
performance of the Bank in project identification, preparation and appraisal is therefore rated as
satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
39.   Bank staff monitored closely the implementation of the reform agenda agreed with the
Government through regular missions, even after the suspension of cooperation and the
non-completion of the ESAF program. The Bank maintained the policy dialogue, and examined
various options with the Government for possibly restructuring the Credit. The decision to start
afresh with a new operation in 2000 was taken in full consultation with the Government and other
concerned partners such as the IMF. While there has been a change at the head of the Bank's task
team around the time of the coup - a factor which could have delayed the search for alternative
innovative solutions to resolve the deadlock - it is very likely that the lending strategy which was
finally retained (cancellation of the PFRC and preparation of a new operation) was the most
- 12 -



appropriate. The performance of the Bank in supervision is rated as satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
40.   Rating. The overall performance of the Bank is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
41.   The Government in place at the time of Credit preparation was fully committed to its
reform program, especially the direct counterpart agency (the Ministry of Finance). A team of
high level staff from various line ministries, supervised by the General Secretary of the Ministry of
Finance, designed and monitored the reform program up to its interruption. The Ministry of
Finance cadres were well involved in the design of the program and contributed directly to the
Credit's framework. The borrower's performance at this stage of the program is rated as
satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
42.   In the course of implementation, the Borrower's perfornance was too often hampered by
the lack of coordination between the main Government agencies, notably in areas needing close
cooperation to achieve implementation of key measures. To a certain extent, the consensus
observed at the preparation stage did not materialize as expected at the time of implementation.
This was particularly apparent for the implementation of the domestic arrears settlement plan,
where cooperation between the ad hoc Commission, the Treasury, and the tax collecting agencies
proved problematic. As mentioned earlier, the political commitment within the Cabinet to the
reform program also became much less clear at the time of the actual implementation of reforms,
as highlighted by the failure of the expenditure regulation mechanism. Even if the major factor for
the unsatisfactory outcome of the program was the unexpected political crisis, the Borrower's
performance in the course of implementation is rated as partially unsatisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
43.   The technical cadres under the leadership of the Ministry of Finance's General Secretary
devoted the necessary time to assist in the monitoring of the program's benchmarks and
indicators. They always showed their readiness to work with the Bank's team, at the times of both
preparation and implementation, and even in the very difficult circumstances of the transition
regime during which no less than six months of civil service salaries were not paid. Their
performance is rated as satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
44.   Rating. The overall performance of the Borrower is rated as (marginally) satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
45.   In Niger as elsewhere, political stability is a necessary ingredient for the successful
implementation of a reform program. This was obviously conventional wisdom at the time of this
- 13-



Credit's preparation. The appraisal team factored the political risk into the operation and
attempted to minimize the probability of policy reversals by "front loading" initial reform
measures as the prior actions for the Credit's effectiveness. To that extent, the design took into
account the lessons from single-tranche, "high-impact" adjustrnent lending, which had proven
successful in the case of the predecessor PSAC in Niger itself, as well as elsewhere in the Region.
One initial reaction to the Credit's unsuccessful outcome, could be that multiple-tranche
operations are ill-suited for countries with a recent history of political instability. However, in this
case, the risks of "wastage" was minimized by linking the disbursements of subsequent tranches to
the actual payment of domestic arrears, itself identified as a key component of the program. To a
certain extent, this design proved to be appropriate, even in such extreme political circumstances
as those of a coup, and the result, although not the one desired ex ante, is consistent with what
would have happened if the model of multiple single-tranche operations would have been retained.
46.   The response to the capacity building needs arising from the program's implementation
raises another series of interesting questions from which lessons could be drawn. First, the model
retained in this program, that Government would budgetize the technical assistance (TA) program
rather than rely on a stand-alone project, has been altogether positive. It has obviously fostered
the ownership of most of the reforms as well as had positive impact on capacity building. For such
a model to deliver the expected outcomes, it is of crucial irnportance that a constant dialogue be
maintained on the implementation of the TA program, requiring prior understanding on the
priorities for capacity development.
47.   Irrespective of the modality retained for the delivery of technical assistance, another set of
questions arise in relation to capacity building and to the sustainability of the assistance delivered.
While in an environment of low implementation capacity, the importance of technical assistance,
whether it is locally or internationally provided, is essential, and its benefits can really be
capitalized upon only if the staff fully understand and subscribe to the importance of the technical
work provided. In the case of this program, the transmission of knowledge and skills to staff had
varying degrees of success. While it proved quite successful in the case of the public expenditure
reviews, other areas of assistance, especially the ones related to the closing of accounts at the
Treasury, seem to have been only partially assimilated by the staff of the admninistration. A factor
for success may have been the identification of "technical champions" for the reform for each
component or sub-component. Of course, designating such champions is not sufficient to ensure
long-term sustainability of the capacity building efforts, and other modalities for the deeper
"institutionalization" of the skills acquired are necessary.
48.   Finally, in as much as possible, institutional assessment should not only focus on the
strengths and weaknesses of the individual agencies that will be involved in the implementation of
the program, but focus just as prominently on the communication channels and cooperation
mechanisms among these agencies and possible deficiencies to be addressed as a prerequisite to
the implementation of the program. The importance of the communication of the macroeconomic
and structural reform program's objective is also valid within the Bank team in order to ensure
full consistency between the macroeconomic and sectoral dimensions of the policy dialogue. The
- 14 -



experience of the PERs has been a very positive lesson in this regard.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Below is an English translation of the implementation report received from the Republic of Niger's
Ministry of Finance in June 2001 (original in French):
Public Finance Reform Credit: Implementation Report
Structural goals
49.   IDA awarded a public finance reform credit as part of a global strategy in Niger with the
following goals:
(i) return to financial and accounting orthodoxy and budgetary discipline;
(ii) strengthening of fiscal reforns undertaken in 1996-97;
and (iii) more efficient and equitable public spending in the medium term.
50.   Specific aspects were emphasized, such as:
  Resumption and strict-observance of expenditure procedures;
* Reform of the Treasury, including:
+ organizational audit of the Treasury;
+ closing of Treasury accounts for 1987 to 1997;
+ preparation of budget execution laws for 1981 to 1997;
+ reorganization of archives;
+ structural reform of the General Treasury and consolidation of its network.
Expected outcome
51.   Speedy public finance recovery was considered to be a key element for the success of any
medium-term development program. The principal results expected were:
(i) the return to financial and accounting orthodoxy and budgetary discipline would have
positive effects on the monitoring of public finance management;
(ii) the civil service wage bill and personnel would be better managed;
and (iii) a plan would be formulated and implemented for clearing of domestic arrears.
Outcomes appraisal
52.   As regards improvements in domestic resource mobilization, the following favorable
developments have occurred:
- Inventory and gradual reduction of tax exemptions;
- Creation of a Large Taxpayer Unit (LTU);
- Improved communication of infornation between tax collecting agencies (GTD, GCD
and the Treasury).
- 15 -



53.   As regards improvements in the quality of public spending, the following favorable
developments have occurred:
- Public expenditure reviews completed in the education and health sectors;
- Audit of scholarships conducted and resulting recommendations in process of
implementation;
- Audit of medical evacuations and implementation of its recommendations.
54.   As regards budgetary reform, the following principal aspects were involved:
- Reform of the civil service and containment of the wage bill;
- Restoration of financial and accounting orthodoxy;
- Inventory and reduction of arrears.
55.   The creation of an integrated payroll/personnel database for the civil service has improved
personnel management. It was not possible to continue the voluntary separations and the reform
of the indemnity system during the 1999 transition period. It is noteworthy that in 2000 the
program of voluntary separations was accompanied by a reform of the civil servants' retirement
age. The fiscal effects of automatic grade promotions were also frozen.
56.   In the area of restoration of financial management and accounting orthodoxy, mention
may be made of:
- Finalization of the budget execution laws for the fiscal years 1997 and 1998;
- Formal closing of the 1997 and 1998 treasury accounts and their submission to the
Auditor-General;
- Survey of the functioning and organization of the Treasury.
57.   During the review of government accounts, cancellation of reserved credits totaling 30
billion for the years 1998 and 1999 was also made possible. This reduced potential expenditure
commitments which these reserves could have generated.
58.   It was not possible to devise an outline for the cash-flow plan or to strengthen the role of
the Treasury Committee. However, a mechanism was created to align expenditure with resources
mobilized (in particular by means of a quarterly statement of credits released). Problems still exist
and the mechanism is underutilized.
59.   The rationalization of arrears management (non-accumulation and reduction) encountered
difficulties during the credit period, which actually resulted in halting of disbursement of the last
two of the tranches originally envisaged. The authorities are aware of the limited execution of
this component until the end of 1999. Since January 2000, a special effort has been made in this
area and there have been no salary arrears.
60.   The authorities note the lack of ongoing and adequate implementation of specific
measures to contain and control spending, resulting in dispensations or diversions in budget
execution: water, electricity and telephone expenditures, expenditure for medical evacuations,
expenditure for missions; delegation of funds for embassies; etc. However, the efforts made as of
mid-1999 to monitor water, electricity and telephone costs have resulted in a distinct
- 16-



improvement in the payment of invoices.
61.   The Government had initially agreed to the principle of an autonomous structure for
validation and management of arrears and separation of domestic arrears management from
day-to-day management. It had also specified that the mandate of the structure's status as an
official public accountant, should be clearly defined, as should the mandate's duration. The tasks
of this structure had been defined: verification of eligibility, validation, classification of claims,
finalization and submission of the clearance plan to the Government, etc.
62.   Before this ad hoc Commission was disbanded, it was able to decide on suitable working
methods, to process claims and to submit them for payment by the Treasury, which dealt with
some of them. However, the system of discounting, securitization and transparency in the
clearance of arrears initially adopted by the Government in agreement with the World Bank was
never put into effect. As a result, some payments or compensation for unpaid expenses departed
from the agreed arrangements and order of priority. Despite the upheavals which occurred,
particularly in 1998, this experience of arrears monitoring and processing was beneficial to the
Treasury and to the successor entity in charge of arrears settlement, which were able at the end of
March 2001 to continue to reduce arrears within an integrated system.
Conclusions
63.   The interruption of disbursements of this credit created a resource shortfall for the
Republic of Niger which has jeopardized its financial program and the rationalization of public
finances. However, the project for rehabilitation and modemization of public finance management
made it possible to develop the Finance Ministry's national monitoring and managerial capacities.
The improved coordination between units in the Ministry and the lessons learnt from the
shortcomings in public finance reform, allowed the timely resumption of relations with the Bretton
Woods institutions which materialized in September 2000. The political instability and the failure
of the authorities in power at the time to implement a firm strategy of promoting sound
management geared to development are partly responsible for some of the reform failures. This
experience demonstrates the fragility of Niger, due to its permanent cash-flow problems, and the
need to simplify and regulate the expenditure process.
(7) Cofinanciers:
64.   Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/privale sector):
65.   Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
66. Not applicable.
- 17-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                    Projected in last PSR                 ActuattLatest Estimate
1. Contained incidence of wage bill on                                       1. (a) 1998 wage bil: XOF 44.9 bn; 1999
national budget.                                                             wage bill: XOF 50.8 bn.
(a) Contain wage bill to XOF 44.0 bn in 1998                                 (b) integrated database fuily installed and
and XOF 44.7 in 1999                                                         operational in 2000 but adjustments still
(b) Install and operate integrated civil service                             necessary to dean database;
databases for improved payroll management
by December 1998
2. Re-establish budgetary disdpline:                                         2. (a) Expenditure regulaton mechanism
(a) Permanent application of the expenditure                                instated in 1999 but unsuccessful;
regulation mechanism from FY 1999 on;                                        (b) Treasury audit completed in 1999; Action
(b) Completion of an organizabonal audit of                                  plan adopted in September 2000 and first
the Treasury and implementation of its                                      recommendabons implemented in late 2000;
recommenoations in 1998-99                                                  (c) Budget review law for FY 1997 and FY
(c) Completion of the budget review laws for                                 1998 sent to Parliament in 2000 and 2001
1982 to 1997 and presentafion to Parliament;                                respectively
(d) Formal closing of Treasury accounts for                                  (d) Treasury accounts for FY 1997
the years 1988 to 1997 and transfer of the                                  transferred to Chamber of Arc-ounts in 2000
reoords to the Chamber of Accounts
(mandatory judicial audit)
3. Avoid buld-up of new domestic arrears:                                    3. (a) New arrears estimated by authorites to
(a) No new accumulation of domestic arrears                                  have fisen by XOF 8.5 bn in 1998 and by
including for pubic utlity consunpoion from                                  36.9 in 1999, including on utlity expenditure.
1998 on;                                                                     (b) Ublity expenditure rose in 1998 before
(b) Reduce pubic ublity consumpton by 20                                     coming down to 1 9974Jevels in 1999.
% from 1998 on.                                                              Consumption estimated to have declined by
about 10% year-on-year in 2000.
4. Comple9on of an audi of the subsidies                                     4. Studies completed in 1999.
and scholarships allocaton mechanism, and                                    Implementaton of some recommendations
implementation of the audi's                                                iniiated in 2001 (census of scholarship
recommendations                                                              recipients).
5. Cash setffement of the end-1 997 stock of                                 5. Preliminary estimates show that the
domestic arrears equivalent to USD 40                                        equivalent of about USD 19 million of the
million in two tranches (Q4 1998, Q1 1999),                                  pre-1998 stock were settled between 1998
according to modalities agreed to wih IDA.                                   and 2000.
6. 1999 budget law includes                                                  6. The 1999 budget law induded
recommendations from the health and                                          recommendations from the PER in terms of
education pubric expenditure reviews                                         increased allocations for non-wage current
expenditures in health and education. Share
in allocation of these expenditures increased
further in FY 2000.
7. Improve performance of domestic revenue                                   7. (a) Total exemptons reported by customs
collecbon                                                                    decreased from 38.1% of taxable value in
(a) Reduction in the amount and scope of                                     1997 to 36.8% in 1998 and 342% in 1999:
statutory tariff and tax exemptions; no new ad                               (b) Budgetary revenues to GDP:
hoc exemptions;                                                              1998: 8.9%; 1999: 8.5%
(b) Increase budgetary revenues from 8.4%                                    (c) Collection from verification:
of GDP in 1997 bD 9.9% in 1998 and 10.3 in                                   H2/1998: XOF 203 million;
1999;                                                                        1999 XOF 1,312 million.
(c) Launch activiies of tax verification unts
with impact of XOF 200 m-illion (1-121 998)
and XOF 700 million (1999) in recovered
taxes.
- 18-



Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSRI                Actual/Latest Estimate
Not applicable                                                             NA
End of project
- 19 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million    US$ million
Credit arnount                                     64.00           23.00           38.8
Total Baseline Cost                                 64.00          23.00
Total Project Costs            64.00          23.00
Total Financing Required             64.00          23.00
-20 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
- 21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                        Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
March-April                  2   Economists
1998
2   Public Sector Specialists
2   Sector specialists (health,
education)
2   Consultants (public finance
specialists)
Appraisal/Negotiation
May-September                2   Economists
1998
Supervision
October                       2   Economists
1998-March 2000
2   Consultants (public finance
specialists)
ICR
April-June 2001              2    Economists
(1) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               uSS ('000)
Identification/Preparation                27.2                          57.6
Appraisal/Negotiation                     18.1                          44.6
Supervision                               34.2                          64.2
ICR                                        3.1                           6.0
Total                                     79.5                         172.4
- 22 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                          O H  O SU * M  O N  C NA
O Sector Policies                        O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Physical                               OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
ZS Institutional Development             0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  C NA
O Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
El Gender                         OH  OSUOM  O N  * NA
OL Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
E Private sector development             0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management               0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                 OH  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 23 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
@ Lending                                            O HS * S  O U  C HU
F Supervision                                        O HS * S  O U  O HU
@ Overall                                           OHS OS  O U  3 HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
Z Preparation                                       OHS OS  O U  O HU
Z Government implementation performance             O HS O S  *  U  0 HU
X Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS  OU  O HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS  OU  0 HU
- 24 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
No specific documents were prepared for this implementation completion report. The assessment is based
on Bank supervision reports, relevant docunents prepared by the Borrower since effectiveness of the credit,
and regular fiscal and economic reports.
- 25 -



