Report No. PID6347
Project Name                     Niger-Public Finance Reform Credit
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Structural Adjustment Lending
Project ID                       NEPE55186
Implementing Agency              Government of Niger
Ministry of Economy, Finance
and Privatization
Date PID Prepared                April 29, 1998
Projected Appraisal Date         May 1998
Projected Board Date             July 1998
Country Background
1.      After over a decade of profound and persistent financial crisis, in 1996
the Nigerien Government adopted an economic stabilization and public sector
reform program. Public finance management was particularly encouraging as it
began to address long-standing problems--low revenue mobilization due, in
large measure, to tax evasion, an unaffordable wage bill (at one point the
wage bill exceeded revenue collection), and public enterprise mismanagement.
In 1996 and 1997, the Government raised revenue collection by 16 and 15
percent, cut the wage bill by 11 percent in 1997 and launched a major
privatization program, including for the public utilities.
Project Objectives
2.      The Public Finance Reform Credit will help sustain the Government's
economic reform program for 1998-99. The program's main focus is to restore
credibility of public finances by ensuring budgetary orthodoxy and the orderly
clearing of domestic arrears. In addition, the program includes measures to
consolidate and reinforce the tax reform efforts implemented in 1996-97, and
to launch a medium-term effort to improve the efficiency and equity of public
spending. These actions would build on past achievements in the area of
macroeconomic stabilization and public sector adjustment, which were supported
by a one-tranche Public Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC, CR.29390-NIR) approved
and fully disbursed in March 1997.
3.      The specific policy objectives of the Government of Niger, that would be
supported by the proposed Credit, are as follows:
- restore credibility of public finances and control of public expenditure by
ensuring budgetary orthodoxy and the orderly clearing of domestic arrears.
Already, the authorities have suppressed expenditure payments outside normal
budgetary procedures, established a Treasury Committee and a national
commission for good governance in public administration. Additional measures
to be put in place in 1998 include: (i) implementation of a comprehensive
settlement plan for domestic arrears accompanied by strict measures to avoid
their future recurrence; (ii) creation of a single civil service database



(personnel and payroll); and (iii) measures to effectively control and monitor
the implementation of budgetary allocations.
- continue implementation of the tax and customs administration reform. The
focus would be on further broadening the tax base and strengthening tax
administration by: (i) reducing the number and scope of tax exonerations
granted on commodities and to firms under the investment code and special
conventions; and (ii) strengthening tax assessment and collection services by
setting up a General Large Taxpayer Directorate, introducing the single
taxpayer identification number system and computerized value records,
providing the General Tax Directorate with needed staff and equipment to
pursue the computerization and decentralization of its activities, and fine-
tuning the implementation of tax reform measures already in place.
- improve the impact of public services through better allocation and more
efficient use of public resources. The key challenge is to reorient
expenditures and reform the public sector in such a way as to achieve the
highest impact on service delivery to rural communities and on poverty
reduction. A Public Expenditure Review (PER), currently being undertaken by
the Government with IDA and other donors' assistance, will develop detailed
recommendations and an action plan for their integration in the 1999 Budget
Law by June 1998.
4.      The CAS discussed by the Executive Directors in November 1997 identifies
human resource development, improvement in the management of water resources
and promotion of economic flexibility and openness for private sector growth
as the focus of IDA's involvement in Niger. Niger's expanded coverage of
basic social services and private sector growth will require sound public
finance management to assure the availability and efficient use of resources
for essential state functions and to avoid the economic and social disruption
of arrears on civil servant salaries and government supplies. The proposed
credit supports the Government in achieving these goals and, thus, is fully
consistent with the Niger's CAS. In addition, through its focus on further
widening the tax base, notably through the reduction of tax exonerations and
the strengthening of tax administration, the proposed credit supports Niger's
efforts to mobilize revenues and harmonize customs and investment incentives
within the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU). Together with
the expected positive impact on macroeconomic stability, the proposed credit
would provide the foundations for future reforms and allow IDA lending to
evolve increasingly toward programmed budget support to the health and
education sectors, away from both traditional projects and quick-disbursing
adjustment credits. The speed with which such new instruments could be put in
place would partially determine whether additional adjustment lending would be
required after the proposed credit.
Project Implementation
5.      The reform program supported by the proposed credit is being implemented
under the supervision of an Inter-ministerial Committee chaired by the Prime
Minister. A government counterpart team (composed of senior staff at the
level of secretary general or director) from various ministries is working
with the Bank staff on the program design and implementation. The team is
headed by the General Director of the Budget and is supported by a full-time
technical team. Implementation of the agreed policy actions will be monitored
on a regular basis by IDA Headquarters and Resident Mission staff and the
- 2 -



Committee's monthly reports.
Project Costs and Financing
6.      A credit equivalent to US$60 million would be disbursed in 3 tranches of
US$20 million each, following the Bank's simplified disbursement procedures
for structural adjustment operations.
Environmental Impact
7.      No negative environmental impact is expected from the proposed credit.
Poverty Category
8.      The proposed credit will contribute to poverty reduction by supporting
policies designed to accelerate broad-based income growth and increase the
availability and quality of basic social services. The restructuring of
public expenditures will contribute to improved access to preventive health
care and primary education services nationwide.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 8, 1998.
- 3 -



