Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7262 NIR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED PUBLIC FINANCE REFORM CREDIT
OF SDR 48.0 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
September 18, 1998
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of September 14, 1998)
Currency Unit                 =               CFA franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.00                      =               CFAF 582.95
SDR 1.0                       =              US$ 1.35
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABATTOIR           Abattoir Frigorifique de Niamey (Slaughterhouse)
ADV                Attestation de verification (Verification Certificate)
BCEAO              Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (Central Bank of West African States)
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CDN                Credit du Niger (Credit Agency)
CPCT               Caisse des Prets aux Collectivites Territoriales (Credit Agency)
DENO               Depenses engagees non ordonnanc&es (expenditure committed for which payments orders
have not been issued)
ENA                Ecole Nationale d'Administration (National School of Administration)
ESAF               Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
HIPC               Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IFC                International Finance Corporation
INRAN              Institut National de Recherches Agronomiques du Niger (Agricultural Research
Institute)
KfW                Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Germany's development agency)
MIGA               Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
NIGELEC            Societe Nig6rienne d'Electricite (Power Generation and Distribution Company)
OLANI              Office du Lait du Niger (Dairy Products Company)
ONPE               Office Nationale des Postes et de l'Epargne (National Postal and Savings Office)
ONPPC              Office National des Produits Pharmaceutiques et Chimiques du Niger (National
Pharmaceutical Company)
ORTN               Office de Radiodiffusion et de Television du Niger (National Television Company)
PER                Public Expenditure Review
PFP                Policy Framework Paper
PFRC               Public Finance Reform Credit
PPA                Paiements par anticipation (advance expenditure payments)
PSAC               Public Sector Adjustment Credit
RAP                Restes a payer (unpaid arrears validated by the Treasury)
SAC                Structural Adjustment Credit
SNC                Societe Nigerienne de Cimenterie (Cement Company)
SNE                Societe Nationale des Eaux (National Water Company)
SONIDEP            Societe Nigerienne des Produits Petroliers (Petroleum Import and Distribution
Company)
SONITEL            Societe Nigerienne des Telecommunications (Telecoms Company)
UEMOA              Union Economique et Monetaire Ouest Africaine (West African Economic and
Monetary Union)
FISCAL YEAR
January I -December 31
Vice President           Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director         Theodore 0. Ahlers
Technical Manager        Charles P. Humphreys
Task Team Leader         Antonella Bassani



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PUBLIC FINANCE REFORM CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Credit and Program Summary ............................................................i
l. Introduction .............................................................
II. Background ..............................................................
A. The Country Context .............................................................1
B. Recent Economic and Political Developments .............................................................2
C. Medium-term  prospects and financing requirements .............................................................                          4
][II. Niger's Adjustment Program .............................................................,5
A. Restore credibility of public finances .............................................................7
B. Consolidate and reinforce the tax reform  effort .............................................................9
C. Improve the efficiency and equity of public spending ............................................................                        10
IV. The Proposed Public Finance Reform   Credit ..............................................................11
A. Credit Rationale and Components .............................................................11
B. Conditions of tranche release ............................................................                                              12
C. Link to the CAS and Poverty Impact ............................................................                                         13
D. Ownership of the Reform  Program  ............................................................                                          14
E. Credit Amount, Disbursement Procedures and Implementation Arrangements ............................. 14
F. Benefits and Risks ............................................................                                                         15
V. Bank Group Operations ............................................................                                                          16
IFC and MIGA ............................................................                                                                  16
I'l. Collaboration  With IMF  And Other Donors ............................................................                                    16
VII. Recommendation ............................................................                                                               16
Annexes
A. Social Indicators of Development
B. Key Economic Indica.ors
C. Extemal Financing Requirements
D. Status of Bank Group Operations
E. Supplemental Credit Data Sheet
F  Letter of Development Policy, Policy Matrix and Attachment I
G. Key Performance Indicators
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PUBLIC FINANCE REFORM CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Niger
Amount:             SDR 48.0 million (US$ 64.0 million equivalent)
Terims:             Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years
Creidit Description:  Following the encouraging progress made by the Nigerien Government
in implementing the first phase of its economic reform program in 1996-
97, the proposed credit would help the Government sustain
implementation of the program in 1998-99. The main focus of the
program is to restore credibility of public finances by ensuring
budgetary orthodoxy and the orderly clearing of domestic arrears. In
addition, the program supports measures to consolidate and reinforce the
tax reformn efforts implemented in 1996-97, and to launch a medium-
term effort to improve the efficiency and equity of public spending. The
Government's Letter of Development Policy and policy matrix are
attached as Annex F.
Risks:             In light of Niger's short positive track record in implementing reform
programs and its still fragile political situation, the proposed credit is of
high risk. The two main risks are: (i) political and social instability
which could undermine Government commitment to the economic
reforn program; and (ii) weak Government implementation capacity.
However, the resolve shown by the Government over the last year to
maintain the program on track and its determination to broaden it by
adopting a number of reform measures prior to presentation of the credit
to the Board, provide assurance that the program will be implemented in
its entirety. With the assistance of IDA, the Government has also
effectively  improved  program   coordination,  strengthened  its
implementation capacity and developed a communication program to
broaden public support for economic reforms.
Benefits:           Through its focus on budgetary orthodoxy and the orderly clearing of
domestic arrears, the proposed operation will contribute to improving
the environment for economic growth, increase private sector
confidence, ease the financial gridlock on the economy caused by the
large existing stock of domestic arrears and increase job opportunities.
Improved expenditure management will increase the availability and
efficient use of resources for essential public services, notably access to
basic health and education services nationwide. In addition, through its
focus on further widening the tax base, the proposed credit supports



ii
Niger's efforts to mobilize revenues and harmonize customs and
investment incentives within the UEMOA.
Estimated
Disbursement:       The proposed credit will be disbursed in three tranches and will follow
IDA's simplified disbursement procedures for structural adjustment
operations. The first tranche of SDR 18.0 million (US$ 24.0 million
equivalent) will be disbursed upon credit effectiveness. The second and
third tranches, each of SDR 15.0 million (US$ 20.0 million equivalent),
will be released upon compliance with tranche release conditions.
Staff Appraisal
Report:             Not applicable
Map:                Not applicable



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
PUBLIC FINANCE REFORM CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Public Finance Reform Credit (PFRC) to the Republic of Niger for SDR 48.0 million, the
equivalent of US$ 64.0 million. The credit would be on standard IDA terms with 40 years
maturity and a 10-year grace period. The African Development Bank (AfDB) and Germany
(KfW) intend to provide parallel financing for the proposed credit.
2.    The PFRC will help sustain the Government's economic reform program for 1998-99.
The program's main focus is to restore credibility of public finances by ensuring budgetary
orthodoxy and the orderly clearing of domestic arrears. In addition, the program includes
measures to consolidate and reinforce the tax reform efforts implemented in 1996-97, and to
launch a medium-term effort to improve the efficiency and equity of public spending. These
actions, which are outlined in the attached Letter of Development Policy, build on past
achievements in the area of macroeconomic stabilization and public sector adjustment, which
were supported by a one-tranche IDA Public Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC, Cr.29390-NIR)
approved and fully disbursed in March 1997. Proceeds from the PFRC will go towards filling
external financing gaps in 1998-99 which remain after identified and expected disbursements
from aid donors.
3.    The proposed credit is a key element of IDA's country assistance strategy (CAS)
discussed at the Board in November 1997 and an integral part of the Government's overall
reform program outlined in the medium-term Policy Framework Paper (1998-2001) distributed
to the Executive Directors in August 1998. Niger's adjustment efforts are supported by the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) through a three-year Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility (ESAF) approved in June 1996 and whose third-year first tranche was approved in
August 1998. Significant support for the country's macroeconomic program is also provided by
Paris Club creditors, the European Union (EU), the AfDB and bilateral donors.
II. BACKGROUND
A. The Country Context
4.    Poverty. Niger has a population of about 9.3 million, over half of whom live in poverty,
with inadequate food and virtually no access to medical care, education and other social services.
Niger's per capita income (US$200 in 1997) and development indicators are among the lowest in
the world. The main source of livelihood for 80 percent of the population is agriculture which
remains highly vulnerable to variable rainfall and increasing soil degradation. Population growth
is 3.3 percent and shows no sign of slowing, the literacy rate is 14 percent, and only 27 percent
of children enroll in school. A third of the population lacks food security and about one-quarter
of children die before their fifth birthday. The burden of poverty falls disproportionately on



2
women whose access to land, credit, technology and social services remains limited. The female
literacy rate is half the male rate, mother's age at first birth is falling and maternal mortality
remains high.
5.    Economic performance in 1983-1994. At the center of the country's poverty situation
has been Niger's weak economic performance since the end of the uranium boom in the early
1980s. Amidst short cycles of recovery and downturns, real GDP declined by about one-half of
one percent per annum during 1983-1993, largely as a result of a sharp decline in the
international price and demand for uranium (Niger's main export), two prolonged droughts, a
loss of competitiveness due to the real appreciation of the CFAF (until 1994) and severe
weaknesses in public resource management. These conditions, coupled with rapid population
growth and continued political instability, led to a significant poverty increase during this
decade.
6.    Between 1983 and 1993, IDA approved four operations (a SAC, a Public Enterprise
Sector Adjustment Credit and two technical assistance projects) that focused on macroeconomic
management and PE sector reform.  OED evaluations of these operations show that the
achievements were limited.  Despite substantial progress in the 1980s in price and trade
liberalization, the abolition of monopolies in agricultural trade and the adoption of some tax
reform measures (including the introduction of a unified valued added tax), there were major
shortfalls in addressing the causes of internal and external imbalances. Most noticeable was the
lack of government detennination to contain the wage bill (at one point the wage bill exceeded
revenue collection), restructure the civil service, strengthen the tax administration and privatize
public enterprises. In addition, the frequent changes in governments and the emergence of
strong vested interests during the country's unstable political transition since 1991 contributed to
program slippage and reversal.
7.    In early 1994, in conjunction with the CFAF devaluation, the Nigerien Government
adopted a short-lived stabilization program supported by an IMF Stand-by and an IDA Economic
Recovery Credit. Unfortunately, the program went off track in mid-1994 amidst continued
political instability. By year end, and despite a real GDP growth of 4 percent, the revenue-to-
GDP ratio had fallen to an all-time low of 6 percent, the nominal wage bill had increased by
about 18 percent (to 91 percent of budgetary revenues), and the overall fiscal deficit (excluding
official grants) had nearly doubled, reaching 12.5 percent of GDP.
B. Recent Economic and Political Developments
8.    In 1996, the Nigerien Government adopted an economic stabilization and public sector
reform program which was supported by a one-tranche Public Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC,
Cr.2939-NIR) based on actions taken prior to credit approval. Demonstrating a new found
commitment to addressing the country's persistent financial crisis, the program was executed
satisfactorily. No action taken prior to credit approval has been reversed. Despite some delays
encountered in the implementation of the program in the second and third quarter of 1997, in
November 1997 the Government took a number of measures to accelerate and deepen program
implementation (a detailed review of the PSAC implementation is provided in its
Implementation Completion Report, distributed to the Executive Directors in August 1998).
Significant achievements were obtained with respect to public finance management as the
Government began to address long-standing problems--low revenue mobilization due, in large
measure, to tax evasion, an unaffordable wage bill and public enterprise mismanagement. Thus,



3
in 1996 and 1997 the Government raised revenue collection by 16 and 15 percent, cut the wage
bill by 11 percent in 1997 and launched a major privatization program, including for the public
utilities.
9.     The improved revenue collection was made possible by continued implementation of tax
reform measures, focusing in particular on the simplification of the system of direct and indirect
taxation and the strengthening of tax administration. Among the measures implemented were:
(a) the simplification of the income tax system through the merging of the general income tax
and the schedular tax on wages and income; (b) the reformn of informal sector taxation through
the introduction of a single professional tax; (c) the simplification of the property tax structure
and enforcement; (d) the rationalization of petroleum products taxation through a revision of the
price structure; (e) a reduction in the maximum length of tax holidays for new investments from
15 to 5 years; and (f) the introduction of a pre-shipment import inspection agency to combat tax
fraud. These measures were further supported by a strengthening of the tax and customs
departments, both of which were severely understaffed and underequipped.
10.    To maintain effective control over the growth of personnel expenditure and increase
public sector efficiency, the Government also initiated a reform of the civil service. In 1997, the
authorities implemented a new civil service salary scale that reduced base salaries and related
allowances, and eliminated distortions in the remuneration system. A civil service census was
carried out in 1997 which led to the dismissal of 319 government employees (or about 1 percent
of the civil service) whose status was found to be irregular. Personnel recruitment was kept
broadly in line with retirements, with the priority for new hires going to education, health and the
revenue collection agencies. As a result of these measures, the wage bill for 1997 remained in
line with the program target. In addition, the authorities launched a personnel redeployment
program in the health sector and tax collection agencies to improve the availability of staff in the
counitry's under-served areas.
11.    Progress was also made in 1997 in reallocating non-wage current expenditures toward
the priority areas of primary education and basic health care which increased by 12 percent on
average (on a commitment basis). In addition, in 1997 the domestic budgetary contribution to
the public investment program was increased (from CFAF 3.6 billion or 9 percent of total public
investment in 1996 to CFAF 5.7 billion or 11 percent), reflecting the Government's efforts to
ensure the timely availability of counterpart funds for public investment projects. Scholarships
for secondary and higher education were kept below program objectives (CFAF 3.2 billion
versus CFAF 3.8 billion) and new eligibility criteria were adopted to ensure that only the most
deserving students receive support. However, expenditure for road maintenance did not increase
as planned (CFAF 1.1 billion in 1997 versus a target of CFAF 2.7 billion). As a result of the
sharp reduction of expenditures--including wage and salary outlays--and improved revenue
collection, the overall deficit (on a commitment basis and excluding grants) in 1997 was half
percentage point of GDP lower than the program level of 8 percent of GDP. Notwithstanding
these developments, the reduction in domestic and external payments arrears was less than
programmed as a result of the shortfall in external assistance and difficulties in reaching
rescheduling agreements with some multilateral and non-Paris Club bilateral creditors.
12.   In 1997, real GDP growth was I percentage point short of the program target of 4.5
percent owing to the impact of a drought on agricultural production. It should be noted,
however, that this is the first time since the 1977-80 uranium boom that Niger's GDP growth has
been positive for more than five consecutive years. Despite the drought, the annual average



4
inflation rate was held slightly below 3 percent and the real effective exchange rate is estimated
to have depreciated by 3 percent during the year. The external current account deficit (excluding
official transfers) was I percentage point of GDP lower than programmed, reflecting higher-
than-expected increases in uranium exports and moderate growth of imports.
13.   During the period December 1997-June 1998, the Government introduced a number of
new measures aimed at improving the management of public finances and accelerating the
privatization program. On the revenue side, measures were introduced to recoup some of the
revenue shortfall experienced in 1997 (despite the 15 percent increase over 1996, revenues in
1997 fell short of the program target by 11 percent). These include: accelerating the collection
of tax arrears owed to the Government by major public enterprises and tax defaulters, the
publication of a comprehensive list of tax defaulters in the press and their exclusion from
participation in Government procurement contracts and efforts to improve cooperation with the
imports verification agency. Several measures were also introduced to improve expenditure
management, including the banning of expenditure payments outside normal budgetary
procedures, the establishment of a national commission for good governance in public
administration and of a Treasury Committee.
14.   Next, the Government accelerated the implementation of the privatization program, as
evidenced by the following measures: (i) OLANI (dairy products) and SNC (cement) were sold
in March and April 1998, respectively, and a request for bids for the management of Abattoir
(slaughterhouse) was issued in February 1998;' (ii) the Government signed a protocol to transfer
the management of SONIDEP's petroleum storage facilities to the private sector in December
1997, eliminated SONIDEP's import monopoly and adopted a regulatory framework governing
private sector's imports of petroleum products; and (iii) consortia of financial and regulatory
advisers were recruited to assist the Government in preparing the requests for bids for the
privatization of SNE (water), SONITEL (telecoms) and NIGELEC (electricity) and in revising
these sectors' regulatory frameworks.
15.   The progress made on economic management was recently accompanied by positive
developments on the political front. An agreement was signed in July 1998 between the
Government and the opposition to ensure transparent and orderly municipal elections in
November 1998. The participation of the opposition in the coming elections would contribute to
improving political stability and thus the sustainability of ongoing economic reforms, and would
help address the political governance issues that have affected cooperation with some donors
since the January 1996 coup. In addition, the security situation in the North has improved and
the government is proceeding with the reinsertion of several thousand former guerrilla fighters
into the Nigerien economy and/or their integration in the public administration.
C. Medium-term prospects and financing requirements
16.   Under the combined influence of the sustained implementation of the Government's
adjustment program outlined in the PFP and the resumption of external aid, the Nigerien
economy is expected to grow in real terms at an average of about 4.5 percent a year during 1998-
2001, thus allowing an increase of real per capita income on the order of I percent per annum.
However, no private investor came forward and the Government is revising the request for bids in order to re-issue it
in 1998.



5
Growth is expected to mostly come from the development of crop and livestock production and a
modest increase in exports. This growth performance would be supported by an increase in gross
domestic investment from about 1 I percent of GDP in 1997 to 14 percent in 2001. The growth in
investment will be financed initially by resumed external assistance and then increasingly by
domestic savings, which are projected to rise from approximately 3 percent of GDP in 1997 to
about 7 percent in 2001. A targeted increase in public sector's savings by about 4 percentage
points of GDP during this period, through enhanced revenue performance and tight expenditure
control, will be key to achieving the required rise in domestic savings. The general improvement
in the economic environment is also expected to enhance private savings performance. The
prudent monetary policies pursued by the regional monetary authorities (BCEAO) should help
minimize inflationary pressures and stabilize the inflation rate at the current 3 percent level.
However, the balance of payments outlook is expected to remain difficult and will be sensitive to
developments in the price of uranium and climatic conditions. The macroeconomic projections
and requisite policies will continue to be revised annually during the update of the PFP, taking
into account both the progress achieved in reducing imbalances and the availability of financing.
17.   The authorities recognize the need to normalize relations with external creditors. In this
context, they intend to: (i) reduce external payments arrears by US$34 million in 1998; (ii)
continue to prepay obligations falling due to Paris Club creditors; and (iii) maintain a prudent
debt policy by only contracting concessional loans. Preliminary debt sustainability analysis,
based on data from the Bank's Debt Reporting System, indicates that Niger's public external
debt at end-1996 was about US$1.6 billion. The net present value of external debt represents
about 256 percent of exports. IDA represents about 28 percent of the net present value of
existing external debt and its share is likely to increase during the FY98-00 period. Provided it
continues to implement IMF- and IDA-supported programs, Niger could reach the HIPC Debt
Initiative decision point in mid-1999.
18.   Given the enormity of Niger's development needs relative to its actual and prospective
resources (see para. 23) and despite the anticipated improvement in its economic and financial
situation, Niger will continue to rely on concessional external assistance for many years. For the
perio(d July 1998-June 1999, the gross financing requirement is projected to amount to CFAF
131.5 billion (US$219 million). These requirements are expected to be met by assistance from
multilateral institutions (CFAF 53.5 billion, including the proposed IDA credit), bilateral donors
and the European Union (CFAF 38 billion) and debt relief from non-Paris Club bilateral
creditors and some regional multilateral creditors (CFAF 40 billion). The prospects for filling
the financing gap for 1999-2000 depend, in addition to Niger's economic performance, on
donors' assessment of progress on the political front. In this respect, a critical determinant of
continued donor support will be fair and transparent municipal elections, scheduled for
November 1998.
III. NIGER'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
19.   As discussed in the Country Assistance Strategy, Niger's central development challenge
is hovw to reverse the current trend of sluggish real GDP growth and declining per capita income
in the face of one of the poorest natural and human resource bases in Africa. The Government's
medium-term economic program seeks to: (i) pursue prudent fiscal and monetary policies and
improve the efficiency of public spending, thus making it possible to maintain aggregate demand
at a level compatible with available resources, preserve the competitiveness gains resulting from
the CFA franc devaluation and improve the impact of public services; and (ii) accelerate sectoral



6
reforms to promote broad-based economic growth, notably by encouraging agricultural
production, developing human resources, rehabilitating basic physical infrastructure, and
privatizing public enterprises. A detailed description of the Government's macroeconomic and
structural adjustment policies for 1998-2001 is provided in the Policy Framework Paper.
20.    Despite the encouraging progress made in the last two years to reduce financial
imbalances, Niger's macroeconomic situation remains fragile. In this respect, the authorities
realize that substantive revenue gains rest with the inevitably gradual process of restoring growth
and that much of the short-term fiscal effort will therefore need to focus on public expenditure
control and adjustment. In this respect, strict control over the growth of public expenditures will
be the key to maintaining financial stability. Unfortunately, institutions and procedures for
public expenditure control and management have deteriorated in recent years. The large stock of
internal arrears accumulated during the last decade has led to a loss of credibility in claims on
the state and an escalation in the use of uncontrolled advance payment procedures (paiements
par anticipation, PPAs). While decreasing the time necessary to effectuate payments, these
procedures also circumvent the normal accounting and control systems--thus reducing
transparency and accountability and contributing to budgetary overruns, further accumulation of
expenditure arrears and, in several cases, abuses.
21.    Furthermore, the existing stock of government internal arrears toward the private sector
and public enterprises has impeded the normal functioning of the economy, weakened private
sector confidence and resulted in an increase in the cost of government,contracts. In addition,
the absence of ex-post reconciliation of actual expenditures with budgeted amounts and the lack
of audited Government accounts (no audited account of past budgets has been prepared in more
than a decade) makes it impossible to ensure budgetary discipline and transparency, regularly
monitor the execution of the budget and use the results of past budgets to prepare future
expenditure programs. The Government is determined to break this vicious cycle and restore
confidence in public finances and control of public expenditure by ensuring budgetary
orthodoxy and the orderly clearing of domestic arrears. In addition, in order to continue
maintaining control over the wage bill, the authorities have decided that, apart from the
integration into the civil service of members of the former armed rebellion, there will not be any
new recruitment into the civil service. These measures, which are detailed in para. 25-30 below,
are expected to help reduce current expenditures from 10 percent of GDP in 1997 to 9 percent in
2001, reduce the share of personnel expenditures to tax revenues from 57 percent in 1997 to 31
percent in 2001 and avoid the accumulation of new domestic arrears.
22.    Despite the tax reform  efforts implemented  during  1996-97, Niger's revenue
mobilization performance remains one of the lowest in sub-Saharan Africa (8.4 percent of GDP
in 1997). Therefore, in 1998-99 the Government intends to consolidate and reinforce the tax
reform efforts implemented in the last two years. The focus will be on further broadening the
tax base and strengthening tax administration by: (i) reducing the number and scope of tax
exonerations; and (ii) strengthening tax assessment and collection services. Through these
measures, which are detailed in para. 31-33 below, the Government expects to raise revenue by
about 4 percentage points of GDP in 1998-2001, from 8 percent in 1997 to 12 percent in 2001.
2 This results from projecting a very modest growth of current expenditure in 1998-2001 while the macro framework
assumes 4.5 percent GDP growth. Similarly, the wage bill is projected to grow by only about I percent on average
during this period while revenues would grow by about 18 percent.



7
23.   Niger's social and economic characteristics underlie the basic challenge confronting the
Government with regard to its long-term development strategy, namely the enormity of the
apparent needs relative to actual and prospective resources. The low level of development
witnessed in many parts of Niger's economic and social fabric seemingly presents an
overwhelming demand for public expenditure, yet the resource base and revenue potential is tied
to subsistence or informal sector activities and a modem sector based on one major activity--
uranium--which is in recession. Given these parameters, there is an urgent need for the
authorities both to launch a medium-term program to improve the efficiency and equity of
public resources in line with the Government's macroeconomic framework and its stated
development priorities, and to mobilize additional resources outside of the central government.
A. Restore credibility of public finances
24.    The main focus of the Government's economic reform  program  is to restore the
credibility of public finances by ensuring budgetary discipline and the orderly clearing of
domestic arrears. Strict enforcement of regular budgetary procedures and strengthened budget
implementation and monitoring will be critical to the government's ability to maintain strict
control over the growth of public expenditures, restructure them in favor of priority sectors and
brealc the cycle of domestic arrears accumulation. Of equal importance is the clearing of
domestic payments arrears which is essential to ease the financial gridlock that is impeding the
norrnal functioning of the economy and rebuild private sector confidence.
25.    Ensure budgetary discipline.  The Government has already adopted a series of
meassures to ensure budgetary discipline. First, it has eliminated advance expenditure payments
(PPAks) which are made outside normal budgetary procedures. A national commission for good
governance in public administration and a Treasury Committee have also been established. In
addition, the "supplementary fiscal period" has been shortened from three to one month and is
being properly accounted for; and finally, the deadline for closing expenditure commitments,
presently set at two months prior to the end of each fiscal year, is being strictly enforced.
26.   In August 1998, the authorities also launched a comprehensive audit of the Treasury by a
team of experts under the guidance of a senior inspector from the French Treasury. One of the
objectives of the audit is to review the Treasury accounts with the aim of reconciling, for the first
time since 1981, ex-post actual expenditures with budgeted amounts for the period 1982-1997.
The results of the audit will be presented to the Parliament in the first half of 1999. Audits of
budgiet implementation for subsequent years will be produced on a regular basis. Next, the civil
service database and payroll files have been integrated in order to link personnel management
decisions directly to payroll execution. This will allow the Government to control the wage bill
closely  and to  improve personnel management.   The Government also  adopted an
implementation decree to keep expenditure commitments in line with actual budgetary receipts.
Monitoring of budget implementation is being strengthened with the preparation of a computer-
basecl public sector financial information system. No expenditure commitments will be possible
outside of this system and computerized monthly information on budget implementation for each
line rninistry (commitments, verifications of delivery, payments orders and effective payments)
will be produced regularly and made available to all line ministries. Timely availability of such
accoLints will ensure the transparency and accountability of public finance management and will
make possible: (i) better management decisions regarding resource mobilization and allocation
in terms of financial and economic programs; (ii) quick responses to discrepancies between



8
forecast and realized revenues and expenditures; and (iii) preparation of better budgets in later
years.
27.    Domestic Arrears Settlement Plan.  The Government has prepared, with IDA
assistance, a comprehensive inventory of domestic arrears and a plan for their orderly settlement
during 1998-99. The plan defines the priorities and modalities for the settlement of these arrears,
the attributions of the agency charged with the implementation of the plan, and the criteria for
their verification and validation. Government domestic arrears totaled CFAF 118 billion (about
11 percent of 1997 GDP) as of March 31, 1998. These arrears are not all verified and it is
expected that, after the planned verification process takes place, the definitive amount will be
much lower than indicated above. Arrears owed to economic agents residing in Niger account
for three quarters of this amount, while the remaining quarter is owed to non-resident operators
(suppliers to embassies, foreign hospitals, etc.). Private enterprises account for 33 percent of
total arrears (22 percent for resident enterprises and 11 percent for non-resident ones), the
financial sector accounts for 24 percent, followed by the public and para-public sector for 18
percent, households (wages and scholarships) for 9 percent and miscellaneous for 16 percent (for
details see Annex F, Attachment 1).
28.    The settlement of arrears to the private sector and of salary arrears (the last month of
1996) is the Government's top priority. The commercial banking sector represents the second
priority, in particular the settlement of loans and Treasury bonds. The arrears vis-a-vis public
enterprises are identified but will not be settled in cash, with the exception of the ONPE (the
National Postal and Savings Office) which requires an urgent injection of resources and of
ONPPC (the National Pharmaceutical Company) in consultation with the European Union. The
arrears to the other public enterprises will be settled in the context of their privatization (notably
for the SNE, NIGELEC and SONITEL) or of their restructuring. The first phase of the
settlement plan will concern the arrears validated by the Treasury (restes a payer, RAP, unpaid
arrears) according to the priorities mentioned above. The second phase will cover, within the
limit of resources available, additional claims that still require validation (depenses engagees
non ordonnancees, DENO, expenditures committed for which payments orders have not been
issued) according to the priorities described above.
29.    An ad hoc Commission has been created to implement the settlement plan.  The
Commission is placed under the supervision of the Minister of Finance. Its tasks are to: (i)
verify and validate the dossiers submitted to its review; (ii) proceed as needed to corrections,
notably with respect to invoicing, tax obligations, competitive bidding procedures; and (iii)
control and supervise the treatment of the dossiers that it verifies and validates. The activities of
the Commission will be audited periodically by an international accounting firm according to
internationally recognized norms. The settlement of eligible arrears will be done through cash
payments. Given the financial constraints faced by Niger, the use of a discount procedure for the
settlement of these arrears is necessary. A system of periodic auctions will be used in which the
eligible private sector creditors (with arrears validated by the ad hoc Commission) who offer the
highest discounts will be given priority.
30.    Avoid a new build-up of domestic arrears. The Government's efforts to rehabilitate
public finances will not be successful unless they are accompanied by concrete measures to
avoid any new build-up of domestic arrears. First, it is necessary to adopt adequate procedures
to avoid the accumulation of new arrears for water, electricity and consumption. In this respect,
the Government has adopted the following measures: (i) increased in the revised 1998 budget



9
Law budget appropriations to cover actual water, electricity and telephone Government
consumption by 78 percent (an adequate budget appropriation will also be made in the 1999
Budget Law to cover these services); (ii) adopted measures to reduce Government consumption
of these services (see Annex F, footnote 2 for details); (iii) created a unit in charge of controlling
Government consumption of these services and of ensuring the regular payment of its bills; and
(iv) authorize the water, electricity and telephone public utilities to cut the provision of these
services to the Government in case bills are not paid within one month. This rule will apply to
all public administration agencies with the exception of a few operating in strategic activities and
payment of whose bills will receive priority (see Annex F, footnote 3 for details). In 1998, these
measures will be supplemented by: (i) a reduction in, and improved management of,
expenditures for official travel and medical evacuations; (ii) improved management and
redefinition of the criteria for awarding scholarships to students, as well as transfers and
subsidies to the national television (ORTN), the university, the National School of
Administration (ENA) and the agricultural research institute (INRAN), which together absorb
over 50% of total subsidies; and (iii) measures to ensure strict application of the system of
expenditure control and regulation.
B. Consolidate and reinforce the tax reform effort
31.   The focus of the government's efforts would be on further broadening the tax base and
strengthening tax administration by: (i) reducing the number and scope of tax exonerations; and
(ii) strengthening tax assessment and collection services. The use of tax exonerations has grown
sharply in the last two years and the 1997 related revenue loss equals 16 percent of budgetary
revenues. About half of exonerations are granted under the petroleum and mining code and
under the tax regime for the uranium sector; the remaining exonerations are granted under the
investment code, special conventions for the hotel and textile sectors, foreign-financed projects,
and for commodities imported by embassies and NGOs. The largest part of exemptions concern
the value added tax. In addition to the significant revenue loss from exemptions, tax evasion
remaiins a serious problem in Niger, largely as a result of the share of the informal sector in the
economy and severely understaffed and underequipped tax agencies.
32.   The Government has adopted the following measures in order to strengthen its control of
existing tax exonerations and sharply reduce their scope and number: (i) the elimination of all ad
hoc exemptions; (ii) the nonrenewal of expiring exemptions granted under the investment code;
(iii) withdrawing exonerations granted under the investment code when a company does not
complete the investment program within a 12 month period; (iv) excluding all enterprises that
will be privatized starting from September 1, 1998, from exemptions under the provision of the
Investment Code (in anticipation of a new UEMOA regional investment framework); (v)
eliminating exemptions from duties and taxes on all imports of lubricants and spare parts with a
unit value under CFAF 100,000; (vi) improving imp]ementation of the system of Treasury
checks as a means to monitor exemptions related to imports under foreign-financed government
procurement contracts; and (vii) extending to NGOs the system of Treasury checks to pay import
duties and other applicable indirect taxes. In 1999, the Government also intends to introduce a
system of exemptions applicable to petroleum products based on the advance payment of
customs duties and taxes and their reimbursement on the basis of delivery receipts. Given



10
existing legal provisions3 and a penalizing tax regime, elimination of existing exonerations
granted under the petroleum and mining code and under the tax regime for the uranium sector
will first require a comprehensive review of this sector's tax regime. The Government intends to
implement this effort in 1998-99. In the meanwhile, the authorities have completed a review of
existing procedures for exonerations granted under the petroleum and mining code and under the
tax regime for the uranium sector and are implementing its recommendations in order to
strengthen their monitoring and application.
33.    In order to strengthen tax assessment and collection services, the authorities have
implemented the following measures: (i) made fully operational the Large Taxpayer Unit in the
tax administration office and provided it with adequate personnel and material to enhance its
effectiveness; (ii) enhanced taxpayer compliance through well targeted value added tax (VAT)
audits; (iii) introduced the single taxpayer identification number system to all revenue agencies
to monitor taxpayers compliance; (iv) installed computerized value records for use by the
Directorate General of Customs; and (v) improved cooperation between customs and the import
verification agency (COTECNA), including by using documented discrepancies between the
ADV of COTECNA and the customs declarations to improve revenue collection. In addition, in
1998 staff efficiency and capabilities of tax collection agencies will be reinforced through the
recruitment of an additional 75 permanent staff and 30 fixed-term employees. 1998 budgetary
allocations for equipment and supplies (CFAF I billion) will also allow tax collection agencies
to improve their operations and pursue the decentralization of their activities. Finally, the
Government will accelerate preparations for implementing the UEMOA common external tariff
(CET). With assistance from IDA and the IMF, the authorities will assess the impact of the CET
on government finances and, if needed, will develop offsetting measures.
C. Improve the efficiency and equity of public spending
34.    In concert with its efforts to re-establish the basis for sound macroeconomic
management, the Government has also launched a medium-termn process to improve the
efficiency and equity of public spending in line with its macroeconomic objectives and sectoral
priorities. The key challenge is to reorient expenditures and reform the public sector in such a
way as to achieve the highest impact on service delivery to rural communities and poverty
reduction. In 1998, the Government launched a multi-year Public Expenditure Review (PER)
with the assistance of the World Bank and other donors. Improving the management of public
resources in Niger will require a sustained effort over time. The 1998 PER, which represents the
first step in a multi-year undertaking, focuses on: (i) an in-depth analysis of expenditure issues in
the health and education sectors; and (ii) budgetary procedures. This analysis will be extended
to other priority sectors and issues over the next two years (e.g., rural development, transport and
fiscal decentralization).
35.    The ongoing PER has identified several problems with respect to the composition of
public expenditure. First, despite recent Government efforts to reduce the wage bill (11 percent
cut in 1997), personnel expenditure continue to absorb about 46 percent of non-interest current
expenditures; in contrast, spending for materials and supplies represents only 39 percent of non-
The Mining Law requires that a convention, valid for 30 years, be signed before issuance of exploration permits for
mining companies.  The legal provisions in both the Mining Code and the conventions are clear and
comprehensive in their treatment of tax exonerations and do not allow any legal reversal of these fiscal
arrangements.



I1
interest current expenditures; subsidies and transfers represent a significant (13 percent) and
growing share of non-interest current expenditure. Second, although the education and health
sectors combined absorb more than 40 percent of domestically-financed expenditures (excluding
interest payments), the distribution of public resources within these sectors is far from optimal.
Publiic spending does not adequately target the provision of services which most benefit the poor;
for example, a significant share of resources continues to be spent on urban curative, rather than
rural preventive, health care and on secondary and higher education. Also, administration
services absorb an inordinate proportion of available resources, particularly in tertiary health
care and higher education. Third, the distribution of human and financial resources is not
regionally balanced; for example, 55 percent of civil servants are located in Niamey, which
represents 6 percent of the country's population. The underfinancing of materials and supplies,
coupled with poor human and financial resource management, has led to an acute shortage of
essential operating supplies, a rapid deterioration of physical facilities, equipment and service
quality, all of which have resulted in an underutilization of services in public facilities,
particularly in rural areas. The PER has also identified several weaknesses in expenditure
programming and execution procedures, including inadequate preparation of annual budgets,
weak monitoring of project execution and impact, poor budgetary and accounting nomenclature
and weak linkages between the recurrent and investment budgets.
36.   Through the PER, the Government is developing detailed recommendations to improve
expenditure allocations in the education and health sectors and to enhance budget processes. The
recomnmendations seek to ensure strategic expenditure prioritization, increase allocations for key
programs and develop a system of ex-post evaluation of outcomes. The Government intends to
include the 1998 PER recommendations in the 1999 Budget Law. Among these are: (i) the
recruitment of volonteer teachers to increase primary enrollment rates; the volonteer teachers,
whose cost is appreciably lower than that of paying teachers with government employee status,
will be financed through the elimination of subsidies to private education and a cut of transfers to
university and secondary school students; (ii) increase non-wage current expenditure for the
health sector by 5 percent in real terms; (iii) increase the budget for educational materials and
supplies by CFAF 215 million and for fuel and maintenance for vehicles used for primary school
inspections by CFAF 40 million; (iv) ensure a more rational deployment of available health and
education staff; and (v) privatize maintenance and repair services of the motor vehicle fleet of
the Ministry of Public Health. Agreement on the 1999 draft budget acceptable to IDA and
reflecting the PER recommendations would be a condition for second tranche release of the
proposed credit. In this context, the Government will fully involve IDA and other interested
donors in the preparation of the 1999 Budget, starting in May and until it is presented to the
Parliament in November/December 1998.  Following this credit, the elaboration and
implementation of the medium-term policy agenda in public expenditure management will be
further supported and monitored in conjunction with follow-up PERs and with ongoing
investment projects in health, education, agriculture and transport.
IV. THE PROPOSED PUBLIC FINANCE REFORM CREDIT
A. Credit Rationale and Components
37.   In 1996-97, the Government demonstrated its resolve to maintain the economic reform
program on track--despite a difficult political environment and reduced foreign assistance. The
implementation of this first phase of the program was supported by IDA through a single-tranche
Public Sector Adjustment Credit, PSAC (SDR21.6 million or US$30 million equivalent)



12
disbursed in March 1997. Given the encouraging progress so far, the proposed credit would
provide budgetary support to fill the financing gap for 1998-99, and would thus permit the
Government to sustain implementation of the second phase of the reform program.
38.   The main focus of the proposed credit is to restore credibility of public finances by
ensuring budgetary orthodoxy and the orderly clearing of domestic arrears. In addition, the
credit would support measures to consolidate and reinforce the tax reform efforts implemented in
1996-97, and to launch a medium-term effort to improve the efficiency and equity of public
spending. The Country Assistance Strategy envisaged IDA budgetary support for 1998 and 1999
through two single-tranche SACs of US$30 million each. However, for internal efficiency
reasons and to build a longer-term Government commitment to the country's reform agenda, we
propose to replace the two SACs with a single, three-tranche adjustment operation of SDR 48.0
million (US$64.0 million equivalent).
B. Conditions of tranche release
39.   The proposed credit was designed with a focus on actions taken prior to Board
presentation. In this regard, the Government has already implemented the following key
measures:
Budgetary Orthodoxy
*  completion of a comprehensive inventory of domestic arrears and adoption of a plan
for their orderly settlement and of measures to avoid their future recurrence;
*  launch a comprehensive audit of the Treasury, including of its accounts to ensure
reconciliation between actual expenditures and budgeted amounts for the 1982-97
period;
*  elimination of all expenditure payments outside normal budgetary procedures
(PPAs);
*  adoption of implementation decree to keep expenditures strictly in line with
resources mobilized;
*  following the completion of the civil service census in September 1997, removal
from the payroll and civil service roaster of 319 employees whose status was found
to be irregular;
*  integration of the civil service database and payroll files to ensure full control of the
government wage bill; and
*  completion of a Public Expenditure Review with detailed recommendations and an
action plan for their implementation, including through the 1999 Budget Law.
Revenue Mobilization
*  make fully operational the large taxpayer unit in the tax administration office and
provide it with adequate personnel and material to enhance its effectiveness;
*  introduction of the single taxpayer identification number system for all revenue
agencies and introduction of computerized value records;
*  completion of a review of procedures for tax exonerations granted under the
petroleum and mining code and under the tax regime for the uranium sector and
implementation of their recommendations;



13
*  elimination of all ad hoc exemptions and no granting of new exonerations under the
investment code to enterprises that will be privatized starting from September 1,
1998;
*  provision to the General Tax Directorate of an additional 75 permanent staff and 30
fixed-term employees to accelerate revenue collection, and provision to tax agencies
of CFAF I billion for equipment and supplies to strengthen their effectiveness;
*  effective implementation of the system of Treasury checks for the payment of import
duties under externally-financed government procurement contracts; and
*  extend to NGOs the system of Treasury checks to pay import duties and other
applicable indirect taxes.
40.   The first tranche of SDR 18.0 million (US$ 24.0 million equivalent) will be released
upon effectiveness of the proposed credit. Subject to continuing satisfactory performance on the
macroeconomic front and implementation of the program outlined in the Letter of Development
Policy, particularly with regard to the overall level of revenues and expenditure, a second
tranche of SDR 15.0 million (US$ 20.0 million equivalent) would be released contingent upon:
(i) presentation to the Parliament of a draft 1999 budget consistent with the program outlined in
the Letter of Development Policy, and taking into account the recommendations and findings of
the PER for 1999; (ii) settlement of domestic arrears in a net amount of at least US$ 20 million
equivalent according to the priorities agreed upon in the domestic arrears payment plan; and (iii)
completion of the verification and validation of all its internal arrears not yet verified and
validated and presentation to IDA of a settlement plan satisfactory to IDA. A third tranche of
SDR 15.0 million (US$ 20.0 million equivalent) would be released contingent upon: (i)
presentation to the Parliament of the expenditure audit (Loi de Reglement) covering the
execution of the budgets for each fiscal year from 1991 through 1997; and (ii) settlement of a
second net amount of domestic arrears of at least US$ 20.0 million equivalent according to the
priorities agreed upon in the domestic arrears payment plan.
41.   A set of key performance indicators have been agreed with the Government during
negotiations and are included in Annex G.
C. Link to the CAS and Poverty Impact
42.   The CAS discussed by the Executive Directors in November 1997 identifies human
resource development, improvement in the management of water resources and promotion of
economic flexibility and openness for private sector growth as the focus of IDA's involvement in
Niger. Niger's expanded coverage of basic social services and private sector growth will require
sound public finance management to assure the availability and efficient use of resources for
essential state functions and to avoid the economic and social disruption of arrears on civil
servant salaries and government supplies. The proposed credit supports the Government in
achieving these goals and, thus, is fully consistent with the Niger's CAS. In addition, through its
focus on further widening the tax base, notably through the reduction of tax exonerations and the
strengthening of tax administration, the proposed credit supports Niger's efforts to mobilize
revenues and harmonize customs and investment incentives within the UEMOA. Together with
the expected positive impact on macroeconomic stability, the proposed credit would provide the
foundations for future reforms and allow IDA lending to evolve increasingly toward
programmed budget support to the health and education sectors, away from traditional projects
and adjustment credits. The speed with which such new instruments could be put in place would



14
partially determine whether additional adjustment lending would be required after the proposed
credit.
D. Ownership of the Reform Program
43.    Government ownership of the credit and the program it supports appears to be adequate
in order to ensure its successful implementation. This is evidenced by:
*  full involvement of the Government in the design of the adjustment program. The
Government provided the initial written framework for the credit including TORs for
key components.
*  the Government has already put in place a number of key actions in the areas of
revenue mobilization and public expenditure management.
*  a government counterpart team (composed of senior staff at the level of secretary
general or director from various ministries) has been working with IDA staff on the
program design and implementation. The team is headed by the Secretary General
of the Ministry of Finance and is supported by a full-time technical team.
44.    Finally, to help gain even broader ownership of the program, IDA will continue to
encourage the authorities to broaden consensus outside of the Government on the economic
reform agenda, including consultations with trade unions, the private sector and other
stakeholders. In this respect, with IDA assistance the Government has develop a communication
strategy to strengthen dialogue with civil society and broaden public support for economic
reforms. In parallel, the Resident Mission, in close partnership with the Government, has
initiated a series of consultations with different social groups (university, national assembly,
trade unions and political parties) to help promote a better understanding of the reform program
and the Government's development agenda.
E. Credit Amount, Disbursement Procedures and Implementation Arrangements
45.   The credit will be disbursed in three tranches in an amount equivalent to US$64 million.
The AfDB and Germany (KfW) intend to provide parallel financing for the proposed credit.
Procurement and disbursement arrangements will follow the simplified procedures for structural
adjustment operations approved by the Board on February 1, 1996. Thus, disbursements will not
be linked to specific purchases and there will be no procurement requirements. The Borrower
will open an account in CFAF at the Central Bank. Upon IDA notification of tranche release,
proceeds of the credit will be deposited (in CFAF) in this account at the request of the Borrower.
The amount of the PPF granted to prepare this operation (PPF Q088-NIR) will be reimbursed
from the proceeds of the credit's first tranche. In addition, the Government intends to allocate
US$3 million out of the local currency counterpart generated by the proposed credit to finance
the implementation of the measures detailed in para. 25-30 aimed at restoring budgetary
discipline. If the proceeds of the credit are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance items
imported from non-member countries, or goods and services on the Bank's standard negative
list), IDA will require the Borrower to either: (a) return that amount for use on eligible
purchases; or (b) refund the amount directly to IDA, in which case IDA will cancel an equivalent
undisbursed amount of the Credit. Although an audit of the use of credit funds will not be
required, IDA reserves the right to require audits at any time. The credit's administration will be
the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, Economic Reforms and Privatization.



15
46.   The reform program supported by the proposed credit is being implemented under the
supervision of an Inter-ministerial Committee chaired by the Prime Minister. The government
counterpart team described in para. 43 above will be responsible for coordinating the activities of
all government agencies involved in the reform program and for monitoring program
implementation (including the preparation of monthly reports for the Inter-ministerial
Committee and IDA). Implementation of the agreed policy actions will be monitored on a
regular basis by IDA Headquarters and Resident Mission staff and the Committee's monthly
reports. IDA supervision activities will be closely coordinated with the IMF and other donors
providing parallel financing.
F. Benefits and Risks
47.   In light of Niger's short track record in implementing reform programs and its fragile
political situation, the proposed credit is of high risk. The two main risks are: (i) renewed
political and social instability which could undermine government commitment to the reform
program; and (ii) weak Government implementation capacity.
48.   The largest risk associated with the proposed credit is a scaling back, or reversal, of the
reform package as a result of political developments. In the face of renewed political and social
instability, the Government's determination to restore the credibility of public finances by
ensuring budgetary orthodoxy and the clearing of domestic arrears may be called into question.
Faltering Government commitment to fight tax evasion would also result in significant shortfalls
in revenue mobilization which, in turn, would jeopardize efforts to restore financial discipline.
However, the resolve shown by the Government over the last year to maintain the economic
reform program on track and its determination to broaden it by adopting a number of key reform
measures prior to presentation of the credit to the Board (see para. 39), provide assurance that the
program will be implemented in its entirety. As indicated in para. 44, the authorities have also
developed a communication strategy to broaden public support for the reform program.
Furthermore, to decrease the risk of policy reversal, the program was designed with a focus on
actions taken prior to credit approval and a relatively short implementation period.
49.   The second risk is that weak Government administrative capacity and coordination could
lead to delays in the implementation of key measures. In this context, the new Government has
effectively improved coordination of the economic reforn program and mobilized a full-time
technical team to work on program design and implementation. IDA has also provided
significant technical assistance through the Public Expenditure Review and a Project Preparation
Facility (US$250,000), both of which were designed with a focus on ownership by the national
administration.
50.   In our assessment, the potential benefits of support to Niger in the form of the proposed
credit outweigh the high level of risk. The key benefit of the reform program will be a major
contribution, along with the IMF ESAF, to stabilizing public finances and improving the
efl'iciency of public spending, both of which are preconditions for sustainable economic
development in Niger. Following the encouraging progress made by the Government in
implementing the first phase of the economic reform program in 1996-97, the proposed credit
will permit the Government to sustain implementation of the program in 1998-99. Without the
quick-disbursing financing provided by the credit, the country's prospects for sustainable
development would be considerably weakened.



16
V. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IFC and MIGA
51.   IFC has no outstanding investments in Niger but has recently conducted missions to
identify new investment opportunities. Possible areas for future involvement include enterprises
in the process of being privatized, capital market development and small manufacturing
enterprises. Niger has not yet completed its MIGA membership requirements and is thus not yet
eligible for MIGA coverage. Given the potential importance of MIGA membership for private
sector investment, the government will be encouraged to accelerate completion of the remaining
requirements.
VI. COLLABORATION WITH IMF AND OTHER DONORS
52.   The reform program supported by the proposed credit is coordinated closely with the
IMF ESAF program, with both programs aiming to promote discipline in public finances.
Measures designed to improve the management of public expenditure through greater financial
discipline and improved efficiency of public spending neatly complement the IMF's support for
revenue mobilization and expenditure control. The expenditure targets to be adopted in the 1999
Budget will be kept consistent with the fiscal targets under IMF-supported programs and the PFP
1998-2001. IMF's structural policy benchmarks are developed in close consultation with IDA
and stress the complementarity of programs being implemented by the two institutions.
53.   IDA staff have also closely collaborated with Niger's major donors. Parallel IMF, IDA,
African Development Bank and European Union missions are held regularly to review
implementation of the economic reform program. Close coordination with donors on the reform
program covered by the credit is also ensured by the collaboration established with France for
the public finance rehabilitation and modernization components of the program and the
participation of the EU and other donors in the Public Expenditure Review.
VII. RECOMMENDATION
54.   I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Washington, D.C.
September 18, 1998
Attachments



Annex A
Page I of I
Niger Social Indicators
Latest single year                   Same regionfincome group
Sub-
Saharan            Low-
1970-75        1980-85        1990-96                Africa         income
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)                   4.7            6.6             9.3                596.4          3,236.2
Growth rate (% annual average)                        2.5            3.5            3.3                   2.7             1.8
Urban population (% of population)                     10.6           14.3            18.7                 31.7            29.1
Total fertility rate (births per woman)                 7.2            7.4             7.4                  5.6              3.2
POVERTY
(% of population)
National hea.dcount index                                ..             ..           63.0
Urban headcount index
Rural headcount index
INCOME
GNP per capita (US$)                                   250             220            200                  490              490
Consumer price index (1987=100)                         39             111            131                  266              275
Food price irdex (1987=100)                              ..            120             83
INCOME/CONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
(% of income or consumption)
Lowest quintile                                          ..             ..            7.5
Highest quintile                                         ..             ..           44.1
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Health (% of GDP)                                       .              ..           1.6                    ..             1.5
Education (% of GNP)                                    .            3.1            3.1                   5.3             3.6
Social security and welfare (% of GDP)                  .            0.3
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
Total                                                  ..             25             25
Male                                                 ..            32              32
Female                                                .             17             18
Access to safe water
(% of population)
Total                                                 27              37             53                   45               76
Urban                                               36             48              46                   63               80
Rural                                               26             34              55                   34               72
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
Measles                                                ..             19             38                   56               80
DPT                                                    ..              6             19                   55               81
Child malnutbition (% under 5 years)                     ..             49             43
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                                 39              40             47                   52               63
Male                                                38             39              44                   51               62
Female                                              41             42              49                   54               64
Mortality
Infant (per thousand live births)                    166             139            118                   91               68
Under 5 (per thousand live births)                     ..           300             321                  147               94
Adult (15-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                        611            562             510                  448             231
Female (per 1,000 population)                      490            453             401                  376             206
Matemal (per 100,000 live births)                      ..            519            593
World Development Indicators 1998 CD-ROM, World Bank



Annex B
Page I of 3
Niger - Key Economic Indicators
Actual             Estimat                  Projected
Indicator             1992   1993   1994   1995   1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product               100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculturea                        38.8   38.5   40.8   40.2   38.9    38.0    37.8    37.7    37.5    37.3
Industrya                           17.9   17.9   17.3   17.3   17.8    18.0    17.8    17.8    17.8    17.8
Servicesa                           41.7   42.0   40.5   40.8   41.3    41.7    41.8    41.9    42.0    42.2
Import duties and taxesa             1.6    1.7    1.4    1.8    1.9        2.4      2.5     2.6     2.7      2.7
Total Consumption                     95.6   96.7  100.0   99.6   96.9    96.7    95.5    95.4    94.0    92.6
Gross domestic fixed                   5.8    6.1    8.9    7.2    9.4    10.5    11.1    11.7    12.7    13.8
investment
Government investment                3.9    4.2    6.6    5.4    4.6        5.8      6.3     6.6     6.8      6.8
Private investment                   1.5    1.5    3.8    2.1    5.0        5.0      5.1     5.3     6.2      7.3
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports (GNFS)b                       16.8   15.6   16.5   17.2   16.9    16.2    16.2    15.3    14.8    14.3
Imports (GNFS)                        17.8   18.1   26.9   24.3   23.5    23.7    23.1    22.6    21.7    21.0
Gross domestic savings                4.4    3.3    0.0    0.4    3.1         3.3     4.5     4.6      6.0     7.4
Gross national savings'               2.8    3.0   -1.0   -2.6    2.6         3.0     2.7     2.7      5.1     6.7
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product               2345   2195   1563   1881   1988    1859   1940    2114    2286    2473
(US$ million at current
prices)
Gross national product per          290.0  280.0  240.0  210.0  200.0   200.0          ..
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1987
prices)
Gross domestic product at          -6.5%    1.4%    4.0%    2.6%    3.3%    3.4%    4.4%    4.5%    4.5%    4.5%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income              -3.9%    1.2%   -0.1%   3.2%    2.8%    5.3%    4.4%    3.3%    4.7%    4.6%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, calculated
from 1987 prices)
Gross domestic product at         -9.5%   -1.9%    0.5%   -0.7%   -0.1%   -0.1%    0.9%    1.1%    1.7%    1.7%
market prices
Total consumption                  -6.5%   -1.2%   -2.6%    0.4%   -2.3%    0.3%    0.1%   -0.1%    1.6%    1.8%
Private consumption                -9.3%    0.5%   -3.1%    3.8%    0.5%   -1.6%    1.1%    0.4%    2.3%    2.4%



Annex B
Page 2 of 3
(Continued)
Niger - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual             Estimat                Projected
Indicator             1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997    1998   1999   2000    2001
Balance of Payments
(USSm)
Exports (GNFS)b                    392.9  343.3  258.4  322.7  336.8   300.9  314.1   322.8   337.4   353.0
Merchandise FOB                  343.8  297.2  225.5  286.4  301.6   270.0  279.2  284.5   296.7   310.2
Imports (GNFS)b                   418.2  397.3  420.2  457.3  466.3   441.1   448.1   477.5   495.9   520.4
Merchandlise FOB                266.3  255.9  262.8  297.4  306.0   296.8  301.3   323.9   338.2   356.4
Resource balance                   -25.3  -54.0  -161.8  -134.6  -129.5  -140.1  -133.9  -154.7  -158.5  -167.4
Net currentlransfers                -5.3   27.2   14.0   -4.2   17.8    19.4   -7.7   -12.6        4.2     8.5
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance             33.6   33.7  -99.6  -88.1  -66.2   -74.3  -88.8  -110.2   -90.0   -92.6
(after official capital grants)
Net private fbreign direct           0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    10.1    11.9    11.9
investment
Long-term loans (net)               10.6  -28.3    2.5    5.8   -0.6    38.9    5.1    16.2    10.9    16.5
Official                          28.7  -10.8    5.8  -14.9   -6.1    40.5        5.3     1.8   -6.1    -4.8
Private                          -18.1  -17.5   -3.2   20.6    5.5    -1.5   -0.2    14.3    16.9    21.3
Other capita:l (net, including     -53.9    0.4   37.9   98.0   53.8    22.4        ..
errors and omissions)
Change in reserves                  9.7   -5.8   59.2  -15.7   13.0    13.0         ..
Memorandum items
Resource balznce (% of             -1.1%  -2.5%  -10.3%  -7.2%   -6.5%   -75%   -6.9%   -7.3%   -6.9%   -6.8%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(1987 prices)
Merchandise exports                3.4%  -4.7%   4.6%   14.2%   8.0%    1.9%    6.5%    0.7%    3.8%    4.1%
(FOB)
Merchandise imports              -I 1.0%   3.9%    8.6%    1.7%   5.5%   10.4%    4.6%    6.2%    3.9%    4.9%
(CIF)
Public finance
(as % of GDI' at current
market prices)
Current revenues                     8.2    7.3    6.0    7.2    7.8       8.4    9.9    10.3    11.3    11.8
Current expenditures                12.6   12.8   12.5   10.9    8.5    10.4    9.6        9.3     9.2     9.1
(Continued)



Annex B
Page 3 of 3
Niger - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual             Estimat                  Projected
Indicator             1992   1993   1994   1995   1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
Current account surplus (+)          -4.4   -5.5   -6.4   -3.6   -0.7    -2.0        0.3      1.0     2.2     2.8
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure and net lending   3.7    3.6    5.3    4.0    3.8        4.8     5.5      5.8     6.0     5.9
Foreign financing                     4.4    2.7   16.2    2.5    6.8        6.4     4.4      3.6     2.6     2.6
NI-h-etary indicators
M2/GDP(atcurrentmarket               19.5   19.2   14.9   14.3   12.3    11.2    11.4    11.4    11.4    11.4
prices)
Growth of 12 (%o)                    -0.9    0.0    6.7    3.8   -6.6    -3.0        9.0      8.3
Private sector credit growth       -180.8  133.8  -359.3  -51.5   33.1    14.6    41.5   604.2    49.5
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( 1992=100)
Merchandise export price            100.0  101.2  124.2  133.7  162.5   150.2   153.7   159.3   162.8   166.7
index
Merchandise importprice             100.0   10.3  186.7  186.5  191.6   208.3   212.3   216.9   218.3   221.1
index
Merchandise terns of trade          100.0  987.3   66.5   71.7   84.8    72.1    72.4    73.4    74.6    75.4
index
Real exchange rate (1990 = 100)     84.8   82.8   55.1   61.1   63.1    61.2          ..
(US$/LCU)d
Interest rate (end of period) e     9.0%    8.5%    4.5%    4.5%    3.5%    3.5%      ..
Consumer price index               -2.9%    1.0%   35.6%   10.9%    5.3%    2.9%    3.0%    3.0%    3.0%    3.0%
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator                        1.1%   -0.1%   32.7%    5.4%    4.8%    3.0%    3.0%    3.0%    3.0%    3.0%
(% growth rate)
a. GDP components, as percentages of the total, are taken with respect to GDP at market prices.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.
e. Minimum rate, savings deposits.



Annex C
Page I of I
NJiger: External Financing Requirements and Sources, 1995-2001
(In millions of U.S. Dollars)
Actual             Est.   Projections
1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000           2001
A. External financing requirements  201.2   255.3   217.6   278.0   296.4   235.3   233.4
1. Currenl: account deficit, excluding
interest and official transfers  165.6   152.2   159.9   152.9   164.6   151.5   156.1
2. Interesl:                       42.3    31.1      27.2    29.7    30.5    28.5    29.3
3. Debt arnortization              49.7    37.3    31.8    42.7    47.6    58.3    59.8
4. IMF repurchases and repayments  12.2    11.7    15.0    13.8        5.9      1.8      1.3
5. Changes in external payments
arrears (increase -)             -54.3    36.0    -3.3    34.2    37.6        15.4      0.0
6. Changes in net foreign assets
(increase -)1                    -12.4    -13.6    -9.3      4.7    10.1    -20.2   -13.1
7. Net counterpart to revaluation  -2.0      0.6    -3.8      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
B. Resources                       201.2   255.4   217.6   189.4   170.8   171.0   181.0
1. Official transfers (gross)     119.8    117.0   112.8    93.8    85.0    90.0    92.8
Budgetary                       18.4    43.2    31.1      14.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Investment                      59.1     54.5    53.4    58.1      62.1     66.0    70.0
Other                           42.3     19.3    28.3    21.7    22.9    24.0    22.8
2. Long-teirm public loan
disbursements (gross)2            34.9    31.3    72.3    48.0    49.4    52.2    55.0
Budgetary                       13.0    12.3    41.6       8.8      0.0      0.0      0.0
Project related                 21.8     19.0    30.7    39.2    49.4    52.2    55.0
3. Short-term capital (net)3       43.3      6.5   -18.4    -0.2    14.3    16.9    21.3
4. Debt relief                      3.2    86.6    24.3    21.8       11.9      0.0      0.0
5. Use of IMF resources             0.0    14.0    26.6    26.0        0.0      0.0      0.0
6. Long-term private capital        0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0    10.1      11.9    11.9
C. Remairing financing gap (A-B)     0.0      0.0      0.0    88.6   125.6    64.3    52.4
Memorandum item:
Exchange! rate (CFAF per US$)     499.1    511.6   582.4   600.2   593.0   590.1    587.3
Exchange! rate (CFAF per SDR)     757.1    742.8   802.0   807.3   794.0   791.3   789.9
Sources: Nigerien authorities; and IDA staff estimates and projections.
1 Excluding the net position vis-a-vis the Fund.
2 Includes both existing and expected new commitments.
3 Includes errors and omissions.



Annex D
Page 1 of 2
Status of Bank Group Operations in Niger
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
(as of August 26, 1998)
Difference Between
Original Amount in USS Millions                    and actual
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                                                          disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit        Year               Borrower                         Purpose
No.                                                                                IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loaris/credits: 43
Active Loans
NE-PE-35608   IDA30260       1998   GOVERNMENT                         TRANSP. INFRA. REHAB               0.00       28.00            0.00         26.20          .22       0.00
NE-PE-1999    IDA29150       1997   GOVERNMENT OF NIGER                HEALTH II                          0.00       40.00            0.00         32.42         2.43       0.00
NE-PE-49691   IDA29570       1997   GOVERNMENT                         URBAN INFRAS. REHAB.               0.00       20.00            0.00         17.43         -.38       -.92
NE-PE-1967    IDA27960       1996   GOVERNMENT OF NIGER                NATURAL RES. MGMT                  0.00       26.70            0.00         17.15         3.38       -.12
NE-PE-1994     IDA27070      1995   GOVERNMENT                         PILOT PRIVATE IRRIG                0.00        6.80            0.00          4.03         3.87       3.47
NE-PE-1980    IDA26180       1994   GOVT OF NIGER                      EDUCATION III - SECA               0.00       41.40            0.00         16.39         4.76       0.00
NE-PE-1968     IDA21220      1990   GOVERNMENT OF NIGER                AGRIC. RESEARCH                    0.00       19.90            0.00          4.24         3.16       3.24
Total                                                                                                     0.00      182.80            0.00        117.86        17.44       5.67
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   57.53              597.84               655.37
of which has been repaid:                    0.00               34.43               34.43
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  182.80              531.14              713.94
Amount sold                       :                0.00                 3.15                3.15
Of which repaid                                 0.00                3.15                3.15
Total Undisbursed                :               117.86                2.28              120.14
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a
letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory) : see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Annex D
Page 2 of 2
Niger
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of August 26, 1998
(In Millions of US Dollars)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
Total Portfolio:                    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
Total Pending Commitment:           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00



Annex E
Page I of I
NIGER
PUBLIC FINANCE REFORM CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT DATA SHEET
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
Time taken to prepare the project              8 months
Project Prepared by:                           Government with the assistance of IDA staff
Appraisal:                                     May 1998
Negotiations:                                  August 1998
Board Presentation:                            October 1998
Effectiveness Date:                            October 1998
Closing Date:                                  June 30, 2000
This report is based on the findings of the World Bank mission which visited the Republic of Niger in
May 1998 to assist the Govemment in the appraisal of the Public Finance Reform Credit. Mission
members included: Messrs./Mmes Bassani (Task Manager); Ahlers (Director, AFC13), Brown
(Resident Representative), Ibrahim (economist), Nignon (operations officer), Diallo (program officer)
and Haemmerlin (consultant). Additional contributors include: Messrs./Mmes Abisourour and Crego
(research analysts); Boulch (sr. public sector management specialist); Desclaux (disbursement officer);
Moumal and Martinov (staff assistants), Schwartz (sr. education specialist), Wabnitz (counsel) and
Waelde (economist). Messrs. Ahlers and Humphreys are the Director and the Sector Manager,
respectively, for the operation.



Annex F
Page 1 of 20
REPUBLIC OF NIGER                                 Niamey, September 10, 1998
OFFICE OF THE
MINISTER OF FINANCE,
ECONOMIC REFORMS AND
PRIVATIZATION
The Minister of Finance
to
No. 5028/MFRE/P/DGE/R
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President of the World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. President,
I am pleased to transmit herewith the Government of the Republic of Niger's Letter
of DevelopmentPolicy.
This letter, together with its policy matrix and attachment, summarizes the goals,
strategies and policies which the Nigerien authorities intend to pursue to correct the main
existing financial imbalances and to place the Nigerien economy on the path to sustained
and durable growth with both bilateral and multilateral external financial assistance.
The different elements of this letter have been the subject of in-depth discussions
w]ith your staff and have made it possible, on September 4, 1998, to conclude the
negotiation in Niamey of a Public Finance Reform Credit of SDR 48.0 million.
Yours truly,
Is/   Dr. Ide Gnandou
[Seal of Office]



Annex F
Page 2 of 20
PUBLIC FINANCE REFORM CREDIT
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1.    The Government's economic program is based on the broad guidelines set forth in the
Policy Framework Paper prepared by the Nigerien authorities. This document was agreed upon
with the international lending agencies in June 1996 and has since been updated to take into
account the results of program implementation during 1997 and 1998.
I. BACKGROUND
2.    Since 1989, Niger has undergone a series of political upheavals.  The resulting
government instability made it difficult to pursue financial stabilization that had been undertaken
since 1983, as well as structural adjustment efforts undertaken as early as 1985 to mitigate the
impact of a sharp decline in export earnings caused by the drop in uranium prices.
3.    After a National Sovereign Conference was convened to address political issues, this was
followed by a transition period characterized by numerous financial and social difficulties.
During this time, Niger also experienced institutional bottlenecks that delayed completion of the
programs launched by successive governments.
4.    Further complicating the country's challenges was the increasing irregularity of climatic
conditions that accelerated environmental degradation making agricultural and livestock
production more unreliable, just as population pressures were increasing the demand for
foodstuffs.
5.    In addition, up until 1994, the CFAF appreciation, particularly in relation to the Nigerian
naira, seriously undermined the competitiveness of an economy already vulnerable as a result of
the extremely low level of national savings and investment, inadequate economic management
and inappropriate policies resulting in a substantial growth of the informal sector.
6.    Finally, Niger's development policy for the 1980s had been designed with the
expectation of continued high earnings from uranium exports. Major investment programs had
been undertaken on the basis of this assumption. The indebtedness incurred for this purpose and
the associated recurrent costs created a serious drain on public finances at a time when revenue
from the uranium sector was steadily declining, the largely untaxed informal sector was
expanding and investment was dropping.
7.    The combined impact of all these factors during the period 1983-93 was a decline in real
GDP averaging 0.5 percent a year, accompanied by a substantial increase in poverty. It is
estimated that more than 60 percent of the population now live below the poverty line and lack
access to basic water, education and health services.
8.    The CFAF devaluation on January 12, 1994 was intended to create a climate of greater
competitiveness and provide the Nigerian economy with a new beginning, based on a program
supported by a stand-by arrangement with IMF and a World Bank Economic Recovery Credit.



Annex F
Page 3 of 20
9      Despite a 4 percent increase in real GDP in 1994, the results of the program proved
unsatisfactory largely due to the deteriorating condition of public finances as evidenced by
declining tax revenues. After having already declined from 11 percent of GDP in 1987 to 7
percent in 1993, revenues reached an all-time low of 6 percent in 1994.
I1).   In 1995, a series of corrective measures, both administrative and technical, were taken in
an effort to stabilize the economic and financial situation and, in particular, increase tax revenue.
These included: a simplification of the tax system, strengthening of tax administration and a
broadening of the tax base. These measures resulted in an increase in the ratio of budgetary
revenues to GDP from 6 percent in 1994 to 7 percent in 1995, as well as a decline in the ratio of
the wage bill to tax revenue, from 102 percent in 1994 to 80 percent in 1995. Meanwhile, in
1995 GDP grew by about 3 percent. However, the pressure on prices remained considerable,
with annual inflation running at 11 percent. Finally, the reduction in the external current account
deficit was mainly a reflection of overall slow economic activity and a persistently low level of
imports.
IL.   In early 1996, even before talks had concluded on an Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility (ESAF) arrangement, the Government undertook to expand and strengthen actions taken
earlier in the area of public finances for the purpose of increasing tax revenues, bringing the
wage bill under control and gradually reducing domestic and external payments arrears. In 1996,
the Government also initiated a program to privatize 12 key public enterprises, liquidate three
non-viable ones and restructure eight others. This public sector adjustment program was
supported by a single-tranche credit financed by the World Bank in 1997.
12.   The overall program was implemented satisfactorily in 1996-97, which confirmed the
Government's commitment to stabilize the macroeconomic environment and give a new impetus
to structural reforms. Public finance management was particularly encouraging because it began
to address long-standing structural problems, namely low revenue mobilization largely due to tax
evasion, an excessively high wage bill in relation to available resources and poor management of
public enterprises. In 1996, budgetary revenues met the program target of 8 percent of GDP. In
acldition, current expenditures were cut by about 16 percent (from 11 percent of GDP in 1995 to
9 percent in 1996), with the wage bill scaled back to 49 percent of tax revenue,I domestic
payments arrears reduced by CFAF 18 billion and external arrears by CFAF 18.5 billion. The
overall budget deficit (excluding grants) declined from 8 percent of GDP in 1995 to 7 percent in
1996 because of a sharp reduction in expenditures, including the wage bill, and enhanced
revenue mobilization. This deficit reduction, and the improved competitiveness of the economy
following the CFAF devaluation, contributed to a reduction in the external current account
deficit (excluding official transfers) from about 11 percent of GDP in 1995 to 9 percent in 1996.
During the same period, GDP grew by an estimated 3 percent while inflation fell to 5 percent.
13;.   Some of the results obtained in 1997 were less favorable than expected, despite
substantial progress in other areas. Real GDP increased by only 3.4 percent, compared with the
projected 4.5 percent, largely the result of a drought, which caused a reduction in agricultural
oUtput and roughly a 10 percent shortfall in cereal production. However, this shortfall had no
effect on prices because of the distribution of food aid in the affected areas. Thus, inflation
As a result of improved revenue mobilization, but also of the wage bill cut resulting from the one-time
agreement between the Government and the trade unions concerning salary payments every 42 days.



Annex F
Page 4 of 20
continued to decline, falling to 3 percent. The real effective exchange rate, based on the
consumer price index in Niamey, depreciated by 3 percent in 1997, reflecting an improvement in
Niger's competitiveness. Despite this, it is estimated that the external current account deficit
(excluding official transfers) increased by nearly one percentage point of GDP to 10 percent,
primarily due to the fact that the drought contributed to a decline in agricultural exports and an
increase in imports of foodstuffs.
14.    Budgetary revenues in 1997 rose by 15 percent over 1996, although they were still 11
percent below target. This result can be largely attributed to: (i) delays in implementing certain
administrative measures designed to strengthen tax collection (because the timeframe and
conditions for preparing and implementing the measures were underestimated); (ii) a lack of
cooperation between customs and the imports verification agency; and (iii) regional strikes in the
transportation sector, which slowed trade flows to Niger and the collection of related customs
revenues.
15.    Total expenditures and net lending were lower than programmed, primarily because of:
(i) a low execution rate of the public investment program resulting from shortfalls in external
financing; and (ii) efforts to keep current expenditure, notably the wage bill, in line with program
targets.
16.    The most important measure taken by the Government in this area was to reduce the
wage bill (excluding the contribution to the FNR, the National Pension Fund) by 11 percent,
from CFAF 50 billion in 1995 to CFAF 44 billion in 1997. This was mainly achieved by
adopting a new salary scale in February 1997 that reduced base salaries and housing allowances.
17.    Keeping the wage bill consistent with resource mobilization also required maintaining
strict control over staff numbers and streamlining the management of the civil service and the
payroll. In 1997, the Government limited the new recruitment of civil servants, including those
for the social sectors, to match those of departures (other than voluntary departures). In addition,
a civil service census was carried out in 1997; this resulted in the dismissal of 319 civil servants
whose status was found to be irregular. Savings were also achieved in the area of university
scholarships.
18.    Reductions in the wage bill made it possible to reallocate public resources to the priority
social sectors. Thus, in 1997, non-wage current expenditures for the education and health sectors
increased by 12 percent on average in nominal terms, in line with a program target of 10 percent
in real terms. Budgetary allocations for non-wage current expenditure to these sectors were
increased by 14 percent from 1997 to 1998. Similarly, the tax agencies were provided with
additional logistical equipment and personnel, which was redeployed after an appropriate
training. Lastly, the Public Investment Program for 1997-99 focuses on the priority areas of
rural development, the social sectors and labor-intensive activities.
19.   In late 1997 and early 1998, the Government also took measures to accelerate the
privatization program: (i) OLANI (dairy products) and SNC (cement) were sold; (ii) a
regulatory framework for private sector importation of petroleum products was adopted and a
protocol was signed with private operators to create a new, privately managed storage company;
(iii) invitations to bid for the recruitment of consortia to implement the privatization of SNE,
SONITEL and NIGELEC were issued and the recruitment process was finalized; and (iv) a



Annex F
Page 5 of 20
communication plan concerning the economic reform program, notably privatization, was
prepared and will be implemented starting from end July 1998.
II. DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND PROSPECTS
A. Niger's potential
20.   Niger undoubtedly faces severe natural and human handicaps linked to increasing
ar.idity, a fast growing population and low levels of human development. It is also a landlocked
country, which translates into higher costs for imported consumer goods and inputs and which
penalizes the export of heavy products.
21.   On the other hand, Niger almost certainly possesses important mineral resources which,
apart from uranium, have not yet been fully identified. This is true of both gold and petroleum,
for which exploration is under way and that could reveal a potential for commercial
development.
22.   There are also substantial underground water resources in much of the country. To some
extent, these compensate for the fact that surface water is located in limited areas. The
development of groundwater resources could substantially increase agricultural and livestock
production.
23.   Livestock has traditionally been a key component of the national economy and its
products are the country's second most important export. Like farming, animal husbandry has
suffered the effects of periodic droughts. Yet, restructuring this sector could considerably
increase its productivity and help to offset climatic risks.
24.   Lastly, though landlocked, Niger's geographic location could become a significant
advantage as trans-Saharan links are developed and trade expands between the Maghreb and
Nilgeria. Similarly, the country should benefit from its natural role as a link between Nigeria and
an UEMOA that is likely to be strengthened by economic integration.
B. Growth and poverty reduction objectives
25.   The Government intends to intensify a series of economic policy reforms, already under
way and that are designed to produce the following results:
*  rehabilitate public finances;
*  intensify and accelerate structural reforms to promote private sector activity; and
*  implement policies to improve access to basic social services, particularly primary
education and basic health care, for the most vulnerable segments of the population.
C. Medium-term quantitative targets
26.   To consolidate the progress already made in stabilizing the economy, promote the
development of an environment conducive to sustainable economic growth and reduce poverty,
the Government's key macroeconomic objective, as set forth in the Policy Framework Paper
1998-2000, is to raise the annual real GDP growth rate to 4.5% in the medium-term and thereby
increase real per capita incomes.



Annex F
Page 6 of 20
27.    This increase will need to be achieved while simultaneously containing inflationary
pressures and consolidating the competitiveness gains generated by the devaluation.
Accordingly, the annual inflation rate target is 3 percent during the period 1998-2000.
28.    Finally, the external current account deficit (excluding official transfers) will be reduced
from 10 percent of GDP in 1997 to 8 percent in 2000.
29.    Achieving the real GDP growth target will require a sharp increase in the investment to
GDP ratio, financed by a sustained increase in domestic savings. This ratio is expected to
increase from 11 percent of GDP in 1997 to 13 percent in 2000. Growth in investment will
increasingly be financed by domestic savings, which will rise from 3 percent of GDP in 1997 to
6 percent in 2000.
D. Monetary and credit policy
30.   Niger's monetary policy will continue to be consistent with that defined at the regional
level by the UEMOA authorities. It will also rely on indirect instruments implemented by the
BCEAO, in particular flexible modulation of interest rates (determined by the market) and the
system of obligatory reserves, while simultaneously attempting to promote the development of
the money and the interbank market.
31.    While adhering to regional guidelines, this policy will be aimed at achieving the national
objectives of growth, low inflation and balance of payments equilibrium.
32.    As the overall condition of public finances gradually improves, credit policy will strive
to reduce Government indebtedness to the banking system in order to redirect financial resources
to the private sector.
33.    The Government will also intensify efforts to rehabilitate existing financial institutions
by continuing the restructuring of Credit du Niger and Caisse de Pret aux Collectivites
Territoriales and by increasing the liquidity of ONPE (the National Postal and Savings Office).
In this context, the Government has indicated its interest to prepare a financial sector adjustment
program.
III. THE PROGRAM OF PROPOSED ECONOMIC REFORMS
34.    The country's program of proposed reforms for the medium-term revolves around the
following objectives:
* continue and accelerate the rehabilitation of public finances in order to restore the
Government's financial credibility and consolidate the foundations for sustainable
economic growth;
* concentrate public expenditures on development-related activities, notably poverty
alleviation initiatives;
* complete the efforts to create an environment conducive to private sector growth by
pursuing the public enterprise privatization and restructuring program and by
restructuring the rural development and transport sectors; and



Annex F
Page 7 of 20
* complete the process of regional integration, culminating in the creation of a
regional common market (regional investment code, implementation of UEMOA
common external tariff and harmonization of tax policies).
35.   In the short term, the program of reforms defined by the Government aims to break with
existing practices for managing public finances in three important respects:
*  first, by preventing the build-up of domestic arrears, specifically by keeping
expenditures strictly in line with available resources. Government domestic arrears
totaled CFAF 118 billion as of March 31, 1998 (about 11 percent of 1997 GDP and
130 percent of 1997 budgetary revenues). This amount reflects the extent of
financial stress weighing on the economy and impedes efforts to restore the private
sector's confidence in the Government. For both reasons, it is essential that these
arrears be cleared. But it is just as important to simultaneously prevent the build-up
of new domestic arrears. The Government's resolve to avoid such a build-up is a key
element in restoring budgetary discipline and reducing budget deficits;
*  second, by eliminating the use of the advance expenditure payments procedure
(PPA), a source of constant confusion in financial management. Total advance
payments in 1997 amounted to CFAF 17.3 billion, or about 34 percent of non-wage,
non-interest current expenditures. This procedure, initially reserved for special
circumstances, had thus become a common practice.  Eliminating its use is
considered an important factor in returning to budgetary orthodoxy; and
*  third, by controlling and substantially reducing tax exonerations, a major source
of tax evasion and disorder in the functioning of the economy. For 1997, the amount
of duties and taxes on exempt products was estimated at CFAF 14 billion, equivalent
to 33 percent of customs revenue (CFAF 43 billion). During the period 1993-97,
exonerated customs duties and taxes were equivalent to 40 percent of all customs
revenue collected.  The policy of clarification and greater control that the
Government has begun to implement in this area will have a considerable impact not
only on revenue but also on the behavior of economic operators. Specific measures
are being implemented to restrict the scope of tax exonerations and to ensure that
tax-exempt merchandise is not diverted from their approved destinations (see para.
59).
36.   In this context, during 1998 the economic reform program will focus on achieving the
following objectives, each of them essential to the rehabilitation and consolidation of public
finances, which in turn constitute a cornerstone of the country's development: (i) restoring the
credibility of public finances; (ii) consolidating and strengthening efforts to mobilize internal
revenue and reduce tax exonerations; and (iii) increasing the effectiveness of public
expenditures.
A. Restoring the Credibility of Public Finances
37.   The management of public finances is characterized by an increasing difficulty in
monitoring and controlling a chronic budget deficit; this has led to persistent liquidity problems
and an accumulation of payment arrears that, in turn, have made it impossible to successfully
carry out any reforms.



Annex F
Page 8 of 20
38.    To arrest this cumulative process, the Government believes that putting public finances
quickly in order is a key element for the success of any medium-term development program.
Efforts will therefore concentrate on: (i) a return to financial orthodoxy and budgetary discipline;
(ii) effective management of the wage bill and the civil service; and (iii) the development and
implementation of a domestic arrears settlement plan.
39.    A return to financial orthodoxy and budgetary discipline. In anticipation of the
results of the program outlined below in para. 40, since late 1997 the Government has taken
various steps to strengthen the management of public expenditures:
*  the adoption and implementation of a quarterly financial program which determines
the amount of funds to be committed for (i) obligatory expenditures (wages,
scholarships, debt, and water, electricity and telephone consumption) and (ii) all
other expenditures, broken down by ministry;
*  the preparation of specific measures to contain and control certain types of
expenditures that are sources of exceptions or slippages in budget implementation:
government water, electricity and telephone consumption, medical evacuations,
official travel, embassies, subsidies; and
*  institutional measures designed to strengthen the outreach, coordination and
monitoring capacities of the Ministry of Finance, Economic Reforms and
Privatization by:  (i) creating two general directorates (the Budget General
Directorate and the Economy and Economic Reforms General Directorate); (ii)
focusing financial control activities on compliance with proper expenditure
procedures and implementation of the above-mentioned financial program and
specific measures; and (iii) by strengthening the Structural Adjustment Program
Monitoring Unit.
40.   In addition, the Government has developed a comprehensive program to rehabilitate and
modernize the management of public finances, which was prepared and implemented with
assistance from IDA and France. This program is the cornerstone of a return to financial
orthodoxy and budgetary discipline.  The principal measures implemented in 1998 are as
follows:
*  reactivation of regulations to eliminate all exceptional procedures, particularly
advance expenditure payments (PPA) and advance tax payments (RPA). With
respect to the PPA, their elimination was effective on March 31, 1998;
*  improvements in cash management by formalizing the framework for developing
cash forecasts, strengthening the role of the Treasury Committee and setting up a
mechanism for keeping expenditures strictly in line with resources mobilized;
* reactivation of, and strict adherence to, proper expenditure procedures;
* launching a program to rehabilitate the Treasury, specifically involving: (i) a
financial audit of the Treasury; (ii) preparing Treasury accounts for 1988 to 1996
and year-end expenditure audits (lois de reglement) for 1982 to 1997, followed by
the presentation of the latter to the Parliament during the first half of 1999; (iii) the
reorganization of Treasury records; and (iv) structural reform of the Treasury and
consolidation of its network; and
* efforts to ensure the consistency of statutes and regulations, accompanied by
dissemination efforts, and training and outreach for users.



Annex F
Page 9 of 20
41.    During 1998, an even broader reform will be prepared for the year 2000, with the
following objectives:
reform expenditure procedures;
reform public accounting procedures;
o rehabilitate financial control units;
modernize the Treasury network;
upgrade the management of the civil service;
reform information management, including record-keeping and documentation;
set up an integrated computer system.
42.    Effective management of the wage bill and the civil service. Civil service reforn will
continue. In the medium term, the goal of keeping the wage bill in line with resources mobilized
will be achieved by maintaining strict control over the size of the civil service and by
streamlining the management of the civil service and the payroll.
43.    For the year 1998, the Government decided that, apart from integrating members of the
former arned rebellion, there would be no net recruitment of civil servants; all new hires,
including those for priority sectors (health, education, tax administration) must be offset by
departures, other than voluntary departures. Additional measures will be implemented in 1998-
99 to maintain the wage bill within the program target (CFAF 45 billion in 1999). These are: (a)
an acceleration in the departure program for civil servants; (b) the extension of the new salary
grid to certain categories of civil servants (correspondents of the Treasury) in the first quarter of
1999; and (c) early retirement for civil servants close to the retirement age.
44.    Once the modalities of wage payments and promotions have been reformed,
managemnent of the civil service and the payroll will be streamlined by: (i) setting up an
integrated civil service database and payroll files and defining specific procedures for staff
evaluations and promotions; and (ii) improving the procedures for staff assignments and for their
redeployment in the education and health sectors and in the tax administration.
45.    As of June 30, 1998, the following actions had been accomplished: (i) a comprehensive
census of civil servants was conducted in July-September 1997; the results are being utilized and
have already led to the dismissal of 319 civil servants whose status was found to be irregular; (ii)
the results of the census were compared and reconciled with the civil service database and the
payroll files; and (iii) new staff rolls were developed in preparation for the decentralization of
budgetary positions that is expected to take place by the end of 1998.
46.    Development and implementation of the domestic arrears settlement plan. The
settlement of arrears is an essential element of the effort to rehabilitate public finances and is a
top priority for the Government. There is a synergetic relationship between this effort and the
return to financial orthodoxy and budgetary discipline.
Domestic arrears
47.    Government domestic arrears totaled CFAF 118 billion (about 11 percent of 1997 GDP)
as of March 31, 1998. These arrears are not all verified and it is expected that, after the planned
verification process takes place, the definitive amount will be much lower than indicated above.



Annex F
Page 10 of 20
Arrears owed to economic agents residing in Niger account for three quarters of this amount,
while the remaining quarter is owed to non-resident operators (suppliers to embassies, foreign
hospitals, etc.). Private enterprises account for 33 percent of total arrears (22 percent for resident
enterprises and II percent for non-resident ones), the financial sector accounts for 24 percent,
followed by the public and para-public sector for 18 percent, households (wages and
scholarships) for 9 percent and miscellaneous for 16 percent (see table in Attachment 1).
48.    The Government has developed a domestic arrears settlement plan with IDA assistance.
The plan defines the priorities and modalities for the settlement of these arrears, the attributions
of the agency charged with the implementation of the plan, and the criteria for their verification
and validation.
Priorities and modalities for the settlement of domestic arrears
49.    The settlement of arrears to the private sector and of salary arrears (the last month of
1996) is the Government's top priority. The commercial resident banking sector represents the
second priority, in particular the settlement of loans and Treasury bonds. The arrears vis-a-vis
public enterprises are identified but will not be settled in cash, with the exception of the ONPE
(the National Postal and Savings Office) which requires an urgent injection of resources and of
ONPPC (National Pharmaceutical Company) in consultation with the European Union. The
arrears to the other public enterprises will be settled in the context of their privatization (notably
for the SNE, NIGELEC  and SONITEL) or of their restructuring.  The arrears to inter-
governmental organizations are recognized as being part of domestic debt but are not included in
the settlement plan and will be dealt with in the context of the budget.
50.    The first phase of the settlement plan will concern the arrears validated by the Treasury
(restes a payer, RAP, unpaid arrears) according to the priorities mentioned above. The second
phase will cover, within the limit of resources available, additional claims that still require
validation (depenses engagees non ordonnancees, DENO, expenditures committed for which
payments orders have not been issued) according to the priorities described above. The latter,
like the RAP, will be verified and validated by an ad hoc Commission (see para. 52).
51.    The settlement of eligible arrears will be done through cash payments after strict
application of all the measures included in the Tax Collection Code. Given the financial
constraints faced by Niger, the use of a discount procedure for the settlement of these arrears is
necessary. A system of periodic auctions will be used in which the eligible private sector
creditors (with arrears validated by the ad hoc Commission) who offer the highest discounts will
be given priority. A minimum discount will be determined below which no offer will be
accepted. The Government does not envisage in the short-term to issue bonds for the settlement
of arrears. However, if following the first phase of the plan, it is appropriate to use this
settlement modality, it will only issue bonds that will be fully backed up and that, by their
duration and/or interest rate, will be financially equivalent to the average' discount used for the
cash settlement.
Attributions of the agency charged with the implementation of the settlement plan
52.    An ad hoc Commission was created to implement the settlement plan (Decree N.98-
230/PRN/MFRE/P of September 1, 1998). The Commission is placed under the supervision of
the Minister of Finance. Its tasks are to: (i) verify and validate the dossiers submitted to its



Annex F
Page 11 of 20
review; (ii) proceed as needed to corrections, notably with respect to invoicing, tax obligations,
competitive bidding procedures; and (iii) control and supervise the treatment of the dossiers that
it verifies and validates. The Government will see that the Commission operates with full
autonorny and transparency, and in adherence to the settlement plan defined by the authorities
and the rules of public accounting. The activities of the Commission will be evaluated by a
Committee under the supervision of the Presidency and will be audited periodically by an
international accounting firm according to internationally recognized norms.
Criteric for the verification and validation of domestic arrears
53.    The verification and validation activities of the Commission will be based on the criteria
defined in the Decree N. 93.045 concerning public accounting norms, Order N. 409/MF/P of
December 12, 1994 dealing with the nomenclature for expenditure records and Decree N. 87-
088/PCMS regarding bidding procedures. The settlement of arrears will take place only after
their validation by the Commission. Corrections will be made when irregularities are found
(notably with respect to bidding procedures, tax obligations, over-invoicing, etc.). The arrears
which can not be validated (because of double counting, payment already made, or lack of
supporting evidence) will be rejected and their claim on the State eliminated.
Procedures to avoid a new build-up of domestic arrears
54.    The Government's efforts to rehabilitate public finances will not be successfull unless
they are accompanied by concrete measures to avoid any new build-up of domestic arrears.
First, it is necessary to adopt adequate procedures to avoid the accumulation of new arrears for
water, electricity and consumption. In this respect, the Government has adopted the following
measures: (i) provide adequate budget appropriations in the revised 1998 budget Law to cover
actual water, electricity and telephone Government consumption (an adequate budget
appropriation will also be provided in the 1999 Budget Law to cover these services); (ii)
implement by October 1998 measures to reduce Government consumption of these services;2
(iii) create a unit in charge of controlling rigorously and regularly Government consumption of
water, electricity and telephone and of ensuring the regular payment of bills (the unit was created
through Order N. 00350/MF/RE/P/CAB of August 28, 1998 and it is operational); and (iv)
authorize the water, electricity and telephone public utilities to cut the provision of these services
in case bills are not paid within one month. This rule will apply to all public administration
agencies with the exception of a few ones operating in strategic activities and whose payment of
bills will receive priority.3
2 These measures include: capping utility consumption by high-level government officials through a
system of budgetary allowances in lieu of the open-ended system presently in place; cutting illegal
installations and connections; optimizing water and electricity consumption through the installation of
improveid meters, water diaphrams and condensator batteries for electricity; repair of water leaks; cutting
telephone connections in residences linked to offices, restrictions on the use of inter-urban and
international telephone communications and transfer to the budget of some administrative units (notably
the collectivities) their telephone consumption currently under the charge of the central budget.
3 Notably: (i) health care services (hospitals, departmental and integrated health centers, maternities); (ii)
public media (radio, television, written and filmed press, the Nigerien press agency); (iii) air traffic control
services; (iv) tax administration; (v) public transport; (vi) prisons; and (vii) military camps and barracks.



Annex F
Page 12 of 20
55.   In 1998, these measures will be supplemented by: (i) a reduction in, and reinforced
management of, expenditures for official travel and medical evacuations; (ii) improved
management and redefinition of the criteria for awarding scholarships to students, as well as
transfers and subsidies to the national television (ORTN), the university, the National School of
Administration (ENA) and the agricultural research institute (INRAN), which together absorb
over 50% of total subsidies; and (iii) measures to ensure strict application of the system of
expenditure control and regulation.
External arrears
56.    External payments arrears were also inventoried as of March 31, 1998 and the total
amount came to CFAF 55.8 billion. The Government has signed bilateral rescheduling
agreements with all the Paris Club creditors. Niger is regularly making all payments into the
Special Account at the Banque de France. However, negotiations with some bilateral non-Paris
Club creditors have not been concluded yet. This has often been due to the difficulties the
Government faces in coming up with the down payments required by these creditors as a pre-
requisite for debt-restructuring or debt-refinancing agreements. The same difficulties have been
experienced with respect to some multilateral creditors.
B. Consolidating and Strengthening Efforts to Mobilize Internal Revenue and Reduce Tax
Exonerations
57.    Since 1994, the Government has adopted a series of measures designed to simplify the
tax system, broaden the tax base and improve the effectiveness of tax administration: the
unification of the three value-added tax (VAT) rates at 17 percent; the merging of the general
income tax and the schedular tax on wages and income into a single tax on wages and salaries;
consolidation of customs duties and taxes; taxation of the informal sector by introducing a single
professional tax (patente synthetique); simplification of the property tax and transfer of
responsibility for its collection from the Treasury to the General Tax Directorate; introduction of
a pre-shipment import inspection system; a reduction in the maximum length of tax holidays for
new investments from 15 years to 5 years and a restriction in the number of investment activities
eligible for such exonerations.
58.   In 1998, the Government has continued its efforts to improve revenue mobilization,
specifically by implementing a series of measures to strengthen tax administration: (i) setting up
the Large Taxpayer Unit; (ii) introducing the single taxpayer identification number system to all
revenue agencies; (iii) launching the activities of the VAT monitoring unit; (iv) using statements
of reconciliation between the ADVs of COTECNA (the import verification agency) and the
customs declarations to improve revenue collection; (v) introducing Niamey/road and
Niamey/right bank pilot revenue offices; (vi) installing value records for use by the General
Customs Directorate; (vii) providing the tax agencies with a budgetary allocation of CFAF I
billion for logistical equipment; and (viii) stepping up efforts related to tax auditing.
59.   The Government has taken a series of actions in 1998 to better control and reduce tax
exonerations. These include: (i) conducting a review of existing procedures for tax exonerations
granted under the petroleum and mining code as well as under the provisions of the tax regime
for the uranium sector and whose recommendations are being implemented; (ii) establishing a
system of Treasury checks as a means to monitor exemptions related to imports under foreign-
financed government procurement contracts; (iii) eliminating all ad hoc exemptions; (iv)



Annex F
Page 13 of 20
eliminating exemptions from duties and taxes on all imports of lubricants and spare parts with a
unit value under CFAF 100,000; (v) the non-renewal of current tax exonerations granted under
the Investment Code; (vi) the decision to exclude all enterprises, that will be privatized starting
from September 1, 1998, from exemptions under the provision of the Investment Code; and (vi)
extending to projects and NGOs the terms that apply to externally financed Government
contracts (see point ii).
60.   New measures will be implemented during 1998-99 in the following areas:
(i) tax exonerations
sb introduce a system of exemptions applicable to petroleum products based on the
advance payment of customs duties and taxes and their reimbursement on the basis
of delivery receipts.
(ii) strengthening of tax administration
MAeasures concerning all tax agencies:
* reactivate and modernize the decentralized tax administration agencies, a key
objective given the low level of revenue mobilized by this network to date (less than
10% of internal revenue);
* intensify the collaboration between tax agencies and local government;
*  carry out a plan to redeploy personnel in tax collection agencies so as to bring the tax
administration closer to taxpayers; and
o conduct a comparative study on internal revenues of Niger, Burkina Faso and Mali.
Measures to strengthen the General Tax Directorate and, in particular, improve the
collection of property taxes and the monitoring of tax exonerations:
* open three new tax offices in Niamey; and
*  intensify and improve the effectiveness of actions targeting the informal sector in
order to expand the tax base.
Measures specific to the General Customs Directorate:
*  monitor the volume of imports more closely by expanding the monitoring program
to offices outside Niamey;
*  strengthen the monitoring mechanism by improving agency efficiency and setting up
customs revenue offices;
*  rigorously monitor all re-exported products; and
*  raise the awareness of customs rules and procedures in order to restore trust between
the customs administration and economic operators.
(iii) tax collection
Efforts to strengthen tax collection are as follows:



Annex F
Page 14 of 20
*  provisions for the immediate collection of amounts assessed during the tax audit of
November 1997; and
*  intensification of monitoring and collection efforts.
61.   The above-mentioned measures will translate into an increase in the ratio of revenues to
GDP from 8 percent in 1998 to I I percent in 2000.
62.   In addition, efforts to harmonize import duties and incentive policies at the UEMOA
level will continue.
63.   The Nigerien authorities realize, however, that substantive revenue gains depend on the
inevitably gradual process of restoring growth, and must be accompanied by measures to better
control public expenditures and improve their efficiency. The measures are described above in
Section A and below in Section C.
C. Improving the Efficiency of Public Expenditures
64.   Government policy on public expenditures aims to: (i) contain the growth in overall
expenditures; (ii) emphasize priority expenditures in the education, health, road maintenance and
tax administration sectors; and (iii) strengthen the impact of these expenditures on the living
conditions of the most underprivileged segments of the population. The Government will also
adhere to the UEMOA  budget convergence criteria.  The Government has initiated a
comprehensive review of public expenditures (PER) which, in 1997-98, focused on the education
and health sectors, as well as on expenditure programming and execution procedures. At this
stage of the review, the following priorities have been identified.
65.   First, given existing budgetary constraints, it is imperative that available resources be
utilized more effectively, specifically through a more judicious allocation of resources to priority
activities, expenditures and objectives (operations versus administration services, basic health
care and primary education, technical equipment and maintenance, disadvantaged regions and
populations, etc.). Second, there is a need to implement a rational human resources management
policy in the social sectors (redeployment, decentralization of budgetary positions, recruitment,
etc.). Third, innovative approaches must be developed to address major needs in the education
and health sectors and to mobilize additional resources, by encouraging the private sector and by
mobilizing resources from territorial collectivities, NGOs and donors.
66.   The Government is determined to utilize the budgetary allocations for road maintenance
(CFAF 2.7 billion) for this purpose, and to closely monitor implementation of the road
maintenance program.
67.   The effort undertaken in 1997 to strengthen tax collection agencies has continued during
1998 with an allocation of CFAF 1 billion for upgrading the equipment, infrastructure and
human resources of these agencies.
68.   In addition, reforms will be introduced to upgrade procedures for expenditure
programming, execution and control in order to bring expenditure programming and
implementation more in line with the social sector development priorities. These reforms
include: revising the budgetary nomenclature; designing and implementing the program-budget
approach for preparing and implementing the 1999 and successive budgets; improving budget



Annex F
Page 15 of 20
procedures and techniques (including norms for type of expenditures and activities, estimates of
the recurTent costs of public investments, internal and external revenue projections); simplifying
execution procedures, including procurement; and revising accounting procedures and the
system of internal controls.
69.   In preparing the 1999 and 2000 budgets, the Government of Niger intends to incorporate
the recommendations identified during the review of public expenditures. In this regard, the
Government will consult regularly with the World Bank during all phases of preparing the 1999
and 2000 budgets, up to their presentation to the Parliament. The Government will inform the
Bank regularly of the status of executions of these budgets.
IV. FINANCIAL ASPECTS AND PROGRAM MANAGEMENT
A. External financing requirements
70.   D)espite its improved financial situation, Niger will still need substantial external
financial assistance during the period 1998-2000. The residual external financing requirements
for this period are estimated at CFAF 166 billion, including CFAF 131 billion for the period July
1998-June 1999. The requirements for the latter period could be met by funding from
multilateral institutions in the amount of CFAF 53 billion. Bilateral partners plan to provide
funding in the amount of CFAF 38 billion, of which CFAF 9 billion would come from the
European Union. Debt relief expected from non-Paris Club bilateral creditors is estimated at
CFAF 40 billion. The Government continues to seek treatment from these latter creditors
comparable to the Paris Club creditors. It recognizes the importance of making every effort to
normalize its financial relations with all the lending agencies by addressing, through all
appropriate mechanisms, the problem of external payments arrears stemming from the recent
financial difficulties.
B. Program management
71.   P'rogram implementation falls under the authority of the Minister of Finance, with
responsibility for implementation vested in the Budget, Customs and Tax Directorates, the
Treasury and the ad hoc Commission charged with settling domestic arrears, as defined in the
Policy Matrix.
72.   The monitoring of program implementation will take place at three levels: (1) the Inter-
ministerial Committee, where policies are approved; the composition and role of this committee
are defined by Decree No. 019/PM of February 19, 1998; (ii) the Technical Committee, which
falls under the Minister of Finance and which is charged with preparing and monitoring the
economic and financial programs; and (iii) the Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) Monitoring
Unit, responsible for preparing quarterly program progress reports. These reports are presented
to the 1'echnical Committee for validation before being submitted to the Interministerial
Committee, then to the World Bank.



Annex F
Page 16 of 20
Public Finance Reformn Credit
Policy Matrix
Oblectlnets                            Measures                                                                Status of Execution                             Performance Indicators                                       Responibe
authority
Tasks rnmaining to be completed and timetable
RESTORE CREDIBIUTY OF PUBUC                                                                                                                                                                                                 E
FINANCEs                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Economjc Refonns
FINANCES                                                                                                                                                             and Privatizalion~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~adPdaizto
(MF)
1 Controt the wage bill and the civil service   - Itrmonisation of the results of the civil servite consus, the payroll and the civil Done; an integrated cvil service database wIll be  Contain lhe wage bilt at CFAF 44.0 billion in 1998 and CFAF 44.7 billion
size                                   service database                                                         completed by December 1998                     in 1999; exislence in 1999 of an integrated database linking the payroll,
the civil service database and the other ministries
2'/ Re-establish financial and accountng  - Set up a mechanism for keeping expenditures strictly In line with resources                                        Gap between expendihure commitments and intemal resources
orthodoxy and budgetary dis3pline      mobilized                                                                                                               mobilized + extemal resources
1) adopt implementation decree for the setfing of this mechanism        Done; quarterly reports of expenditure commitments  Permanent application of the mechanism
2) strengthen the role of /he Treasury Committee                        Permanent measure
- Audit of the Treasury                                                 The audit was launched in August 1998; the audit will be Impementation of the recommandabons of the Treasury audit during the MF with extemal
completed by January 31, 1999                  period 1998-99                                                support
- Prepare Treasury accounts (TA) for 1968 to 1996 and year-end expenditure  Presentabon of the year-end expenditure audits covering Availability of the TA and draft EA up to the year 1997 on the basis of the General Budget
audits (ois die ,tam nt) (EA) for 1982 to 1997                          the execution of the budget for each fiscal year fmm 1991 results of the Treasury audit; existence of a computenzed prmgram to   Directorate (GBD),
to 1997 to the Parliament during the first halt of 1999  prepare the TA and EA, including the procedure manuals  Treasury (T)
3N Avoid a new build-up of domesbc arears                                                                                                                       No new accumulation of domesbc arrears starting from July 1, 1998    MF
during 1998 and 1999
- TOTAL ELIMINATION of PPAs. This elimination was accompanied by a retum   The eliminabion was eflectve on Aprl 1, 1998  Possibility of reviewing at any moment the list of operabons recorded in MF
to, and strict respect of, expenditure procedures                                                                      the Treasury accoun I11241 10 to verity the lack of PPAs
- Measures taken for urgent expenditures that are a source of PPAs
a) medical evacuabons and official travels; creation of'"rgies davances'; study of    Done                              Implement plan to reduce the cost of medical evacuations by December
medical evacuations to identity measures to better control them                                                         1998
b) creation of deposit accounts for other potental sources of PPAs (Security fund,   Done
Parliament, expenditures for the peace process, etc.)
- Measures to avoid the accumulation of new domestic arrears
(a) expenditures for water, electricity and telephone                                                                   No new accumulation of arrears for water, electricity and telephone
Govemment consumption starting from July 1, 1998 (on the balsis of
SNEINIGELECISONITEL billing and 'base pointags" ot6s/DCF of MF)
- strengthen management of water, electricity and telephone billing (induding through
the unit created tor this purpose --see para. 54 of the Lenter o1 Development Policy)
- provide adequate budgetary allocatons in the revised 1998 Budget Law and the 1999 Revised 1998 budget Law and 1999 Budget Law
Budget Law to cover actual consumption
- idenaficaton and implementation of measures to reduce Govemment consumption of See detailed measures in the Footnote 2 of the Letter of  Reduction of 20% of Govemment consumption of water, electricity and
these services                                                          Development Policy                              telephone (on the basis s 1997 consumption levels) by December 31,
1999
(b) expenditures for embassies
- strengthen monitoring of embassy accounting                           Permanent measure
- conduct an inspection on the occasion of every change of official in charge of making Permanent measure
payments and accounting procedures



Annex F
Page 17 ot'20
Objectives                              Measures                                                                  Status of Execution                              Performance Indicator                                          Responsible
authority
Tasks remaining to be completed and timetable
(c) investment expenditures
- include the rounterpart funds for investment projects among obligatory expenditures  Permanent measure
(d) Subsidies and srholarships
audit of the University. the ORTN, the ENA and the INRAN                The audit is ongoing                             Implementaton of the audits recommendabons in 1998
- audit of the management of university scholarships and finalization of the census of  The audit is ongoing              Application of the audits recommendatons in 1998
university students
(e) other expenditures
- strict applicaton of the system of expenditure control and regulation (see above)  Permanent measure
- subject delegated expenditures to the expenditure control and regulation system  Permanent measure
- conduGt an inspection on the occasion of every change of offical in charge of making Permanent measure
payments and accounting procedures
41/ Preparation and implementabtion of a  - Inventory of domestic afears                                                                                                                                                          Ad hoc
domestic arrears settlement plan                                                                                                                                                                                                  Comrission  Tv
Gen. Dir, of Econ.
Reformns (GOER) +
Public Enterprise
Dir, (PED) + GBD +
Dir. Public Debt
(DPD)
1) The inventory of domestc arrears has been completed on the basis of infommaton   Done
provided by relevant units (T-GDER-PED-GBD-DPD) vith the assistance of a
consultant
The stock of arrears amounts to CFAF 118 billion as of March 31,1998
-Implementafton of the Stotement plan                                                                                                                                                    Ad hoc
Commission + T +
GDER + PED +
GBD + OPO
1) The nmodalities and prionbes for the settement of these arrears are detailed in the   Implementation of the settlement plan in 1998-99  Cash settiement of domestc arrears in a net amount of USS20 million in
Letter of Development Policy (para. 49-53)                                                                                 1998 according to the modalities and priorities of the settlement plan
detailed in the Letter (pare. 49-53)
2) These anrears wvill be validated by an ad hoc commission vwhose attributions are   Implementation of the settlement plan in 1998-99  Cash seftlement of domestic arrears in a net amount of US$20 rmillion in
detailed in the Letter (para. 52-53)                                                                                      the first quarter of 1998 according to the modalites and priorities of the
settlement Plan detailed in the Letter (para. 49-53)           _______
IMPROVE THE EFFICIENCY OF PUBLIC    Finalize the draft Public Expenditure Report (PER)                            August 1998                                                                                                     PER Committee
SPENDING
Draft 1999 Budget LaW satisfactory to IDA and reflecting the PER recommandations   October 31, 1998                        Execubon of the 1999 budget which integrates the recommandaions of General Budget
the PER                                                       Directorate



Annex F
Page 18 of 20
Objectives             Measures                                                                Status of Execution                 Performance Indicators                                        Responsible
authority
Tasks remaining to be completed and
timetable
REVENUE MOBILiZATiON
AND REDUCTiON OF TAX
EXONERATiONS
t/ Strengthen control of   - Strictly limit exonerations to goods and services listed in conventions' annexes  Measure strictly applied by DCRES;  Basic documents for monitoring ALL exonerations: reports of  Min. of Commerce +
exonerations and reduce                                                                        communication sent to concemed      exonerations granted are prepared periodically and will be used for General Customs
their number and scope                                                                         enterprises to ensure the strict respect of  the monitoring of exonerations (all codes)           Directorate (GCD) +
the conventions                                                                                   General Tax
Directorate (GTD)
Inexistence of exonerations granted outside of the scope of the
conventions' annexes
- Ensure better control of the final destination of exempted goods      Permanent measure: control activities,    Number of surveillance missions and contested cases
mobile units and DCED/ST
- Strictly apply the Investment Code (IC):
1) withdraw exonerations when a company does not complete the investment program Communication sent to concemed  Inexistence of exonerations on equipemert goods for enterpises which
wihin a 12 month period                                                 enterprises; the measure is being applied  have not executed their investment program within a 12 month period
2) non-renewal of expiring exemptions granted under the Investment code  Communication sent to concemed     Inexistence of exonerations for entreprises whose agreement validity for
enterprises; the measure is being applied  the exploitation phase has expired
3) decision to exclude all enterprises that will be privatized starting from Sept. 1, 1998 Completed        No new exoneration granted under the provision of the Investment Code
from exemptions under the provision of the Investment Code                                                 to the enterprises that will be privatized from Sept. 1, 1998
- Conduct a review of existing procedures for exonerations granted under the  Completed                     Application in 1998 of the recommandations of the review
petroleum and mining code and under the tax regime for the uranium sector and
whose recommendations will be implemented during 1998
- Introduce a system of Treasury checks as a means to monitor exemptions related to Completed               Progressive disappearance of exonerations under codes 8 et 9
imports under foreign-financed govemment procurement contracts
- Extend to NGOs the system of Treasury checks to pay import duties and other  Completed                    No exoneration granted for NGO-financed public procurement contracts
applicable indirect taxes
-Eliminate all ad hoc exemptions                                        No ad hoc exemptions has been granted   No new ad hoc exemption granted (code 12)
since January 1998
- Eliminate exemptions from duties and taxes on all imports of lubricants and spare   Completed             No exoneration granted from duties and taxes on imports of lubricants
parts with a unit value under CFAF 100,000                                                                  and spare parts with a unit value under CFAF100,000
- Introduce a system of exemptions applicable to petroleum products based on the    Under preparation       Application of the measure by March 31, 1999
advance payment of customs duties and taxes and their reimbursement on the basis
of delivery receipts



Annex F
Page 19 of 20
Objecflves             Measures                                                                Status of Execution                 Performance Indicators                                        Responsible
Tasks remaining to be completed and
timetable
2/1 Simplify the taxation                                                                                                          Increase budgetary revenues from 8.4% of GDP in 1997 to 9.9S% en   GTD + GCD +
system, broaden the tax                                                                                                            1998 and 10.3% en 1999                                        Treasury
base and strengthen the
tax administration
Introduce the single taxpayer identification number system to all revenue agencies   Completed
- Simplify the property tax and transfer responsibility for its collection from the  Texts were issued. The census and                                                    GTD
Treasury to the General Tax Directorate (GTD)                           collection phase started in March 1998
- Set up the Large Taxpayer Unit                                        Completed                                                                                         GTD
Launch the activities of the VAT monitoring unit                      The unit started audit activities in Febr.   Performance indicators: from July to December 1998: CFAF  GTD
1998: as of April 30, 1998, 53 verffications 200,000,000; January to December 1999: CFAF 700,000,000
were launched, 36 were completed. VAT
assessed: CFAF132,580,894; IUTS;
CFAF6,609,316; penalties for VAT:
CFAF79,650,567; IUTS: CFAF8,232,948.
- Prepare computerized value records for use by the General Customs Directorate    Completed                Use ot a comparative value records system by the GCD          GCD
(GCD)
Open Niamey/road and Niamey/right bank pilot revenue offices          Niamey/road and Niameylright bank pilot  Reduction of the differences between the GCD and the Treasury data on GCD
revenue offices established; extension to  international trade taxes collected to improve revenue mobilization
other offices in 1998-99
Use statements of reconciliation between the ADVs of COTECNA and the customs  Use of the first reconciliation statement is  Quarterly reports on the use of statements of reconciliation  GCD
declarations                                                            ongoing; permanent measure
- Provide in 1998 the tax agencies with a budgetary allocation of CFAF 1 billion for   Execution of the 1998 budget  Execution of the 1998 budget
logistical equipment
- Recruit at the General Tax Directorate an additional 75 permanent staff and 30 fixed-  1998
term employees



Annex F
Page 20 of 20
ATTACHMENT 1
Table on domestic debt and arrears (as of March 31, 1998)
Type of Arrears
Arrears verified by       Arrears        Total
the Treasury           not verified
Total                                        29313                88639         117952
Resident creditors                           19839                66538         86377
Banks & financial
institutions                                 1112                 27082         28194
Central Bank                                  0                  14012         14012
Statutory advances                           0                  14012         14012
Advances within authorized limit            0                    0             0
Advances over authorized limit              0                  14012         14012
Other banks                                  895                 11321         12216
Loans                                        0                    0             0
Treasury bonds                               0                  5521           5521
Current account                              0                  5800           5800
Other                                       895                   0            895
Other financial                              217                 1749           1966
institutions
Afelen                                       0                   789           789
CPCT                                         0                   960           960
Other institutions                          217                   0            217
Public and para-public sector                2246                 19319         21565
Treasury correspondents                       0                    0             0
CNSS (Social Security Administr.)             0                    0             0
Public/parapuol. enterprises                2246                 19319         21565
Private sector                               16481                20137         36618
Private enterprises                         15383                10640         26023
COTECNA                                      0                  2500           2500
Suppliers to projets                        393                 2134           2527
Internal network                           3061                   0            3061
Others                                     11929                6006          17935
Households                                   794                 9497          10291
Wages                                       286                 4200           4486
Scholarships                                508                 5297           5805
Others                                       0                    0             0
Others (Private sector)                      304                   0            304
Non-resident creditors                       9474                 22101         31575
Private enterprises                         8182                 4042          12224
Suppliers to embassies                     6842                 4042          10884
Others                                     1340                   0            1340
French hospitals                             879                 2062           2941
Various (incl. Inter-Gov. Organizat.)        413                 15997          16410



Annex G
Page I of I
Public Finance Reform Credit
Key Performance Indicators
The following key performance indicators were agreed with the authorities in order to
evaluate implementation progress and outcomes of the program supported by the Public Finance
Reform Credit:
*  increase budgetary revenues from 8.4 percent of GDP in 1997 to 9.9 percent in 1998 and 10.3
percent in 1999;
*  contain the wage bill at CFAF 44.0 billion in 1998 and 44.7 billion in 1999, and establish by
sl:art of 1999 an integrated database for the civil service, the payroll and the other ministries;
*  implement the recommendations of the audit of the Treasury during 1998-99;
*  no accumulation of new internal arrears starting from July 1, 1998;
* elimination of the use of advance expenditure payments procedures (PPA);
D execution of the 1999 budget reflecting the PER recommendations; and
* no granting of new exonerations under the provision of the Investment Code to enterprises that
will be privatized starting from September 1, 1998.
Detailed performance indicators are defined in the Policy Matrix annexed to the Letter of
Deveilopment Policy (see Annex F).



