Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3134 NIR
Development Credit Agreement 
(Public Finance Reform Credit) between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 13, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3134-NIR 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 13, 1998, between the REPUBLIC OF NIGER (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated September 10, 1998, 1998 
from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
strengthen its public finance system (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from 
the Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through December 2, 
1997, with the modifications thereto set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read:
"‘Project’ means the Program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit 
Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made";
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit 
account specified in Section 
2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement";
Page  2
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of 
these General Conditions";
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of 
the Credit";
(f)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07;
(g)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries”; and
(h)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“CFA Franc” and "CFAF" mean Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine, 
the currency of the Borrower; 
(b)
“Commission ad hoc de gestion et de traitement des arriérés intérieurs de 
l’Etat” means the Borrower’s ad hoc commission established and operating according the 
Décrèt No. 98-230-PRN-MFR-P, dated September 1, 1998, in charge of the verification 
and administration of the Borrower’s internal arrears; 
(c)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(d)
“Domestic Arrears Payment Plan” means the Borrower’s plan, referred to in 
paragraphs 46 through 56 of the Program, setting forth priorities, methods and 
timetables for the settlement of its internal arrears, including a manual of 
procedures for its Comité at hoc de gestion et de traitement des arriérés, and such 
term includes all Annexes and amendments to such Plan; 
(e)
“First Tranche“ means the tranche referred to in Category (1) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be released by the 
Page  3
Association on or after the Effective Date;
(f)
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year starting January 1 and 
ending December 31 of each year; 
(g)
“Loi de règlement” means the Borrower’s law consolidating all the 
Borrower’s revenues collected and its expenditures (on a payment order basis) for a 
specific Fiscal Year (as hereinafter defined); 
(h)
“PER” means public expenditure review, the review of the Borrower’s 
public expenditures undertaken by the Borrower in accordance with the Program; 
(i)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advances 
granted by the Association to the Borrower in a total amount of $ 774,000, pursuant to 
an exchange of letters dated July 3, 1998 and July 16, 1996 (PPF Q001-0 NIR in the 
amount of $ 524,000); and February 10, 1998 and February 14, 1998 (PPF Q088-0 NIR in 
the amount of $ 250,000), respectively, between the Borrower and the Association;
(j)
“Second Tranche" means the tranche referred to in Category (2) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be released by the 
Association on or after the date on which the conditions referred to in Part A of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been met; and
(k)
“Third Tranche“ means the tranche referred to in Category (3) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be released by the 
Association on or after the date on which the conditions referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been met. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty eight million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 48,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Deposit Account in support of 
the Program and in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in CFA Francs on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
(d)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the 
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association.  Amounts refunded 
to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
(e)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account:
Page  4
(i)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from 
the Credit 
Account shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 17,400,000, 
unless the 
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of 
views as described in 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on 
evidence satisfactory to the 
Association:
(A)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying 
out of the 
Program;
(B)
that the actions set forth in Part A of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement 
have been undertaken; and
(C)
that the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework is 
consistent with 
the objectives of the Program;
(ii)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from 
the Credit 
Account shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 32,400,000, 
unless the 
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of 
views as described in 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on 
evidence satisfactory to the 
Association:
(A)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying 
out of the 
Program;
(B)
that the actions set forth in Part B of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement 
have been undertaken; and
(C)
that the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework is 
consistent with 
the objectives of the Program; and
(iii)
if, after said exchange of views, the Association shall have given 
notice to 
the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken 
are not satisfactory 
and, within 90 days after such notice, the 
Borrower shall not have achieved 
progress and taken actions satisfactory 
to the Association, then the 
Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit or any part 
thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
Page  5
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 1 and September 1, commencing March 1, 2009, and ending September 1, 2038.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on September 1, 2018 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail and at such dates as the Association shall reasonably 
request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
Page  6
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre des Finances
Ministère des Finances, de la Réforme Economique
et de la Privatisation
B.P. 862
Niamey, Niger
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, DC
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
By /s/ Joseph Diatta 
Page  7
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent
to be Financed
(1)
First Tranche
  17,400,000
100%
(2)
Second Tranche
  15,000,000
100%
(3)
Third Tranche
  15,000,000
100%
(4)
Refunding of Project
     600,000
Amount due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
TOTAL
  48,000,000
SCHEDULE 2 
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower, excluding, if the currency of the Borrower is also 
that of another country, expenditures in such currency for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of such other country;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                     -
Alcoholic beverages
121                     -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
Page  8
122                     -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525                     -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718                  718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for
nuclear reactors
728.43                  -
Tobacco processing machinery
897                  897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971                     -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates);
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods.  For purposes of this 
paragraph the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use 
or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; and
6.
expenditures in the territories of the following countries: The Bahamas; 
Bahrain; Barbados; Brunei Darussalam; Cyprus; Kuwait; Oman; Qatar; Singapore; and 
United Arab Emirates, as such list of countries may be amended from time to time, or 
for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories.
SCHEDULE 3
Actions referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
Part A:
The Borrower has:
1.
settled a net amount of at least $20,000,000 equivalent of its internal arrears, 
in accordance with the Domestic Arrears Payment Plan and satisfactory to the 
Association;
2.
submitted to its Parliament for adoption a draft budget for its Fiscal Year 1999 
consistent with the Program, and taking into account the recommendations and findings 
of the PER for said Fiscal Year; and
3.
completed the verification and validation of all its internal arrears not yet 
verified and validated (based on the results of the inventory up to March 31, 1998) 
and has furnished to the Association a settlement plan, satisfactory to the 
Association.
Part B:
The Borrower has:
1.
settled a net cumulative amount of at least $40,000,000 equivalent of its 
internal arrears (including $20,000,000 referred to in paragraph A.1 above) in 
accordance with the Domestic Arrears Payment Plan and satisfactory to the Association; 
and
Page  9
2.
submitted to its Parliament for adoption a draft expenditure audit “Loi de 
Règlement” covering the execution of its budget for each Fiscal Year from 1991 through 
1997. 
