DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSO
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1268-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE
EIGHTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROJECT
May 24, 1973
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As at May 11, 1973)
US$1.00                         Rupees (Rs) 7.6*
Rs 1.00                        US$0.13
Rs 1 million                   US$132,000
India has not yet declared a new par value following the
devaluation of the dollar. The Rupee is officially valued
at a fixed Pound Sterling rate; and, as the Pound is now
floating relative to the US Dollar, the US Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this
report have been made at Rs 7.7 to US$1 unless otherwise
stated.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - M4arch 31



INLLRNATIONAL DEVW,LO?Mi1ENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECQ`ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXLCLUTIVE DIhERCTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE GOVEH NMENT OF INDIA FOR THE
EIGHTH INDUSTRIAL -IMPORTS PROJECT"
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$100 million on standard IDA
terms fo:r the Eighth Industrial Imports Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report "Economic Situation and Prospects of
India" (SA-32a, dated May 10, 1972) was distributed to the Executive
Directors as R72-133 on June 2, 1972. A new report commenting on more recent
developments is about to be circulated. The following summarizes the main
conclusions of the forthcoming report. A country data sheet is attached as
Annex I.
Background
3.        The most notable feature of the past decade has been the rapid
decline in net external assistance to India. Nonetheless, over this
period the Indian economy has been substantially strengthened by the
expansion and deepening of the industrial structure and by a large
increase in agricultural production through basic technological improve-
ment in cultivation, especially in the wheat growing areas of Northern
India. The technical development in wheat, with considerable promise for
similar innovations in rice and other crops in the near future, has been
perhaps the outstanding advance in the Indian economy since the mid-sixties.
Even so, growth in the economy over the decade has not averaged more than
3.5 percent per annum; and this has not had much impact on per capita
income as the population has grown by about 2 percent per annum. In the
distribution of gains there has been little improvement for the vast
numbers of very poor Indians living in rural areas of deficient or unre-
liable rainfall or in overcrowded urban slums beyond the reach of new
employment opportunities.
4.        In contrast to agriculture, industry has lagged, especially since
the mid-sixties.  There have been constraints on output arising from short-
ages of foreign exchange for import-ed raw materials and from shortfalls in
production of local materials, some periodic like cotton, jute, sugar and
oilseeds, and others of a more persistent nature such as steel.    Shortage of
power, especially recently, has also affected industry. Then, there have
been serious labor problems especially in Eastern India, and technical
management has often proved inadequate for the construction and operation of
large new projects. These physical constraints have been aggravated by the
fact that the structure of demand and of production have often been ill-
matched, especially in the case of capital goods where there has been a



-2-
.-;c -Da_aria e between capacity and the courntry's savings performance. Also9
consumrtion demand is poorly distributed and slow growing, wnile exports have
rot been effectively developed to supplement domestic industrial demand.
5.        The bottlenecks and imbalances which have arisen could have been
alleviated by massive amounts of foreign assistance but these were not
forthcoming. instead, the solution had to be found within the limits
set by the balance of payments. As a result, India has had to content
herself with relieving only certain specific bottlenecks through the
import of the more urgent raw materials such as steel and fertilizer.
This has left much under-utilized industrial capacity, especially in
sectors producing investment goods, but also in some consumer industries
relying heavily uponiimported or locally produced agricultural inputs.
Recent Developments
6.        The current economic scene is one of more than usual difficulty
because of the adverse food situation. Foodgrain production in the crop
year July 1972 to June 1973 will be only about 100 million tons compared
with about 108 million tons in the peak year 1970/71 and just under 105
million tons last year. Serious shortages have been alleviated in many
areas through the use of the buffer stock which was accumulated during the
favorable harvest years and which amounted to about 9 million tons in the
middle of 1972.   But there are areas of acute suffering, for lack of
drinking water as well as of food, mainly in the arid inland regions of
West and Central India. About 2 million tons of foodgrains are being
imported to meet basic needs until the collection of this year's spring
harvest. So for the first time in several years, food imports will add
substantially to the foreiga exchange burden. In addition, public relief
and crash crop production expenditures amounting to about Rs 2.5 billion
have been approved thus far in 1972/73. And the tight supplies of food and
other agricultural crops have been mainly responsible for the sharp increase
in the average wholesale price index so far this year (April-December) of
about 8 percent or twice the rate of previous years. Further imports of 2 to
3 million tons may be required during the rest of 1973 depending upon the
outcome of procurement from the 1973 spring harvest. Also as India has now
been left without buffer stocks, their replenishment could add further to
foreign exchange needs of the current and coming years.
7.        Industrial produclion however began to stage a recovery from
late 1971 with a probable growth rate of about 7 percent in 1972 compared
with only 3 percent in 1971. But even with this encouraging development,
the setback to the economy of two successive drought years has been severe.
As a result, economic growth over B971/72 and 1972/73 is now expected to
have averaged oniy 2 percent per aanum. Anc this low growth rate has been
associated with budgetary aind balance of payments difficulties.  The deficit
to be financed through the banking system for 1972/73 is now forecast at
Rs 5.5 billion, or double the original estimate, despite tax receipts well
in excess of budget estimates.  The principal factor has been the large
amount of additional expenditure by the States which has been met by the
Central Government. But, rises in defence costs and such other items as
drought-related expenditures have also 'been contributory factors. The



- 3 -
recently passed budget for 1973/74 plans further mobilization of domestic
resources through a 13 percent increase in tax revenues. The amount of the
increase in expenditures is also to be curbed in an effort to reduce this
year's deficit to about half that of last year.
8.        The difficulties encountered in the balance of payments stem
principally from the continued decline in net transfers of aid, which were
expected to be only US$215 million in 1972/73 compared with US$443 million
in 1971/72 and the peak figure of US$1.3 billion in 1965/66. Thus, even with
exports showing a reasonable increase and with a drawdc'wn of reserves, the
total foreign exchange resources were only sufficient to finance imports in
1972/73 at about US$160 million below the level of the previous year.
9.        Once again, therefore, as has so often been the case, economic
activity is being cramped by the irregularities of the weather and by
balance of payments difficulties. Weather conditions will determine
economic prospects for the latter part of 1973 and for 1974. Assuming reason-
able monsoons, the economy should be capable of expanding quite rapidly. An
important constraint upon realizing this potential is likely to be shortage
of foreign exchange in general and, more specifically, a shortage of foreign
exchange for industrial raw material imports.
India's Overall Resource Position
10.       India is confronted with enormous social and administrative
problems in mobilizing resources in face of extensive poverty. The recession
of 1966 and 1967 compounded these difficulties to the extent that domestic
savings as a percentage of NDP went down from around 10 percent in the early
1960s to 7.4 percent in 1967/68. Since then the percentage has risen steadily
to reach 10 percent in 1971/72, but this level is still inadequate to sustain
satisfactory growth in the economy. Furthermore, despite the efforts proposed
in 1973/74 to mobilize addtional resources, the 1972 drought is bound to
have a depressing effect upon domestic savings over the short term. So even
with maximum feasible efforts in increasing domestic savings, the rate oL
growth of the economy will be constrained unless additional resources can be
made available from abroad.
11.       The prospects for obtaining additional resources from abroad to
finance imports will depend upon export potential, the extent to which
foreign reserves can be drawn down, and the quantum as well as the form of
foreign assistance. Export earnings have shown a decidedly upward trend over
the past two years, but the increase acnieved in 1972r7~ w-ii; be difuf lc_ _'t to
maintain as much of the improvement reflects the recovery of the cotton
textile industry from raw cotton shortages of 1971, and the particularly
favorable markets for Indian jute in the adverse circumstances o' Bangladesh
jute textile production. Engineering goods exports, which did so well in
previous years, slowed down in 1972/73 as a result of increased domestic
demand for new investment. The problem of how to achieve more dynamic
export expansion as a means of improving India's import capability can be
solved only over the long term.



''  Fo-^e-a exchange resources to finance a higher level of industrial
a-)o-rcs could De supplemented by drawing down reserves but, over the short
i.. .tce scope fo:r this is very limited.  in any case by March 1973, foreign
c ange reserves are exoected to be US$33 million below the level of March
-y.!2, and to represent just under 35 percent of imports and debt service
-aymnent. W'ith nayments of about US$140 million for foodgrains still to be
a Žurt'aer drawdown can be expected in the new fiscal year.  Furthermore,
ne uise of buffer stocks during 1972/73 valued at around US$900 million
creates a potential foreign exchange requirement of massive proportions
saiould there be another crop failure before these stocks can be reconstituted.
'..e Gover-ment of india has lways emphasized the inherent riskcs of managing
an economy which is so depend,ent upon thc vagaries of the weather, and the
need Lo avoid foreign exchange reserves being drawn down much below their
present level.
13.       The amount of foreign assistance has declined sharply over recent
years; gross aid disbursements, which reached US$1.6 billion by 1965/66, had
declined to about US$900 mil:Lion by 1972/73.  Much of this decline (USS500 mil-
iion) resulted from the elim:ination of food aid. While it has been one of
most encouraging features of India's development that the country has come
close to self-sufficiency in food, food aid provided an important form of
domestic resource mobilization for which, under Indian conditions, it has been
difficult to find replacements. Even though gross aid disbursements are
now at a much lower level, they still financed about 45 percent of total
imports.  Net aid disbvrsements, as mentioned above in paragraph 8, are now
down to US$215 million and the prospects for an improvement in this amount
are not encouraging.
14.       Thus India's o,verall resource position is seriously constrained on
the domestic side througn the! difficulties of resource mobilization and on
the foreign exchange side through liraits on the rate of growth in export
earnings and the decline in gross and net external assistance. In these
circumstances, and in view of limits on overall foreign aid that can be made
available to India, there is an overriding need to ensure that such foreign
assistance matches the most pressing of India's import requirements.
The Case for Non-Project Assistance
15.       The general case for non-project assistance to India has been
considered during the presentation of previous Industrial Imports Credits.
Tihe case was most recently endorsed by the Executive Directors in May 1972
during consideration of the Seventh Industrial Imports Credit. It is set
out here in summary form. The basic consideration is that, because industry
is capable of producing most of the capital goods required, India's import
needs are primarily for raw materials and components.
16.       The main components of foreign assistance, now that food aid
has virtually ended, are project and non-project assistance. The former
comprises capital goods, spare parts, and in some cases local cost financing.
Imports of capital goods have been averaging about US$260 million per annum
over the past five years and this amount hnas probably represented somewhere



-5-
near the maximum which could have been usefully absorbed up until recently
without encouraging excess capacity. Not all capital goods are, or necessarily
can be, financed under project assistance and there is evidence to suggest
that the capital goods portion of project assistance was at the limit tnat
can be effectively absorbed. This situation should in no way diminish the
importance of aid-financed capital goods because requirements are likely to
show some increase over time, but also most importantly because these are
required to ensure the transfer of technology, to alleviate certain capacity
constraints, and to enable production lines to be properly balanced.
17.       IDA is the only donor which offers local cost finrancing in mean-
ingful amounts. Local cost financing enables the Association to aid in
project implementation and institution building, but it suffers from the
limnitation that it is often associated with projects which take time to
complete and hence the transfer of resources tends to be slow. Furthermore,
local cost financing is a fairly recent development for IDA, so its impact
over the short-term will remain small.
18.       Non-project assistance is essential to enable India to import the
raw materials and components which form the bulk of her imports. however,
since 1968/69 the level of non-project aid disbursements remained fairly
constant at around US$600 million until 1972/73 (Annex IV) when a sharp drop to
about US$500 million occurred. In the Economic Report for 1972, the Bank
estimated that the minimum requirement for non-project aid in 1972/73 was
between US$600 and 700 million,so a significant shortfall has occurred.
Also, the pipeline is low and this could mean further reductions in non-project
aid disbursements if new commitments are not made urgently. The member
countries of the India Consortium have recognized this situation through the
provision of debt relief, which makes an equivalent amount of free foreign
exchange (US$86 million in 1971/72 and US$160 million in 1972/73) available
for imports.
19.       India has to operate with an inherently tight balance of payments
position and the task of the Government is exacerbated by the tying of aid
and other restrictions. In these circumstances, IDA industrial imports
credits can provide much needed flexibility, as well as helping to maintain
an adequate resource transfer. In the current circumstances of heavy drafts
on Indian reserves of both food and foreign exchange, and in view of debt
service payments which pre-empt so much free foreign exchange, the need for
external assistance which offers the requisite flexibility becomes of more
than usual urgency. But clearly India requires much more non-project
assistance than is likely to be forthcoming to attain even a modest improve-
ment in the economy or indeed more specifically in the industrlal sector.
The balance of payments projection for 1973/74 in Annex V shows that total
imports may not increase by more than US$260 million. If the additional
foodgrains necessitated by the recent drought are excluded, then the avail-
ability of industrial imports is unlikely to show any improvement over 1972/73.
Even to maintain this projected position, gross aid disbursements will have to
rise by US$160 million. While India's need for non-project aid has high
priority, the Association's lending strategy is to maintain a balance in
the use of IDA funds between the need for project assistance and related



_--s_tution building wit- cae need to effect a more rapid transfer of resources.
_s, -.herefore, recornme aed .that tae proposed credit should be for US$100
-.:__on, which represents an importanat contribution to the present difficult
~rcums_ances f-acing India and supplements the efforts of the Consortium
c_.,rles .o increase free foreign exchange availability through debt relief.
PART II - BANIK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
20.       Since 1949, the Bank hLas made 40 loans and 50 development credits
to India totalling US$1,110 vdllion and US$2,107 million (both net of cancel-
._.ation) , respectively.  Of these amounts, US$573 million has been repaid
and US$792 million is still uridisbursed. Total Bank and IDA debt outstanding
on A?ril 30, 1973 was US$537 million and US$2,1 05 million. Debt service pay-
naents in FY 73 for Bank and ]DA are expected to amount to US$77 million and
US$11 million respectively. Annex II contains a summary statement of disburse-
ments as of April 30, 1973, and notes on the status of currently active loans
and credits.
21.       Since 1957, IFC has made 13 commitments in India totalling US$42
million of which US$5 million has been repaid, US$7 million sold and US$7
million cancelled. Of the bailance of US$23 million, US$16 million represents
loans and US$7 million equity.  A sumary statement of IFC operations as of
April 30, 1973, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
22.       The emphasis of Bank Group assistance to India in recent years
has been on agriculture and agriculture-related projects. This reflects
the importance of agriculture, which contributes about 50 percent of India's
GNP, and the corresponding irnvestment priorities of the Government. Two projects
in agricultural credit are expected to be considered by the Executive Directors
on iMay 24, while a further agricultural credit oroject and an apple-processing
project in Himachal Pradesh are expected to be readr for consideration early
in The fall.
23.       While the emphasis has been on agriculture, lending to industry has
also been a prominent feature of this year's program. In addition to the US$25
million Credit for the Industrial Development Bank of India (Cr.No.356) and
the proposed credit, a tenth loan to the Industrial Credit and Investment
Corporation of India is expected to be ready for the consideration of the
Executive Directors at the same time as the proposed credit. A fifth telecom-
mnruications project will alsc be pre8ented shortly. In addition, credits have
been approved already for the improvement and expansion of infrastructure in
power and for water supply in Bombay.  An urban infrastructure project in
CalcutLa is expected to be ready for consideratiorn in July or August.
24.       Looking further ahead, bank Group lending can be expected to
continue in support of .he sa;,e sectors with similar emphasis placed on
agriculture. The selection cf individual projects will also take into
account the desirability of responding to social needs. To the extent
possible priority will be given to projects benefitting small farmers,



- 7 -
small industry or backward regions and to projects which are likely to have
significant employment effects.
PART III - INDUSTRY
25.       Through heavy emphasis in successive five-year plans, India has
built up a highly diversified industrial structure capable of producing
most consumer goods and a wide variety of capital goods and intermediates.
Prior to 1966, industry was very much the leading sector in the economy;
industrial output grew at 7 percent per annum on average in the 1950's
and accelerated to 9 percent from 1960 to 1965, compared to overall economic
growth of 3-4 percent per annum. Then in 1966 and 1967 industry was hit by
the effects of two successive years of drought, which severely curtailed
private and Government expenditures; industrial production in both years
showed a slight decline. In 1968 and 1969, a recovery got underway led by
a resurgence of consumer demand, but this was not maintained as the growth
rate dropped back to 5 percent in 1970 and further still to 3 percent in
t971. However, in 1972 there has been an improvement; while the full year's
figures are not available, indications are that an increase of about 7 per-
cent was achieved.
26.       The following table provides a sectoral breakdown of recent trends:
Annual Growth Rates (2)
Weights    1968   1969   1970     1971    1972
Jan. to June
Basic Industries /1        25.1     10.3    8.9     4.6     5.5    10.3
Capital goods              11.8      2.4    1.8    5.0     -0.1    10.8
Intermediate goods         25.9      6.1    4.2    2.8      1.0     4.0
Consumer Goods             37.3      4.9   10.2     6.5     3.5     2.8
All Industries             100.0     6.4    7.1     4.8     3.0     7.6
/1   Includes electricity, iron and steel, cement, heavy inorganic
chemicals and mining and quarrying.
Source:   Annex VI.
Tile disappointing performance of 1970 and 1971 was due to a combination
of factors: inadequate supplies of inputs, sluggish demand and, in a few
areas, capacity constraints. The output of steel fell in both years on
account of labor problems and poor plant maintenance and this, unmatched
by adequate imports of steel, had a pervasive effect on other industries.
Likewise, in 1971 cotton textile production declined sharply on account
of raw cotton shortages; and a poor sugarcane crop resulted in a drop in
sugar refining. Since steel, cotton textiles and sugar refining account
for almost a third of the production index, their negative growth goes far
to explain the decline in the all industry growth rate.



.is lndicated in cthe table above, capital goods since 1968 lagged
z;, nu t;  sther main sectors, in contrast to the early sixties when they
. ID ee n-e leader. r Railroad equipment and textile machinery were especial-
ly Gepressed due to low orders, while in 1971 the electrical equipment indus-
try was aff Lected by a slowdown in the power program.  On the other hard, in
a ZC11W 1116d-rles ou. ut was held back by capacity constraints; caustic
cGda, pa-:r and cement are somne principal examples.  And in others, notably
.Lerilizers and some oL tne large public sector engineering industries,
capacities were not fully utilized because of poor plant operations.
28.       The likely improvement in the industrial growth rate in 1972 to
about 7 percernt is traceable to a large extent to the revival of steel and
cotton textile production as well as increases in output of capital goods.
Cotton textiles benefitted from an excellent cotton crop in t971/72 and
larger export orders; and steel output, while still far from satisfactory
in relation to capacities, at least recovered to about its 1469 level. With
imports also running at high levels, total steel availability improved
considerably.  Reflecting this and also some pick-up in investment, capital
goods production increased considerably. Orders for railroad equipment have
at iast been stepped up and the engineering industry has been more buoyant.
29.       The pattern o-. industrial activity during, 1972 appears to have
been rather variable with much of the improvement being concentrated in the
first and last quarters.  Production during the last quarter would have
been higher but for the shortage of power. The factor which made the short-
age so acute was the reduced levels in the reservoirs as a result of the
poor monsoon. But, shortage of power has been a continuing problem caused
in part by transmission constraints and in part by inadequate expansion of
capacity. Major investments in transmission are now planned, but obviously
tlhe power situation is only capable of remedy over the long term.
30.       The prospects for 1973 are clouded by the power shortage,and the
slow rate of growth experienced in 1971/72 and 1972/73 will also have an
adverse effect upon demand for industrial goods. For these reasons, indus-
trial production in 1973 will probably increase at somewhat less than the
7 percent experienced in 1972. Assuming that there is a favorable monsoon
in 1973 and that the more aclute difficulties of the power situation can be
alleviated, there is every prospect that a 7 percent growth rate or more
should be achieved in 1974. But, two qualifications have to be considered.
First is the extent to which Govern,ment policy will be conducive to increased
output.  in the public sector, the Government is acutely aware of the need
to improve thLe gerformance of the public sector steel industry which accounts
for just under 90 percent of instalied capacIty.   Plans are being made to
rationalize .he admrini-stration or tile puBlic secY:or steel corporations and to
introduce new -;nanagers with cornmercial backgrounLds.  Some improvement has
air2ady occurred, but ctilizat-ion of capacity is still below acceptable
ievels.  Other publ-c s.ector corporations in manyL' cases have also been
artlicted by poor ri-naaemen: and low capacity utilization.  But for major
public sector units producin:g, capiral goods, there are clear signs of
improverment - in output.



-9-
31.        Industrial policy towards the private sector has always had to
face the dilemma of reconciling the social objectives of limiting the con-
centration of economic power and oL better income distribution with the neea
for a dynamic industrial sector. There is no doubt that restrictions placed
upon large industrial groups, especially since 1970, have resulted in a con-
siderable loss of new investment. In a policy statement issued on February
2, 1973, the Government introduced certain changes in licensing procedures
which should ease these restrictions. The Minister of Industrial Development
forecast in the legislature in March that outstanding applications, some of
which it should De noted have been outstanding for upwards of four years,
would be cleared within a matter of months. Industry has welcomed these
announcements and this change, combined with underlying confidence of the
private sector which was being manifested during 1972, should lead to substantial
new investment demand in 1974.
32.       The second qualification relates to the availability of foreign
exchange for imported raw materials. The macro-economic case for additional
foreign exchange resources has been discussed above in paras 10 to 19. But,
in more specific terms, industrial activity is dependent to a large extent
upon the availability of certain critical imports such as basic metals (steel,
copper and zinc) and components. The irnprovement achieved in 1972 would not
have been possible if it had not been for the substantial increase of 20
percent in industrial imports during 1971/72 (Annex VII). Therefore, the
need to raise the level of these imports is evident and the proposed credit
will make an important contribution in this direction.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED CREDIT
Previous Industrial Imports Credits
33.        Since 1964, the Association has made seven credits to India
amounting to US$680 million for financing part of the import requirements
of manufacturers in selected high priority industries. The broad objectives
of these credits have been: (i) to facilitate more liberal allocations
of foreign exchange for industrial development than would otherwise have
been possible in view of the competing claims on India's limited foreign
exchange resources; (ii) to enable firms in the sectors assisted by IDA to
utilize their capacities more fully and efficiently by providing them with
an uninterrupted flow of imported raw materails, components and spare parts
procured at competitive prices; and (iii) to assist the Government in eva-
luating the problems and prospects of the sectors being assisted by IDA
and to help in the formulation of programs and measures which wou d permit
these sectors to make an optimum contribution to India's development.
34.       While it would be unrealistic to expect IDA assisted sectors to
be unaffected by the ups and downs of the rest of the economy, generally
the production and exports of these sectors have grown at higher rates than
of industry as a whole (Annex VIII). In a number of IDA sectors the more
efficient firms are either competitive at world prices or at least can



- 10 -
Cm p~ece wi-t- impco;:-s on eveni zerms as brought out by the recent study of the
c&amiarciai venicles and tractors sectors made by Bank staff (para 41).
35.       A contributory :actor in these achievements has been the flex-
ibility afforded by the IDA credits and the advantages of international
procurement. On the latter point, sources of supply have been progressively
diversified. In the first three credits 80 percent was utilized for pro-
Curemen itn the United Kingdom, West Germany, the United States and Japan;
in the subsequent three credits this percentage declined to 60 (See Annex
1ix)-
36.       The previous Industrial Imports Credit (Cr. 327-IN) for US$75
million was signed on Septedmer 26, 1972. The closing date of the Credit
is November 30, 1g973. As of May 15, 1973, about US$14 million remairned to
be disbursed.   Import orders have been placed for the balance and the Credit
should be fully disbursed by June 30, 1973, well before the closing date.
Approval of a further credit at this time would enable the Government to
ensure an uninterrupted flow of maintenance imports to the IDA sectors.
37.       Negotiations were 1held in Washington on May 10 and 11, 1973.
The Government of India was represented by Mr. M.R. Shroff,    Officer on
Special Duty, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Dr. A.K.
Ghosh, Economic Adviser, Directorate General of Technical Development, and
Mr. S. Guhan, Adviser, Minisiry of Industrial Development.
The Proposed Credit
38.       All the sectors inc:luded in the previous credit would also be
included in the proposed creciit. In. addition, financing would be provided
for manufacturers of heavy construction equipment (earth-moving equipment
and road rollers) and dealers of spare parts for such equipment. This sector
was included under the first two credits and the reasons for resuming IDA
assistance are explained later. A credit and project summary is at Annex
III.
39.       In the following table the indicative sectoral allocations under
the proposed credit are summarized:



- 11 -
Indicative IDA Allocations by Sector
/I
1973/74-/        Proposed Eighth Credit
Import Requirement             As Percentage
(US$ million)      Amount   of Import Re-
US$ million   quirenment
A. Raw materials, Components
and Spare Parts for
Manufacturers
1. Commercial vehicles                 35              12         34.3
2. Tractors and Power
Tillers                           21               5         23.8
3. Fertilizers                         52              18         34.6
4. Pesticides                          17               7         41.2
5. Motors, Transformers,
Switchgears and
Magnetic Steel
Stampings                         45              11         24.4
6. Aluminum smelting                    5               3         60.0
7. Automotive Ancillaries              41              18         43.9
8. Machine, cutting and small
tools, and abrasives; ball
and roller bearings               32              14         43.8
9. Heavy construction
equipment                         27               4         14.8
Total                          275              92         33.5
B. Spare Parts for Heavy
Construction Equipment                    /2
Dealers                                20-              8         400
__ _ _ _ __ _  _ _ __                         ___4                  .
Grand Total                    295             100         33.9
/1   Annex X.
/2   Includes also the direct import requirements of project authorities.
40.       As before, to render IDA assistance as flexible as possible,
only indicative sectorai allocations are proposed with the exception of
fertilizers and pesticides which would be limited to US$25 million to avoid
an unduly large portion of the credit being utilized for import require-
ments of these two sectors. The indicative allocations for the other
sectors are largely determined by the anticipated availability of other
sources of financing. A comparative statement of disbursements by sectors
under previous credits is shown at Annex XI.



-. 12 -
v-es .j o DA i;ctors
ur-i-ng t.  ne I otiation of the Seventh Incustrial Imports credit
was ag,reed that iastead of a brief annual review, of every sector, one or
Lwo sectors would De selected for intensive study during each appraisal.   It
was also a:greed that the first of these studies would be carried out in con-
-e^czion wi-h the appra'sal of the eighth credit and would cover commercial
vehIctes and agricultural tractors. The two reports, one entitled "Survey of
Ccrm.ercial Veaicle Sector, India" and the other entitled "Survey of Tractor
Saczor, I1ndia", will be~ cirejLated to Executive Directors separately.  Tne
r&ports were prepared cy a tission which was assisted by consultaats.   The
s:ucies were oasec upon examination of :re,olies to a detailed questionnaire and
ol ow-up visit>s.  They contain extensive recommendations affecuing both govern-
ne . npolicies toward the sectors and plant operations, and these reconmmendations
aave been discussed wikjn GO1 which agreed during negotiations to take follow-up
action (paras. 47 and 5a). The next sector chosen for intensive study is auto-
motive ancillaries (forgings and castingoand field work will start later this year.
'2.       Commercial Vehicles.  Prior to 1952, commercial vehicle production
was based entirely on the assembly of imported components. Today, direct
imports constitute only 8 to 10 percent of the ex-factory prices. During
the same 20-year period, production has grown at an average annual rate of
18 percent and is about 60,000 per year in all vehicle sizes. By 1978/79
annual production is projected to reach over 100,000. Gross product value
currently amounts to B- 12 billion per annum and accounts for 8 percent of
the total production oi- engineering goods.  There are 6 manufacturers with
total fixed assets nominally valued at about Rs 900 million, working capital
of Rs 700 million and employing 43,000 people.
43.       Utilizatiorn o-- installed capacity in the sector is 71 percent, but
such averaging disguises major differences among individual enterprises. In
the medium/heavy vehicle range, TELCO, the largest and perhaps the most
efficient manufacturer, is oc'erating at 104 percent of instaLled capacity;
iiinustan, the least efficient manufacturer, at only 8 percent.  Other
manufacturers in both the medium/heavy and light vehicle ranges, are operat-
ing at 63 to 79 percent of capacity.  With the exception of Hindustan, the
trend for all companies is to increasing capacity utilization.
44.       Price comparisons with comparable foreign products are difficult
'o make since Indian truck designs are generally out of date and equivalent
models are not currently produced in the industrially advanced countries.
After adjusting for design differences, TELCO and Ashok-Leyland trucks, 90
percent of total production in the medium/heavy range, are competitive,
i.e. fob (ex-works) prices in india are either 10 percenat less or about
equal to cif prices of equivalent foreign rmodels for TELCO and Ashok-
Ley_and respeczively. Clearl-y, this is a .major accomplishment for a rela-
tively youn.., in;dustry and even mtore i-m3ressive irn view of the highly pro-
tected domestic market ani comparatively higher cost of most indigenous
inputs (10-30 percent above cif).  -he same analysis for lighit commercial
veh-icles shows that, alzfiougC. ex-faccory prices are about 30 percent higher
tl.:; c-c cost, this sub-sector is reasonably competitive after making allowances



- 73 -
for tariffs and a shadow rate of exchange. Production growth plus improve-
mencs in operational efficiency snould place the suo-sector on a par with
the two efficient manufacturers in the mtedium/heavy sub-sector.
45.       EXxports have increased from US$1.5 million equivalent in 1966/67
to US$21 million in 1970/71. There was a transitory drop in 1971/72 to
US$13 million followed by a recovery to an estimated US$20 million ir.
1972/73. Exports are projected to increase to about US$40 mi'lion by 7978/79
and this appears to be a realistic goal. The economic analysis of this sector
indicates that the present package of incentives offered for export in the
form of cash incentives and duty drawbacks is adequate. Ary additional
financial incentives would make exports uneconomic from the national view-
point. There is however considerable additional scope for increasing
efficiency and reducing production costs through improvements in plant
operations. A further boost to efficiency and production would be to provide
producers with some limited amount of import licenses which could be used
foc any imports required for production without regard to the list of banned
imports. This would enable manufacturers to react quickly to temporary
shortages of indigenous components caused by strikes or other urforeseen
constraints. Such liberalization at the margin would also permit manu-
facturers to maintain lower overall inventories, and thereby reduce costs
(see para 87).
46.       The total import requirement of this sector during 1973/74 is
estimated to be US$35 million equivalent, of wnich IDA is expected to finance
US$12 million.
47.       The report on the sector prepared by the 1972 mission makes a
series of recommendations on product engineering, productivity measures,
materials management, and financial controls, as well as on government policies
and procedures. The report says that there are good prospects for expanding
exports of automotive components and recommends the establishment of a Trade
Promotion Office in Detroit and also in Europe. GOI agreed during negotia-
tions to pursue this proposal. In addition, OI also agreed to carry out an
action program in cooperation with manufacturers which would focus on remedy-
ing operating deficiencies and on stimulating domestic production of certair.
scarce components.
48.       Tractors and Power Tl'lers.   The Indian tractor fleet has in-
creased from 20,000 in 1956/57 to about 180,000 in 1970/71. While the
increase has been rapid, farm mechanization is still low by international
standards; there are 800 cropped hectares per tractor in India compared to
27 in Europe, 40 in the United States and 200 in Latin America. The
assembly and manufacture of tractors in India started in 1963/64. Output
has increased from about 9,000 in 1966/67, the first year of IDA lending
to this industry, to an estimated 33,000 for 1972/73. Only 20 percent of
the ex-factory cost now consists of direct imports.
49.       There are at present 6 manufacturers of tractors with an installed
capacity of 37,500 units per year on a two-shift basis, employing 6,500.
Tractors are manufactured under licenses from Massey-Ferguson (Canada),
International -Harvester (UK), Ford (USA), as well as from Polish and



. ' l -laas. Most of the tractor models produced are out-of-date
- J GU t.r,C  LT- Z ;Yd&Ic sys-Ltess.  Most tractor rmanufacturers also make
a-. CL.- -St,Game aeo id as  ccessories.
.c si`eh me rise in domestic production, the industry was intially
_ ^ o   trC-e t  e local derard.  Sc in 1968, to avoid abuses arising out of
'e mrnbalance between supply and demand, prices were controlled, imports were
0te- mea u, and licenses f'or new plants and ex-pansion were issued.  GOT then
-r r eas-IngLy conc;erned thlat overinvestr,ent by farmers was taking p ace
-   i_cause ir eo-L-omwc -&erms tractors were underpriced, especially im-
po rT00 ..eaoarLors w;nich enrterecid dut-y free. Accordingly, in 1971 Go! imnosea
'u -erce.: arnport du--y as well Es a 10 -ercent excise u-y on imported and
domestws tractors;   a further- increase of *.0 percent in the import duty was
annow'aced in, early 1973 . DemTand has proved -resilient in these circumnstances
and. -;th the prospect of improved credit arrangements and requirements for
s'acl sc:hemes as the Drought itone Areas Program, demnand is expected to exceed
local production capacity.
51.       Hitherto, there has been great unevenness in demand for the several
indigenous tractor bran-ds. T'AFE (Massey-Ferguson) has a substantial back-
log of orders amounting to several years' output. Production, however, has
been extremely low (3,400/year in the last two years which represents 50
percent of capacity), due to labor problems at the plant and at its affiliate,
Simpson & Go. Ltd., which supplies it with engines.    International Tractor
(Harvester), on the othler hand, is producing about 9,000/year, or 125
percent capacity utilization, while Escorts has been facing considerable
difficulty, primarily as a result of poor product qual'ty and is naow operating
at 50 nercenLt capacity.  Licher, which is producing a 25-year old model,
is aiso runnirng at 50 percen: capacity. The more efficient domestic producers
have recently proved capable of competing with imports despite the problems
which beset the industry.
52.       Production capacity of power tillers has increased from 1,000
in 1970 to 10,000 in i972 bur existing capacity is largely unutilized.
The main problem appears to be one of consumer resistance.    To an Indian
farme-r, a tractor is not only an agricultural implement but also an item
of presti ge and a means of transport like the bullock it replaces. TFhe
power tiller ufaortunately does not fulfill these needs. A major campaign
to change this situation is inow beinag attempted.
53.       The import requirement of this sector during 1973/74 is estimated
to be 'US$21 million ot which IDA is expected to finance US$5 million.
54.       The report preparei or. the sector by the 1972 mission makes a series
of recomniencations cove-ing oroduct enginecring, productivw:Lty measures in-
clueing plant layout a-nd  abrication methods, and financial managent.     Te
study urges that pr:oduct_ desigrn worn should be aided through technical
assis tance unider collaboration agreeaents and that manufacturers should
ani-iace cooperative  rcograrn with local univarsities and  research centers,
such as the Centrai -Mechnan-ical Enganeering Research; Irstitute, with the
doio,tive of deveopi-nc -tractor models and equipment suiced to Irndian con-
dittons.  There are aIso recc3r.anda-cions on government policies. GOI has



- 15 -
agreed to pursue these various proposals and to carry out an action program
in cooperation with manufacturers to remedy operating deficiencies.
55.       Fertilizers.  The fertilizer sector is discussed in detail in
the Appraisal Report (No. 46-IN) of the Nangal Fertilizer Expansion Project
for which an IDA credit of US$58. million was approved on January 30, 1973.
The Bank Group's involvement in this sector also includes two previous IDA
credits totalling US$30 million (Cr. Nos 264 and 279) for expansions of public
sector plants and a total IFC participation of about US$30 million in two
private sector enterprises.
56.       There has been a dramatic rise in fertilizer use with the con-
sumption of nitrogenous (N) and phosphatic (P205) fertilizers increasing
five and nine fold respectively between 1961/62 and 1971/72 to reach an
estimated 2 and 0.7 million tons respectively in 1971/72. Despite this
the per hectare use of fertilizers is still extremely low compared with
other countries (e.g. 13 kg in India, 243 kg in the Republic of Korea and
886 kg in the United States).
57.       The local production of N has tripled over the past five years while
production of P20S has increased by 180 percent to 0.4 million tons over the
same period (Annex XII). Nevertheless, production has been consistently
below expectations and the industry has been plagued by poor capacity util-
ization and consequently high costs. In the past five years capacity utilization
has oscillated around 60 percent. Such continuing under-utilization is a
reflection of poor maintenance, inadequate project preparation and out-of-date
technology in the case of the older plants. Alarmed by the foreign exchange
implications of growing demand and lagging domestic supply, the Government
is making serious efforts to utilize more effectively the existing capacity
of 1.5 million tons of N. The concern of the Government was further magnified
by its inability to satisfy demand during 1972/73 even by imports, due to
a tight world supply situation.   The efforts that are being made include
strengthening of management, decentralizing of decision making, placing of
maintenance contracts with specialized firms and seeking the help of inter-
national experts in connection with particularly thorny technical problems.
Similar efforts are being made to speed up the completion of 2.2 million tons
of N capacity currently under construction and a further 800,000 tons which
have already received necessary clearances. In addition, preliminary in-
dications are that the Government will attempt to establish a further capacity
of 2.5 million tons of N by the end of the Fifth Plan in 1978/79. A recently
established and strongly staffed unit within the Planning Commission is
carrying out a detailed sectoral review and is also assisting the preparation
of feasibility reports and reviewing the practicability of standaSiizing the
design of the new plants. The policy framework is also under review and the
possibilities under discussion include allowing price increases in order to
bring in the private sector; supplementing domestic managerial capabilities
with expatriate help and easing the import licensing system.    Some combination
of these approaches undoubtedly wihl be required if the ambitious targets for
new capacity are to be achieved.



5Lu..     irrespective Gf what is done on other fronts, however, the quickest
andA :ignesc returns wil- be achieved through the exploitation of unutilized
_a,acity. In this context, t:he proposed credit would make a valuable con-
.r- Dution by providing foreign exchange for the raw materials needed by the
c.usLry (primarily rock phosphate, phosphoric acid, sulphur and potash).
The total foreign exchange requirement of the industry during 1973/74 is
estimated to be US$52 million, of which a maximum of US$18 million would be
financed under this credit.
59.       Pesticides.   The spread of high yielding crop varieties and growing
awareness by farmers of the benefits of pesticides h'ave resulted in dramatic
increases in pesticide utilizati.on. Whereas in 1954/55 only 464 torns of
Lechnical pesticides (coacentrates ready for formulation) were consumed, in
-1972/73 consumption is expected to be of the order of 35,000 tons.    Initially,
this boost was achieved through government subsidies. But since the withdrawal
of most subsidies in 1968, the marketing effort of domestic manufacturers has
provided much of the impetus. Consumption is now expected to double over the
next five years.
60.       At present technical pesticides are produced by some 46 firms in
the medium and large scale sector. Among them three firms produce about
70 percent of the total volume of technical pesticides consumed. Some of
these firms are also fo-mulators but much of the formulation is done by some
100 firms in the small scale sector. Utilization of existing capacity for
basic manufacture is relatively low at an estimated 55 percent in 1972. How-
ever, much of the excess capacity is concentrated in some of the older forms
of pesticides while demand and production of other pesticides is growing
rapidly and capacity utilizat:ion is estimated to be of the order of 80 percent.
The prices of domestically produced pesticides are on the whole higher than
cif import prices but not excessively so. The import requirements of the
industry consist largely of about a dozen intermediates required for some of
the more advanced formulations which are rapfdly gaining in popularity and
certain chemicals required for basic manufacture. The foreign exchange
requirement of this sector is expected to grow fairly rapidly both because
of the expansion of demand and because the more sophisticated formulations
for which demand is growing most rapidly have a relatively high foreign
exchange component. This sect-or has high priority and it is proposed
that IDA should finance about US$7 million out of the estimated import
requirements in 1973/74 of US$17 million.
61.       Motors, Transformers, Switchgear, and Magnetic Steel Stampings.     Pro-
duction of electrical equipment has increased over four times since 1960
and rhe country is now to a large extent self-sufficient.    The items covered
by the !DA credit serve both the industrial and agricultural sectors - with
special emphasis on the latter since, in order to avoid duplication with the
Bank Group's power transmission projects, the import needs of transformers
and suitchgear below 33 kv only are inciuded.    Recent: production trends
and a projection for 1973/74 are given in Annex XII.
62.       Following a period of reces3ion in the mid-sixties, production
between 1968/69 and 1970/71 grew rapidly.    Then in 1971/72 there was a



- 17 -
setback, particularly in the case of motors. This was part'ly due-to iack
of demand resulting from the slow progress of the power generation progran
and partly to a weakening of demand for irrigation pumnsets. But there
were also supply problems created by shortages of key raw materials and
components, including magnetic steel stampings.
63.       Recently several manufacturers have mounted intensive sales
campaigns and there have been some price reductions. Output of motors and
transformers has improved and switchgear production has continued to rise
as demand has begun to revive. But supply problems continue to beset the
industry due to lack of a well-developed ancillary industry and to Govern-
ment restrictions on imports.
64.       Precise figures on capacity utilization are not available; in
1972/73 it has been roughly 55 percent for motors, 70 percent for trans-
formers and 80 percent for swicchgear. Exports of these items have come
up quite impressively; from US$1.5 million in 1968/69 they have increased
steadily to US$6 million in 1971/72 and probably about US$7 million in
1972/73.  But exports still represent only around 5 percent of production.
Exports are not very competitive, despite sizeable export incentives.
The major area for improving competitiveness lies in more efficient manu-
facturing operations. By encouraging and assisting the development of
ancillary industries, as one or two manufacturers are doing (and as
has been most successfully done in the automotive industry), costs can
also be reduced. IDA's support of the electrical steel stamping subsector
in the Seventh and proposed Eighth credits is contributing to this.
65.       The growth of output in the next few years will have to rely
largely on the domestic market, which will depend critically on progress
in power generation and distribution. Progress during the Fourth Plan
has been much below expectations or indeed requirements. The Government
has ambitious plans for the power sector, which could provide a secure
base for the continued expansion of the industry. Much depends on an
improvement in Plan implementation.
66.       Principal import needs of copper and magnetic steel sheets have been
adequately met, but as mentioned above, some other inputs are in short supply
and much would be gained if freer imports were allowed so as to make up for
shortfalls in domestic production. Total import requirements for motors,
transformers, switchgear and stampings in 1973/74 are estimated at US$45 mil-
lion, of which expected IDA financing would be US$11 million.
67.       Aluminum Smelting.   This sector, which was included for the first
time under the previous credit, continues to be one of India's more impressive
industries. Production capacity has increased rapidly and largely accord-
ing to schedule; existing capacity is almost fully utilized; the prices of
domestic aluminum compare favorably to import prices; the industry is based
on an indigenous raw material (bauxite); and there is substantial industrial
demand for aluminum products particularly in the electrical industry.



.:.esency, four orivate firms own seven smelters with a combined
a,-1Ci y  -c a§ out 1 80 000 tons of pr.mary aluminumt as compared with a
.;x:aic;y of 70,000 tons only five years ago.  Productioni in 1971/72 was
C60OO tons ann the forecast lor 1972/73 is 185,000 tons.    It may not,
now./ever, -,rove possible to reach this latter figure since some of the
s.ne±er-s are affected by the current power shortage. This short3ge is
also delaying the start of operations of a 20,000-ton expansion which is
reauy to go on stream at Hindustan, Alulinaum Corporation's Renukot
s m.nI z h LUt-ar Pradesh. Domestic demand at present is about 270,000 tons
so ti-tat a-fter allowing for the availabilizy of serap, there are some
Targinal imports.  it i-s expected that productionx capacity will more than
double by 1979 arnd no more -imports are iikely to be necessary from i974/75
onwards.  Estimated production from. 1970/71 through 1973/74 is shown in
Annex XII.
69.       Most of the import requirements of the industry are for raw
n-aterials (other than bauxite) for which the flexibility afforded by IDA
financing as compared with tied bilateral credits is particularly valuable.
The total import need of tne industry during 1973/74 is estimated to be
US$5 million, of which IDA is expected to finance US$3 million equivalent.
70.       Automotive Ancillaries.   The growth of the automotive ancillaries
industry has been remarkable. Over the decade ending in 1971172 output in
real terms has increased approximately 'ourfold. The growth has been
spread across nearly all varieties of parts and components. By i972 the
total value of output was cf the order of Rs 4,000 million; the industry's
sales to the vehicle manufacturers came to about 60 percent of the total
value of vehicle production (which approximates the "bougnt out" proportion
in most developed countries' auto industries); and taking into account parts
and components produced by the vehicle manufacturers themselves, the country
has become over 90 percent self-sufficient in them. Niow that imports have
been nearly completely displaced, future growth wiil depend upon final demand
and exports and hence some levelling off in the growth is expected. Recent
performance of the Industry, together with a projection for 1973/74,is shown
in Annex XII.
7i.       Production of tires has not kept up with, demand and there is
currently a significant shortage, especially of truck tires.   Additional
capacity of 900,000 tires per annum is expected to be in production by
tho end of 1973 and letters of intent for another 5.7 million annual capacity
have been issued by the Government. Tire pri ces are high because the price
bf bocit natural and synthetic rubber supplie(i from Indian sources are close
cc; double international ioraces. Tile single synthetic rubber plant has
ueen operating at full capacity, but tiLe process used, based on alcohol, is
inherently high cost. -Te Governre.ant is rigntly considering expansion of
synthetic rubber production b.ased On a mriore economic petro-chemical process.
Output of storage batteries has been rising steadi-ly, and capacity is fully
utilized. But again prices are h-igh liargely on account of duties on
.iported raw materials.  Cc,mponenca and parts cover a wide range of items.
'>anv of tihese are hig, priced lby international scandards, because of
cost-ly raw maLerials, poor productivity and often high profits. However,
a signi Ftcani- and growi-Lg numb)er are competi,-ive and with appropriate



- 19 -
incentives could be exported more successfully than they are being at the
noment. Exports increased from US$!h million in 1968/69 to US$9 million
in 1971/72.
72.       Main import requirements are nylon (for the tire industry),
lead and antimony (for storage batteries), and steel.  Total requirements
for 1973/74 are estimated at US$41 million, of which IDA is expected to
finance US$18 million.
73.       Machine, Cutting  and Small Tools, and Abrasives; Ball and Roller
Bearings. Following a period of stagnation in the mid-sixties, machine tools
production has increased rapidly irn the past few years and capacity utilization
reached about 70 percent in 1972/73 (Annex XII). Between 1968/69 and 1970/71
the import bill for machlne tools was halved from Rs 363 million to Rs 183
million.  This trend is likely to continue although at a somewhat reduced
pace because scope for further import substitution is limited. Much more
could be done to improve export performance as India produces a variety of
general purpose machine tools which are up to interrational standards in terms
of price (admittedly assisted by generous export incentives) and quality.
74.       The output of cutting tools, small tools and abrasives has grown at
about 10 percent per annum over the last three years. The outstanding feature
of this sub-sector has been its excellent export record. Exports have risen
from US$4  million in 1969/70 to US$8  million in 1971/72 and to probably
over US$11 million in 1972/73. As a proportion of output, exports have
increased from 7 percent in 1969/70 to 13 percent in 1971/72 and to about
17 percent in 1972/73. India is virtually self-sufficient in these three
items. This is one of the few industries in India whose expansion has been
to a considerable extent "export-led". Good quality products and high
productivity assisted by sizeable export incentives account for this. A
number of units have expansion underway or about to begin, including several
foreign-owned units which, under the Government's industrial policy, are
obliged to export a large proportion of the additionaloutput.
75.       Ball and roller bearing production increased by 18 percent per
annum on average from 1968/69 to 1971/72. In 1972/73 growth has slowed
to an estimated 4 percent. This is largely because there has been In-
sufficient capacity to allow any faster growth. Productivity in this
industry is generally excellent. There is good scope for further import
substitution and for developing exports. Most of the manufacturers have
firm expansion plans such that total capacity by 1975 should increase by
about one-third.
76.       Raw material imports required by these sub-sectors are mainly
special steels in the case of machine tools., cutting and small tools, and
abrasives; and chromium steel bars and tubing in the case of bearings.
Total import requirements in 1973/74 are escimated at US$32 million, of
which it is expected that IDA would finance US$14 million.
77.       Heavy Construction Equipment.  This sector comprises 9 manufacturers
producing earth-movers and related equipment, road rollers and engines.



- 20 -
.ej :-fdaustry Degaa production on a large scale in the second half of the
19600s and since 1969/70 annual growth has averaged. 12 percent in terms
a; units and ,9 nercent in terms of value which by 1971/72 had reached
.'s 3`0 million as shown in Annex XII.
Because the irndustry was established so recently, equipment
-roduced is gen-erally of modern design although 'fELCO, the oldest producer,
;t;Zi manufactures very serviceable cable actuated units rather than the
7oze maoerm hydraulically actuated systems. 7n the plants surveyed,
.-uil_dings and layouts, production equipment and methods, and quality control
ar-e comparable with the best in developed countries.   Import content has
averagea 35 percent over the past few years but is expected temporarily
to increase to 40 percent in response to the requirements oL newly installed
facilities producing a number of new sizes and types of units.     Assuming
gross product value reaches Ps 500 million in 1973/74, the total 4mport
requirements, thlerefore, wouLd be about Rs 200 million (US$27 million).
79.       Under the criteria usually applied in selecting a sector for
I-DA finance this industry has a high priority. Its products are in strong
demand for speedy implementation of general construction works throughout-
the country, especially proje!cts suci as roads, water impoundment and
irrigation, and power.   Because of this demand, growth is expected to be
sustained at a high level, possibly exceeeding the 19 percent rate of the
last 3 years. Given the quality and modern design of most of the models
produticed, it is quite likely that, with the improving economies of scale,
exports will become significant during the decade. Out of a total foreign
exchange requirement of US$27 million, an allocation. of US$4 million is
proposed.
30.       Spare Parts for Construction Equipment Dealers.    Un6er the First
and Second IDA Industrial Imports Credits in 1964 and it965, funds were
a '.ocated to finance the import of spare parts for construction equipment.
lhe. mr;-ose of this was to ensure a better. utilization of equipment, which
had iseer very low mainly on account of insufficient spare parts.    Subsequent
LDA credits did not include finance for spares imports because it was felt
cidat tihere were otlher and adequate sources of funds, in particular US as-
sistance. For a year or two, imports were fairly adequate, but starting
n 196'/69 the position began to deteriorate again.     In 1972 there was a
rurc>er squeeze as import licenses were slharply cut following the suspension
o..> -X .ssistance.
.he originai value of imported construction equipment in the
co:;Tv C1)at Dresenz iS of t;he order of US$430) million.  The total fleet
numTi'bers abou  *5,000 and about: 75 pcroent O- it is oi US make.  Most of
it is owned by Governmen:: r-oject autlhorities, whIo either use it themselves
or ren.' it out to contractors.  Although some progress has been made in
ueveic  :i the llndgenous -nonuffacture of spare Darts for this equipment,
perbi.ips to rhe e:-tent of 25 percent of requirements, most spares have to be
in,-ortce. Equipment utilization, based on a recent Governnment survey of
major users, is a mere 30-40 percent on average and the principal cause
is inic.zequate spare parts.  Tle consequent delays ia implementing projects
and zhe general' wastage of resources are only too obvious.



- 21 -
82.       The lack of spares is partly due to inadequate import licensing,
which in 1971/72 amounted to a mere US$2.5 million.      But,  in addition,
what imports are coming in are not being properly used.    Some project
authorities are holding stocks of spare parts in excess of their needs,
while equipment lies idle elsewhere for lack of spares; and even the author-
ities which have lar-ge stocks of spares are not ab'le to use their equipment
fully because their stocks are unbalanced and critical items are miissing.
83.       Since the first two IDA credits, the pressure of demand from project
authorities has led to a gradual reversion to the earlier practice of issuing
the bulk of the licenses to actual users (i.e. the project authorities)
rather than to dealers. The dealers, who are the accredited representatives
of the foreign manufacturers and have large staffs of qualified personnel
throughout India, are unable to build up inventories of their own and have
been largely reduced to the role of placing indent orders on behalf of
project authorities. While the object of issuing licenses to actual users
has been the very reasonable one of ensuring that the highest priority
users are catered to out of limited resources, the practice seems to have
been self-defeating. First, it has ignored a basic principle of inventory
control:   that the larger the fleet serviced out of a single inventory, the
smaller the percentage of the total value of the fleet required as inventory.
Second, project authorities have lacked expertise in inventory control,
while that of the dealers has been wasted. Third, the procedures for
obtaining actual users licenses have been very cumbersome and time-consuming.
84.       The Government has shoxn concern at the situation described above.
Aside from the two Committees, one in 1970 and another in 1972, which have
examined it and come to much the same conclusions as outlined above, a
further study group has been recently set up to inspect the spares inventories
at all major irrigation projects and to see whether surpluses can be moved to
projects in need.   The Government has agreed that larger foreign exchange
allocations are needed, and that a substantial portion should be entrusted to
the dealers so that they can once again build up their own inventories and
supply a large part of the project authorities' requirements ouit of them,
and thereby be enabled to provide the full customary dealer service.
The dealers are keen to take on this role again, and they are competent to
do so.
85.        It is difficult to estimate precisely the import requirements of
spares. Though part of the presently immohilized fleet is prohably beyond
economic repair, there is certainly a verv large backlog. Due to this back-
log it is estimated that the requirement of imports during 1973/1974 is of
the order of US$20 million, of which IDA is expected to provide USZ8 million
for imports through the dealers.
Institutional Aspects
86.       The objectives of the import licensing svstem are to ensure
thte efficient use of scarce foreign exchange resources and to enable pro-
duction capacity to be used to the maximum extent possihle. Over time,
the licensinpg system has become very cumhep:soTe but followiTQg the recession



- 22 -
o   970 aad tne serious shortages of raw materials which arose in that year,
e-,orts Aave bLeen made to simiplify procedures.  Although the system is
s._l ^rather slow movir.g, considerable improvements have been made as
eviaenced by the rapid increase in 1971/72 in maintenance imports,
esuecially steel, and the s;atisfactory drawdown of the Seventh Industrial
ithDorts Credit (Cr. 327-IN) which should be completely disbursed in about
12 months from approvai by the Executive Directors.
67.       One of the most serious obstacles posed by the licensing system
1s clearance from the "indigenous angle," which requires that an applicant
h&s co satisfy the licensing authority that a certain import requirement
cannot be manufactured locally. The clearance process does not make adequate
a'lowance for quality, availability or delivery times and, as a result,
production may be severely affected for the want'of a minor component.
Further, even well establishied compornent manufacturers sometimes face a
decline in production because of labor or technical problems but the licensing
sysLem will not permit temporary importation. The disappointing performance
of the industrial sector has led the Government to review its policy. In
particular the Government examined the feasibility of allowing license holders
freedom to use a small percentage of- their allocations for import of any
industrial requirement without having to obtain "indigenous angle" clearance.
One result of this examinatfon has been that in April 1973, the Government
permitted exporters to use ' percent of their import replenishment license
without clearance. Other proposals are also being considered and these
efforts mark a significant step forward.
88.       Another aspect of the licensing system which has long proved un-
satisfactory is the collation and analysis of data required for administering
the system. Earlier attempts to computerize the data were not at all suc-
cessful but the terms of reference for a study being carried out by the
Indian Institute of Management have recently oeen revised and should now lead
to some concrete results by December 1974 when this work should be completed.
89.       A further aspect cf the administration of imports is that the
Government is channelling an increasing amount of imported raw materials
through public corporations or canalizing agencies. The reasons for this
canalization are: (i) to reduce the foreign exchange cost of a given volume
of raw material imports and ensure uninterrupted supplies by means of
bulk purchasing and long-term contracts where appropriate; (ii) to keep
inventories of certain basic raw materials and thereby encourage reduction
of- tne sizeable inventories kept by individual firms; (iii) to prevent thae
12aak.ge of foreign exchange caused by over-invoicing of imports; and (iv) to
?--omote utilization of tied assistance provided by bilateral donors and
par,icularly, the f_rancing provjded by the USSR and Eastern European countries
which individual importers find hard to use and reluctant to utilize.    The
State Trading Corporation (S7C), th.e Minerals and Y.etals Trading Corporation
(>{4TC) and hindustan Steel Ltd. (}- SL) are the three agencies through which
imports are car.alized. The STC concentrates primarily on imports of process
chol,-lcals, drugs and pharmaceuticals, oils and fats, natural and synthetic
fibers anid newsprint; the MMTC on ferrous and non-ferrous metals, minerals
and chemicals and, the HSL on iron and steel.   These agencies are still



- 23 -
in the process of building up their staff and establishing procedures.
It is therefore difficult to assess their efficiency but despite some
teething problems their service charges are not unreasonable and their
performance appears adequate. GOI has agreed to continue forwarding data on
service charges and other fees so that tne Association is kept informed about
the pricing policies of these agencies.    The proportion of total imports
which is channelled through these agencies is exDected to increase from 21
percent in 1971/72 to 26 percent in 1972/73. Canalized imports represent an
even more impressive proportion of ma-intenance imports in these two years,
29 percent in 1971/72 and 35 percent `n 1972/73.
Administration of the Credit
90.       As in previous credits, the firms eligible to uti'lize the pro-
posed credit would be the medium and large scale units registered with the
Directorate General of Technical Development (DGTD) in the sectors to be
assisted by IDA. At present there are approximately 720 such firms in
these sectors. Items imported directly by ind.ividual firms would not be
subject to special procurement procedures as firms can be relied upon to
make good cormnercial use of the IDA funds, especially since these are not c,ied
to any particular source of supply. Items imported by the canalizing agencies
would be procured by international competitive bidding for orders exceeding
US$100,000. It is esti.mated that about US$55 million of the proposed credit
would be disbursed against imports of the canalizing agencies. The expected
monthly utilization of thi e proceeds of the TDA credit is of the order of
US$8-10 million. Therefore, it is estimated that the credit would be fully
disbursed wit.hin a year of signing. The credit would be made to C-OI on
standard DA terms and GOI would make the -oreign exchange proceeds of the
credit available through the Reserve Bank of India to the specified bene-
ficiaries, which would purchase foreign exchange with rupee funds through
authorized banks. The credit would not involve any financing of beneficiaries.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
91.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the Recommendation provided for in Article V, Section 1(d)
of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft Resolution approving
the credit, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
No special conditions of effectiveness are proposed.
92.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreemer.t of the Association.



- 24 -
PART' V, - RECOMENDATION
93.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors -approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 24, 1 973



ANNEX
i'age 1
COUNTRY DATA - iiiDlA
l-W_A                                       i vP~~~~~~~~~~~~?sULiAT I Vl                                            ,r o.,i T -
5,s26bo,5i  us                                             577 mlllion (mid-1973)                                                  177 pDe rm
2
Rate of growtnz 2.2.1,. (from 1961 to 1971)                             550 per ca of ariOle land
i .PJPLAP1:  -LSAPITiRIl 1101 (ib71 )_'
Crude ctirh Ra:e (per 1,000)                36 (est)                                                    .opulation per pnynscian (197j 4,Gv0 (es:)
-ruce D-ath Hote (per .,>J14)               16 (est)                                                    Populato6r. per nospital bed (i;66,'6.) 1,526
lIlfran  Llortallty (p.r 1,000 l1ve births)  120-140 (est)
oCO'!M, ljlT:ibLTIUiol ~(967/68)                                                                        DISTHI_UT_.1,  r GLA.i OL..llh; Ii (_Lo,i
, o,' c:noootior., losest qulnti1e  rural  tSp (Cs;)  u-baan 7u . (est)                             Y. owned by ton 7; owwers          92r. (ot)
o:' conosoGptiso, ho.heh.a  qLntile  rural 417r (eat)  urba,, 44C/ (COt)                              5 owned by smallest 25>o of owrers  1> (es
A:i2z,i, TO pIe.9 WASIJIE  (1971)                                                                      i.CCgSS TO ELE:''T-rICITY (1971j
0>ol )ipiput. ol - urban  7 01 (est)                                                                  , of population - ur-ian         1uG (ct)
ot populatlo  - rural      5% (est)                                                                   >1 of populatiDn - rural          25
N'iThlTlv. (1400 - 69)                                                                                  i:DUCAT:0N
Lalorie u,tk. a. ',4 of requirements       B3  eat                                                      Adult l1termry rate 1. (1971)             L 
Per capita protein intake (gr. per day)    55 (est)                                                     Primary scnool enroilment (1969/7u)    79
GlNi Pi. CAiPITA 11 1'i70  US i 110
OltUi hA'.'IIvAL ihDPLUCT I: 1'i72/73                                                                   AINUAL PA"_ OF GhO'Tii (;6 const,nt 0 oea)
JS j Bln.                                                           196./62-1965/66   1965,/6-!Qb9/7C   19jOL/! i-972/7'
01>' at itrret ?r-ces                 63.6     100.0                                                          3.3               4.7                2.°
Gross Dosestic Investment              9.3      14.6
Oroos 1l4tLonol Saving                 8.6      13.5
Current Account balance                0.7       1.1
Resource Gap                           0.5       7.8
OiTPIT, LAbOR FOCE AID PrODUCTlVITY IL 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)                                       Labor Force              V.A. Per f;or,er
US S P3o.                                                        Lln.S                              of Na-tornai averaT
Agriculture                              19.4       42.6                                              129.9    72.0              149          47
Industry                                 13.3       23.3                                               20.2    11.2              656         215
-ervices                                 24.3       34.1                                               30.2    16.8              805          255
Total/average                            57.0      100.0                                              180.3   100.0              516
OuVE>if b.,T i L1A' CE                                       S/
General Government                                                          Central Government
(Rs. Bln)            of GDP                                       (Is. Bln)                ,of GDUl
1971/72   1971/72          1968-71                                1971/72    1971/72                 1968-71
Current hecoii ts                        70.30    16.4             14.9                                  40.28       9.4                     8.5
Cur.eat ixpeaditures                     71.64    16.7             14.6                                  41.28       9.6                     6.1
Cu-rent Surpbus/Defielt                 - 1.34   - 0.3              0.3                                 _ 1.00     - 0.2                     0.4
Capotnl bEIpenditures                    35.66     8.3              7.8                                  29.23       6.8                     6.o
E,ternal Assostance (net)                 3.25     0.8              1.1                                    3.25      0.8                     1.1
a/  Population of 10 years -a over; extracted from 1lp sample data of the 1971 Census.
'   Uflicial estimate' probably overestimates actual enrollment of age group 6 - 11 by one-fifth.
p/  Toe per capita GNP' estixate is at 1970 market praces, calculated by the same conversior. techrnique as the 1972 World Atlas.
All other coneersio-n to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
d/ rlstioates.
T Ir,nnfers be.tween Center and States have been netted out.



A'NNEX I
PTge 2
:'ohNTE7Y DATA - r11T.h
___i_________________             I 4)/oo       19 9/70        1970/71      i971O& October c1 uctcber 1972
( billion he outstanding at ena of period)
.61.e         9-.5          105.6         122.3          113.7                130.4
..... 0 w:'rzzl ' ..... to ruiltol;ctiJ e C:or 40.6  32.4      56.9          69.C           64.0                 77,5
.r   lt:c to Irsate Sector         26.1          46.3          56.7          64.4            59.9                64.3
(Percentages or Index (lumbers)
'io-./66      i?SlK'         1970/71        1q71/72       Felruor 1,72      Ferary 197'
. ~ .us.e, .1Sltl w_CsS. 3 GIly oslo Ojv  11? ofir  22 4.2.3  24.6           26. ,
oro:c.i.:o. rlcri indix (_961/o2-lOu;  137.5         175.7         16o.6          192.2            191.2             217.2
:-o:s,1 puc7.,L tage chnilges 1-.
.:.oes .lic Ž'rŽc ice lt      :eX 12.4                 6.4           2.8            6.4                               i3.6
:to: utr r' il toto r ii2.9               1.5           6.6           21.3
Ciii:: tld.o ',ivite Sector        12.5          15.1          17.4            13.6
''9/7Q        ',70/71        '1971 /72      -.RCiTAiDISE EXvRHTS (0A124BE 1969/70-1971/72)
(Million US 9)                                       U5 S Bin.        ,o
. o : os                      1, 34           1,950         2,10'         Jute Manufactures      291          15
.tor of looes                        ' 'OY           2, 179        2, 431        Tea                    16            9
Tr-.aloo  bo ....... r.or           - ^25           - 229         - 330         Cotton T-tolles        161 3
.:  .n,aLj                          13           -   7         n.e.          Iror. Ore              139           7
:,ozsouuce Ian                       -"12           - 236         n.a.           Engineering Goods     136            7
Others              1l.06           54
-rte-est eoyeents (net)              - 192           - 214         n.a.           Otal                1,0           10
uLher Facto: i,.ymento (net)         -  15           -  20        n.a.            Toto1               1,980         100
8,rt 'T'ransfers                        79              83         n.a.
o,lI-ne on Current Accowut           - 340           - 387         n.T. 12Ti2YAL DEBT, March. 31. 1971
US; liln.
oi:.c:i,l Ala (incl. grants)                                                      Repayable in foretgn currency      7,771
lssouraooer.ts                    ' ,'188         1,096         1,039         Repayable through export of
A:u:ortizatlon                    - :'57          - 387                         goods                               782
tŽrecotF'o:etgr,7; 'r:vestmlent )    - .88           - 558         n.a.           Total Outstanding                  8,553
am::e  Capitl a  (nlet) 
a:ler iterMs                                                                  DM3 i) 1ViCR RATIO FOR 1971/72        30.6 percent
iocroase so Reserves (.)                j3-          - 237-/          35
or;es  rese.ves (-oo year)            ,0C95          1,052         1,27/
:.et eeserves (lc year)                :.12          1,012         1,777          I .D/IDA LilILDiI ;, Ap,ril 34 1973 (USS MlAn 5
o1OFalinE
*rior to m.:d-D--cenoer 1971 : 'S  1.00 - Ais. 7.5                                                               IRRI          I3A
Hs.  1.00 - 'JS $ 0.133333                         Outstanding and Disbursed          476      13 73
.v.ia-Decenler 1971 to         US S 1.00 - !1s. 7.27927                           Undtsbursed                         Cl       731
end June 1972              Hs.   1.00 - US i0.137376                          Outstanding incl. Cndisbursed      537       2103
After end iune 1y 72           Flostong Rate
a,ot Hate \Io--i 31, 1973) * approx. CS 8 1.00 - R-. 7.59
opprox. Hs. 1.00 - US $0.13
AllocatLions of SDH1Vs and valustion changes resulting solely from changes in exchange rates and the gold parity of the US dollar ore treated
here uS oe.genous to the balance of payments.
i    QOerlto,atos oea lat,erest payments as a percentage of merchandise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1
THF, STATUS OF BANK MOUPR? OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STA,TNT OF BANK LOANS ATO, IDA    CREDITS
(As of April 30, 1973)
US$ Millicn
Loan or                                                                               Undis-
Credit No.   Year    Borrower        Purpose                      BANK       IDA      bursed
33 Loans/
24 Credits fully disbursed (net of Cancellation)                 876.)4    11)3.1
307-IN    1961    TISCO    Coal Mining                         19.5       -          1.7
414-IN    1965    ICICI7   Industry DFC VI                     48.3       -1.1
89-IN    1966    India    Beas Equipment                       -         23.0       2.8
515-IN    1967    ICICI     industry DFC VII                   24.6       -          1.0
61)4-IN   1969    India    Tarai Seeds                         13.0                  9.9
615-IN    1969    India    Telecommunications III              27.5       -          1.9
176- N    1970     India   Kadana Irrigation                    -         35.0      20.5
683-IN    1970    ICICI    Industries DFC VIII                 )40.0      -          6.7
191-IN    1970    India    Gujarat Agricultural Credit          -         35.0       8.2
203-IN    1970    India    Punjab Agricultural Credit           -         27.5      27.5
226-IN    1971    India    Andhra Pradesh Agri. Credit          -         24.4      14.1
230-IN    1971    India    Agro-Aviation                        -          6.o       6.0
241-IN    1971    India    Telecommunications IV                -         78.0      67.3
242-IN    1971    India    Power Transmission TT                -         75.0      7)4.9
249-IN    1971    India    Haryanad Agricultural Credit         -         25.0      20.5
250-IN    1971    India    Tamii Nadu Agricultural Credit      -         35.0      29-9
264-IN    1971    India    Cochin II Fertilizer                 -         20.0      I.4
267-IN    1971    India    Wheat Storage                        -          5.0       5.0
268-IN    1971    India    Pochampad Irrigation                 -         39.0 - °    .8
789-rN    1971    ICICI    Industry DFC DC                     60.o       -         30.9
278-IN    197-    India    XYsore Agricultural Credit           -                   30.0  9
279-IN    1971    India    Gorakhpur Fertilizer                 -         10.0       9.4
280-IN    1971    India    Railways XI                          -         75.0      31.7
293-IN    1972    India    Maharashtra Agricultural Credit      -         30.0      25.4
294-IN    1972    India    Bihar Agricultural Markets           -         1).0      14.0
312-IN    1972     India    Population                          -         21.2      21.2
327-IN    1972    India     Industrial Imports VII              -         75.0      18.7
328-IN   .1972     India    Shipping                            -         83.0      67.8
342-IN    1972     India   Education Project                    -         12.0      12.0 *
356-IN    1972     India    IDBI                                -         25.0      25.0 *
357-IN    1973    India     Fertilizer-Nangal                   -         58.o      58.o
377-IN    1973    India     Power Transmission III              -         85.0      85.0 *
378-IN    1973     India   Mysore Agricultural Markets         _-          8D        8.Q
Total (less cancellation)                                   1,109.3    2,107.2
of which has been repaid                               571.0        2.3
Total now outstanding                                         538.3    2,104.9
Amount sold                  111.5
of which has been repaid   1 09.7                             1.8
To al now held by Bank and IDA                                536.5    2, 10)4.9
(prior to exchange adjustments)                                       _
Total undisbursed (including *)                                61.2      71,=0     792.2
* not yel effective



XNNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFr, INVEST1ENTS
(as of April 30,   1973)
Amount US$
- i'lion
Year              Company                    Loan         Equity         Total
1959       Republic Forge Company Ltd.        1.5           -             1.5
1959       Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.         0.9           -             0.9
1960       Assam Sillimanite Ltd.             1.4           -             1.
1961       K. S. B. Bumps Ltd.                0.2           -             0.2
1963-66      Precision Bearings India Ltd.      0.7          0.3            1.0
1964       Fort Gloster Industies Ltd.        0.8          0.4            1.2
1964       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.      2.3          1.0            3.3
1964       Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.         1.0          0.3            1.3
1967       Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.            1.0          0.1            1.1
1967       Indian Explosives Ltd.             8.6          2.9           11.5
1969-70      Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.         15.1          3.8           18.9
TOTAL                             33.5          8.8           42.3
Less sold, repaid and cancelled   17.L          1.4           18.8
Now held                          16.1          7.4           23.5
Undisbursed                        1.8          0.6            2.4



F II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS INl EXECUTION  /
la No. 307     Indian iron and Steel CoMpanyj US$1 9.5 million loan of
December 22, 1961; Closing date: December 31, 1973
This loan was made in 1961 and the original closing dateewas January
31, 1967.  The implementation of the :roject has been affected by technical and
managerial difficulties connected with the opening of new collieries to s-apply
IISCO's steel plant.  The Bank, together with technical consultants, has been
providing constant supervision and progress is being made in resolving the tech-
nical issues. On the managerial side, the Government of India announced on
July 20, 1972, that it was taking over the mAnagement of IISCO for two years.
The Government has assured us that this action will not interfere with -ISCO's
obligation to the Bank. On April 30, 1973, US$1.7 million remained undis'oursed
of which about   US$l million has been earmarked for equipment on order and
technical services, while US$0.7 million may be cancelled by the closing date
of December 1973. The Bank has approved some increase in short-term indebted-
ness as well as a rehabilitation program and has also agreed in principle to a
reduction in the Bank's mortgage cover.
Ln No. 414     Sixth Industrial Credit and Investment CorPOration of India
Project; US .483 million loan of MaY 28 1965; Closing date:
June 30, 1973
Ln No. 515     Seventh Industrial Credit and Investment Cororation of India
Pro2ecti US$24.6 million loan of September 10, 1967; Closirn
date; December 31, 1973
Ln No. 683     Eighth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
ProXect; US$40.0 milli7on loan of-June 3! 1970i Closing datei
September 30, lg2n
Ln No. 789     Ninth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of 7T-dia
Pro ects US$60.0 million loan of October 21, 1971; Clcsin"
date: December 31, 1976
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company. There have been delays in
disbursements on the two earliest loans 414-IN and 515-IN as a result of the
business slowdown in the years following 1967. The original closing date of
June 30, 1970, for 414-IN has been extended three times to June 30, 1973 and
1/ These notes are designecd to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses
in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
-via-c 'or 5-I5  twice, froim DeceMber 31, 1971 to December 31, 1973. Loan 683-I
:-i_een flEly cormditted as of December 31, 1972. Disbursements under Loan 789-IN
&.:e ahead of schedule.
-: ^o.  59     Beas E9uipment; US$23.0 million credit of June 29, 1966e Closinig
date: December 31 , 1973
The purpose of this credit is to provi de part of the foreign ex-
change cost of imported equipm.3nt and services required to develop hydro-
e_ectric power from the Beas River, to extend irrigation in the Pur1jab and
Rajasthan and for associated construc-vion works.  The project, Which has been
sub-Ject to some delays, is part of a larger scheme for the integrated develop-
ment of the eastern rivers of the indus Basin.   The balance of the credit out-
standing is to be spent on. itens sched-uled for delivery up to December 31, 1973,
and as a result, the original closing date of December 31, 1972, has been
postponed by a year.
Ln No. 614     Tarai Seeds; UST13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969; Closing
date: December 31, 1974
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in
the development of seeds of high yielding varieties of crops. The Association
has approved plans for _'e expansion of an existing seed processing plant and
construction of a new plant.  Orders have been placed for the equipment re-
q-uired for the former and tenders for equipping the latter plant have been
readvertised following rejection of earlier bidding as unresponsive.   A major
difficulty has arisen because of a lack of response to tenders for land-levelling.
This problem is being overcome through demonstrations under field conditions in
the project area for contractors.  A Droposal is curently under discussion, which
would permit contractors to purchase imported equipment of their choice for land-
levelling.
Ln No. 615     Telecommunications III; US$27.5 milliona loan of June 18, 1969;
Closing date: June 30, 1973
The project, whlch was financed 50 percent by a Bank loan and 50
percent by an IDA credit (153-:B),was designed to assist in financing the
telecommunications expansion program for the first three years of the Fourth
Plan period (1969-1972).  Credit 153-IN was disbursed fully three months prior
to the closing date, but the closing date for Loan 615-IN has had to be post-
poned Lrom December 31, 1972, to June 30, 1973.  Although disbursements have
taken place broadily in line with the original schedule, there have been de-
lays in meeting project targets of about six  months for local exchange
in.sta&la tions and up -o two yeatrs for some long distance works, resulting from
difficulties experienced by local factories anc foreign delivery delays of some
key ittems.  In recent months the situation has improved, especially at the local
factories.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr No. 176     Kadana Irrigation; US$35.0 million credit of February 9, 1970;
Closing date: September 30, 1976
This project will finance in part the construction of Kadana Dam
on the Mahi River, the expansion of the irrigated area below the dam, and the
resettlement of inhabitants in the reservoir area in the States of Gujarat and
Rajasthan. The project also includes canalization, land levelling, the con-
struction- of field charnels, drainage works and roads, and a program to
support agricultural development. The project is likely to be completed about
two years behind schedule. A major problem has been the failure of the prime
contractor on the dam itself; the Government was forced to discharge his con-
tractor in October 1971 and to undertake the work by departmental force
account. Since that time the Public Works Depar^tment has been making satis-
factory progress. Drainage works in the right bank- area are likely to be
more extensive and more costly than expected and may not be completed until
1978. The outlook for other components of the project remains satisfactory.
As the delays in implementation have occurred at the start of the project, and
also before major investments had been made, both investment costs and benefits
will be deferred. Thus the effect of these delays upon the economic rate of
return is not likely to be significant.
Cr No. 191     Gu.jarat Agricultural Credit Project; U5 .0 million crediti of
June 3. 1970; Closing date: J'une 30, 1974
Cr No. 203     Puniab Agricultural Credit Project; US$27.5 million credit of
June 24, 1970; Closing date: December 31, 1973
Cr No. 226     Andhra Pradesh Agriculturall Credit Proect; US$24.4 million
credit of January 8, 1971; Closing date: June 30, 1974
Cr No. 249     Ha      Agricultural Credit Projectl US;2 50 million credit of
June 11. 1971 i Closing date: March 31, 1975
Cr No. 250     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million credit
of June 11, 1971; Closing date: December 31, 1974
Cr No. 278     Mysore Atricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 million credit of
January 7, 1972; Closing date: October 31, 1975
Cr No. 293     Maharashtra A ricultural Credit Pro;ect- US$30.0 million credit
March 29 , 197,2_;_ Closinig date : December 3 i, 1975
All seven agricultural credit projects, which tot,al US$216.9 million,
are now effective. Except for the Punjab project, which consists of mechanization
equipment, all are similar in structure, being designed to provide long- and
medium-term credit to farmers through credit institutions for such on-farm
investments as tractors, minor irrigation and land-levelling.  3iplementation
and disbursement have been slower than was originally expected, mainly due to
delays in the institutional reforms required under the projects (hiring of
groundwater experts, changes in lending criteria and te-rns,etc.).  These con-
straints have now been overcome and the rate of disbursement is accelerating.
A recent mission has made recommendations to GO! to furt,her improve pro.ject



ANNEX IT
Page 6
aerfor,mance.  j April 3Gn 1-973, -UlS26.8 miillion out of US$35 million had
;-ee adsobursed -- under t1e first to be anuroved, the Gujarat project.
Ual uS$56.0 il lion had beeri disbursed by April 30, 1973.
Thre only major Droblem which remains unresolved is the procure-
ment of .ractors (which account for almost 30 percent of the credits).
Tne i-mposition by the Government of India of a h0 percent import duty and
the realignmient of the rates of exchange of international currencies con-
tributed -uo the delays.  Difficulties -vwere also experienced in finalizing
tender doc-u,,en'ts.  hrie exchange realignment of 1971 -was instrumental ir
alstorting b d prices to the extenu that the Government had -to withdraw the
Ranjab tender and to re-advertise.  Fresh bids have been evaluated, but
.urther progress wit]h procUre.ment is delayed pending consideration of
a request by GO! that th-e r.ssociation should finance indigenous  as well
as imported tractors. Tender invitations in the case of the other credits
are celayed pending the discussions on the Panjab case.
Cr Nc. 230     Agro-Aviation;  US$6.0 million credit of januar 28, 1971;
Closing date:  Decamber 31, 19714a
The project was designed to improve facilities for aerial spray-
ing of pesticides, as part of India's plant protection program.   So far no
disbursements have taken place because the Government was considering the
procurement arrangerents for the -importation of aircraft.  The Government's
proposals have recently been received and are under review.
Gr No. 241     TelecoT,rmunications IV;  US$78.0 million credit of May 3, 1971;
Closing data: December 31, 1974
This project is a continuation of Telecormmunications ITT and has
been designed to su;pport the telecommunications expansicn program over the
last two years of the Fourth Plan (1969-74). Procurement action for delivery
of imported goods in 1973/74 has been largely completed.  Production problems
in local factories delayed- initial disbursement by about 6-9 months.  However,
production has now picked up and as of March 31, 1973, US$7.9 million had been
disbursed under the credit. Full disbursement is expected by the closing date
of December 1974.
Cr No. 242     Power Transmission !I; US$75.0 million credit of May 3,1971;
Closing date:  September 30G 1975.
This project, a continuation of the project financed by Loan 416-IN,
-s designed to assist in financin, the parchase of equipment and materials
reQuired to develDp a power transmission program in nine States under the
Fourth Five- Year I'lar..  Iitial delays occurred because of problems associated
with preparing bid cccu--n- su-tanle for international bidding and the analysis
c- the very large nur.moer cof bids involved, but contract awards have now been
made for rmuch of tne manor equipment so that more rapid disbursement can be
ex-acted.  Disbursements sh'ould be completed oy -the closing date of Septe-mber 30,
'975.



AnIEX II
Page 7
Cr No. 264     Cochin Fertilizer; UJS$20.0 nillion credit of July 30, 1971;
Closing date:  June 30, 1975
This project is intended to help finance the expansion of
fertilizer manufacturing facilities at Cochin. After initial delays, the
project is nox proceeding about six months behind schedule. However,res-
ponse to tenders has been disappointing and procurement difficulties and
labor problems could lead to additional delays.
Cr No. 267     Wheat Storage; US$5.0 million credit of August 23    1971
CUlosing date: Septemiber 30. 1_9j5
This credit, which will provide storage facilities in India's
wheat belt, was declared effective on November 14, 1972.
Cr No. 268     Pochampad Irrigation; US$39.0 million credit of August 23, 1971;
Closing date: March 31, 1977
This project comprises the construction of a dam on the Godavari
River, a concrete-lined main canal, an irrigation distribution system to serve
100,000 ha, agricultural support services and the construction of village
roads. With the exception of the lining of the main canal, the project civil
engineering works are generally proceeding satisfactorily, and disbursements
are ahead of schedule. Bids for two canal-lining contracts, opened in March
1972, were unreasonably high, and the contracts were retendered. Again, in the
view of the Government of Andhra Pradesh, the bids were too high. Further
evaluation of the bids is now taking place in order to avoid a third tender.
The program for agricultural development, which has been falling behind schedule,
is receiving close attention by the State Government, with assistance and advise
from the Government of India and IDA review missions.
Cr No. 279     Gorakhpur Fertilizer; US$10.0 million credit of January 7, 1972;
Closing date: March 31, 1975
The engineering design for this project, for the expansion of an
urea plant in Uttar Pradesh, is now well advanced and equipnent estimated to
cost about US$4.0 million has been ordered. Although delivery of some
equipment may take longer than forecast during appraisal, the project is pro-
gressing without serious difficulties.
Cr No. 280     Railways XI; US$75.0 million credit of January 24, 1972
Closing date: September 30, 1974
This project, consisting of new and ongoing works in the Indian
Railways investment program for three years beginning April 1, 1971, is pro-
gressing in a satisfactory manner. Disbursemsnts are ahead of schedule.
Cr No. 294     Bihar Agricultural Markets; US$11.0 million credit of March 29,
1972; Closing date: Dacember 31, 1978
This credit, which will help to finance the establishment of
wholesale markets in about 50 towns, was declared effective on July 31, 1972.
A supervision mission has recently visited the project and has reported very
good progress in the selection, design and appraisal of individual market
sub-projects.  Disbursements are expected to begin within the next few months,
ahead of schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 8
C.> .,io. ,1?  Poeu1t- io .^; US$27 .2 i'ji-on c-redit of June 1L, 1972;
Closir-, daae: june 30, 1978
This credit was declared effective on May 9,, 1973.
Cr ,   327     _-Tdustrial Imports VII; US$75.0 raillian credit of September
27, 1972; Closing date: November 30, 1297
This credit was declared effective on October 19, 1972, and by
May 15,   1973, US$60.9 million had been disbursed.
Cr No. 328     Sh,ipping; US$83.O million credit of September 27, 1972;
Closing date: June 30, 1975
This credit was declared effective on December 6, 1972. Contracts
for construction of the oil tankers have been let and. by April 30, 1973,
US$15.2 million had been disbursed.
Cr No. 342     Agricultural Universities; US$12.0 million credit of November 10,
1972;_ Closing date: December 31, 1979
The project units of the two universities need still to be staffed
with project architects and carr,pus planners and the proposed site for the main
campus of the university in Bihar need still to be acquired. The deadline for
effectiveness has been extended, by three months, to J'une 8, 1973, to give
adcitional time for the appointment, of advisers to the Vice Chancellors of
the two universities and of a project coordinator in the central project unit.
Cr No. 356     Industrial Development Bank of India; US$25 million credit of
February 9, 1973; Closing date: June '5., 1977
The deadline for the conditions of effectiveness to be fulfilled has
been extended to June 11, 1973.
Cr No. 357     Nangal Fertllizer Expansion Prmject; US$58 milllion credit of
February 9, 1 97,3; Closing date: March 31, I977
This credit was declared effective on May 15, 1973.
Cr No. 377    Power Transmission III Project;  US$85 million credit of
May 9, 1973;  Closing date:  September 30, 1977
Conditions of effectiveness are to be fulfilled by September 30, 1973.
Cr No. 378    tr.sore Who,esale Agricu--ural Markets IProject;  US$8 million
credi t of May, 1973, Closing datee: December 31, 1979
Conditions of effect;iveness are to be fulfilled by September 7, 1973.



ZDIA
EJG1ITH INDUSTRI11 IMPORTS PROJECT
CREIT AND ROJECT SUNLTARY
Borrower:           India acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:      Approximately 720 medium and large scale
enterprises in selected priority industries.
Amount:             US$100 million.
Terms:              Standard.
Project
DescriEtion:      To enable selected priority industries to maintain and
expand their production by supplying part of their
requirements of foreign exchange for imports of raw
materials, components, and spares.
Cost of Project:                        US$ million
Total Foreign                      % of IDA
Sector                Exchange Requirements      Credit      Participation
1. Commercial Vehicles                   35             12            34.3
2. Tractors & Power Tillers             21               5            23.8
3. Fertilizers                           52             18            34.6
4. Pesticides                           17               7            41.2
5. Motors, Transformers,
Switchgear and Magnetic
Steel Stampings                     45             11            24.4
6. Aluminum Smelting                      5              3            6C.0
7. Automotive Ancilliaries               41             18            43.9
8. Machine Tools, Cutting and
Small Tools, Abrasives, Ball
and Roller Bearings                32              14            43.8
9. Heavy Construction Equipment          27              4            14.8
10. Spares for Heavy Construction
Equipment                           20              8             40.0
TOTAL                              295            100            33.9
Estimated
Disbursement:     About US$9 million per month.
Procurement
Arrangements:     Approximately 55 percent of imports financed by   the
Association will be zrocured by Government Corporations
on behalf of industrial enterprises and the balance by
the individual enterprises. Tn the case of Government
Corporations all orders in excess of US$100,000 equivalent
will be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.



ANNEX IV
F0G--   ASS S TANC E  95 7/68 - 1972/73
(US $ million)
2/                     Food Aid
Non-i'roiecr-    Proiect     & Non-Food PL480      Total
.  c,-.is ursed az -he Begirri:alg of ( 3 - 4):
1966/67                 431           1,923            503             2,857
1967/68                 731           2,214            395             3,340
1963/69                 476           1,927            292             2,695
1969/70                 771           1,632            220             2,623
1970/71                 473           1,541            158             2,172
1971/722                577           1,399              1             1,399
1972/73/                1416          1,769             31.X/          2,185 41/
1973/74   (proj.)       467           1,711              -             2,178
2. New Commitments:
1966/67                 731             798            473             2,002
1967/68                 435              98            420               953
1968/69                 845             115            243             1,203
1969/70                 288             224            214               725
1970/71                 680             189             45               914
1971/72                390              694            188             1,272
1972/73  (est.)         5L,8            341             12               901
3.  Total Availability (1 + 2):
1966/67               1,162           2,721            976             4,859
1967/68               1,166           2,312            815             4,293
1968/69               1,321           2,042            535             3,898
1969/70               1,059           1,856            434             3,348
1970/71               1,153           1,730            203             3,086
1971/72                967            2,093            189
1972/73 (est.)          964           2,110                            3,086
4. Disbursements
1966/67                 431             507            581             1,519
1967/68                 690             385            523             1,598
1968/69                 550             410            315             1,275
1969/70                 585             314            277             1,176
1970/71                 573             321            201,            1,096
1971/72                 579             325           156 5/           1,060
1972/73 (est.)          497             398             12               901
./  Aid and foreign exchange reserve 6.ata have been convertecl at the rate agreed upon at the
Smithsonian meeting in December 1971 which is Rs 7.29 to US$$ and which is in accordance
with present GO. practice.   ii nor discrepancies between This Annex and Annex V for 1971/72
and 1972/73 7'n ave s-till  o be reconciled.
*/  Including debt rewlef wh.ich -ran at about US$100 million per annum from RY 1968/69-FY 1971/72
and at US$160 million in 1972/73.
3/  Pipeline fLgares for the beginnirng; of 1972/73 have been adjusted to reflect not only ex-
change rate changes, but also cerTain revisions following a detailed scrutiny by GOI of
outstanAfng loan agreements.   'herefore, they do not coincide arithmetically with other
lines.
s/ The status of the undisbursed balance at the start of 1972/73 is not entirely clear.
It appears to have been largely deobligated.
E/ xcluding special re+efgee assistance of US$230 million.
So-urce: G-overnmenrt of India.



ANNEX V
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS - 1966/67-1973/74
(US $ million)
1966/67  1967/68   1968/69  1969/70   1970/71  1971/72  1972/73   1973/74
(Est.)   (Proj.)
1.  Imports                                    2,771    2,677    2,545     2,109    2,179     2,L36    2,280    2,540
2.  Exports-2                                  1,542    1,598     1,810    1,884    1,950     2,106    2,290     2,400
3.  Trade Balance                             -1,229   -1,079      -735     -225     -229      -330      +10      -140
4.  Debt Service                                -365     -444      -500     -550      -600     -615     -681      -720
5.  Gold and Credit Transactions with IMF        130       33       -78     -154      -185      -19      __       __
6.  Other Capital and Invisibles                 -35      -27       105       56      -227     _269     -258      -200
7.  Financing (8 -+ 9 + 11)                    1,499       1,517  1,208      985    1P241     1,233      929     1,060
8.  Refugee Assistance                                                                          230
9.  Gross Aid Disbursements                    1.511    1,598     1,259    1,188    _1,96    _1089       896
a.  Project Aid                            507      385      410       314      321       351      399
b.  Non-Project Aid (including debt
relief)                               431       690      550       585      573       577      484
c.  Food Aid                               538      466       287      245      177       137       13
d.  Non-food PL 480                         35       57        12       44       25        21      --
10.  Net Aid Disbursements (= 9-4)              1,146    1,154       759      638       496      443       215
II.  Use of Reserves (+ = decrease)               -12      -81       -51    -203       +145      -86       +33
1/   Aid and foreign exchange reserve data have been converted at the rate agreed upon at the Smithsonian meeting
in December 1971 which is Rs 7.29 to US$1 and which is in accordance with present GOI practice.
2/   Excludes exports to Bangladesh since, consisting largely of commodity assistance to that country, they do not
enhance India's import capability. In addition, the official export figure for 1970/71 has been adjusted
dowqnward to take into account over-recording in the official figures.
Sources: Government of India, and for 1972/73 and 1973/74 IDA Estimates.



1.%YNEX VI
1/
iNDEX NUMBERS OF INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTICN -1961-1972
(1960 = 100)
2/      2/       2/      2/      2/
Weights    1961     1965    1968    1969     1970    1971    1971    1972
January - June
A. Genernl Index                                          100.00   109.2    153.8   161.1   172.5   180.8    186.1   184.1   198.1
il.  1aslc Industries                                      25.11   112.7   164.3    194.6   212.0   221.7   233.8    233.0   257.1
NininR ind Quarrying                                  9.72   105.4   131.7    144.2   147.4   149.0   153.4    154.3   166.2
heavy Inorganic Chemicals                             0.69   121.4   213.8   270.2    308.0   337.4   354.7    347.9   382.5
Cement                                                1.17   105.1   134.8    152.3   173.7   177.9   190.3    190.5   202.0
Basic Metal                                          7.38    118.7   130.1   193.7    209.7   205.5   208.6   209.3    223.1
(i)  Iron and Steel Basic Industries              6.23    121.0   185.3   185.4   201.2    187.8   186.3   188.0    201.1
(ii)  Aluminium Manufacturing                      0.57    110.6   225.9   400.5   424.0    508.7   557.9   544.8    582.8
Electricity                                           5.37   116.3   190.9   266.6    301.1   334.0   358.5    352.8   392.8
C.  Capital Goods Industries                               11.76   118.0   244.2    210.3   214.0   224.6   224.3    223.6   247.7
Prime Movers, Boilers and Steam Generating Plants     0.59   130.3   438.6   494.5    496.9   486.4   558.9    572.6   467.1
Indtustrial Machinery                                 0.93   111.0   153.6    149.6   130.6   120.6    86.3     91.2   110.3
Machinery Components and Accessories                  1.06   121.2   428.8    337.2   360.9   396.0   440.7    421.5   529.1
Electrical Cables and, Industrial Wires               0.68   104.2   198.3    191.5   201.5   220.1   256.3    257.3   305.0
Railroad Equipment 3                                  3.50   126.2   259.2    130.7   116.8    93.7    69.0     74.3    79.5
Motor Vehicles                                        2.51   104.2   136.0    149.5   145.2   157.8   168.3    166.3   163.4
D.  lntermediate Goods Industries                          25.88   105.8    140.1   148.2   154.4   158.9    160.5   157.7   163.8
Cotton Spinning                                      11.79   108.4   120.9    124.1   127.8   127.1    117.7   114.4   127.1
Jute Manufactures                                     3.97    89.1    120.3    96.4    77.8    85.1     94.7    92.2   100.6
Manufacture of Wood and Cork except manufacture
of furniture                                       0.80    95.5   235.2    233.9   256.6   198.7   224.1    246.8   239.8
Tyres and Tubes                                       1.48   114.2   173.5    227.6   255.0   258.3   295.4    268.4   307.5
Synthetic Fibres                                      0.64   116.2   174.0    230.4   223.1   230.8    232.3   246.9   254.2
Dye-stuff and Dyes                                    0.61   102.7   141.8    181.1   198.4   195.6    187.1   201.4   175.3
Petroleum Refinery Prodtucts                          1.34   106.0   158.7    260.1   280.8   297.3   316.9    303.1   316.8
Structural Clay Products                              0.77   118.5   124.1    2^2.9   280.9   302.3    317.8   312.4   376.9
Fittings, Fixtures and Fasteners                      0.85   107.3   197.2    101.9    98.8   104.8    111.0   113.6   111.2
E.  Consuimer Goods Industries                             37.25   106.6    127.5   131.9   145.3    154.8   159.7   157.1   161.5
(i)  Consumer Non-durable Goods Industry             31.57   105.8   120.5   117.4    128.3   137.7   140.2    136.5   147.3
Flour Milling and Grinding                     1.49   100.7   127.6   125.4    185.9   231.1   251.7    244.3   287.2
Sugar Factories and Refineries (sugar
refined)           3.58   110.0   124.7     1,4.5  149.1   165.3   141.7    212.9   169.4
Hydrogenated Oil (Vanaspati)                   1.09   100.4   127.1   140.4    142.7   154.4   174.8    175.6   1.78.0
Tea                                            5.12   111.6   114.1   104.9    108.1   128.4   133.2     81.5    85.6
Cigarettes                                     2.15   106.7   146.1    163.3   161.4   168.0   177.9    173.1   165.2
Cotton Wearing                                 9.39   100.3   100.0    96.2     91.5    92.7    89.5     88.4    94.3
Paper and Paper Products                       1.61   105.8   147.2   185.0    201.4   216.5   225.7    217.3   236.5
Drugs and Pharmaceuticals                      2.20   114.4   133.7    154.4   156.7   156.7   157.5     N.A.   248.7
Soaps and Other Washing and Cleaning
Compounds         0.95   104.5   121.0    154.5   187.1   195.6   234.7    202.0   295.5
Matches                                        0.50    97.1   110.9     97.9    96.2    88.0    80.2     76.6    80.0
Glass and Gloss Products                      0.57    104.6   131.1   120.9    116.6   110.6   150.0    147.5   158.9
(ii)  Consuimer Dturable Soods Industry                5.68   110.8   166.5    212.4   239.7   249.5   268.0    271.9   273.3
Commercial Ot-i:e and Household Machires       0.53   128.4   137.6    145.9   125.3   143.6   177.5    189.5   190.8
Electrical Appliances                          0.56   108.2   152.5   170.5    183.4   190.9   228.2    233.5   285.9
Commsinication Equipment                       0.61   121.6   217.4  50.1     646.8   661.1   726.6    659.7   715.9
Bicycles and Tricycles                        0.51     99.9   146.6   182.7   188.9    194.9   180.1   191.5    205.7
I/  Weights of individual industries do not add to) that of group totals as only seLected industries are presented here.
2/ Provisional.
3/ Relates to production in private sector only upto 1964 and to both private and public sectors thereafter.
Source:   Reserve Bank of India, Monthly Bulletins..



ANNEX VII
PRINCIPAL IMPORTS - 1968/69-1971/72
(US $ million)
1968/69      1969/70     1970/71     1971/72
Foodgrains                                   449         348          284         176
Maintenance Imports                        1,612       1,328        1,512       1,870
of which:
Steel                                  115         109          196         319
Non-ferrous Metals                     119          99          159         137
Fertilizers and Fertilizer
raw Materials                264          157         133          149
P. 0. L.                               178         183          181         261
Cotton                                 120         110          132         152
Chemical Elements and Compounds         70          62           71          96
Components and Spares                 434          287          284         368
Complete Machinery and Equipment             265         252          260         259
Other                                        218         181          123         131
Total Imports                              2,545       2,109        2,179       2,436
Note:   Figures for 1971/72 are provisional.
Source: Ministry of Foreign Trade, Government of India.



>A-Mi-,X%E VIII
Pn542'0PŽiN,CI  OP ThiJ AEui,   INDUSTR DLS - 1963/69 and 1971/72
(,Fiscal Years)
Unit         Production        Annual        LKports (m5.Us $     Anrnual
Yti8/69   1971/7Z     compound       1968/69   1971/72   compound
growth                             growth
rate                              rate
(%)                                (X)
Tr.ctors                   Nos. 000      l.,.5      16.7         2.5           _         _          _
Power Tillers              Nos.          24O       126        -19.0           -        -          -
Fertilizers:
Nitrogenous IN'         1000 tons     563        949         19.0           -        -           -
PliosortaLic 1'20 '     1000 torns   2-'3        293         10.9           -        -           -
Pesticides:
Technical               1000 tons      L9         24          8.1           -         -          -
Solid Formulations      1000 tons      63         44         10.1           -        -           -
Liquin 'ormulations     1000 KL         5         10         26.0-
Dlotors                    iil. H.P.    2-.2        2.9         9.6          0.26      1.29       77.6
TransfUrmers               Mil. EVA       6.5       11.0        19.2          0.68      2.40       52.2
Switchgear                  1il. US $    27         43         16.8          0.39      1.45       55.0
Magnetic Steel Stampings    1000 tons     22         42         24.0           -         -
Aluminium Smelting
(primary metal)          1000 tons     D15        181         1351         11.29     4,52       -25-5
Commercial Vehicles:
Trucks and Buses         Nos, 000     36.0       38.0         1.9          2036     11.68       70.4
Jeeps                   Nos. OOG       7.8       11.2        12.8          0,07     019        39,4
Three Wheelers           Nos. 000      4.7        7.3        15.8          Neglg.   Neglg.       -
Automobile Liesel
Engines      Nos. C00      2.5         lo9       - 8.7          0.21     2o14       110ol
Automotive Ancillaries:
Tyres                   Nos. Mil.      ..8        4.8         8.1          3.61      7e75       29,0
Syni.ihetic Rubber      1000 tons      26         34          9.4          Neglg.     -          -
Storage Batteries       Nos. Mil.     0.90       1.15        8.6           1.06     1,76       18,4
Auto Components and
Parts     Ml1. US $    128         193         14.7          4.23     8.43        25o8
,iachine Tools              Nil. US 1    2z7.9      67.1        34.0          2.51      4,06       17,4
Guttilrr, Small Tools &
Abrasives      Milo US 5     359.5      61,7        16,0          3.72      8,05       29.2
i3all and .oller bearings   lil, US 19    12         36         44.0          0.29      0.37        8,5
i±'OS. 1il.  121       20,1         18.4
iarthmoving  aquiciuernt  :.il. US j    Z.i        Sn.l        19-.0         0.40     0,26       -13,5
Nos,        6535         536         17 9
eninines for -artihmoving
Equinment     Nos,          6387r      852         11,5           -        -           -
All Manufacturing           Index of
industr ial
production  159,8      1b2.5          -o5       1205.9   1404.9         5.2
- telates To 1969/79
oirrces: f;ove2r-rent of India;  ManufactorErs' Associations;  IDA estimates.



ANNEX IX
INDIA: IDA EIGHTH INDUSTRLAL IMPORTS CREDIT
SEVEN PREVIOUS INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS CREDITS:    SOURCES OF PROCURENENT
(in US $1000)
Credit Credit  Credit  Credit   Credit  Credit  Credit -      Percentage
Country            52-IN   78-IN    92-IN   97-IN  138-IN  182-IN  327-IN  Total  of Total
Unitei Kingdom       44,448 35,758    30,489   9,829  25,149   9,729   4,440   159,842  25.4
West Germany          20,795  25,004  27,824   7,748  23,615  23,425   4,411   132,822  21.1
United States        10,381   18,758  27,364   8,222  17,489   9,911   3,423    95,548  15.2
Japan                 5,546   3,933    5,971   3,100   9,592  11,473   2,383    42,058   6.7
Canada                  960   4,016    8,641   9,026   9,962   1,365     371   34,341    5.4
Belguim                 786   3,190   11,078     644   1,038     313     -     17,049    2.7
Australia               627   1,691    4,679   3,060   3,742   2,935     544   17,278    2.7
France                1,111   1,459    2,770   3,096   2,223     999     179   11,837    1.9
Jordan                  -        -     2,964   3,375   4,016     332   1,376    12,063   1.9
Malaysia                  54   1,479   5,651     563   3,141      91      -     10,979   1.7
Zambia                   65        5     373   1,164   7,176   1,147     763   10,693    1.7
Sweden                1,1430   1,835   2,006   1,770   1,898     995     470    10,404   1.6
Italy                   859      703   2,638   1,1140  2,765   1,491     307     9,903   1.6
Switzerland             916      789     564   1,011   2,199     721   1,482     7,682   1.2
Morocco                  -       -     2,798     -     1,087   2,382       35    6,302   1.0
Netherlands             189      133   3,170     287     498     445      754    5,476   0.9
Liberia                  -       -     1,395   1,080   1,795     426      -      4,696   0.7
Austria                 612      817     638     310   5,255   1,329     420     9,381   1.5
Mexico                    76     -     1,909   1,945     191      98    2,662    6,881   1.1
Brazil                  -         59     -     3,180     315     -        -      3,554   0.6
Norway                     7     103     492     140   1,087     415      176    2,420   0.4
Zaire                   n.a.     n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.  1,784      -      1,784   0.3
Greece                  n.a.     n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    689      -        689   0.1
Iran                    n.a.     n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    :i.a.   522      94       616   0.1
Other countries       1,138      208   6,586   4,310     763   1,983   1,072    16,060   2.5
90,000 100,000 150,000   65,000 125,000  75,000  25,362  630,362 100.0
Source: IDA
1/   As of December 31, 1972.



ANNEX X
1/
FOREIGN EXCHANGE REQUIREMENTS OF IDA SECTORS - 1968/69-1973/7b
(Rs million)
A c t u a 1 s                       Estimate d   Projected
1968/69    1969/70      1970/71      1971/72      1972/73       1973/74
A,   Manufarturc.rs
Tractors                                          48          62          88          217           125          162
Power Tillers                                  Negligible Negligible       4           13             1            3
Fertilizers                                      250         275         300          350          390           397
Pe stic ides                                      35          38          55           93           120          130
Motors, Transformers, Switchgear and
Magnetic Steel Stampings                       106          92         210          250           320          3447
Aluminium Smelting                                47          73          4,           52            40           40
Commercial Vehicles                              161         193         256          172           225           269
Automotive Ancillaries:
Tires and Tubes                                 91          83          50           64            60            65
Synthetic Rubber                                 8          10          12           23            20           18
Storage Batteries                               30          37          42'          42            40           44
Auto Components and Parts                      131         240         249          205           176          190
Heavy Construction Equipment 2/                    75         83           97         135           222           20:
Machine Tools                                     54          76           68          70            80            K
Cutting, Small Tools and Abrasives                 34         75           83          96           100            98
Ball and Roller Bearings                          20          41          37           48            60            65
Total                                      1090        1378        1595         1830          1979          2118
Totnl in US Dollars (million)             145.3       183.7       212.7        244.0         257.0        275.1
B.   Dealers of Spare Parts for Heavy Construction
ESuipment 3/                                       17         33           10          17            17           156
Grand Total                                1107        1411        1605         1847          1996          227k
Grand Total in US Dollars (million)       147.6       188.1       214.0        246.3        259.2         295.3
1/ Import requirements refer to foreign exchange allocations approved or expectecd to be approved by the Ministry of
Industrial Development.
2/  Includes heavy earthmoving equipment, engines for earthmoving equipment and road rollers.
3   The figures for 1971/72 onwards also inclUde imports of actual users (i.e. project authorities); for earlier
years information on actual user imports is not available.
Sourcc   ,Ministry of lndustrj-l Development



ANNEY XI
INDIA
EIGHTH INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS CREDIT
DISBURSEMENTS BY CATEG-ORY IN THE SEVEN PREVIOUS INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS CREDITS
(US $ million)
First   Second Third    Fourth  Fifth   Sixth  Seventh-/
Category          Credit  Credit  Credit  Credit  Credit  Credit  Credit   Total
(52-IN)  (78-IN) (92-IN) (97-IN) (138-IN) (182-IN)T(327-IN)
A.  Components, Material and
Spare Parts for the
Manufacture of:
- Commercial Vehicles         43.6    31.6    22.8     5.9    13.3    10.4     6.4    134.0
- Agricultural Tractors         -       -      1.8     0.4     2.3     2.6     2.7      9.8
- Automotive Ancillaries      10.6    16.3    23.9    10.9    23.9    26.6    14.2    126.4
- Machine Tools                4.3     4.1     2.2     1.1     2.5 )          16.4     67.7
- Cutting and Small Tools      4.8     5.0     4.7     2.2     3.5 ) 16.9      2.8     57.4
- Electrical. Equipment       11.2    12.1    16.3     3.6     8.0     3.4
- Fertilizers & Pesticides      -       -     24.0    22.1    25.7    15.0    18.0    104.8
- Cables and Wires              -     19.8    1,4.5   12.3    22.5      -       -      99.1
- Industrial and Mining
Machinery                   -       -      4.3     3.3    16.0      -       -      23.6
- Ball &'Roller Bearings        -       -      2.5     1.1     2.4      -       -       6.0
- Basic Non-Ferrous Metals      -       -      2.6     2.0     3.2      -     0.4       6.2
- Castings &                    -       -     small   small    0.2      -       -       0.2
- Heavy Construction Equipment 2.9     3.5      -       -       -       -       -       6.14
- Miscellaneous                 -       -       -     small    0.7      -       -       0.7
Total         77.4    92.4   149.6    64.9   124.2    75.0    60.9    644.3
B. Balancing Equipment             2.5     1.8     0.4     0.2     0.7      -       -       5.6
C. Spare Parts for Heavy
Construction Equipment
Dealers                        7.7     5.8      -       _       _       _       _      13.5
D. Heavy ConstructLon
Equipment                      2.4      -       _       _       _       _       -       2.4
Grand Total        90.0   100.0   150.0    65.0   125.0    75.0    60.9    665.9
1/ As of May 15, 1973
Source: IDA



A;'iEX XIT
A6iN.Lo PRitCDOCTioN OF IMDUSTIAIL S,,L0l66 ASiSSTsD. i8Y Ll - 1965/66-1973/714
Unit       19cb/c.  1966/o7   1967/66  196&/69  1969/70  1970//1  1971/7z   1964/76  _ 1i74
e2st.   proj
r tos . 000   6         9        11       15       17       20       17       26        0
we   tiLers                      ios. 000      0.4      0.6      v.2      0.2      0.3       0.b      0.1     O.3       4. i
I- izers:    
i-tr -_nous'  1              lo0  tons   235       309      402      56b      731      6335      949    1200      lo00
GSD; st,SC  -  -/0           1000 tons     119      145      257      213      Z44       228      290     370       450
Y.. ca il                      1u7 tons  1'2          14       19       19        24       24       24      25        W0
Suid ?orruuat:ons                100ie  tons  n.a.     n.a.     n.a.      33        283       I       44      50        t0
Lic.uiu For3uiations             1000 KL      n. a.    n.a. n-.            5         7        7       10      10
star  /                            4l. Vt.r.    2.0      2.4      2.4      2.2       2.8      6.2      2.9  b   .2        .6
T'rainsormoro-                      u-i1. j'ciA  D.6      6.3v     6.4      0 .5      7.2     10.8     11.0    11.5      12.7
w -Lch-,eiar                       !i1S. hS.     170      210      2 20     202       247      2S7      324     375       450
liagnotic 3teelStampings5           1000 tons    n.a.     n.a.     n.a.       2-:      25       34       42      b5          5
AluaaLniu.n 3nelting (Primar-y i4atal) 1000 tons  G6       73      100       125      13:      160j     lol     1G35        15
Gormnarcial Ve:uicles:
Truckso and iOuses               Nos. 000      b5       36       b1       0.0    635.0     41.0     38.0    4b.0       50.0D
Jeeps                            Nos. 000    10.4     10.1      4.4       7.0     t0,5       .o     11.2    1i.0       14.0
Trlree Wheelers                  Nos. 000     1.5      1.S       4./      4.7      4.1      4.7      7.3     0.0       10.0
Auto:;aobile Diesel i.ngines     Nos. 000     0.2      6.5      2.Z      ;2,5     28       5.;2     1,9     4.0        '.0
Automotive Ancillaries:
Tires                            Nos. MIl.    2.3      2.4      2.5       3.8      4.0v     4. 3     4.0      S.1       5.b
Synthetic Rubber                1000 tons    n.a.      n.a.     n.a.      26       29       27        34      32        s2
2noralBe iatteries       2/     Nos. 1il.    0.7      n.a.     n.a.      0.90     (090     1.0      1.15    1.20       1.25
Auto :;oi,oponents and parts-    4il. Rs.     614      820      842       9-1 -L17?         13-,     1449    1600       lCG
,achine Tools                      r-il1. Rs.   25S       265      21d      209      256      i55      503      580       'SO
Cutting, Snaail T ouis & Abrasives  lil1. its.   300      300      310       2 i9     j7       395      463     SU9        :60
LsalL anc Rolier :;ez.rint-s        ios. Rib.    8._      9.2     10.6     12.1      11.6     1/.7     20.1    21.0       22,0
lieavy Jontatruction               iI uipurort-'  Ios.  n.a.  n.a.  503      535      615j     74       930    1610       2440
4l ineeu for zrtraoovin. zqudomert ilo.          n.a.     n.a.     n.a.     n.a.      ti7      868      b52    1300       1600
i .i,rures fro;:. er-ii lizer  isnociazion. of India.
.; 5ov:runi, e nI iJ, urC :s;ave bean adjLseco by ISA oi in- basis ol adn,itL,.iEl irdLoratLion obvained from trade associations.
-,  .iFures er;l:cun  rouo, con in cans- ve units.
jGot %oris-; xcyc v;ior:, aumpeut;, crawier tractors, scru9ers, grader5, 1lojers ano road rollers.
hdl<:e   .lirl!t.l) oh' iniunIral i9cvculoorent
Iii   ruif  u: .',.'.c': o  i j'urisl.tion F)rovided by meriun and iarler scalie units registered E _th Lile 1irectorate
'':ll.'n i' 'ol e Tr 5.  ,OV( 1: n:ant.



EMFLOQY}INT IN I.D.A. SECTORS - 1966-1971             ANiEX XIII
(in 000's)5
1966       1967       1968       1969       1970       1971
Tractors                       n.a.        3.1        4.4        409        5,7        7.1
Fertilizers                    26.9       31.8       36.0       38.1       40.9       41.5
Heavy Electrical Machinery,
iMotors, Generators and
Transformers                   57.0       62,7       66.0       66.7       70c4       77.4
Aluminium Products             23.2       20.5       24.7       24.7        26.3      27.5
Motor Vehicles                 52.0       54.9       54.6       58.0       59.6       60.5
Motor Vehicle Engines,
Parts and Accessories          37.1       46.2       46.2       48.4       55.0       57.8
Tyres and Tubes                15.4       17.2       18.4       19.7       21.1       23,0
Batteries                      n.a.       n.e.       n.a.       12.6       13.3       14.4
Machine Tools                  45.6       46.8       48.8       49.3       55.6        58.4
Ball and Roller Bearings       n.a.       n.a.        2.3        3,1        4.7         6.7
Earthmoving  Equipment         n.a.       n.a.       n.a,       n.a,       n.aa         6.2
Total:      257.2      283.2      301,4      325.5       352.6      380.5
Source:   For Tractors and Ball and Roller Bearings, Directorate Gem:eral of Technical Develop-
ment;  for others, Directorate Genieral of Employment & Traning.,
Note:     Some of the above categories do not corre.spond to the industrial groupings urxier IDA
credits, therefore this table is intenided to provide only a rogh indication of
employliiient in IDA sectors.



IBRD 3873
, JAMIAtU  KASHMtR  rJ'4d#f/                                 U
c  H  I  N  A                 EY~~~~~AT  A.A~V  .  r  c NNA MY17
--  'I. .1~6I M                                    N   A N  O A
t   / ' tX  P~RADESH                                90,
A A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
s      g ~~~PU NJAJA                    (T I B E T)
t               /   J3.0.,                                                      S,3
'ELHI                                         O
! -   <            \       A ^   > ~~~~~~~~ E x 1l 8;i1~~.,m BHUTAN  iZ
/            JAIPUR \  ~~~~~~UTTAR PRADESH  >\      .. - 
[,_,_,_, A                                         hhNOtE A S Au, M
I~~~~~~ A J    1A DHY T  RAEH \AM5EP N  ST.
JAMM£ ASIL   AI                         / HIRAKUDAL
C|14    I   N  A R
.    PR>?  1 ANDHRA PRADESH                      9
UJARAT                                       (T Y    E SI
OH LAI      IRAIKr           B  erltr BondJr
' A. L E4R  A
FACT UO                                   BHUTANTAAfl  NAADU 
.20                                                                                   20 't t  ° 0   0t 30 4   O
i ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ J TRMA                                           8,7110   0  ICt,OOSs   0   o
UNHAR PRADESH 
EL   AO   OCAIOAOFMAOR NASTRSAL CETR
BHADRAVATI                  1,,d.3ftial  C~~~~~~~en HAe LAV
SANGA  MADRAS  ~   ~    UNPR  ,BNGADSH  .
ATROMBAY  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Ineah lBoudaie
GOMSAY  MAHARASHTR SALE
-to-     C OCHIN I(                           M~~~OCTIN O MJO LEDSTR LCNTR
b  BHAORAVATI ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 0 ID  0  00  AO   0
I lII&A I,  IIAA,
0     200   400   600   too
70                                        N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILOMETERS



