CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 402 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Eighth Industrial Imports Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 25, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 402 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Eighth Industrial Imports Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 25, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 25, 1973, between INDIA, acting by its President
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h); and
-              (c)  Paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"5. The term "Borrower" means India, acting by its President".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   the term  "Specified Enterprises" means firms, registered with the
Borrower's Directorate General of Technical Development of the Ministry of
Industrial Development, notified from time to time by the Borrower to the
Association, in the industrial manufacturing sectors listed in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association;
(b)   the term  "Canalizing Agencies" means the following agencies of the
Borrower: the State Trading Corporation of India Limited, the Minerals and Metals


﻿I
4
Trading Corporation Limited, the Hindustan Steel Limited and such other agencies
as may from time to time be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association; and
(c)   the term "Authorized Dealers" means suppliers of spare parts for heavy
construction equipment authorized by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports
of the Borrower's Ministry of Commerce for the purposes of this Agreement, as
notified to the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred million dollars
($100,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, raw and
semi-finished materials and spare parts required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to be procured through the Canalizing
Agencies, shall be procured in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 1974 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annur on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿5
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing
October 15, 1983, and ending April 15, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 15, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause it to
be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency.
(b)   The   Borrower shall: (i) promptly    upon receipt of appropriate
applications issue, or cause to be issued, such import licenses as shall be required
to carry out the Project; (ii) make available, or cause to be made available, promptly
as needed all foreign exchange which shall be required to carry out the Project;
and (iii) with respect to locally produced materials which are subject to allocation
make, or cause to be made, allocations of such materials promptly and in such
quantities as shall be required to carry out the Project.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit to be insured, or shall cause adequate provision
to be made for the insurance thereof, against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
beneficiary of such insurance to replace or repair such goods.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans and programs for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.


﻿6
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the program (referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement) of which the Project
is a part, the Specified Enterprises, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of the Credit to be
used exclusively for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Specified Enterprises shall not, on the ground that they are participating
in the Project, be subject to any conditions or requirements not imposed on other
enterprises conducting business in the territories of the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
perfonnance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures in respect


﻿7
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any conditin which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishmert of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.


﻿8
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon, and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, a default shall have occurred
in the performance of any covenant or agreement on the part of the Borrower
under any of the development credit agreements granted by the Association to
the Borrower for industrial imports projects and dated June 9, 1964, August 11,
1965, August 19, 1966, December 23, 1966, January 22, 1969, April 24, 1970
and September 26, 1972, respectively.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01. of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, any event specified in Section
7.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
Section 8.01. The date September 25, 1973, is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on the Closing Date, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, or Joint Secretary to the
Government of India in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower or the


﻿9
Director/Deputy Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry
of Finance of the Borrower, acting singly, is designated for the purposes of Section
9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿10
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
A sia


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of amounts of the Credit
to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                         Dollar Equivalent)
Raw and semi-finished materials,
components and spare parts for the:
I.    Fertilizers and pesticides                        25,000,000
1I.   Other Sectors                                     75,000,000
TOTAL                     100,000,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower;
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(c)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof.
3.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in
any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association


﻿12
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such
amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
A.    The Project forms part of the program of the Borrower to increase, during
the period from April 1, 1973 to March 31, 1974:
(i)        production for the domestic civilian market and for export by
making available foreign exchange for the import of raw and
semi-finished  materials,  components,  spare  parts  and
miscellaneous items of manufacturing equipment and thereby
improving the rate of utilization of existing productive capacity
and capital equipment in India; and
(ii)       availability of spare parts for heavy construction equipment to
improve the utilization of this equipment and thereby to aid
in the timely completion of construction works.
B.    The Project consists of provision by the Borrower of foreign exchange and
other resources required by the respective Specified Enterprises for production for
the domestic civilian market and for export.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 3
Industrial Manufacturing Sectors
under the Project*
Listed hereunder are the industrial manufacturing sectors of capital
equipment and other goods from which the Specified Enterprises are to be selected:
Agricultural
1.   Tractors and Power Tillers
2.    Fertilizers
3.    Pesticides
Electrical
4.    Motors, Transformers, Switchgear
and Magnetic Steel Stampings
5.    Aluminum Smelting
Transport
6.    Commercial Vehicles
7.    Automotive Ancillaries
Metal Working
8.    Machine, Cutting and Small Tools, Abrasives, Ball and Roller
Bearings
Construction
9.    Heavy construction equipment
10.  Authorized Dealers in spare parts for
heavy construction equipment
*     See Section 1.02(a)


﻿I
15
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more:
(a)   bids shall be obtained from not less than three of the major suppliers
from member countries of the Bank and Switzerland; and
(b)   the contract shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid is the lowest
evaluated bid.
2.    The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after execution of
the contract and prior to the submission to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credil Account in respect of any such contract:
(i) the details of the bids sought, (ii) the names of the firms invited to submit
bids, (iii) the summary of the bids submitted and, in the event the lowest bid
is not accepted, the analysis thereof and the reasons for choosing the successful
bidder, and (iv) two conformed copies of such contract.
3.    The Borrower shall submit to the Association, together with any application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract,
the release orders or such other evidence satisfactory to the Association as applicable
to the Specified Enterprise in respect of which the materials under such contract
were procured.
4.    The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after delivery of
the said material to the Specified Enterprise, such information as the Association
shall reasonably request regarding the per unit cost of said material to the Specified
Enterprise.


