- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ )    -. 
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONL^V
MJX(POF1CHT.;' COPY
'rfport Nc,.: 10987-CH4     Tvpe: (SAP)
Ti tle:  HkAl,TH  SECTOR REFORM  PROC),TrCT                   Report No. 10987-CH
Author: EVANGEL INE JAVT ER
Ext. :31988 Room:T 6175 Dept .: ,A4HR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHILE
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
OCTOBER 23, 1992
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Country Department IV
Human Resources Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Chilean Peso (CH$)
US$ 1 = Ch$339 (Average 1991)
US$ 1 = Ch$370 (January 1992)
CH$ 1.00 = US$0.003
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout the report.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLy
ABRNVASTZONB AIND ACRONWnY
AR             Antofagasta Health Service Area
(dervicia de Salud de Antofagasta)
CCP            Cervical Cancer Program
(Programa de Cancer Cervico Uterino)
CDT            Diagnostic and Treatmnt Center
(Centro Diagn6stico y Terap6utico)
CR8            Health Referral Center
(Centro de Referencia do Balud)
CSF            Central Supply Facility
(Central de Abastecimiento)
DIPLAP         Planning and Finance Division / MOH
(Division de Planificaci6n y Presupuesto del Ministerio de
Salud)
DIPROG         Programming Division/ MOH
(Divisi6n de Programaci6n del Ministerio de Salud)
DRG            Diagnostic Related Groups
PAP            Fee-for-Service System for Reimbursing Hospitals
(Facturacion por Atencion Prestada Integral)
FAPD(          Fee-for-Service System for Reimbursing Municipal Health
Facilities
(Facturacion por Atenci6n Prestada en Fstablecimientos
Municipalixadoe)
FNDR           National Regional Development Fund
(Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional)
FONASA         National He&Ya'.h Fund
(Fondo Nacional de Salud)
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
(Producto Geogrifico Bruto)
HSA            Health Service Area
(Servicios de Salud)
HSRP           Health Sector Reform Project
(Proyecto de Reforma del Sector de Salud)
SDB            Inter-American Development Bank
(Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo)
INP            inotituto de Normalizacion Previsional
ISAPRBs        Prepaid Health Insurance Plans
(Instituciones de Salud Previsional)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onlY in the performnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



1sp            Public Health Institute
(Inwtituto de Salud PGblica)
JOF            Japanese Grant FaciliI-y
LLR            Llanchipal Health Service Area
(Servicio do Salud de Llanchipal)
NIDBPLAN       Ministry of Planning         I
(Ministerio do Planificacifn)
Nov            Ministry of Finance
(Minist.rio do Hacienda)
MNR            Ministry of Health
(Ministerio de Salud)
MS             Metropolitan Santiago Health Service Area
(Servicio de Salud Santiago Metropolitano)
Ms             National Health Service
NEms           National Health Service System
(Sistema Nacional de Servici4s de Salud)
PAD            Per Case Payment Associated with Diagnosis
(Pago Asociado a Diagn6stico)
PCU            Project Coordination Unit
(Unidad Coordinadora de Proyectos)
PNAC           National Supplementary Feeding Prograi
(Programa Nacional do Alimentacifn Complementaria)
PPF            Project Preparation Facility
(Fondo para Preparaci6n de Proyectos)
PPP            Prospective Fee Sc1.edule
(Pagos Prospectivos por Prestaci6n)
PPS            Preferred Provider System
(Sistema de Libre Blecci6n)
SERUII         uecretariat of the Regional Health Service Area
(Secretaria Regional Ministerial)
8gRmh          National Medical Service for Employees
(Servicio Yedico Nacional)
8F             Social Fund
(Fcndo Social)
TAHRP          Technical Assistance and Hospital Rehabilitation Project
(Proyecto de Asistencia Tdcnica y de Rehabilitacidn de
Hospitales)
VAT            Value Added Tax
(Impuesto al Valor Agregado)



il
HEALTH SCTO  InFOpM PROJECT
TABNL OF OONTSNTS
zAgS
LOAN AID PROJMCT SUMMARY
EASIC DATA AND DIFINITIONS
Xr.  _M          CONTEXT..........................                          2
A.  Population, Health and Nutrition Status . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
S.  The Health Car System  ................... .                       4
C.  Health Caro Resources and UtliLzation . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
D.  Health Care Expenditures and Financing of Servics  . . . . . .    10
lhS. SECTOR ISUS    AND O OVERNMENTS RAB Y  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
A.   rosu-s     .  .  .  .    .   .   .   .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  12
S.  Government Sectoral Strategy  .                                    7
Reorientation of the Health System . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
Decentralization of Health Services Delivery . . . . . . . .    18
Health Flinancng Reforms . o . . . . . . ...   . . ..   . ..    19
Strengthening of the Public/Private Mix  . . . . . . . . . .    21
IV. Asss 8TANCFeO TTATGY         SECTOR      ....... . .                   21
A.  Bank's Role and Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
S.  The Role of other Donors  .... .            ...   .    22
C.  Lessons From Past Experince  . ...............                    23
Vo  THZ PROJECT  . .                       . . . .                         26
A.  Project Objectives, Rationale and Area  . . . . . . . . . . . .    26
S.  Main Features of the Project   ....            ....               27
C.  DetaLled Project Description        . . . . . . .        . . .    28
Component It Decentralization of Health Services Delivery  . . . . .    28
Component 2s Facility Investments for the Now Health Care
model             *   *   *    **         a......         35
Component 3: Speclal Programs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    38
VI A.  ProjCTc  Costs FR MING PLAN  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    39
A.  Project Costs .......*                                             39
3.  Financing Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    41
C.  Recurrent Costs Arising from the Project                          41
D.  Project Sustainability  . . . .  .. ..       .........            42
VIZ. POJECT IMPLEMENTATON . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    42
A.  Project Management and Coordination . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    42
3.  Implementatlon Schedule.  ..........                .             44
C.  Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    44
D.  Status of Preparat$ on.  ......                                   46
X.  Disbursements and Accounts             .                          46
V.  Financial Management, Accounting and Audits                       47



iv
G.  Project Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision  . . . . . . . .    48
H.   Environmental Impact  . . . . . . . . . ..  . ..   . ...           49
I.  Impact on Women . . . . . . . . . . .   . . ..  . .   .  .    49
VIII.EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    49
A.  Benefits  . . . . .              .   . . . . *   * .     . . . .    49
S.  Risks ..*.*.*.*.*..           . .        . . . .    *               49
IX  agreements to be Reached and Recommendations . . . . . . . . . . . .    50
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1:  HEALTH SECTOR DATA  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    52
ANNEX 2s Health Sector Financing . . . . . . * . . . . . . * . . . . . .     61
ANNEX 3: Health Status and Health Services Network in Metropolltan
Santiago, Antofagasta, and Llanchipal * . . . . . . . . . . .    69
ANNEX 4: Methodology for Evaluation of Health Care Facilities
and    Health Services                                           87
ANNEX 5s Frame of Reference for Health Investments B     .      .....   95
ANNEX 6: HSRP Action Plan                    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..... . .  104
ANNEX 7T AHRP and HSRP Activity Table . . . . f . . . . . . . . ...         10?
ANNEX 8s  Proposed MOH Organization Chart and Functions . . . . . . . . .   1X7
ANNEX 9t Service Provision Agreement .           . . . . . . . . . . . .    120
ANNEX 10: Training Program Methodology      .     ..  .                     124
ANNEX 11: New and Reassigned Staff of the Project . . . . . . . . . . . .   130
ANNEX 12: Information Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   133
ANNEX 13: Cervical Cancer Control Program . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .   144
ANNEX 14: Detailed Project Cost and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   149
ANNEX 15: Health Sector Policy Letter.. . . .    156
ANNEX 16: PCU Functions and Organizational Chart  . . . . . . . . . . . .   166
ANNEX 17: Facility Investment Implementation Plan . . . . . . . . . . . .   170
ANNEX 18: Budget, Procurement, and Disbursement Cycle Chart . . . . . . .   171
ANNEX 19: Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators   .    .  .  .  .  ..  . .   173
ANNEX 20: Environmental Management Measures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   177
ANNEX 21: List of Documents in the Project Files  . . . . . . . . . . . .   180
MAPS:        IBRD #23752, IBRD #23753, and IBRD t23754
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that
visited Chile in June/July 1992. Mission members included Mesdames/Messrs.
Evangeline Javier (Mission Leader), Patricio V. Marquez (Public Health Specialist,
LA4HR); Eduardo Talero (Information Technology Specialist, ASTIF); Jose Carvalho
(Senior Counsel, LEGLA); Jean Pillet (Consultant, Public Health Specialist), Luis
Duque (Consultant, Public Health Specialist), Anita Artaza (Consultant, Operations
Assistant), and Suzzane McQueen (Summer Intern). Messrs. Philip Musgrove (Senior
Health Economist, LATER); Willy de Geyndt (Senior Public Health Specialist, ASTPH),
Harry Go (Architect, ASTPH), Daniel Puzin (Consultant, Architect) and Angel
Gonzalez-Malaxechevarria (Financial Management Specialist, LATPS) participated in
separate missions and provided valuable technical advice and substantive
contributions. Special acknowledgment goes to the ingenious work done by the Chilean
project preparation team. Ms. Lucine Juskalian (Staff Assistant, LA4HR) provided
assistance in the production of the report. Task Manager: Evangeline Javier
(LA4HR), Division Chief: James W. Adams (LA4HR); Director: Ping-Cheung Loh (LA4)i
Peer Reviewers: Philip Musgrove (LATHR) and Jose Luis Bobadilla (PHRHN).



v
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
HRALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Summary
Bo>ower:                  Republic of Chile
Beneficiary:              Ministry of Health (MOH)
Amount:                   US$90.0 million, equivalent
Terms:                    Repayment in 17 years, including a 5 year grace
period with interest at the Bank's standard variable
rate.
Prolect Objectives:       The proposec. project would assist the Government to
enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of resource use in the public
health system, as well as to improve the quality of health services in
selected areas. Specifically, it would:
(a) strengthen the decentralization of health services delivery through
reforms in MOH's mission and organizational structure, and improve the
system of generating and transferring financing resources;
(b) upgrade the institutional organization and management capacity for
procuring and distributing drugs and food supplements, as well as for
the quality control of drugs and food products;
(c) improve the management and clinical skills of health personnel, and
improve the sector management and health information system; and
(d) assist in the implemention of a new Chilean health care model to
develop specialized ambulatory services at the secondary and tertiary
levels, improve the deteriorated conditions of selected hospital
facilities, and fill the health services gaps in eight Health Service
Areas (HSAs) in Metropolitan Santiago, Antofagasta, and Llanchipal.
Prolect Description:      The proposed project constitutes the second phase in
the Bank's lending assistance to the sector. It would support the
implementation of many of the policy and institutional reforms defined
under the first operation, the Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation
Project (TAHRP). The project has four principal components:
(a) Decentralization of Health Services Delivery (15.2 percent of total
groiect cost): This component, a critical feature of the proposed
operation, would finance the pilot tests or start-up activities and
nationwide implementation, as appropriate, of the reorganization of the
MOH, the conversion of the Central Supply Facility (CSF) into an



vi
autonomous agency, the str6ngthening of the Institute of Public Health
(ISP), the institution of a new health care financing system and
improved cost recoveoy measures, the training of sector personnel, and
the upgrading of the sector information system. For this component, the
project would tinanco consultant services, training expenses, computer
hardware and software, and operating costs.
(b) Facility IZMastmnts for a New Health Care Nbdal (82.5 £ercent of
the total nrolect cost): This component would enhance the integration
of health services delivery in eight HsAs by: (a) establishing
ambulatory care centers (CR8 and CDT) at the secondary and tertiary
level complementiing the primary care services; and (b) rehabilitating,
reconstructing, or constructing, as needed, hospital facilities to fill
identified gaps in the health services delivery network. The project
would finance the civil works, equipment, and recurrent costs of
selected facilities in six HSAs in metropolitan Santiago, one HSA in
Antofagasta, and one H5A in Llanchipal.
(c)  SuY=ort for Soecial Proarams (0.  nercent of total orolect cost):
This component would initiate or strengthen actions addressing two major
health concerns in Cbtle, financing equipment and operating costs for
the implementation of the Cervical Cancer Program and Environmental
Health Bducation Program.
(d, Proiect Administration (1.5 percent of total oroject cost): This
component would support the operation of a PCU to assist the MDH to
coordinate and manage project implementation, provide training to the
HSAn, and undertake monitoring and evaluation.
Rx=ected Benefits: By supporting critical policy and institutional reforms
and priority health facility investments, the projuct, in conjunction
with the on-going TAHRP, would help improve the efficiency of resource
use in the public health sector, enhance the quality of ambulatory and
inpatient care, strengthen the capacity of the system to respond more
effectively to the emerging health needs of an aging population, and
increase the complementarity of public and private providers. The
project facility investments are estimated to benefit approximately 30
percent (about 4.0 million) of the Chilean population mostly belonging
to the indigent and low-income groups. The sector reforms intended to
increase the health systom's efficiency coupled with improvements in
cost recovery measures would generate benefits nationwide in the long
term. An integrated health services network and improved delivery of
cost-effective health care interventions would help diminish mortality
and morbidity from chronic diseaoes and injuries.
Risks and safeauards: The major risks include: (a) the complexity of reforms
in the area of health financing; (b) the long-term horizon of the sector
reforms, most of which would be fully implemented either towards the end
of the current Government's tenure or during the next administration;
and (c) the lack of project implementation experience of some HSAU and
hospital managers. These risks would be minimized by the Bank's close
supervision at the different stages of the execution of the reforms;
institution of a Mid-Term lroject Review by the Bank and the Goiernment
to evaluate implementation progress; and technical a3sistance and



vii
supervioion to be provided by the PCU to tkl. HSAa, as wvll as the
training under the rroject. Also, the ongoing TAHRP implemntation io
providing valuable hands-on training and project management experiences
to HSA   Iso involved in this project's execution.
Environmental Catogcoo: B



viii
(US$ Million)            (Ferentl
Nstimated Costs 1/           Local     Foreign      Total      3aso Cost
Proieot Comoonents
I.   Decentralization of             23.5        14.9        38.4        15.8
Health Services
Delivery
II.  New Health Care Model          110.7        88.6       199.3        81.8
Infrastructure
III. Special Programs                 1.2         1.0         2.1         0.9
IV.  Project Administration           3. 7                    I3          1.6
Total Baseline Cost                 139.1       104.6       243.7       100.0
Physical Contingencies              8.5         6.7        15.2
Price Contingencies                26 61                   40.0
Total Project Cost l/               174.2       124.6       298.8
Financnag Plan
Project Cost              Duties    Total    Percent of Cost
and
SoIugc        LocaL   Foreioan   Total    Taxes      ,9ue      Proiect   Total
Bank           41.2       48.8   90.0        0.0      90.0       37      30
Government   104.9        AL7  153.6        $LL      208.8       Al      la
Total         146.1       97.5  243.6       55.2    298.8       100     100
F!timated-j IEP          Y       FY94      FY9       gm9       ,F9       FY9
DisburggM2=
Annual                   5.6c/   20.8       24.0      18.9       14.3    6.4
Cumulative               5.6      26.4      50.4      69.3       83.6   90.0
A/ Total may "'t add due to rounding.
i Includes aoq"l taxes amounting to US$55.2 million.
Includes retroactive financing.



BASIC DATA SEET
ZVURA COUTY DATA
Are (thouand bn)                                                    756.6          1990
Toes populaton (milos)                                               13.1          19
Utban popubtion (9 of total                                         U5.0           19M9
al popuistlofowth fste S):
ToWl                                                          1.8           3919
Uban                                                         2.3           1919
.. puaton density  vo                                                 13.0          19W,
ON? pe capita                                                     2,129.0          1990
eg  ooumnptioc per cspita (kg of ol eqtslvala)                      836            1919
LABOR VORC3
Toets labor forc (millions):                                         4.9           1990
Agdoulture (X)                                               15M           1990
Maufsaag(%) M18.1                                                           19
Prsnal sd domestic sevice                                    17.9           1990
Participaton t (P):
Total                                                        37.5           19f
Mal                                                          70.5           197
FPn.                                                         26.9           1987
ROU1SIW                                                                                                                         I
Averag      of household:
ueJmn                                                         4.2           1987
RU'a                                                          4.6          1917
Peet of pop4ation in pemise dwellip                                  70.0          1917
Peen of dwelinp with electroity:
Urban                                                        97.9           1989
Rursl                                                        62.0          £989
HI -ft 20% incoegroup                                        97.6           1917
Lvwet 20% incomaeg oup                                       83.9           1917
Per   of households with *coc to  wew   syem:
urba                                                         85.8          1989
Rual                                                         11.7           1989
Popu3alo with acce  to safe wate (%):
Urbn                                                         9S.5           1989
Rual                                                         77             1989
EDUCATION
Adult illhteay a  (5 of persons 15 nd over)                          S.6           1990
Enrnent .as (%):
Preschool (ap 2-5)                                           28.4           1919
Pdmry (ae 6.13)                                              94.6           1989
Ssolony (agp 14.17)                                          81.6           1989
Ava  shooling (yea):
Chuldd                                                       10.0           1919
Had of household                                              8.0           1989
HEMALTH JMID UXTXITON
Pwe opta daily supply o
Calore                                                    2,504.0           198S
PhysIn sup ly (pw  1,000 persons):
Totsl:                                                        1.6           1990
PubUo sytm (8148819)                                          0.S           1990
HopWhl bod upply (p  1,000 peo)                                      3.27          1990
Total frtility ra                                                    2.7           1990
Lf eco^    y at birth (years)                                       72.0          1919
Inbat moaity ft (pe 1,00                                             16.0          1990
Mara motnal  rate (pr 100,000 lve buls)                              4.1           £F
BDths auended by a halt prfesIona (percent)                          98.           198
Low biLth weght babie   cet)                                         7.0           i9n
~   Z . p u   W o it s 3 ~   l i f ;   h a t e I~ m a   P p . .   h ~ W e a t e   u k   1 9~ C A M   w e~4    w'r n   o Ib ~  C o m e a   W l
TAWRqut. CWMPuinqottIH lft. .



x
VHZINIT,IONS
Age-Specific Mortality      Death rates broken down for each age group
Rates                       population.
Average Length of Stay      Number of hospital patient-days/number of patient
admissions.
Average Occupancy           Number of hospitals patient-days/number of beds
Rate                        multiplied by 365.
Child Death Rate            The number of deaths among children one to four
years of age per 1,000 children in that age group
in a given year.
Chronic Diseases            Those illnesses characterized by a long latency
period, prolonged clinical course, and
debilitating manifestations.
Contraceptive               The percentage of married women in reproductive
Prevalence                  ages who are regularly using a method of
contraception.
Crude Birth Rate            Number of live births per year per 1,000 people.
Crude Death Rate            Number of deaths per year per 1,000 people.
Dependency Ratio            Population 14 years or under and 65 years or older
as a percentage of the population aged 15 to 64
years.
Xncidence Rate              The number of persons contracting a disease as a
proportion of the population at risk, per unit of
time usually expressed per 1,000 persons.
Infant Mortality Rate       Annual deaths of infants less than 1 year old per
1,000 live births during the same year.
Life Expectancy             The number of years' a newborn child would
at Birth                    live if subject to the age-specific mortality
rates prevailing at time of birth.
Maternal Mortality         iUumber of maternal deaths per 10,000 live birth
rates in a given year attributable to pregnancy,
childbirth, or post-partum.
Morbidity                   Disease and illness in a population.
Mortality                   Death in a population.
Prevalence Rate             The number of persons having a particular disease
at a given time per population. Usually expressed
per 1,000 persons.



xi
DFINITZONSA Continued)
Rate of Natural              Difference between crude birth and crude death
Increase                     rates; usually expressed as a percentage.
Rate of Population           Rate of natural increase adjusted for (net)
Growth                       migration, and expressed as a percentage of the
total population in a given year.
Total Fertility Rate         The average number of children a woman will have
if she experiences a given set (i.e., those then
prevailing among women of those ages) of age
specific fertility rates throughout her lifetime.
Serves as an estimate of the number of children
per completed family.
vp51\projsum.hsr



REPUBLIC OF CHILE
HEALTH SEMcOR REFORM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
r.   BQgROUND
1.01      The promotion of social justice with macroeconomic stability and
growth is the centerpiece of the Chilean Government's development agenda.
President Aylwin assumed office in early 1990 with a platform focussed on
poverty alleviation and economic growth. In 1.991 Chile's open economy, with
robust private sector participation, grew by 6 percent; the inflation rate
declined significantly; the fiscal accounts were in surplus; and the current
account of the balance of payments for the first time in many years also
registered a surplus. This notable performance was fueled in part by a strong
growth in exports, mainly non-copper products. Within the strictly guarded
constrainto of a balanced fiscal budget, the Government has started to enhance
the quality and efficiency of key social programs as a means to assure acceos
of the less privileged to select basic needs, particularly health and
education services. Public expenditures in 1991 increased at a real rate of
12 percent benefitting largely the social sectors.
1.02      Chile's social development over the last three decades has been
impressive. While Chile's GNP per capita of US$2,129 in 1990 places it among
lower-middle-income countries, its social indicators closely resemble the
profile observed in developed countries. Chile's average life expectancy at
birth of 72 years (1990) is well above the Latin American average of 66 years;
infant mortality rate is a relatively low 17/1,000; the prevalence of moderate
and severe malnutrition (measured by weight-for-age) among children under six
years of age is less than . percent (1988), similar to that of developed
countries; and the average level of educational attainment of 10 years of
schooling among the population 15 years of age or older (1987) and overall
adult literacy rate of 94 percent are achievements to which many developing
countries aspire.
1.03      The foregoing developments have been fostered by a strong political
ccamitment to social welfare by successive governments of widely disparate
political philosophies. Sustained public investments in maternal and child
health care and food supplementation programs, basic education, and potable
water have played a major role in health improvements. In the 1980's, Chile
aspired to redefine the role of the State in the health sector, decentralize
primary health care responsibilities to the municipalities, revise health
financing mechanisms, promote private sector participation, and target public
health and nutrition expenditures to low-income groups. However, serious
imbalances and inefficient resource use continue to constrain health sector
productivity and service quality. In addition, there are pockets of the
population, especially in marginal areas, with health status worse than the
majority of the populatioa.
1.04       Major problems in the health sector include the lack of coordina-
tion between levels of care; low internal efficiency in service delivery,
particularly within the public hospital network; distortions in the price
schedule and in the pattern of utilization of health services; and weakness in
the institutional and human resource capability of the Ministry of Health and
its autonomous agencies. Moreover, numerous municipalities lack the
administrative and financial capacity to provide adequate primary care. An



2
additional challenge is to strengthen and expand the complementarity, an
appropriate, of public and private health care provision to ensure that the
basic health service needs of the underserved population and the changing
health needs of an aging population are met.
1.05      The present Government is implementing a National Health Plan to
institute critical reforms in the sector. A major objective is to achieve a
balance in the public health care system, continuing its traditional focus on
maternal and child health while responding more effectively to the changing
health needs of adults and the elderly. Furthermore, the Government is
resolved to increase efficiency in the use of existing resources; provide
incentives for cost-savings; strengthen the public/private mix in the
financing and delivery of health services; and delegate most decisions on
resource allocation to local authorities. In addition, the Government is
committed to increase total public health speuiding. Savings from planned
efficiency measures, wider cost recovery from public patients, and increases
in the sale of hospital services to private, fee-paying patients would allow
the Government to meet changing needs without adding significant pressure on
budgetary resources.
1.06      One of the Government's major actions in 1990 was the adoption of a
tax reform to help finance program improvements in health and education. The
Government has also adopted as the recommendations of a study on the
reorientation of the health care system, which will attempt to improve
sectoral capacity to address health problems at the secondary and tertiary
levels of care. In addition, the Government has introduced other changes such
as extending the operating hours of primary health care facilities to attend
to the needs of working adults; increasing the proportion of paid (private)
beds in the public hospitals to augment their revenues; and improving the
monitoring and transparency of the ISAPRBs (the private health insurance
schemes) by providing information to consumers on ISAPREs policies and costs.
1.07      In December 1991, the Bank approved a US$27 million loan for a
Technical Assistance and Hospital Rehabilitation Project (TAHRP) to assist the
Government in the continued definition and pilot-tesding of critical health
policy and institutional reforms, as well as to finance urgent small-scale
hospital rehabilitation works in Metropolitan Santiago. In essence, part of
the TAHRP financed the preparatory studies for this proposed Health Sector
Reform Project (HSRP), which aims to address the efficiency and quality
improvement problems of health services delivery. The Government will
implement many of the recommendations emerging from the TAHRP studies. Some
of the policy choices are already being pilot-tested with TAHRP financing
(e.g. health financing reforms). Other decisions on sector strategy and
policy directions, as well as the facility investments for a new Chilean
health care model would be implemented with the support of this proposed HSRP.
1T.  SECTORAL
A. Population. Health and Nutrition Status
2.01      Pogulation.  In recent decades, Chile has experienced profound
demographic changes. Total population in the country is estimated at 13.5
million in 1992, of which more than 85 percent live in urban areas, particu-
larly in the metropolitan areas of Santiago, ValparaXso-Vifla del Mar, and
Concepci6n. Population density is 18 per square kilometer, which places it



3
among Latin America's least densely populated countries. The crude birth rate
and crude death rates are, respectively, 23.3 and 6 per 1,000 population,
giving a natural population increase of 1.7 percent per year (Annex 1, Table
1). Age structure of the three main groups is as follows:
0-14 years: 30.5 percent;
15-64 years: 63.5 percent;
65 and over:   6.0 percent.
The dependency ratio therefore is 57.5 percent.
2.02      The total fertility rate (TFR) has fallen rapidly.  While in 1965
the average women had about 5 children in her lifetime, by 1990 the TFR had
declined to 2.7 children. As a result of the sustained decline in the
fertility rate, in conjunction with an increase in life expectancy due to
medical advancer .e' improved social conditions, the proportion of elderly
(people aged 6C years and older) to total population is growing rapidly. This
group now accrmnt for 8.8 percent of the populatior.. It is estimated that by
2025 the proportion will increase to 17 percent.
2.03      Health Status.  The health of the Chilean population has improved
substantially, with life expectancy at birth increasing from about 58 years in
1970 to about 68 years in 1989 for males and from 64 years to 76 years for
women. The major cause of the decline in death rates has been a significant
reduction in the incidence of infectious and communicable childhood diseases.
Infant mortality fell from 120 deaths per 1,000 live births in 1960 to 16
deaths per 1,000 live births in 1990, comparing favorably with most,developed
countries (Annex 1, Table 1). The maternal mortality rate is 4 deaths per
10,000 live births, which is low compared to other developing countries.
These advances in life expectancy have resulted from an interplay of a number
of factors, among them reductions in birth rates; high coverage of vaccination
programs for vaccine preventable childhood diseases (97 percent for polio, 94
percent for DPT, and 90 percent for measles); increased access of pregnant
women to prenatal care; greater number of births attended by health
professionals (99 percent in 1990); and provision of milk and other
supplementary foods to both pregnant and lactating women and children. Large-
scale investments to expand access to basic education and improved housing
conditions have also played a role.
2.04       Rapid urbanization and industrialization, as well as significant
changes in lifestyles, have contributed to the emergence of a new set of
health problems. An a result, the mortality profile and the disease burden
have been altered from a developing country profile characterized by the
prevalence of infectious and communicable diseases of childhood to a developed
country profile that includes chronic diseases and injuries among an aging
population. Hypertension, smoking, fat intake, sedentary lifestyle, daily
ingestion of alcohol, occupational hazards, and pollution have become
important determinants of health and disease in Chile.
2.05      The principal causes of death in the 1980s were cardiovascular
diseases, cancer and accidents, accounting for about 58 percent of deaths, up
from 28 percent in the 19605 (Annex 1, Table 2). Among cardiovascular
diseases, ischemic heart disease is the leading cause of mortality, with an
age-adjusted death rate of 36 per 100,000 inhabitants in 1987, below the rates
observed in the United States (67) and in Canada (64), but twice as high than



4
those in other Latin American countries such as Ecuador and Peru. The age-
adjusted death rate from cancer in 1987 was 73 per 100,000 inhabitants, a
relatively high rate camparable to that of the United States or of Canada.
The age-adjusted death rate from accidents and violence in 1987 was 61 per
100,000 inhabitants, exceeding the rates of the United States (48), Argentina
(44), and Canada (38). In 1983, injuries, cancer, chronic liver disease, and
diseases of the heart accounted for 62 percent of total years of potentially
productive life lost for both sexes before age 65. In 1987, injuries and
cancer alone accounted for close to 40 percent of total years of potential
life lost.
2.06      In the future, as the Chilean population evolves toward an older
age structure, a consequence of declining fertility rates and the aging of the
large number of children who were born during past periods of high fertility,
the relative importance of chronic diseases awd injuries as principal causes
of mortality and morbidity will grow.
2.07      Nutrition Status.  The nutrition status of the Chilean population
is generally satisfactory. Although its economic development progressed
slowly over much of the past few decades, Chile significantly reduced mal-
nutrition (measured by weight-for-age) among children under the age of 6 years
from 15.9 percent in 1976 to 8.6 percent in 1988. The majority of malnutri-
tion in this age group is mild (i.e., 12.1 percent prevalence in 1976 and 7.7
percent in 1988); the prevalence of moderate and severe malnutrition is among
the lowest in the developing world, affecting 0.8 and 0.1 percent,
respectively, of children under 6 years of age. Various evaluations of the
National Supplementary Feeding Program (PNAC) have indicated that integrated
health and Rutrition interventions have had a significant impact in preventing
and controlling malnutrition. A different type of nutrition problem is now
emerging among adults due to the strong relationship between certain dietary
habits (e.g., consumption of saturated fats, sugars) and the incidence of
chronic conditions (e.g., atherosclerosis, obesity).
B. The Health Care System
2.08      Organized medicine in Chile dates back to the 1920e, when social
insurance arrangements were established to provide health services for blue
collar workers.  With the creation of the National Health Service (NHS) in
1952, diverse public institutions were consolidated under a unified health
structure. Up to the late 1970s, health care in Chile was provided by four
distinct delivery systems. The two largest systems were the NHS, responsible
for providing preventive services to the entire population and free hospital
care to blue-collar workers and indigents, and the National Medical Service
for Employees (SERNENA), a government administered health insurance plan for
white-collar workers and their dependents, established in 1968. Both systems
covered approximately 85 percent of the population; about 10 percent of the
population was covered by private providers working on a fee-for-service
basis; and 5 percert by the armed forces medical program.
2.09      With the introduction of major institutional and financial reforms
beginning in 1979, the health care system was reorganized. The reforms
included: (a) decentralizing the old NHS through the establishment of a
National Health Service System (NHSS) comprised of 26 operational regional
autonomous services plus an environmental health service in Santiago;



5
(b) transferring responsibility, infrastructure and personnel for the delivery
of primary health care to the municipalities; (c) creation of a financial
institution (FONASA) for administering health sector resources; and (d)
establishing the legislative framework and financing mechanisms to support the
development of prepaid private health insurance plans. The resulting
institutional structure, which is characterized by a complex combination of
public and private providers and financial agencies, is shown in Annex 1,
Figure 1. The present roles and relationships among the main sectoral
institutions are described in paras. 2.10-2.17 below.
2.10      The Ministry of Health (MpH).  With the abolition of the NHS, the
M0H assumed responsibility for the formulation of all public health policies,
definition of norms and standards applied on a nationwide basis, and broad
health planning and monitoring. In performing these functions, the MOH
coordinates and supervises the delivery and financing of health services
through: (i) its Undersecretary of Health, which oversees health care delivery
through the National Health Service System (para. 2.11); and (ii) four
autonomous agencies: the National Health Fund (FONASA), the principal health
care financing mechanism in the country; the Central Supply Facility (CSF), in
charge of procurement and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other medical
supplies to public health facilities ordering directly from it, as well as
milk and other products provided via public health facilities by the National
Supplementary Feeding Program (PNAC); the Institute of Public Health
(Instituto de Salud Publica. ISP), responsible for quality control of
pharmaceuticals and food products; and the Superintendency of ISAPRES,
recently created to regulate the private health insurance market (see the
current MOH Organization Chart in Annex 1, Figure 2).
2.11      The National Health Service System (NHSS). The NHSS consists of 26
decentralized Health Service Areas (HSAs) plus one that administers the
Environmental Health Service in Santiago. The HSAs, which are distributed
across the nation's 13 administrative regions, assumed the operational
responsibilities of the former NHS. HSAs do not necessarily correspond to
other existing administrative/political boundaries in the country; they were
defined on the basis of health catchment areas (i.e., factors such as
population size, existing health facilities, and local health status were
considered in defining the HSAe). HSAs are responsible for the operation of
all public hospitals in their respective geographical area, as well as for
technical oversight of the municipal-based primary care system (para. 2.13).
2.12      Each HSA is legally an autonomous service run by a Director
(generally a physician), who reports directly to the Secretariat (SEREMI) of
the respective administrative region in which the HSA is located (the SEREMIS
are composed of staff from each major ministry who report directly to the
intendente or administrator of the region and to their respective ministry
headquarters in Santiago). In practice, however, the HSA director implements
mostly the decisions made at the M0H central office with regard to health
service delivery. The Director, however, has some discretionary control over
personnel and financial matters.
2.13      Municioalities.  Increased administrative decentralization in the
public system was achieved in 1987 by transferring the management of orimarv
health car services to the municipalities, including personnel recruitment
and management. The primary care network transferred to the municipalities
consists of urban and rural clinics, rural health posts, and rural medical



6
stations. In contrast to HSAs' personnel who are civil service employees,
staff operating these facilities are municipal employees governed by the labor
code applicable to the private sector. As stipulated in the 1985 Health Law,
all NHSS users are classified into one of four groups according to their
ability to pay for services rendered. Those classified in categories A and B
as indigents or poor (76 percent of all beneficiaries under the FONASA system
in 1989) are not required to pay user charges in public health facilities
although they may pay the mandatory 7 percent payroll deduction.
2.14      National Health Fund (FONASA).  The Fund exercises the financial
functions previously under the responsibility of NHS and SERMENA.  It is
responsible for administering and distributing financial resources of the
public system, including a mandatory 7 percent payroll deduction earmarked for
health from all active and pensioned salaried workers which is collected by
INP (Instituto de Normalizacion rrevisional), as well as central government
allocations for health. FONASA finances the HSAs through (a) allocations
based on the number and grades of personnel, and (b) a fee for service
mechanism (FAP) that takes into account the amount and type of services
rendered in the different hospitals of the region. In principle, FONASA
reimburses the municipalities under a special billing scheme (FAPEM) for
facility-specific primary care services rendered. In practice, however, there
are ceilings and floors on the amount reimbursed. Resources are also
transferred under a scheme of incentives based on selected biomedical and
process performance and financial indicators.
2.15      Preferred Provider System (PPS). All workers contributing to
FONASA have the option to select providers in the private sector under the PPS
arrangement. Private providers participating in the PPS are reimbursed
according to a fixed price system for specific medical services rendered.
FONASA pays only a portion of the required ambulatory or inpatient service;
the user pays the other part with a voucher purchased from FONASA. The
provider redeems the voucher for 100 percent of the pre-agreed price at one of
FONASA's offices, or at selected commercial banks. Under the PPS copayment
system, users pay 50 percent of the cost of ambulatory medical consultations.
For other services, the copayments vary by level of provider: users pay 50
percent of the cost of service in level 1; 66.7 percent in level 2; and 75
percent in level 3. Usually, new physicians and general practitioners are
clustered in level 1 and specialists in level 3; the level of a clinic or a
hospital is determined by its technological sophistication. The more
expensive the provider, the higher the copayment.
2.16      Private Providers.  In addition to physician offices and inpatient
facilities concentrated in large cities, and sickness funds (mutuales) for
administering work-injury benefits which are financed by an 0.8 percent
payroll deduction paid by employers, health care is provided in the private
sector through prepaid health insurance schemes (ISAPREs). The rapid growth
of the ISAPREs in recent years has been the result of the introduction of
public policies that have encouraged private sector activity in the health
sector. In 1981 a government decree was enacted to allow ISAPREs to collect
directly the obligatory 7 percent salary deduction of persons willing to
purchase private health care coverage. Additionally, the ISAPREs receive
yearly public subsidies (approximately US$44 million in 1991) through: (a) a
full tax rebate to those employers who contribute an additional 2 percent of
payroll to complement the compulsory 7 percent salary deduction (about US$19
million); (b) government benefit payments for maternity leave to ISAPRBs



7
affiliates, whereas this benefit is paid by FONASA for affiliates to the
FONASA eyetem (about US$23 million); and (c) free distribution of vaccines to
children 0-9 years of age (about US$250,000), and food supplementation
products to children under 6 years of age and pregnant women (about US$1.2
million), who are ISAPREs affiliates. Two other implicit subsidies accorded
to the IWAPRB system are: (a) exemption of the 7 percent salary deduction from
taxable income; and (ii) exemption of health services from the value added tax
(VAT) up to an amount equivalent to PONASA level three prices. ISAPREs offer
subscribers and their dependents both outpatient and inpatient care on a cost-
sharing basis via either their own clinics and/or diagnostic centers or
through contract with priva.e providers or public facilities. ISAPRE
affiliates have to pay a monthly premium that varies according to the cost of
the policy they choose to buy. ISAPWR premiums are financed from the
following sources: transfer or assignment to the ISAPREs of the compulsory 7
percent salary deduction; payments on behalf of members by their employers (in
"closed" plans organixed by employer groups); and out-of-pocket payments by
affiliates varying between 10 to 40 percent of the cost of each service.
Highly paid affiliates, therefore, may pay nothing beyond their 7 percent
salary deduction, while the payment by others depends on their salary level
and the policy they choose to buy.
2.17      Although there is a multiplicity of health care providers in Chile,
the bulk of preventive and curative services is provided by the public sector
through a vast network of ambulatory facilities and hospitals. Official
figures indicate that in 1990, 71 percent of the population was covered by the
EMSS (including HSAE, municipalities, armed forces and state enterprises);
about 13 percent by the FONASA-administered PPS; and 16 percent by the ISAPREs
(Annex 1, Chart 1).
C.  Health Care Resources and Utilization_
2.18      Amulatory Services.  Over the last two decades, with the priority
attached to the expansion of primary care, health investments shifted signi-
ficantly away from hospitals in favor of primary care facilities. As a
result, the number of primary care facilities increased substantially in urban
and rural areas. The primary care system that was transferred to the munici-
palities over the 19803 consists of four basic types of fa^ilities: rural
medical stations, rural health posts, rural health centers, and urban health
centers. The rural medical stations, the most peripheral echelon, are
buildings used as temporary sites for periodic visits by medical teams. Rural
health posts, staffed with resident health auxiliaries, provide health
promotion and protection services to catchment areas of approximately 1,000
persons. Rural health centers, located in communities of between 2,000 and
5,000 population, offer round-the-clock nursing and medical care for general
health problems of limited complexity. Permanent professional and auxiliary
staff operate these facilities. Urban health centers provide ambulatory care
for general health problems. These facilities have fixed hours, generally
providing care eight to nine hours daily, and the composition of their staff
varies with the size of the locality. There are 1,214 rural medical stations,
1,040 health posts, and 345 health centers distributed across the country.
2.19      Secondary and tertiary care is provided in hospitals and their
outpatient departments (consultorior, adosados do emsecialidades). While
primary health care facilities were constructed in recent decades according to
an MUR master plan, the current hospital network consists of diverse hospitals



a
inherited from religious or welfare institutions--many of the hospitals are
close to a century old. Only a few additional hospitals were built in the
last four decades to complement the public sector network.
2.20      Hosnital Services.  Public hospitals in Chile are classified under
four categories, ranging from Type 4 rural hospitals with minimal technology
to Type 1 with the maximum technology available in the public sector. The
NHSS has 105 Type 4 facilities, which offer the first echelon of inpatient
care. Type 3 hospitals, of which there are 25, are located in small towns and
have only the four basic specialties (internal medicine, pediatrics,
obstetrics-gynecology, and general surgery). Dispersed across the major
cities are 30 Type 2 or general hospitals, which offer most medical and
surgical specialties and have intermediate technology. Tertiary care is
offered in 20 Type 1 facilities, which include all specialties and sub-
specialties. Some of these facilities are specialized hospitals, such as the
Pediatrics, Cancer, and Psychiatric Hospitals. Aside from outpatient
departments of hospitals, there are no free-standing medical centers for
ambulatory secondary or tertiary care (outpatient departments of hospitals are
usually the only providers of specialized care for low-income groups).
2.21      In the private sector there are 190 hospitals (called clinicas),
encompassing both general and specialized inpatient facilities, and 1,069
ambulatory care centers for single or group medical practice. There are also
30 hospitals under the administration of universities, the armed forces or
state enterprises.
2.22      Consultations.  For the sector as a whole, the number of medical
consultations averaged 2.5 per person per year in 1989, a figure about half
the corresponding figure for developed countries (number and type of consul-
tations in the public health sector are shown in Annex 1, Table 3). The NHSS
reported 2.4 medical visits per person per year, and accounted for 75 percent
of ali outpat;ieAL visLt; in thc cc=-tr .  B%, coawrsorie^, the T!Eoso haA A"
average of 3.5 physician visits per beneficiary, showing a higher per capita
use of services in this system. Overall, emergency visits in outpatient
departments of hospitals represent a striking 30 percent of all consultations,
indicating that although geographic coverage of health care in Chile is good,
access may be less adequate because of the limited hours of service in primary
care facilities and lack of specialized ambulatory centexs.
2.23      Hosnital Performance.  The number of public hospital beds, both
short and long term, has remained nearly stable at a ratio of 2.5 beds per
1,000 population. As opposed to other countries, Chile never went through a
period of rapid hospital expansion. On the contrary, between 1981 and 1989,
the number of public beds decreased from 33,692 to 32,818 (Annex 1, Table 4A).
It is only in the 1980s that the private sector grew significantly, adding
another 0.8 beds per 1,000 population, to reach an overall total for the
country of 3.3 beds per 1,000 population. This bed ratio is below the ratio
of 5.1 in the United States and 5.0 in Argentina and Uruguay. The hospital
occupancy rate in the public sector is a low 75 percent; this national average
may be misleading, however, as it includes rural hospitals where a lower
occupancy rate is expected given the need to maintain a minimum infrastructure
in remote facilities. Also, a number of available beds in the public sector
are not operational because of the deteriorated condition of hospital wards or
inoperative equipment. Due to the larger, older and technically outdated
nature of most public hospitals and their more complex case mix (i.e.,



9
patients with more severe illnesses), the average length of stay in these
facilities is 7.9 days (Annex 1, Table SA). Lack of a secondary and tertiary
outpatient care infrastructure in the public sector also contributes to a long
average length of stay in public hospitals. ISAPRE's data show an average
length of stay of 4-5 days in the private facilities. Unlike private
hospitals, public hcspitals cannot carry out pre-admission tests on a less
expensive, ambulatory care basis.   The public sector accounts for almost 75
percent of total national hospital bed capacity, an estimated 90 percent of
all hospitalizations and 52 percent of surgical interventions.
2.24      Medical Technoloav.  The priority attached to the development of
primary health care in recent years meant the neglect of the public hospital
network. Amid limited resources, both new construction and equipping of
hospitals, as well as modernization and maintenance of existing hospitals, was
virtually abandoned in favor of expansion and upgrading of primary care
facilities. As a result, physical plant and equipment within the hospitals
deteriorated. Negligible investments led to a failure to adopt new
technologies, even in such critical areas as care for high-risk newborn
infants and trauma, as well as in outpatient departments. Many hospitals
suffer from antiquated or inoperative equipment, even in such basic areas as
X-ray machines and incubators. This obsolescence is not limited to medical
equipment, but also affects supportive ser-:ces such as kitchens,
communications, and information systems. In addition, most hospitals suffer
from serious defects in their physical plants, plumbing, heating/cooling
systems, and sanitary systems. It is estimated that the cumulative effect of
this situation decreases bed utilization across the country by 20 percent.
This is further evidenced by the low bed occupancy rate in some facilities
(i.e., beds often remain empty because of incidental reasons such as the
disrepair of buildings, or a breakdown of the heating or plumbing systems).
2.25      Health Personnel.  With six medical schools, Chile graduates appro-
ximately 600 physicians per year. The total number of physicians in the
country is close to 14,000, which is about one physician per 1,000 population
(public sector health personnel are shown in Annex 1, Table 6). This ratio is
two to three times below the ratio of developed countries, but considerably
exceeds the average for lower middle income economies. The most important
feature of the physician labor market is the geographic maldistribution of
physicians. In general, most of the physicians, particularly those with
specialized training, are concentrated in the few major urban areas. The
rural scholarship program for young physicians who have served three or four
years in rural areas has been an important vehicle to attract qualified young
doctors to underserved areas. Another striking aspect of Chile's physician
market is the low number of general or family practitioners. Indeed, it is
estimated that only 7.5 percent of the nation's physicians are general
practitioners. In Santiago, close to 90 percent of all physicians practicing
in the city are specialists or subspecialists. The growing supply of
specialists is due largely to the specialized orientation of medical education
and the lack of stringent standards regulating the clinical specialties.
There are, however, acute shortages of some medical specialists and health
technicians such as ophthalmologists, radiologists, and anesthesiologists.
2.26      The number of dentists is about 5,000, or one dentist for 2,700
population. Here, too, more than 60 percent of the dentists are concentrated
in Santiago.



10
2.27      The total nurse population is approximately 2,872; the ratio of
ntftse per population is 1 nurse per 4,700 persons. As the number of available
nurses fell below the evolving needs of the primary care system, their
functions were systematically delegated to auxiliary nurses. The simultaneous
growth of the ISAPREs has provided an alternative source of employment for the
relatively few graduate nurses. At present, fewer than 300 nurses graduate
each year, or half the number at the beginning of the 1980s.
2.28      The total number of fixed-term employees at the MHf and the HSAs is
approximately 57,000. In recent years the major change in human resources was
at the primary care level, where about 14,000 health services staff were
separated from the MOH and employed by the municipalities.
D. Health Care Exoenditures and Financino of Services
2.29      Total health care spending in Chile (including direct household
expenditures for medical care and pharmaceuticals) has increased from an
estimated 3.3 percent of GDP in the 1960s to about 6.4 percent in the early
1990s. This ratio is as high as that in sevfiral upper middle-income
developing countries (6-7 percent), but below that of lower-income OBCD
countries (7-8 percent). Total public and private health expenditures are
approximately US$2 billion per year. Per capita expenditure in health is
about US$145, far lower than that in industrial ',ountries (e.g., about 9
percent in Canada and 6 percent in the USA). Public health expenditures are
about 2.5 percent of GDP or 39 percent of total health expenditures. Private
health expenditures account for about 3.9 percent of GDP or 61 percent of
total expenditures. Annual expenditures per beneficiary in the public sector
amount to approximately US$44; in the FONASA-administered PPS, US$55; and in
the ISAPREs, US$160. In 1992, total public health expenditures would amount
to about US$900 million or 9 percent of the nation's budget.
2.30      Sources of Funds.  The MOH depends on the following major revenue
sources administered by FONASA (Annex 2): (a) cotizaciones or transfers
generated by the mandatory 7 percent payroll deduction from all active and
pensioned salaried workers, which accounts for more than a third of total
income; (ii) central government contributions (anorte fiscal), which
contribute about 40 percent of revenues (a significant decline from its 1980
level of 55 percent); (iii) sale of vouchers to FONASA affiliates for
selective services rendered by private providers under the PPS mechanism,
representing 6 percent of revenues; and (iv) fees from the sale of services in
public facilities, representing 9 percent.  In addition to tlv MOH resources,
capital investments in the health sector, particularly for p&imary care
facilities and rural hospitals, are financed through the Ministry of the
Interior-administered National Regional Development Fund (FNDR) and the Social
Fund (SF) of the Office of the President.
2.31      Uses of Funds.  About 98 percent of total public expenditures in
health consists of recurrent expenditures (Annex 2). One-third of these went
to wages; the rest was accounted for by the PPS, PEAC, subsidies paid for
illness of workers, and other transfers and payments. Meanwhile, MOH-financed
investments (construction and equipment for hospitals), which practically came
to a halt in the 1980s accounting for only 2 percent of public health
expenditure. This share increased to about 8 percent in 1992 reflecting the
current Government's priority for social investment.  The average investmnt
in the HSAs between 1986-90 hardly exceeded US$10 million per year, a major



11
cause of the accumulated deterioration and obsolescence of hospital
infrastructure and equipment in the last decade. In contrast, a strong
infusion of investment funds from the IDB-financed FNDR projects has helped
expand and update the primary health care network nationwide (para. 4.05).
FNDR health investments averaged about US$19.5 million per year in the last
five years. It is estimated that FNDR financing will meet the investment
-equirements of the primary care network in the next five years.
2.32      HosDital Financing.  Chilean hospitals are financed in part accord-
ing to production criteria adopted in the late 1970s. Financing varies
according to the number and type of services rendered, with a one month lag in
reimbursements from FONASA. FONASA reimburses hospitals through FAP (Factura-
cion por Atencion Prestada Integral), a fee-for-service schedule. The FAP
transfers are intended to cover all operating expenditures, except salaries
(para. 2.33?. FAP includes a list of p,aestablished prices for more than
2,000 medical interventions (prices have been determined on the basis of the
average costs in one public and two pri.ate hospitals, as well as the opinions
of Especialists). These prices have not been updated since 1980. The only
unregulated hospital cost is the daily fee charged te' private patients for the
use of hospital beds (excluding medical services related thereto) for which
hospital authorities can set their own prices. Up until July 1991, MOH's
regulations dictated that hospitals may use only 5 percent of their beds for
treating private patients in special wards or nensionados. Recognizing the
spare capacity in some hospitals and their need for additional operating
revenue, the MOH has raised the limit to 10 percent of each hospital's total
number of beds without cutting back on services for public patients .
2.33      In addition, FONASA pays as a budget allocation to the HSAs all
wages and salaries, part of investment, and other fixed costs of the
hospitals. Because personnel and investments costs are covered directly, the
reimbursed FAP amount is a percentage of PPS level 1 prices, and it varies by
type of service, with higher percentages for more complicated procedures.
There are no ceilings on the maximum level of reimbursement a given hospital
can receive from PONASA. Hospitals obtain additional income from fees charged
to private patients and from service copayments paid on a preestablished
sliding scale by beneficiaries of the public health system that are classified
by FONASA as non-indigent (classes C and D).
2.34      Financial information on the performance of Chilean hospitals is
provided by a hospital reporting system called SIGMO. However, data collected
on average costs per service category come in aggregates and are not seen by
hospital administrators as a useful management tool to identify areas for
efficiency gains, or for comparing hospitals with similar patient mix.
2.35      Primary Care Financing.  Municipalities are reimbursed on a
facility-specific basis for the amount and type of services rendered, b-dsed on
FAPEM (Facturacion nor Atencion Prestada en Establecimientos Nunicivalizados),
a detailed, preestablished fee system. FAPEN includes 15 categories of
primary care services, and precise levels of reimbursement per service within
each category are delineated. In practice, however, each facility is subject
to a monthly ceiling on the total amount of fees that could be reimbursed by
FAPEM, regardless of the level or mix of services provided. The ceiling on
expenditures was set initially at the amount the municipality expended in
1982. Thus, facilities that had been receiving the largest transfers prior to
imposition of the ceiling in 1983 continued to be favored in resource



12
allocation. Periodically these ceilings have been adjusted according to
changes in the Public Sector Wage Index; these adjustments, however, have
lagged considerably behind the Consumer Price Index, aggravating the financial
problems of poor municipalities. Additional revenue to finance the priAnary
health care network comes from supplementary transfers and incentiven (e.g.,
achievement of health targets) paid by FONASA and from municipal budgets.
2.36      FAPEM transfers are expected to cover the costg of all goods and
services, personnel, and maintenAnce expenditures incurred in the process of
delivering service at a minimum acceptable standard. Inivestment in infra-
structure and equipment is a municipal responoibility.   v this end,
municipalities can apply for funds from the FNDR or the SP.
Ill.  SE    . SUES AMD gOVEMENT STRATEGY
.        ~~A.  Isauge
3.01      In Chile, widespread basic health service coverage has been
achieved crer the last four decades. The challenge in future years will be
improving the quality of care, managing expenditures, and increasing resource-
use efficiency. Broad reviews of the health sector have hiighlighted five
critical issues: lack of complementarity between the different levels of
health care; low internal efficiency in the public hospital network;
distortions in the financing of health services; weak institutional capability
in the MOH and its autonomous agencies; and the need to develop further
public/private linkages to optimize the use of the limited fiscal resources.
3.02      Articulation Between  evAes1 of Care.  The pyramidal referral flow
between levels of care does not work efficiently. Poor coordination and
complementarity between primary care facilities and hospital services are
major functional defects of the public health system. In particular,
important constraints to optimal utilization patterns in the system, including
limited availability of ambulatory secondary and tertiary facilities (Annex
3), contributes to inadequate backup for the primary care level and continued
high dependence on emergency care at hospitals. Long waiting lines for
obtaining care and inconvenient clinic hours for the working population at the
primary care level aggravate this situation as highlighted by the aforenoted
30 percent of medical consultations being of an "emergency" nature. Failure
of the HSAs to fulfill their monitoring and supervision responsibilities over
the primary care facilities that were placed under the local authority of the
municipalities added to the dissociation between levels of care. In addition,
the FAP-PAPBM reimbursement mechanisms lhave had adverse effects on the
referral of patients to and from hospitals (see para. 3.08). The lack of a
fluid referral of patients threatens the credibility of the entire public
health system. In addition, the emergence of chronic conditions and injuries
as principal causes of disease and death in the country implies increasing
importance of hospitals. Therefore, as a result of the changing
epidemiological profile, hospitals would have to operate in a referral system
in order to control the escalation of costs observed in some developed and
developing countries facing similar challenges. Specialized ambulatory care
facilities are also needed to improve the system's utilization patterns.
3.03      Internal Efficiencv in Hosnitals.  Low internal efficiency
characterizes the public hospital network and results largely frcm the
deteriorated condition of its facilities, including buildings, medical and



13
*lec.ro-mechanical equipment, and support services (Annex 3). In Metropolitan
Santiago, two natural disasters in the mid-1980s worsened this situation. The
1985 earthquake damaged various hospitals; the most evident damages were
repaired with the support of a special fund and donations. Over the following
years, the need for miscellaneous repairs rose significantly, particularly for
physical infrastructure such as rcofo and basements, as well as for plumbing
and heating systems that were left unrepaired. This problem was compounded by
the 1988 flood, which further deteriorated sewer systems and all hospital
infrastructure located in the basements, such as furnaces, laundry, and
storage rooms in the Metropolitan Santiago Area.
3.04      Hospital administrative practices are also outdated and impede the
adequate combinat.f on of input factors to extract good quality services from
limited resources. A wide range of modern management skills and systems are
lacking. Although ample health and financial data are collected, these are
not oriented to management requirements (e.g., the lack of information about
the costs of services makes it difficult to determine the amount of resourcen
that could be released by the reduction of some services or by the adjustment
of fees which could generate financing for other priorities). Also, data
processing and analysis are done manually in most hospitals hampering the
timely flow of information for decision-making and monitoring performance.
Another element affecting efficiency is the lack of established performance
motivation programs for increasing the productivity of both medical and non-
medical staff.
3.05      Inefficient use of resources in public hospitals is exacerbated by
limited resources. This affects all hospital activities, such as:
(a) emergency care for round-the-clock assistance for accidents and other
medical emergencies, due to the lack of technology necessary to respond to
current patient mix (e.g., trauma cases, neonatal problems); (b) outpatient
departments, because of insufficient equipment and staffing, especially weak
diagnostic capabilities, as evidenced by waiting lists and slow processing of
patients; and (c) hospital admissions, due to the inadequate capacity of
hospitals to provide timely secondary and tertiary inpatient care,
particularly for specialized services, such as surgery, orthopedics, and
cancer treatment.
3.06       ealth Finamcina.  Public health financing in Chile faces three
critical sets of issues: the under-investment of the public hospital network;
the distortions introduced by the application of the FAP and 7APRM resource
allocation mechanisms; and limitations of copayment arrangements in the public
sector to mobilize additional resources.
3.07      The general de_erioration of the public hospital network was caused
by a decrease in capital investments and maintenance budgets over the last two
decades despite population growth. Budget figures for the last decade show
declining allocations for hospital investments, maintenance, operating
budgets, and even staffing (see para. 2.30). This situation has translated
into acute shortages in equipment and supplies, insufficient mainteriance, low
staff morale an4 decreasing quality of services in the hospitals. Hospitals
continue to operate due to staff competence and dedication and the ingenuity
of hospital directors and administrators. However, the network has been
stretched to its limits. Now it is recognized that substantial investments
are needed to bring hospitals up to an acceptable standard of care.



14
3.08      The fee-for-service systems adopted for reimbursing hospitals (PAP)
and municipal facilities (FAPEM) were intended to direct money to where
services were actually being provided. The FAP is still partly effective for
the hospitals, but it has been eroded since PAP payments have not kept pace
with inflation and a larger share of hospital revenues has come from other
sources, including direct, supplementary central budget allocations. In
effect, these supplementary allocations centralize financial decision-making,
partly nullifying the decentralization attained by the fee-for-service system.
For municipalities, the incentive to hold down unit costs is completely gone
because ceilings were imposed on FAPEM transfers, converting them into block
grants. In addition, FAPEM ceilings began to be paid even to municipalities
which had not provided enough services to reach the ceiling. Two other
failings can be attributed to FAP and PAPEM. First, they set fees in such a
way as to encourage provision of curative over preventive care; and second,
they reimburse on the basis of each individual procedure rather than for
treatment or for management of specific health conditions; thus they encourage
multiple visits when not required as well as promoting overuse of any
treatment that is priced high, and under-use if prices do not cover costs. In
addition, municipalities have an incentive to refer patients to secondary and
tertiary facilities instead of treating them at the primary level because they
can reduce their expenditures without affecting their revenue.
3.09      Copayments for public sector services range from zero in the lowest
two income classes to 25 percent in the third and 50 percent in the top class.
Three-quarters of users are now in the zero-payment categories. This is due
to a combination of three factors: the fact that higher income groups do not
use public services, the system fails to adjust for real income boundaries,
and there is leeway in classifying patients. This situation hampers efforts
to mobilize additional resources for financing health care.
3.10      Institutional Caoacitv.  Managerial problems at the MOH and the
HSAs constrain sector development. Planning capability is weak, particularly
in regard to multi-year planning that responds to national policies and norms
while recognizing the sps-ificity of local conditions. Also, there is limited
capability for harmonizin.j short-term investment and operational needs with
longer-term investment rtquirements.  This is aggravated by the shortage of
staff with training and c-perience in strategic planning and budgeting.
3.11      The MOH and the PlAs in general do not exercise effective manage-
ment control.  At the centrh & level of the MOH, where detailed technical norms
and standards are developed ror all public health services in the country,
there is a lack of sufficient personnel to monitor compliance with norms and
standards in HSAs except thrc'u.h reviews of essentially quantitative reports.
In addition, there is no orga7i-:ed and systematic effort to monitor and assess
compliance from the point of view of quality of services. To date, much of
the transfer of administrative responsibility to HSAs remains more theoretical
than real. HSAs have limited latitude to adjust MOH norms and standards for
potentially important variations at the local level, and there generally are
not enough trained staff to super,rise activities at the service level.  While
supervision of activities at facilities under the administrative jurisdiction
of the HSA is good, most HSAs have far too few staff to carry out their
responsibility to supervise primary care at the municipal level.
3.12      In terms of personnel management, major issues include: (a) the
need to change the staffing pattern in the central and regional MOH offices in



15
line with the proposed changes in the public health system; (b) lack of
adequate incentives to ensure that qualified personnel serve in isolated or
difficult areas; and (c) need for adequate staff training to develop medical
expertise and management skills required by the changing the health system.
Training opportunities serve as incentives which can stimulate the interest of
qualified health personnel to be assigned in rural areas. Training is also
important to develop career paths in the sector. The most difficult
personnel-related issues are probably those found among staff working at the
primary-care level. Problems include the lack of job security in municipal
employment relative to employment in the MOH and HSAs; the absence of visible
career paths in health especially smaller or poorer municipalities; limited
opportunities for further training, given that many municipalities do not, or
cannot provide financial subsidies to staff for this purpose; and inadequate
compensation, benefits, and working conditions in poorer municipalities.
3.13      Chile has a comprehensive national health information system, which
is well established for collecting, consolidating, and forwarding information
to higher levels of the MOH. Decailed demographic, epidemiologic, healt;A
resources, and health services data are collected at all levels of the system.
Also, extensive financial data are compiled by FONASA on services rendered and
reimbursements provided. Little effective use of this large body of data is
made, however. An assessment of information currently collected is needed to
determine their necessity or priority considering the enormous staff time
required to complete numerous reports, thus reducing available patient time.
Other problems include the need to identify information gaps; to judge the
accuracy, timeliness, and usefulness of information; to analyze whether the
information is properly integrated (e.g., interrelation of activity data and
cost data); to determine whether available information is used for planning
and management purposes at various levels of the system; and to identify
resource needs to ensure an adequate information system.
3.14      Central SuoDDV Facility (CSF).  CSF was created by law in 1979 as a
public service institution subordinate to the MOH. Its legal status gives it
some functional flexibility but it is subject to all rules and regulations
governing the civil service. The Director is a presidential appointee.
Number and type of personnel are fixed and their management follows civil
service rules. The mission of CSF is to Durchase, store, sell, and dialribu&2
pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and equipment, and related items for the
institutions and services that are part of the NHSS. The HSAs have the
freedom to purchase from the provider that they prefer, both CSF and private
providers. In 1900 the HSAs purchased 38 percent of their supplies from CSF
with a range of 28 percent for Santiago's Metropolitan Central HSA to 62
percent for Magallanes. CSF is an important supplier for the distant HSAe
with small volume purchases where the private sector is not present. Finally,
it fulfills an important role in stocking life saving supplies for use in case
of national emergencies and natural catastrophes.
3.15      Currently the CSF faces a ser4es of operating problems, among which
the most significant are: (a) inability to set goals and carry forth
activities to achieve them; (b) insufficient flexibility of the organizational
and administrative structure to respond or adapt to the needs of users;
(c) deficiencies in inventory and warehouse management; (d) problems with the
system for transporting supplies; (e) information systems that do not
adequately meet manager's needs; and (f) lack of trained personnel in modern
management practices. This situation at the CSF is exacerbated by the fact



16
that the NSA units responsible for managing the procurement and distribution
of supplies at the local level suffer from lack of adequate resources to
perform their duties, particularly in terms of training, information systems,
and in many cases, availability of human resources.
3.16      National Institute of Public Health (ISP).  The Institute is
responsible for most matters related to pharmaceuticals, including
registration, quality surveillance, and control of manufacture.  It is also in
charge of ensuring the quality of food products for domestic consumption.
Additionally, the Institute produces vaccines and other biological products,
and functions as a reference laboratory, as a coordinator of public health
laboratories, and as a research and training center.  Numerous restrictions
constrain the effectiveness of the ISP, among these:  (a) insufficient trained
staff in modern management skills; (b) absence of information systems to
support management decisions and operation of multiple data base for drug
accreditation; (c) lack of flexible and dynamic systems for supply acquisition
and inventory management; (d) lack of information on the real costs of
services provided by the ISP; (e) absence of a policy for setting fees and
procedures for revising and for collecting them; (f) technological
obsolescence of equipment and inadequate maintenance of infrastructure and
equipment; and (g) inadequate incentives for personnel.
3.17      PA.  This program, initially launched in 1937 as the national
milk program, is widely credited with contributing to Chile's success in
reducing infant mortality and malnutrition. It covers approximately 1.2
million people (80 percent of infants under one year of age and 70 percent of
preschoolers 2 to 5 years of age, as well as pregnant and lactating women).
They receive monthly rations differentiated by beneficiary age and nutritional
status, and distributed via the public health system. PNAC's budget is about
US$56 million or the equivalent of US$47 subsidy per beneficiary per year.
Existing data consistently indicate that program benefits are most heavily
concentrated among lower income groups. Nevertheless, program data also
suggest that operational improvements are needed to reduce program costs.
Among them are: (a) improvements to targeting to concentrate on groups at
highest risk of malnutrition; (b) product development to ensure these goods
are accepted by intended beneficiaries; (c) improved nutrition surveillance
data for effective program management; and (d) improvements in procurement
practices for milk powder to minimize costs.
3.18      Adult Health and Environmental Proorams.  To date Chile has not
dealt adequately with its changing demographic and epidemiologic profile.
Support for preventive and/or early detection and treatment adult health
programe is weak. For example, screening programs to detect cervical cancer
at a sufficiently early stage so that treatment can be efficacious in reducing
the number of premature deaths among women have been limited. A major effort
is also needed for designing incentive mechanisms and education campaigns to
reduce the sources of air and water contamination which affect adversely the
health of the Chilean population.
3.19      Public/Private Linkaaes.  Formal public/private linkages in the
sector occur in three different areas: (a) the sale of services by public
hospitals to ISAPREs affiliates and private users under a cost recovery
scheme, particularly for the use of private rooms (mensionados) for inpatient
care; (b) the purchase of private health services by FONASA for rPS
beneficiaries; and (c) the regulatory role of the Superintendency of ISAPREs



17
in the private health insurance market. A major challenge in the 90's is to
expand the complementarity, as appropriate, of public and private health
provision. In line with this goal, there is a need to: increase efficiency
and equity in the financing and delivery of public and private health
services; mobilize additional resources for health; and improve consumer
choice. Efforts are now underway to improve the organizational and
administrative framework of the public health system, as well as to enhance
the provision of benefit packages to include both preventive and curative
care. Also, regulatory measures to standardize the eligibility criteria in
the private health insurance systsm are under consideration.
B. Government Sectoral Strateov
3.20      A high priority on the development agenda of the Government is to
improve the effectiveness, efficiency, and quality of health services
rendered, particularly to the poor. One of the major objectives is to achieve
a balanced health care delivery system, i.e., responsive to changing health
needs of adults and the elderly while maintaining adequate coverage of
programs for maternal and child health. The Government is resolved to
increase efficiency in the use of existing resources; provide incentives for
cost-savings by delegating most decisions on resource allocation to local
levels; and stimulate the increased participation of the private sector in the
financing and delivery of health services. In addition, the Government is
committed to increase total public health spending. Savings from efficiency
measures and wider cost-recovery would allow the Government to meet changing
needs without adding significant pressure on budgetary resources.
3.21      The principles of the Government's health sector development
strategy include: (a) guarantee of the population's basic right to good health
through access to quality health services; (b) promotion of the complementary
roles of public and private providers in the health sector; and
(c) strengthening the decentralization in the sector begun in the 19806.
3.22      The Government has taken some strategic decisions on the
modernization of the public health sector based principally on the results and
recommendations of some of the PPF and TAHRP - financed studies.  The major
strategies are discussed below. The corresponding implementation tools and
detailed activities are financed under the TAHRP (e.g. the pilot test of the
health financing schemes) or by the HSRP as discussed in Section V.
Reorientation of the Health System
3.23      In 1991    e MOH analyzed the country's health care delivery
system, focusing oin: (a) current and projected needs of the population; (b)
the functions and technological capabilities of health facilities at different
levels of care; and (c) the process of referring patients between levels of
care. The analysis showed the type and extent of service deficits in each
geographic area and the principal bottlenecks in the referral system. A
summary of the method used in this analysis is presented in Annex 4; detailed
analysis is part of the Project Files. Based on the findings, a set of
reforms were identified to make the system more responsive to the geographic
and demographic conditions, and the changing health needs in the HSRP project
areas. The recmmendations (Annex 5), adopted by the Government in July 1991,
have wide-rangir.g implications for the modernization of the public health
system and provide a much needed investment framework for the sector.



18
3.24       The thrust of the reforms for reorganizing the health care
delivery system is two-folded: (a) to bridge the gap between primary and
secondary care by establishing specialized outpatient services to support
referrals from primary care levels; and (b) to upgrade medical technology at
all levels of care. Since the present system provides primary care through a
network of low-technology dispensaries of varying size, and secondary care is
only available at the overcrowded outpatient departments of tertiary
hospitals, a new network of ambulatory care facilities has been proposed--
rural outposts, rural dispensaries, urban clinics, reference centers, and
diagnosis and treatment centers--to provide care of progressive complexity at
different levels of the system. The rehabilitation and upgrading of
hospitals, and the provision of resources for their appropriate operation and
maintenance will also be given high priority under the proposed new system.
The investment requirements of the proposed reforms in Metropolitan Santiago,
Antofagasta, and Llanchipal would be financed under the HSRP.
3.25      A major element of the reform is the creation of two new outpatient
specialized care facilities: the Health Referral Center (Centro de Referencia
de Salud. CRS), and the Diagnostic and Treatment Center (Centro Diaanostico y
Teraneutico. CDT). The CR is an outpatient center of medium technological
complexity to be located in large cities (more than 100,000 inhabitants) as a
free-standing facility or attached to a Type 2 or 3 hospital. This facility
is proposed to serve as a specialized referral center for 4-6 urban health
centers, covering on average a target population of 150,000 to 250,000'
inhabitants. The CRSs would be staffed with physicians trained in the four
basic medical specialties (internal medicine, pediatrics, OB/GYN, and general
surgery), psychiatric personnel, dentists, and nursing and auxiliary
personnel, and would be equipped with basic diagnostic equipment (e.g., X-
rays), laboratories for basic tests, including electrocardiography. The CDT is
a specialized ambulatory care facility located in the principal city of an
HSA, endowed with higher level technology (e.g., laboratories for specialized
tests, sonograms, CAT-scanners, and ambulatory surgery equipment) for the
provision of complex diagnostic and therapeutic services, such as oncology,
neurology, and traumatology. These facilities would be attached to a Type 1
or 2 hospital. The CDT staff would include physicians trained in all clinical
specialties, dentistry, and nursing and auxiliary personnel.
3.26      The new system would serve a great number of patients in health
facilities closer to their residence in those places currently lacking them,
with less time and travel costs incurred by the patients. By making
specialized services available on an ambulatory basis, it is expected that the
users of public health services would be encouraged to seek care at local,
lower cost facilities rather than overcrowding outpatient departments at the
tertiary care hospitals. The shifting of patients from hospitals to less
complex facilities may result in a more efficient service provision.
Decentralization of Health Service. Deliverv
3.27      Based on the recommendations of the TAHRP studies on the structure
and operation of NDH, CSF, and ISP, and in line with its decentralization
policy, the Chilean Governmant has decided to remove all executive
responsibilities from the MDH's central administratior and to implement the
MON's legal mandate to delegate service provision to its executing agencies:
the 27 RSAs, the CSF, and the ISP. To this end, MOH would strengthen the
organizational capacity of its central administration and of its executing



19
agencies to implement the decentralization of health services delivery in the
most cost-effective manner. The implementation strategy would consist of:
(a) redefining the MOH mission, accompanied by a change in its structure;
(b) introducing management tools to facilitate delegation of authority, to
enhance supervision and performance evaluation of HSAs; and (c) strengthening
and upgrading three key organizational resources: staff (numbers, skills),
financial resource allocation and transfer mechanisms, and technologies
(information and communication systems) (paras. 4.12-4.32).
3.28      Under the proposed decentralized scheme, the MOHWs central
administration would have a normative and supervisory role. MOH plans to
effect the delegation of service delivery to HSAs by establishing annual
Service Provision Aareements (Comoromisos de Gesti6n) with each HSA,
estimating the type and number of health services to be provided, and the
level of resource allocation and transfer payments, as well as for determining
performance indicators to monitor the mutually agreed annual targets (see
para. 3.31). The process of effectively delegating authority from MOH's
central administration to the HSAs and its autonomous agencies would be
gradual and would take several years to complete. The speed of implementation
would depend on a change in MOH's organizational culture, the introduction of
a few legal changes, the development of necessary support systems, especially
the training of senior and middle level managers, and the upgrading of the
information system. The CSF would be transformed into an autonomous self-
financing state enterprise. The managerial capacity of ISP would be
strengthened to increase its operational effic4ency and effectiveness to carry
out its public health mandate. The detailed reforms and the project support
for their implementation are discussed in Section V.
Health Financina Reforms
3.29      The Government has decided to replace the PAP and the FAPEM
resource allocation and transfer systems, and reform the copayment system for
public health services, with the goal of addressing the issues discussed in
paras. 3.08-3.09. Alternative inpatient and primary health care payment
systems have been designed on the basis of the recommendations of various
health care financing studies that were conducted with the financial support
of the TAHRP and reviewed and approved by the Government in August 1991.  In
view of the complexity of the proposed reforms, the Government would pilot
test the new hospital services payment system in select HSAs (Atacama,
Valparaiso-San Antonio, Viffa del Mar-Quillote, San Felipe-Los Andes, and
Llanchipal) during the 1992/93 period (Action Plan; Annex 6). The pilot tests
are financed under the TAHRP; subsequent nationwide implementation would
require minimal additional financing. Meanwhile, the proposed per capita
payment system for primary care has been incorporated in a draft law (Ley de
Atencion Primaria) recently submitted for Congressional approval. On or
before June 30, 1993 the Government and the Bank would review the status of
the aforementioned pilot test, as well as the status of adoption of the new
primary care financing scheme and agree on appropriate subsequent actions
(Action Plan, Annex 6).
3.30      Per Cse Payment Associated with Diacnosis (PADs).  The current
system for transferring resources to the HSAs based on a fee-for-service
method (RAP) would be replaced with a Diagnostic Related Groups (DRGs)-type
per case system of payment associated with diagnosis (PADs) for secondary and
tertiary inpatient care for the majority of hospital patients. As a first



20
step toward designing the new system, a revised prospective fee schedule or
PPP (oacpo orosnectivog nor poestacfiC) was prepared based on the results of a
study on the actual production costs of 103 secondary and tertiary services
(these PPPs cover a large share of all individual services offered in the
public hospitals). While the PAP fee schedule covers all recurrent costs
except personnel (which, like investment, are now budgeted separately), the
PPPs would be based on the average full labor and non-labor input costs (other
than capital) for each of the services. The Government's rationale for going
from FAP to PPP is to adjust service fees so they cover all inputs except
capital, thus, eliminating separate payments for salaries. To encourage the
provision of quality health care rather than rewarding the over-provision of
services which generate revenue from fee-for-service payment, the definition
of outout in the public health system would involve paying for complete
treatments rather than for specific services. To this end, payments for the
discrete services would be grouped into fixed PAD payments for each diagnosis
as the basis for public hospital reimbursement.
3.31      As designed, the PAD system is based on an all-inclusive payment
rate for the care of a hospital patient over the course of the hospital stay
for 23 diagnoses. These 23 diagnoses represent 60 percent of all inpatient
stays, and were selected using the criteria of expense, frequency, and degree
of standardization of care of patients with such diagnoses. The PAD rate is
intended to cover the full cost of providing a norm of care based on expert
judgment (clirnicians in 13 selected hospitals were asked to identify the
services on the FAP list of 2,200 services which are requ!red in the care of
patients with each diagnosis, and the quantity of there services). For each
of the 23 diagnoses, therefore, an aggregate cost was estimated by applying
the prospective payment per service to each of the required services and
summing the total. Payment for the remaining hospital inpatient diagnoses and
specialized ambulatory services and procedures would be based on revised PAP
fees or PPPs until PADs for these services are established.
3.32      PADs would help link the planning process to resource allocation in
the production and delivery of services at the hospital level. The PPPs and
the PADs would be paid prospectively according to the Service Provision
Agreement, which becomes the planning instrument for the operation of the HSAs
(see paras. 6.16-6.17), and differences between services planned and those
actually provided would be reviewed at the end of each planning or payment
period. In the initial phase of the reform, however, the Government would use
only the non-labor input costs of the PPPo for transferring resources under
the new PAD system.  The MOH would continue to pay salaries until there is a
change in the law governing health personnel.
3.33      Prosnective Per Caoita P&amnt System For Primary Care.  The
resource transfer system based on a schedule of charges for individual
services (FAPEM) provided by primary care facilities at the municipal level
would be replaced by a fixed capitated rate system for paying the full primary
care of enrolled patients. On the basis of actual FAPEM outlays from a sample
of municipalities, the basic capitation rate would be set prospectively to
cover the full cost of a norm of care for each of four categories of primary
care (child care, maternal care, adult care, and oral hygiene). The estimated
number of users of each primary care service would be multiplied by the annual
recommended norm of visit frequency and services per user. The rate includes
the labor costs of providing the recommended level of services, adrinistratlve
costs, and a percentage allowance for non-labor input costs such as



21
pharmaceuticals. The estimated total costs of a primary health facility would
be converted to per capita costs by dividing by the area population. This
mechanism would offer providers an incentive to maintain the quality of
services rendered and to expand the number of affiliates.
3.34      Cooavment Systems.  The Government is adjusting the boundaries of
the income categories A,B,C and D for classifying FONASA beneficiaries, so as
to increase the number of affiliates who would have to pay copayments (see
para.4.09). The Government would not charge FONASA beneficiaries more than
what they are now paying in order that copayment percentages would be reduced
to offset fee increases the'. may result from the introduction of the PPPs and
PADs systems. Specific proposals for modifying the FONASA cost-sharing
arrangements are being reviewed, e.g.; copayment percentages, protection of
FONASA beneficiaries from medical expenditures too high relative to their
incomes possibly through FONASA loans to spread the cost over time, and total
catastrophic protection or zero copayment beyond some expenditure ceiling. To
redistribute some resources froli public hospitals, which generate high
revenues from FONASA beneficiaries' copayments and fees charged to private
patieuts, to those hospitals which are not able to do so, the Government is
reviewing another proposal that would tax away for redistribution a fixed
share of the discretionary revenues earned by hospitals. Under review also is
the proposed requirement that fees for private patients be a constant mark-up
over the PADs or PPPs, with each hospital free to choose its own mark-up. The
Government has already changed public hospitals' rules for charging private
patients the full amount of fees for discrete services so as to induce
hospital directors to tap the private market.
3.35      The proposed health financing reforms would lead to a more
equitable allocation of resources across geographic areas at the primary care
level, and at the secondary and tertiary levels, resources would be allocated
on the basis of actual utilization. The reforms would replace the current
systems based on historical levels. Over time the proposed systems are
expected to provide automatic incentives for improving efficiency and
productivity, and increasing quality of care at the lowest possible cost.
Strengthening of the Public/Private Mix
3.36      The interrelation between the public and private sectors will be
strengthened by encouraging sale and purchase of services between the sectors.
In addition, the ISAPRE law is being reviewed in Congress with the goal of
encouraging the development of a fully transparent private insurance market,
and to ensure that ISAPREs continue to cover those affiliates that develop
chronic conditions and the elderly.
IV. ASSISTANCE STRATEGY FOR THE SECTOR
A. Bank's Role and Strateay
4.01      In the 1980s the Bank's involvement in the Chilean health sector
consisted of the health components of a Structural Adjustment Loan and a
social sector report that analyzed selected aspects of the health system. To
support the Government's vision of a modern, efficient health sector in the
19906, the Bank will participate actively through its lending and economic and
sector work.  Bank's assistance will stress, among other things, improvement
in the quality, accessibility and efficiency of health carG while maintaining



22
fiscal discipline. The Bank's major role will be to encourage the Government
to forge ahead with its analysis, pilot test, and subsequent implementation
of many policy and institutional changes, which are also of paramount interest
to health sector development in many other middle-income and developed
countries.
4.02      The Bank's lending assistance {to the sector is through a two-stage
operation. First, the TAHRP (US$27 mill$.on loan), approved in December 1991,
will assist the Government in responding to urgent, small hospital
rehabilitation needs in Metropolitan Santiago (e.g. repair of pavilions,
bathrooms, roofs, kitchens, laundry rooms, etc.) while supporting the
definition and pilot-testing of critical policy reforms for the entire
country. Second, a policy-based investment operation,the proposed HSRP would
assist in the implementation of chosen policy and institutional reform
measures and in financing investment requirements for the modernization of
health services delivery in Metropolitan Santiago, Antofagasta and Llanchipal.
In essence, a portion of the TAHRP served as the preparation phase of the
HSRP, complementing the Project PreparrAtion Facility Advance (PPF) of
US$750,000 (approved in August 1990), which financed the first stage of the
policy reform studies.
4.03      Through these operations the Bank would actively participate in the
policy discussions in the sector. Also, the policy reforms being adopted
would serve as a framework for mobilizing complementary resources from other
donors, as well as for the Government's own investments in other areas of the
country. In fact, other multilaterr.l and some bilateral institutions have
referred to the PPF- and TAHRP- financed policy reform studies, as well as the
subsequent Bank-financed implementation of the reforms as a major
justification for their financing in the sector. Thus, the Bank's involvement
encourages sector investments to be made in line with much-needed system-wide
policy reforms.
4.04      The Bank's economic and sector work would also support the analysis
of new health issues facing Chile. The Bank is currently preparing an Adult
Health study focusing on the demographic, epidemiological, financial, and
institutional aspects of chronic diseases and injuries in Chile. The Study is
expected to be completed in the second semester of 1992.
B. The Role of Other Donors
4.05      The Interamerican Development Bank (IDB) has been the principal
source of external financing for Chile's public health system in the past
decade and a half. In 1978, IDB financed a National Rural Health Program with
a loan of about US$41.3 million. Thereafter, it provided two consecutive
loans for the FNDR under which the health sector received in aggregate about
US$64 million from 1984 to 1990. Another US$84 million is programmed for the
next four years. These nationwide investments were, and will continue to be,
directed mostly to the rehabilitation of, as well as equipping primary health
care facilities and tvoe 3 and 4 hosoitals nationwide (para. 2.30).
4.06      Commencing in 1990, the IDB and the Bank began to coordinate their
respective plans and design of assistance programs for the health sector.
These institutions complement each other in planned area coverage and scope of
technical assistance for the sector. Particularly in the case of technical
assistance, the Bank and IDB have agreed to adopt in their respective project



23
areas, policies or systems designed under projects being financed by the other
institution. The national policy and institutional reforms being supported by
the Bank-proposed loan help justify the physical investments to be financed
under the IDB projects. The active participation of the MOH's Office of
Multilateral Credit in the Bank and IDB project preparation missions ensured
that both institutions work in parallel to assist the Government in the
definition of its national health strategy.
4.07      In June 1991, IDS approved a project of US$100 million (loan of
US$70 million) to finance the rehabilitation and upgrading of hospital
facilities in Iquique, San Felipe-Los Andes and Valdivia (covering about 5.2
percent of the population), as well as studies on management, information,
human resource, and facility maintenance issues in these areas.
4.08      The bilate':al sources of assistance include USAID, KFW, and the
Governments of France and Italy. In 1990, USAID approved a grant of US$10
million primarily to assist in strengthening the delivery of services,
management, and infoxrmation systems at the primary health care level. France
and Italy approved assistance totalling about US$20 million for the purchase
of ambulances and other basic equipment for some health facilities. The German
Government is providing assistance in three stages. The first two, currently
under implementation (about US$31 million), are financing the rehabilitation
of secondary level hospitals in seven HSAs (outside the IDB and Bank project
areas). A third phase (US$16 million) would finance the construction of ten
health care centers in Metropolitan Santiago and a specialized ambulatory care
center (CDT) in Temuco. This phase would complement the Bank-financed
investments in Metropolitan Santiago.
C. Lessons From Past Exoeriince
4.09      Since the proposed project is one of the first Bank projects to
initiate health sector reforms combined with investments for secondary and
tertiary care facilities, an extensive review of past experience was
undertaken examining 37 Bank-financed completed and on-going health projects
with diverse objectives and design. The majority of these projects focused on
construction of primary health care centers. Bank assistance for hospital
projects on a large scale has barely started, with two projects in the EMENA
Region, one in the East Asia Region, and another in the LAC Region (Chile
TAHRP). These four projects are in the early stages of implementation. An
effort was made to review the lessons learned by other development
organizations in financing health sector reform and hospital rehabilitation,
and other relevant empirical studies in and outside the Bank.!'
2/ XSources include (i) 37 SARs, PCRs, Audit Reports and Bank Board notes on
health projects in LAC, Asia and Africa; (ii) World Bank reports
including: Case studies of oroiect sustainabilitv: implications for colicv
=an  M2rations from Asian exoerience by Michael Bamberger and Shabbir
Cheema,  Ogerational Policy Review: Comliance with Loan Covenants (Report
No: 4090), and Population. health. and nutrition annual sector review for
1990; (iii) the following peer review articles: Can they get along without
us?: sustainability of donor-sumoorted health oroiects in Central America
and Agrica by Thomas Bossart, Problems of imolementation by Peter Bowden,
Recurrent costs in the health sector of develonina countries by Catriona
(continued...)



24
General findinas.  A number of the above Bank-financed health
projects have been affected adversely by the following factors:
(a) An overly ambitious and complex design, which overloaded
institutional capacity for project coordination and implementation;
(b) Lack of borrower's full commitment to the project, leading to lack
of compliance with loan covenants; the situation is aggravated whenever
there is a change in government, often leading to change in priorities;
(c) Lack of organizational design that lends itself to quick decisions,
throwing the project in a quagmire of bureaucratic delays. A number of
projects tried to counter this problem by creating a special project
implementation unit in the Ministry of Health. While this expedited
decisions, it also led to communication problems, jealousies, and lack
of cooperation from the regular public sector staff;
(d) Lack of sustainability once the Bank loan terminates because of the
borrower's inability or unwillingness to finance recurrent costs;
Ce) In the construction of health facilities, projects ended up with
poor quality construction because of lack of supplies, inexperienced
contractors, and inappropriate building designs for the project area.
In large projects, the physical construction component often
overshadowed all other project components in terms of planning, budget
allocation, training, and supervision. As a result, infrastructure was
often built but not put into operation; and,
(f) Failure to establish a long-term monitoring and evaluation system
with which to assess the full impact of the project. This system should
not only evaluate the number of physical achievements, but also the long-term
distributive impact the project has had on general welfare.
4.10      Meanwhile, successful Bank-financed projects were characterized by
built-in flexibility, allowing review and revisions as the project progressed;
involvement of highly-qualified staff; high project visibility; and a
significant level of public support for the government's initiatives.
4.11      Sector Reform and Hospital Prolects.  A more specific review of
health sector reform and hospital rehabilitation projects found that the only
successful projects were those which clearly defined the role of hospitals and
other lower level facilities within a well coordinated referral system. New
facilities and services must fit logically into the health care delivery
system and be consistent with the overall health policy for the country.
1/(...continued)
Waddington and Margaret Thomas, and The elace of local social realities in
develonment work by C.R. Willson-Pepper; (iv) project reports from other
development agencies including: the Inter-American Development Bank
Summary of ex-post evaluations of public health oroarame, the Netherlands
Development Cooperation, Hoseital based health care; evaluative summar. of
Dutch supported activities in the field of hospital-based health care
1975-128g and the Overseas Development Administration, Review of ODA'S
Experience with Hogsital Proiects.



25
Also, the impact of the hospital rehabilitation projects depends as much on
the functioning of the health system as on the hospitals. In projects where
the lower level facilities were strong and accessible hospitals were
efficient; improvements in the integration of health care delivery often
played a key role. In several projects, overutilization of newly renovated or
constructed referral hospitalb was reduced by restricting admissions to those
referred from the lower level. One project in particular found that by adding
three to five beds to health posts the number of nonessential referrals to the
hospitals was reduced.
4.12      Also it has been demonstrated that large scale investment irn
infrastructure is not sufficient to improve health sector performance;
complementary measures are needed. There should be sufficient health,
maintenance, and management personnel, whc are given specific tasks.
Supervisory systems should be carefully designed and supervision ratios should
be such that on-the-job training is facilitated. In line with this, a well-
chosen management information system must be established. By rapidly
detecting workers ano health facilities that fall behind or perform poorly,
the system can assist in maximizing health sector productivity. Should the
system not contain financial information on the project hospitals, agreements
should be reached with the respective government to obtain these data in order
to monitor the hospitals and evaluate the impact of the project.
4.13      The TAHRP Connection.   While the TAHRP was approved only in
December 1991, some lessons can already be gleaned from its implementation.
As of June 1992, about 98 hospital rehabilitation subprojects (small, urgent
works and equipment purchase) amounting to about US$17.0 million have been
approved for TAHRP financing. Of these about 14 subprojects have been fully
implemented. The decentralized decision-making process for setting subproject
priorities and allocating budget has been a most striking feat. The HSA's
responsibility for these decisions, as well as for the actual subproject
preparation, subsequent procurement arrangements, and management of subproject
execution is proving to be an important training for their participation in
the HSRP. Also, this involvement and the concrete availability of investments
are creating a climate of receptiveness for the anticipated reforms under the
HSRP. As regards the reform studies, the TAHRP continued financing for the
detailed design and pilot testing of their recommendations is allowing the
Bank to accompany the evolution of Government's sector policy choices.
4.14      The HSRP Design.  Considering the above experiences, the design of
the proposed project emphasized the following characteristics: the project
links the financing of priority investments to critical policy and
institutional reforms in the Chilean health sector. The infrastructure
investments would implement a new Chilean health care model based on the
recommendations of TAHRP-financed studies (paras. 4.22-4.25). While the
rehabilitation/reconstruction of health facilities would claim the bulk of
project financing, these investments per se would not be the project's only
focus. The project's support for the pilot-tests and implementation of policy
and institutional reforms defined under the TAHRP would be essential for the
adequate functioning of these facilities.   Furthermore, the project would
bolster the development of health personnel management skills and efficient
information systems to strengthen the referral network from the primary to the
tertiary care level. The project has built-in flexibility in that the design
of most activities allows a test period or a period of consultation with users



26
and/or beneficiaries, a review with Bankt'  involvement, and revisions as
neceosary.
4.15      The proposed project facility investments were based on an
extensive diagnosis of the needs of their intended beneficiaries and the
status of the referral system in each of the project areas. In designing
these facilities, the HSA's, which would be the local level project
implementers, would take into account, through consultations, the perceived
needs of the users (i.e., the nompital staff who have day-to-day contact with
patients from the beneficiary communities). Lastly, to facilitate project
decisions at the central level, a PCU which has now gained valuable experience
during project preparation of both the TAHRP and this project would continue
to coordinate and monitor project implementation. The PCU is fully integrated
into the MOH management structure and makes all decisions with active
participation of MOH department heads to ensure the latter's full involvement.
V. TH PROJECT
5.01      In line with the Bank's assistance strategy for Chile's health
sector, the proposed HSRP would continue to pave the way for implementation of
reform measures and assisting in enhancing the health care delivery system in
selected project areas. The major activities and investments financed under
the TAHRP and the HSRP have been programmed as shown in Annex 7. Hence, while
the pilot-testing of some reforms (e.g. changes in the health financing
methods) is being financed under the TAHRP, the HSRP would finance the
detailed design and gradual nationwide implementation of complementary reforms
(e.a. HSA Service Provision Agreements, information system upgrade, etc.).
5.02      An HSRP project document was prepared by the MOH and submitted to
the Bank in January 1992. The Project was preappraised in January/February
1992 and appraisal was carried out on June 22 - July 3, 1992. Negotiations
were held in Waslington D.C. on October 5 - 7, 1992. The Chilean Delegation
included Messrs. Hernan Vega, Chief of Investment and Public Credit, MOF;
Hector Sanchez, Adviser to the Minister of Health; Cristian Baeza, PCU General
Coordinator; Pedro Crocco, PCU General Coordinator (effective October 19,
1992); and Carlos Manzi, PCU Administration Coordinator.
A. Prolect Objectives. Rationale and Area
5.03      Prolect Oblectives.  The proposed project would assist the
Government to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of resource use in the
public health system, as well as improve the quality of health services in
selected areas. Specifically, it would:
(a) strengthen the decentralization of health services delivery
through reforms in MOHe mission and organizational structure, and enhance the
system of generating and transferring financing resources;
(b) upgrade the institutional organization and management capacity
for procurement and distribution of drugs and food supplements, quality
control of drugs and food products, as well as supervision of the public
laboratory network;
(c) improve the management and clinical skills of health personnel,
as well as the sector management and health information system; and



27
(d) implement a new health care model to develop specialized
ambulatory services at the secondary and tertiary levels, improve the
deteriorated conditions of selected hospitals, and fill the health services
gaps in eight HSAs in Metropolitan Santiago, Antofagasta, and Llanchipal.
These proposed actions would integrate health services delivery by effectively
supporting the primary care system, and increasing the responsiveness of the
health care system to the chanting needs of the population. The model would
also provide the bases for subsequent nationwide reorganization of the health
system.
5.04      Rationale_for Bank Involvement.  The project is in line with the
overall country assistance strategy to alleviate poverty within a tightly
managed fiscal policy. It would enable the Bank to accompany the Chilean
Government's implementation of critical sector reforms that are also germane
to health sector development in many middle-income and developed countries.
The significance of the Bank's involvement goes beyond the loan financing  e
Mf. The Bank's interactions with the Government, drawing from varied
experiences with other countries, has been viewed as providing helpful inputs
into sector policy decisions. Bank staff from the Latin America Technical
Department, the Asia Human Resources Divisions, and consultant specialists on
health issues have participated not only in the preparation of the project but
in intensive technical discussions with Chilean officials. The Bank would
help finance also a slice of the sector's investment program, complementing
the ongoing IDB and bilateral assistance, as well as Government investments.
Bank assistance in the project areas would benefit largely the indigent and
low-income population as these are the major usern of the public hospital
system (Annex 3 and para. 5.05i. The public hospitals in Metropolitan
Santiago also cater to low-income patients from other regions of the count:cy.
The improvement in the quality of health services of the public hospitals
would proceed in tandem with the implementation of an improved cost recovery
system desired both by the Bank and the Government.
5.05      Proiect Area.  The proposed project includes: (a) a national
program for technical assistance, specifically for the implementation of
sector policy and institutional reforms, training for management and clinical
skills improvement, and information system upgrading; and (b) a specific area
coverage, i.e., eight HSAs in Metropolitan Santiago, Antofagasta and
Llanchipal, for investments in health care facility improvements. The
characteristics of these HSAs and their health network problems are described
in Annex 3. Project inteiventions in the eight HSAs are illustrated in the
attached maps (IBRD #23753 and #23754). Approximately 40 percent (about 5.0
million) of the total Chilean population, mostly from the indigent and low-
income groups, would benefit from improvement in the quality of care in the
public hospital system in th'se project areas.
B.  MAin Features of the Proiect
5.06      The proposed project constitutes the second phase in the Bank's
lending assistance to the sector. Project components presented below are
described in detail in Section C. The project's four principal components
are: (a) Decentralization of Health Services Delivery; (b) Facility
Investments for a New Health Care Model; (c) Support for Special Programs; and
(d) Project Administration.



28
5.07      The DeMputralization of Health Bervices Delivery component accounts
for less than 16 percent of the total project cost, but is a critical feature
of the proposed operation.  It would support the reorganization of the KOH;
the implementation of the delegation of authority to the HSAs through a
Service Provision Agreement incorporating, among others, new financing schemes
and improved cost recovery measures; conversion of the CSF into an autonomous
agency; strengthening the ISP; training of sector personnel; and upgrading the
sector management and health information system. The project would finance:
consultant services (US$1.3 million); training (US$7.6 million); computer
hardware and software (US$15 million); and operating costs (US$19.5 million).
5.08      The Facility Investments for a New Health Care Model component,
accounting for 82.5 percent of the total project cost, would enhance the
integration of the health services delivery in eight HSAs by: (a) establishing
ambulatory care centers (CRS and CDT) at the secondary and tertiary level
complementing the primary care services; and (b) rehabilitating,
reconstructing, or constructing, as needed, hospital facilities and health
care centers to fill identified gaps in the health services delivery network.
The project would finance the investment and incremental recurrent
expenditures of the facilities shown in Table 5.1. Proposed expenditures
would consist of: civil works (US$140.1 million); goods and equipment (US$67.6
million); and operating costs (US$32.1 million). Also, the project would
finance consultant services (US$ 3.0 million) to assist the HSA directors and
staff to execute the project.
5.09      Supoort for Special Programs (i.e. Cervical Cancer Program and
Environmental Health Education Program) while accounting for less than one
percent of project cost, would support the Government's efforts to address two
of Chile's major health concerns - cancer and environmental pollution. The
project would finance equipment and operating costs for these programs.
5.10      For Proiect Administration, support for a PCU (1.5 percent of total
project cost) would be provided to assist the MOH to coordinate and manage
project implementation, provide advisory services to the HSAs, and undertake
monitoring and evaluation.
C. Detailed Proiect Descri2tion
5.11      The following sections describe the first three project components
including the detailed implementation strategy, activities, and financing
requirements. The issues being addressed by these project activities, as well
as corresponding Government strategy and policies are presented in Section
III. An HSRP Action Plan (Annex 6) summarizes the start/completion dates for
key activities discussed in this Section. The Project Administration
cc..onent is discussed in Section VIII (Implementation Arrangements).
Component 1: Decentralization of Health Services Deliverv
Redefinition of the NOH Mission
5.12      The MOH mission would be revised to focus on normative and
suervigory functions. Service delivery functions would be delegated to
organizational levels and service institutions that are closer to the users.
Specifically, the NOR central office would: (a) emphasize its responsibility
to formulate national health policies, strategies, programs and standards for



29
the purpose of guaranteeing all citizens the right to health care and ensuring
efficient use of resources; (b) ensure a comprehensive and harmonious
development of the Chilean health system; and (c) enhance the supervision,
evaluation and ongoing improvement of its strategies, programs and standards.
Thus, the KOH central office would no longer provide health services. This
dramatic shift reverses a conflict (i.e. responsibility for both oversight and
delivery of services) that has existed since the very first day of WOH
establishment. The project would support this change through assisting the
process of modifying the NOH structure and implementing the delegation of
authority to executing agencies, implementing a human resource development
program, and upgrading the sector management and health information system.
Details are explained below.
Ndification of MOH Oraanizational Structure
5.13      The proposed new MNH organizational structure (see organizational
chart in Annex 8) would consist of three divisions and an administration unit
reporting to the Undersecretary of Health: (a) the Health Programs Division
overseeing the definition of health norms and standards; (b) the Budget and
ilannina Division continuing the existing planning and budgeting function for
the human, financi&l, physical and data resources of the health sector, as
well as directing the evaluation of MOH institutional strategies; (c) a new
Operations Division created explicitly to facilitate and coordinate relations
between the HSAs and MOH in the implementation of the decentralization policy;
and (d) an internal Administration Unit consolidating all administrative
support functions. The Operations Division would be divided into five
sections with each one assuming responsibility for a number of HSAs. An
outline of the main functions of these Divisions is discussed in Annex 8.
5.14      Three Coordinating Committees would support MNH's proposed revised
mandate: (a) an Executive Committee presided by the Minister and consisting of
the Undersecretary and all Division Chiefs which would decide on health sector
strategy and policies including resolutions to emergency problems such as
labor conflicts, disease outbreaks, etc.; (b) a Develogment Committee also
chaired by the Minister and attended by the Undersecretary and the Chief of
the Budget and Planning Division which would analyze and decide on matters
related to sector quality, sector resource needs (i.e. human, infrastructure,
financial and technology) and sector investment allocations; and (c) an
operations Committee chaired by the Undersecretary which would decide on
operational issues with the Division Chiefs of the Programs, Budgeting and
Planning and Operations Divisions, including approval of the Service Provision
Agreements with the HSAs. Depending on the issues on the agenda each
comnittee would invite the Directors of the four autonomous services: FONASA,
CSF, ISP, and ISAPRES Superintendency.
5.15      The establishment of an Operations Division, and the three
Coordinating Committees responds to the challenge of making the decentralized
structure operational and ensuring a smooth implementation of the new policy.
The new Division would imply hiring eight new staff. The MNH has started to
create the Operations Division starting November 1992. Assurances were
obtained durino neaotiations that the new MOH structure and revised functions
would be in oneraticn on or before July 1. 1993. In addition, with project
assistance the MOH would prepare an amendment to Law No. 2763 of August 9,
1979 to ratify the changes in the MOH mission and organizational structure.
This amendment would require Congressional approval with simple majority. The



30
loan would finance about 45 man/months of consultant services (approx.
US$90,000) to draft the legal amendment and its detailed justification, define
the detailed administrative norms and procedures for the operation of the new
Divisions, and set the stage for staff hiring. Terms of reference for these
consultants were reviewed during appraisal and are part of the Project File.
The MOH restructuring would be accompanied by a training program for senior
management and professional staff in the areas of people management, decision-
making, information handling, strategic planning and team building. The
details of the human resource development program are discussed in paras. 5.21
- 5.28 below.
Deleaation of Authority to Executina Agencies (HSAs)
5.16      Service Provision Acareements with HSA.  The delegation of MOH
service delivery functions to the HSAs is proposed to occur through annual
Service Provision Agreements between the MOH and the HSAs on the type and
volume of services to be provided and X the level of payment. The key
concept guiding this mechanism is to link performance with allocation of
resources. Performance would be monitored through a mutually agreed upon set
of indicators applying a "management by exception" rule in which only values
falling outside a predetermined range are analyzed and corrective action is
taken. Considering that the Service Provision Agreement would be a now
experience for the MOH and the HSA management, its application would be
carried out gradually starting with a few selected HSA9. Implementation would
be initiated in 1993 in the five HSAs currently subject to the pilot test for
the new health financing schemes (para.3.29). Possible inclusion of other HSAs
in the initial year would depend on existence of appropriate managerial
capacity and suitable information base to allow a performance review. Results
of periodic evaluations of t3e Agreement's implementation would be taken into
account as it is progressively applied to the other HSAs.
5.17      The detailed performance indicators to be applied under the Service
Provision Agreement would be designed by the MOH with project support, i.e.,
about 29 man/months of consultant services would be needed to analyze and
recommend specific indicators, prepare the methodology and reference benchmark
data for the chosen indicators, draft a Service Provision Agreement, and
design the initial implementation. Terms of Reference for these consultants,
some of whom have already been hired, are part of the Project File. Annex 9
shows a sample of process, impact, and exogenous indicators being analyzed,
and the general plan for the initial implementation phase. Considering the
different ongoing efforts in Chile to estimate the cost-effectiveness ratios
of a series of interventions in the areas of smoking, cervical cancer, and
accidents; to determine the actual cost of the d4fferent programs in the MOH;
and to establish modern cost and financial accounting information systems
under the proposed project, the Government expects that by the Project's Mid-
term Review a proper assessment of the feasibility of introducing cost-
effectiveness criteria in the Service Provision Agreement can be conducted
(para.7.20). In the meantime, the Service Provision Agreement would not
incorporate cost-effectiveness indicators. During negotiations, the
Government presented to the Bank a guideline for the execution, including the
contents, of a prototype Service Provision Agreement. This guideline
(Comoromisos de Gestion. Seotiembre 1992) is in the Project Files. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the Government would start the initial
imolomentation 2hase of the Aareement in at least five NSAs no later than



31
May 15. 1993. and raview with the Bank the results of this phase no later than
December 31. 1993.
5.18      Autonomy for the CSF.  To address the problems discussed in
paras.4.14-4.15, the Government proposes to take the following actions and the
proposed project would assist in their implementation: (a) prepare the change
in the legal status of CSF to make it an autonomous state enterprise and
thereby minimize present administrative and financial constraints; (b) develop
a strategic plan clarifying its organizational mission and values, assessing
the opportunities and threats in its external environment, assessing the
strengths and weaknesses of its internal environment, identifying strategic
issues facing it, and formulating strategies to manage the identified
strategic issues; (c) update its information and communication systems and
develop the corresponding operational plans for optimal use of these
technologies in providing a customer-oriented service; (d) improve producti-
vity and lower costs through improved human resource management, warehousing,
inventory management, and transportation systems; and (e) review its credit
policies, billing and collection procedures, profit margins, and cost and
pricing policies to improve profitability. While the legal amendment is being
prepared and discussed, detailed designs would be prepared and, as necessary,
actions would already be initiated to simplify the CSF's operating procedures
and upgrade personnel skills and information systems. Detailed justification
and description of the above actions are part of the Project Files.
5.19      The project would finance consultant services (95 man/months;
US$240,000) to assist in the above activities. As indicated in the Action
Plan (Annex 6), assurances were obtained during neaotiations that no later
than June 30. 1993. the Government would furnish the Bank for its review a
draft CSF strategic plan including an action vroaram detailing the stens to be
taken for the conversion of the CSF into a public enterprise. The Government
and the Bank would review the imolementation status of this orocram including
the leatal framework of the CSF oraanization and functiong no later than
Seotember 15. 1993. Project assistance to CSF for training and information
and communications systems are discussed below.
5.20      Strenathenina the ISP.  The specific strengths and weaknesses of
ISP have been discussed in para. 3.15 and a complete analysis is available in
the Project File. To improve ISP's capability to carry out its quality
control functions the project would finance: (a) the purchase of equipment to
replace the obsolete or non-functional equipment in ISP's laboratories (US$1.9
million); and (b) consultant services (about 90 man/months; US$182,000) to
carry out: (i) a feasibility study for ISP to enter into a "joint venture"
with a firm which can provide capital and updated technology to improve ISP's
production functions; (ii) a program of modernization of ISP fee fixing,
administration, and collection, which would include updating of instructions
to fix fees and procedural manuals for fee collection; and (iii) a program to
improve ISP's supply system which would consist of improving procedures for
supply administration, inventory control, and warehousing. The Government
would furnigh the Bank for its review a draft of b(i) above no later than June
30, 1993 and of b (ii) and b (iii) no later than October 15. 1993, Also. the
Government would imolement the recommendations of the proarams under b (ii)
and (iii) no later than January 15. 1994 accordina to a timetable satisfactory
to the Bank (Action Plan. Annex 6). ISP would also receive assistance for
personnel training and upgrading of information system as discussed below.



32
muman Resources Develooment and Manaaement Programs
5.21      Essential for the success of MOH's decentralization policy is
training, managing and motivating the people who will guide and implement the
policy at the central level and at the level of the executing agencies.  The
proposed project would pay special attention to the development of the
organizational capacity of the public sector to train, retrain, absorb and
retain the required number of skilled senior and middle level managers.  It
would also strive to foster an organizational climate that helps managers and
other health workers to be productive and to derive satisfaction from helping
people in their q_ast for a healthy life.
A. Human Resources Develooment Prociram
5.22      The proposed project would support a Training Progtam to develop
human capital needed by the public health subsector in the short and medium
term.  NH and its four autonomous agencies, the HSAs, and the municipal
health services would be beneficiaries of the Program. Three types of
training programs would be offered: (a) senior management training; (b) middle
management training; and (c) clinical training. A fund of about US$7.2
million would be set aside to finance the training requirements of the
participating institutions over the six years of the project. The specific
training activities would not be pre-determined by the MOH. Nonetheless,
illustrative samples of training activities have been defined and are part of
the Project Files.
5.23      Four principles underlie the design and organization of the
TJraining Program: (a) provide support for the decentralization policy; (b)
ensure the effectiveness of training actions; (c) pursue efficiency in the use
of training funds; and (d) provide a stable structure and consistency with
M0H's mission and the goals of developing human resources. The Training
Program's decision criteria and administrative arrangements are summarized in
Annex 10. The participating institutions would present annually a set of
training projects using standard formats that would be evaluated according to
five transparent criteria. Three criteria would be related to national
priorities (level of care, inpatient vs. outpatient care, consistency with
national policies) and two criteria would reflect the priority and impact of
the projects as judged by the proponent (project priority and impact). An WOH
evaluation c-mmittee would rank the projects according to a pre-established
points system and recommend approval or disapproval. In line with the policy
of decentralizing decision-making, the points system would gradually assign
more importance to the priorities and the judgments of the proponents and less
weight to criteria that permit the central level to influence the evaluation
process. The details of the Training Program operational procedures are
contained in a Training Program Instructions Manual (para.7.05).
5.24      A Training Program Secretariat would be set up in the NOH staffed
by one full-time program manager, two part-time professionals and a full-time
secretary. The operational cost of the Secretariat is estimated to be about
US$460,000 during the project period. Annex 10 presents the Secretariat's
Terme of Reference which have been reviewed by the Bank and were found
satisfactory.   The settinci up of the Training Prociram Secretariat in the MOH
is a condition of loan effectiveness.



33
B. Human Resources Manapement Program
5.25      In order to foster an increasingly effective decentralization and
retain physicians in the public sector, two major functions would be
emphasized: appropriate and adequate staffing of health care delivery
institutions, and developing an effective organizational environment. Apart
from the strategic planning, management, and clinical training to be offered
under the project, the MOH would also aim to augment job satisfaction by
improving working conditions, communication systems, team work, team
leadership, work teams organized on the basis of performance and not status,
positive reinforcement, training and professional development.
5.26      The MOH would also institute a system of manpower planning and
review of the staffing patterns in all service delivery institutions. Current
staffing is based on a historical pattern and would be changed to reflect the
health needs of the target population. The project would finance a study to
develop a manpower planning methodology to determine the personnel structure
to be adopted by HSAs. The methodology would first be tested in a few HSAs
and then applied by the remaining HSAs. The terms of reference of this Study
is in the Project File. Consultant services needed to undertake the study and
the test would cost about US$115,000. Assurances were obtained durina
neaotiations that the results of this study and an action vrogram for the
imnlementation of its recommendations would be furnished the Bank no later
than June 15. 1993. The action oroaram would be carried out no later than
January 15. 1994 (Action Plan. Annex 6).
5.27      Current staffing patterns of all MOH service providers are fixed by
law. This includes the number anL type of staff by level of service. A
hospital director or an HSA director cannot hire additional staff except on
short-term contracts, or remove staff except for grave shortcomings in
performance, or increase efficiency by substituting or interchanging one type
of staff for another type. This rigid staffir.g system imposed by the rules
governing the civil service has been and continues to be a serious constraint
to increasing productivity. The ultimate goal of decentralizing the public
health sector is to change the HSAs into state enterprises with maximum
autonomy and self determination providing affordable quality care. A number
of project activities would put the public health sector on the road towards
reaching that stated goal. The project would be a bridge betweer the current
unsatisfactory situation and the desired situation of giving HSA or hospital
managers an unfettered opportunity to manage their resources efficiently and
effectively. It would develop the required support systems, i.e., skilled
managerial and technical staff capable of working with modern equipment,
creating an organizational climate fostering performance oriented work
behavior and team work, and modernizing and upgrading the physical
infrastructure and the equipment of the service delivery facilities.
5.28      In order to respond to the increased and varied activities that
would be generated under the project (institutional changes in KOH, CSF, ISP
and reorientation of the HSA delivery system), the Government has programmed
the creation of 1,340 new staff positions for the public sector and, under the
existing legal framework, a reassignment of approximately 4,500 staff
positions within their respective central departments or HSAs. The planned
areas of assignments of the new and reassigned staff, as well as the timing of
implementation are shown in Annex 11. Assurances were obtained durina
negotiations that not later than March 1. 1993 the Government would start



34
carrying out a proaram satisfactory to the Bank to recruit and reassian staff
(as shown in Annex 11). and review with the Bank not later than June 15 and
December 15 of each year startina June 15. 1993 the progress of carraina out
such grogLrm.  The MOH central office would undertake to hire new permanent
staff or reassign staff until the HSAs are legally empowered to do so.
C. Strengthen Suooort Technoloaies
5.29      Improvement in the quality and timeliness of sector information
systems would be a prerequisite to the successful implementation of the policy
and institutional reforms, especially for revised health financing schemes and
the Service Provision Agreements. This project would support the Government's
plan to strengthen the information systems through administrative reform,
introduction of computer-based information systems, and staff training.
Existing operational and administrative procedures need to be changed before
computerization can pay off, and staff need to be trained to understand the
potential of computers and become skilled in their use. These changes would
be carried out within existing legal framework during project implementation.
5.30      The project would thus support an Information Development Proaram
for the central MOH, the HSAs, the CSF, and the ISP. The Program would go
beyond the gradual procurement and installation of computers in sector
institutions. It would reform administration and streamline operations in
these institutions. Management leadership and staff cooperation would be
critical success factors in achieving the Program's objectives. Important
aspects of the implementation strategy are: (a) an initial design phase which
would include up-front planning, analysis, and design necessary to ensure
long-term integration of information systems and technology; (b) gradual
implementation of defined system priorities consistent with the absorptive
capacity of the participating institutions; (c) execution of agreements
between participating institutions and MOH to ensure the provision by these
institutions of adequate staff time, resources, and facilities for the
Program's implementation; (d) procurement by participating institutions of
qualified system engineering services to develop new systems; resulting
software would be owned by the institutions for use in many sites at no extra
cost; and (e) substantial investment in training to adopt the technologies and
work methods required by the new information systems.
5.31      The Programa would be implemented gradually over a four year period.
Basically two types of systems would be designed: a common system for all the
HSAs which would be centrally designed and complementary systems which could
be designed on a decentralized basis depending on the needs of each of the
participating institutions. The central design of the common systems however
would not be carried out by the NOH but by a sample HSA. After a test phase,
this design would be replicated in other HSAs. The PCU would be responsible
for coordinating the activities for the design of the common and
complementary systems. This coordination would be important to capture
obvious economies of scale in procurement, avoid unnecessary duplication of
efforts, and ensure compatibility in the information systems of the sector. A
corollary feature of the new program would be the modernization of the
telecommunication system through project-financed investments in new radio,
telephone, computer, and electrical power equipment. The modern system would
be important to carry and track messages, documents, distribution lists, and
pending actions between the NOH, the SEREMIs, the HSAs, CSF, and ISP.



35
5.32      The detailed institutional problems, program activities,
implementation schedules, and outcome ina cators proposed for the major
systeme to be developed in the MH0, the HSAs, the CSF, and the ISP are
discussed in detail in Annex 12. The total cost of the Informatics
Development Program is estimated to be about US$15.4 million of which
equipment would be about US$15.0 million.
Component 2: Facility Investments for the New Health Care Model
5.33      The project would finance facility investments for the
implementation of the new health care model as discussed in paras. 3.22-3.25
Eight HSAs have been identified as priority areas for investment: one in
Antofagasta (Region II, northern Chile); one in Llanchipal (Region X, southern
Chile); and six in Metropolitan Santiago. The facility and services problems
encountered in the project areas are summarized in Annex 3; detailed analyses
are in the Project Files. The following sections describe the implementation
strategy for the new model, and the costs of facility improvements shown in
Table 5.1. The implementation priorities and schedule are discussed in
Section para. 7.06.
Table 5.1 FACELrrY NDVESTMENTS             l
ACTIVIrY     CONSTRUCTIONMIQUIPMENT  REHABILITATION/  RBCOh SRUCTION/
NSA                                       BQUIPMBNT   BQUIPMDIT
CDT      CRS    HOSPITAL1/    HOSPITAL  HOSPITAL 2/
Norm         SIRee                                          / _n le2i
ca_n         SanBod    maP       .  
Beet           .      bi del     p        Del S&W" I/
OlMw    del Ode    alvo Mebin
wedat      d e        Phiekl
am& S- BLW    E*l                .                       BLo Lw,o2/  lPI
X-dA        LI't dd Rio  sR    eso Rea I/  Sotcto del Rio
Ad6-                                      A-&p-
LI   ~                       .        pweo M*et
- =           -
if NeM kepibl.
2/ Raphom tooM beeplab do. wID be d.inlIeIu
2/ habWht sM DueUnit
NhTROPOLITAN SANTIAGO
5.34      Metropolitan North HSA.  The principal solution chosen to address
the service deficits in this area is to replace the 142 year old San Jose
hospital (see Nap). Specifically, the project would: (a) reconstruct and
reequip the 400 bed San Jose hospital; (b) set up a CDT facility adjacent to
the reconstructed hospital; and (c) set up an emergency ward for adults in a
designated wing of this hospital. These activities would cost about US$49.6*
million. Total operation and maintenance budget of San Jose after
construction completion is projected to be US$10 million per year reducing



36
significantly the present US$14 million annual recurrent costs.
Implementation would not disrupt the existing poor services as the San Jose
Hospital has ample land to build the new hospital without stopping the
operations in the old one. The physical transfer of beds and equipment in the
new San Jose Hospital would be carried out in stages to minimize service
disruption. Also, the CDT would be in operation shielding the hospital from
outpatient demand.
5.35      Metrooolitan Central HSA.  The project would assist the
organization of the health care delivery system in this HSA. The project
would concentrate secondary care services in one establishment to avoid
unnecessary costs of duplicating staff and equipment maintenance, as well as
uncoordinated service to the users, both of which result partly from the
existing geographical location of secondary care services in this HSA. The
project would finance the: (a) establishment of a CDT to replace San Borja
Hospital's outpatient department by completing and equipping an existing
facility annexed to the Hospital's main building; (b) establishment of an
emergency service for adults in San Borja; and (c) construction and equipment
of a CRS in Maipu, twelve kilometers west of the San Borja. This CRS would
meet most needs for secondary care for the peri-urban population and would
refer the more serious cases to the CDT. (see Map).  The Asistencia Publica
Hospital would then be relieved from elective cases and could concentrate on
emergency services -mostly surgical- for the entire Metropolitan Santiago, the
role for which it was built and equipped. The investment required for the
above construction and equipment purchase would be about US$16.9 million for
the San Borja Hospital and an additional US$5.4 million for the CRS Maipu.
5.36      Metropolitan West HSA.  The reform strategy to address the service
deficits in this area would be to strengthen the ambulatory facility in San
Juan de Dios Hospital while establishing centers at the periphery. The
project would support: (a) the creation of a CDT in the San Juan de Dios
hospital; (b) establishing an emergency service in this hospital; and (c) the
construction and equipment of a CRS in Pudahuel at the junction of the two
main roads leading to Santiago from the West (see Map). These interventions
would cost about US$21.2 million.
5.37      Metronolitan East HSA. The target districts in this HSA are those
where the low-income population lives; i.e. La Reina, Peffalolen, and Macul.
These people seek secondary care at Del Salvador Hospital. This overcrowded
and underequipped hospital cannot meet the demand and the deficit translates
into delays and/or rejections. The objective is to redistribute the Del
Salvador Hospital bed capacity to a new facility located closer to the
residence of the beneficiaries, and at the same time improve critical sections
of the Hospital. Hence, an intermediate echelon in Peflalolen (Santiago
Oriente), about midway to the Del Salvador/Calvo Mackenna Hospital complex
would be established (see Map). This intermediate echelon would provide
secondary care, both ambulatory through a CRS and inpatient care at a new Type
IX hospital (Peffalolen, Santiago Oriente). The planned new hospital would
have 200 beds, more than half of which would be for maternity care. The Del
Salvador's bed capacity would be reduced accordingly. The new hospital would
also have an Emergency Unit and an annexed CRS which would cover the need for
secondary ambulatory care. These interventions would cost US$15.4 million.
The Del Salvador Hospital outpatient capacity would be strengthened through
the rehabilitation and reequipping of its emergency unit and other clinical
services (US$5.0 million).  Also, the project would finance the rehabilitation



37
of surgical wards and referral center of the Calvo Mackenna Hospital (US$3.0
million).
5.38      Metronolitan South HSA.  The survey of health care facilities in
this HSA showed the worst situation in the entire Metropolitan Santiago area
in terms of physical facilities, support infrastructure and medical equipment.
The strategy for this HSA consist of: At the central level: (a) construction
and equipping of a CDT in the Barroe Luco Trudeau Hospital, replacing several
operationally inefficient sections; and (b) rehabilitation and reequipping of
selected services in this Hospital's adult emergency, surgery, internal
medicine, and maternity departments. At the peripheral level, the following
investments would be necessary: (a) construction and equipping of a CRS to be
annexed to Bl Pino Hospital; and (b) reconstruction and equipping of the El
Pino intermediate hospital (see Map). The total investment cost would amount
to US$42.6 million.
5.39      Metropolitan Southeast HSA.  The reform strategy includes: (a)
upgrading the Sotero del Rio Hospital, with replacement and modernization of
critical areas, specifically: (i) establishment of a CDT in the Sotero del Rio
complex; and (ii) replacement of the surgical ward and remodelling of hospital
wards for private patients; and (b) the creation of a new 400 bed Type 2
hospital with an Emergency Unit and a CRS in the densely populated district of
San Ramon. The San Ramon Hospital would serve both the South and the
Southeast HSAs as it would refer patients to both the Sotero del Rio and, as
necessary, to the Barros Luco hospitals. Considering the communication and
transportation lines between these two hospitals, the San Ramon Hospital would
help shield these two major hospitals from increased demand for their services
(see Map). Investment cost would amount to about US$38.4 million. Because of
the creation of a new hospital complex, the operating budget for the whole HSA
is projected to double over a ten year period.
ANiTOFAGA
5.40      The only two major hospitals in the Antofagasta region (Hospital of
Antofagasta and Hospital of Calama) need to be medically self-sufficient
because they serve as reference centers to the adjacent regions in this HSA
(Iquique and Copiapo) (See map). While the outpatient departments of the two
major hospitals do not exeitly meet the description of CDTs, the CDT concept
could be implemented without additional infrastructure investments.
5.41      However, there are severe deficits of medical equipment that impede
the operation of secondary care facilities.  The situation is especially
critical in the Hospital of Antofagasta and the Hospital of Calama compared to
the lower level facilities. A comparison of present demand and supply for
services, projections of future demand, and simulations assuming several
levels of additional equipment showed that the projected services deficit
could be met with investment in replacement/new equipment costing about US$5.3
million which would be financed under the project. This equipment would be
used for the ambulatory services and for the inpatient sections of the two
hospitals. The equipment list, which has been reviewed and found satisfactory
by the Bank, is part of the Project Files.  The provision of new/replacement
equipment would improve the timeliness and precision of diagnosis, shorten the
average hospitalization stay, and reduce the need for Antofagasta's population
to travel to other cities for required medical treatment. Operating and



38
maintenance costs, estimated to increase by about 4 percent per year, are duly
considered in the projected operating budget of the Antofagasta HSA.
LLANCHIPAL
5.42      To improve the health referral system in Llanchipal (especially to
diminish the gap in secondary care), it would be critical to carry out a
physical-functional rationalization of the Puerto Montt Hospital and the
Castro Hospital (see Map). The proposed upgrading of the Puerto Montt
hospital would enhance its diagnostic-therapeutic capacity, increase its
secondary care coverage, diminish the risk of intrahospital infection, and
augment the productivity of its general services and, thus, the
complementarity of health care services in the region. The proposed project
interventions in this hospital would complement the upgrading of the primary
care facilities and lower level hospitals under the IDB-financed FNDR project.
The proposed project would finance: (a) construction of an additional surgical
block; (b) replacing the heating and laundry systems; and (c) replacing most
of the advanced medical equipment. Refurbishing of critical sections of the
Castro Hospital would also be financed. These interventions would amount to
about US$9.5 million.
Facility Maintenance
5.43      High priority would be placed on the maintenance of existing and
new facilities that would be financed under the project. The maintenance
requirements, estimated at about 4 percent per year of the replac6-. ent value
of infrastructure and 3 percent per year of that of the equipment, would be
financed under the project. Maintenance would be carried out either through
the existing arrangements in the HSA's with installed capacity or
subcontracted to private services. The Government is currently carrying out
an IDB-financed Study on the National Engineering and Maintenance System for
the Health Sector. Recommendations of this study are expected to lead to a
more efficient and flexible maintenance organization for health facilities
nationwide. The Study is anticipated to be completed by May 1993. A summary
of the Study's terms of reference are part of the Project Files. The
adequacy of the facility maintenance budget would be assessed during the
annual budget reviews and the Project Mid-Term to take into account the
results of the IDB-financed Study.
Conwonent 3: Special Proarams
Cervical Cancer Program
5.44      To reduce the high incidence of women mortality due to cervical
cancer, the MOH Cervical Cancer Program (CCP) would be strengthened to: (a)
cover women aged 25 to 64 years, focussing on those aged 35 years and over;
(b) ensure the effectiveness of the diagnostic procedures through quality
control, supervision and training; and (c) ensure timely treatment of detected
cancer cases. At present the program covers approximately 20 percent of the
target group (about 2.4 million). By 1995 the CCP aims to cover about 50
percent, and by the year 2000 about 80 percent. It is estimated that the
Program could attend to about 90 percent of the detected cases either through
ambulatory services or inpatient surgery. The other 10 percent would be too
advanced and mdy receive only palliative therapy. Projections of the demand



39
for the services that would be required for cervical cancer prevention program
(e.g. consultations, laboratory tests, surgery) are in the Project Files.
5.45      The project would allocate about US$2.2 million for the CCP to
finance: (a) operational costa for pap smear tests in primary health care
centers with trained staff (matrona) in the country's 26 HSAs; (b) equipment
and operational costs to increase the capacity of 16 laboratories of
cytopathology for the analysis of pap smear tests; (c) equipment and
operational costs of colposcopy and cervical biopsy in the 26 HSAs, and
anatomopathology in 24 HSAm to strengthen the capacity for diagnosis of women
with positive pap smears; (d) equipment and operational costs of hospital
gynecology services for treatment of detected cancers in the project areas;
and (e) equipment for a national reference laboratory to be set up possibly in
the Hospital Del Salvador in the Southeast HSA. The standards used for
determining the scope of project support, and the location of the laboratories
to be financed are summarized in Annex 13.
Anvironmental Health Education Proaram
5.46      To address the growing concern about the adverse health effects of
air, wat .., and food contamination, the project would support a two-year pilot
environmental health education program. The project would primarily finance
an information and education program (US$202,000) on the prevention,
management, and control of environmental health hazards.  The pilot program is
anticipated to have a multiplier effect on the development of public awareness
of the environmental health problems (their causes, severity, and preventive
measures). The pilot program would be implemented by the NGHIS Environmental
Health HSA (Servicio de Salud de Ambiente) in Metropolitan Santiago.
5.47      The pilot education program would be carried out in four
communities in Metropolitan Santiago (San Jose de Maipo, Pirque,
Independencia, and Las Condes). The program would train concerned government
authorities, technicians, and field monitors (monitore) on the serious health
effects of environmental contamination. The field monitors would be
representatives of dwellers in the selected communities. At the end of the
vwo year pilot phase, about 120 technicians and 1,880 field monitors would
have been crained. An evaluation of the program would be carried out by the
last quarter of 1994. The different phases of the pilot program and
implementation plans are in the Project Files.
VI. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Project Coest
6.01      The total project cost is estimated at US$298.8 million, including
taxes and duties (US$55.2 million) witI a foreign exchange component of about
US$124.6 million, or 42 percent of total project cost. The base cost amounts
to US$243.7 million (January 1992 prices). Project costs by component are
summarized in Table 6.1. Detailed cost tab.Les are shown in Annex 14.
6.02      Contina.necv Allowances.  Total contingencies of US$55.1 million
represent 23 percent of bass costs. Physical contingencies (US$15.2 million),
about 6.0 percent of total base costs, assume: (i) 5 percent for consultant
services, good", equipment, and other operating costs; and (ii) 10 percent for



40
TAM2 "s CB= - =A1.T BEaIte NPOEM pOAwE
T 0S-SA3T OsooTAYIZ
D tIS Tha dll
loa Nhi.U                 Totatl bmCEarnl
C- DEGnT3ZIAZoK 1EZX
umvz DEYv
A. MO03 SloeMeUi.UwI
3a.rpaluUouSt9dp                                          1,45                      143            0            0.1
?~udpoe PaTa lUataSia                                     107            0          107            0            0.
-lab" 1 d OhaOt. cp      at           i P0                                0          690            0           0.5
. Catsa Supply AdCp(CI
-Coua3gsaIUaaal.abft_da                                    3219           0          219            0           01
-lablorlssioC .ca C    Cor l                             3.74             0          514            a            1.
C. fthleals thIbmdtate(U"
-CoasI  Seriomt,for diu"                                   in             0          19             0           0.1
-Tralsag                                                     7            0            70                        0.0
a0       1,           I,6           t00           0.?
03a. op.. C.o316 55                                           0          53s            0           0.1
D. 8P hoj  Euatios sad M.oltowta                              325            0           953            0           01
L  UppodlegolatoWmioa Syhstem
- M  Ui8p   c                                               a        1O.085       13.00          100             A.4
-Talmg;                                                    245          12J          US9           52           0.2
-1       ad Obot Cpst. Coa                              1A.9S             0        11.9U1           0           4.9
P. 7Tri1figwesPooms   cONXIrSM)
-C1  W    i_sssom e"                                     208.0          0.0        201.0            0           0.1
-XqlP.41                                                    s            4            7            7           0 0
-TtuIsjiCovmWeA                                          5,7U1            0        5.7J             0            24
-labia. sad O ut tOp. -Coal                                358            0          us             0           0.2
6U1?OTAI.                                                     25B487        149          58.91            9           U
U NMM WRAITH CA3N MODIL
REIaARmUCrURu
A. CA$
-Dsdp a  suMoio                                            S20            0          S20            0           0.2
-CmIl Worb                                               9.861        4.*         14.087           30          576
-Goods                                                       0        7.655        7.03           100            5
-S larsad Od et Opar. Coa                               16.40             0        16.l40           0            6.7
-DWup aSapoa                                             107              0        1.27?            0           0J5
-CbiWerb                                                23            6M0        A275              24           11.0
-Goods                                                       0       20.126       20.31           100           Si
-kdas4ad rbtOpst.Coo                                     5.U72            0        -5.572           0            27
C. MolulX Rhblil Wiles
-D3o   A SupaerIoa                                         651            0          651            0           0.
-Q0Wefts                                                12.512        7.362        17.874          30            7.S
Goods                                                       0         9.$7         9.377          100            5.
-Ul4o"AdOtbOpa". Ca"                                     1.310            0         1510            0            03
Dodp a gupuvbka                            as~82          0          a2n            0           0.5
-n    i  gt lupaeloa
-ChUWotb W1.900                                                      13.671       4.571            70           16.7
-Goods                                                       0        117         15.778          100            7.?
-labOam sadt Opat. Co                                    2.41S            0        2.418            0            L0
-D pAagoluptablos                                           U4            0           *4            0           0.0
-covlWorb                                                  961                     5.67            50            2.5
-Goods                                                      0         3.50          150           100           0.5
-lisainotd tOprt.Coa                                       5S5            0          563            0           0.2
p. MSA Urojad maapm"t Slppou                                 2552             0        2S52S            0           L1
SUOTAL                                                        110.752       MM77        199              44           8s
DL SPEcIALiROaRAMS
A. CMI CCoa foorhga
-Iqulpuat                                                    0          972          "            100            0.4
-labia *ad Otbat Op. Coat                                  97S            0          978            0            0.4
-Consialt siavMe                                            48            0           48            0            0.0
-Goods                                                     127            0          127            0            0.
SURTOTAL                                                        1153          97         2S12            46            0.
TV. NROORMADMDI1STRA7ON
A. PCU
-V*ab .d Bqulp.aa                                            4           S8           62           94            0.0
-Trlsibg/ PAld Vldsm                                        99           i6 16                     40            0.1
-laod O MM  tow Opr. Cmd                                 5.440            0          .4t0           0            L4
a  Aatbdg                                                      162            0          162            0           0.1
SUEOTAL                                                        3.705          124         7.J9            7            1.6
Totaal NAME" Co                                         19"?         104.56       24a677           45          n00u
lbytu' Coadsotb                                           8.481        6675       1Y.11
Pd" Coadapada.                                           20           13.546       59.96
ToWa  4oj  Cow                                          174.3U0      124.1?      27.979



41
civil works.  Price contingencies (US$40.0 million), about 16 percent of base
costs, assume: (i) a projected local inflation rate of 15.1 percent for 1992,
17.7 percent for 1993, and 17.9 percent per year for 1994 to 1998; (ii) a
projected price increase for foreign costs estimated in US dollars at 2.8
percent for 1992, 3.9 percent for 1993 and 1994, and 3.8 percent for 1995 and
thereafter; and (iii) estimated changes in the exchange rate.
6.03        R,ties and Taxes.  Locally procured goods are subject to a value-
added tax (VAT) of 18.0 percent. Imported goods such as medical and
industrial equipment, vehicles, and computers are subject to 11.0 percent of
customs tax and 18.0 percent of VAT. Total cost of the project includes
US$55.2 million of local taxes.
B.  Finapcing Plan
6.04      The proposed loan of US$90 million would finance 37 percent of
total project cost net of taxes and duties. It would cover US$48.8 million,
39 percent of foreign exchange expenditures, and about US$41.2 elillion or 28
percent of the estimated local costs, net of taxes and duties. The Government
would finance US$153.6 million or about 63 percent of the total project cost,
net of taxes and duties, and 100 percent of taxes and duties (US$55.2
million). Table 6.2 shows the financing plan by project categories.
Table 6.2: FINANCING PLAN
(uS$ million)
TOTAL           Financina
PROJECT
IBRD    Government
A. Civil Works, except             122.9            48.7          74.2
5 CRS                           17.1            0.0           17.1
B. Goods except info. equip.        70.5            36.1          34.4
C. Information system equip.        1S.0             0.0          15.0
D. Consultant services inc           8.4             1.4           7.0
for engineering design
S. Trainirng Program                 7.8             0.0           7.8
F. Operating Cost                   52.8            0.0           52.8
G. Project Administration            4.3             3.8           0.4
TOTAL                           298.8           90.0          208.8
N.B. Government financing includes local taxes and duties (US$55.2 million).
C. Recurrent Costs Arisina from the Proiect
6.Os      Total recurrent costs arising from the project activities would
amount to about US$52.8 million or 18 percent of total project cost. The



42
incremental recurrent costs that would continue beyond project completion
would amount to about US$20.0 million per year, i.e.,: (a) local salaries with
an annual cost of about US$13.8 million; and (b) other operating costs,
including maintenance, with an estimated profile of US$6.0 million per annum.
These costs represent about 2.3 percent of the 1992 MOH budget. The Ministry
of Finance (MOF) has reviewed the implications and agreed with the programmed
expenditures. Assurances were obtained durin. neaotiations that no later than
Aucust 31 of each year durincr the execution of the orolect. the Government and
the Bank would exchange views on the availability of staff and the amounts
reauired to carry out the nrolect for the followino year. Also. not later
than October 1 of each year durina project execution. the Government would
furnish the Bank for its comments the oronosed oublic seatcr health budoet for
the next succeeding year. The incremental financial needs would be offset
partly by: (i) increased revenues from the higher number of paid beds in
public hospitals, improved cost recovery system, and more accurate cost
accounting of services, among others; and (ii) savings from more efficient
management of personnel and supplies, reduced demand for inpatient care due to
availability of well-equipped ambulatory services, and reduced average length
of stay in hospitals.
D. Proiect Sustainability
6.06      The required financing for the proposed project including the
incremental recurrent cost and the detailed expenditure schedule has been
reviewed extensively and agreed to by the MOF. In fact, the Government chose
to finance a higher share of the project cost reflecting its ability to absorb
a significant demand for both local and foreign exchange resource
requirements. Chile's steady economic expansion and record of tight fiscal
discipline bode well for its continued capacity to sustain the required
expenditures beyond the project period. Durina neaotiations. the Government
furnished the Bank a Health Policy Letter outlinina the Government's medium-
term aoals for the sector. the sector reform 2roaram. and the imolications of
these reforms on sector financina (Annex 15). Also, a financial simulation
model developed for the sector using different assumptions for macroeconomic
and health financing parameters showed that projected public financing for the
sector to the year 2000 could support the incremental recurrent expenditures
implied by the programmed sector investments (including donor and budget-
financed projects; see Annex 2). The MOH would use the model to monitor and
update annually the implications of programmed sector investment expenditures
on the overall sector budget.
VII. PROJ83CT IMpL8MGATION
A. Prolect Manaaement and Coordination
7.01      The KOH would be responsible for overall implementation of the
project. To assist in the oversight of project implementation, provide
technical assistance to the HSA staff, and monitor and supervise the project
activities to be implemented by the MOH central office, the CSF and the ISP,
the organisation and functions of the existing PCU in the MOH were amended.
The PCU was originally created by Ministerial Resolution Nos. 2087 and 1317
dated December 31, 1990 and August 29, 1991 to coordinate the implementation
of the TAHRP and to continue the preparation of the HSRP. IDurina
negotiatons. the Government furnished the Bank Ministerial Resolution No. 530
dated September 25. 1992 amending the previous Resolutions in order to include



43
the PCU responsibilities under the HSRP. and to place the PCU under the
supervision of Budaet and Planning Division of the MOH. The new organizational
chart and terms of reference of the PCU are shown in Annex 16. The PCU
consultant staff would be hired on a need basis; the number of PCU staff, is
programmed to decline gradually during the implementation period.
7.02      The restructured PCU would be headed by a General Project
Coordinator who would be assisted by four unit heads in charge of the
following areas: operations; design and technical supervision; institutional
development; and administration and finance. During implementation, the PCU
would comprise a total of 6 senior level professionals, 30 technical staff,
and 7 support staff. The major functions of the PCU would be to: (a) direct
and provide technical assistance, as well as monitor and supervise the
implementation of the different components of the TAHRP and the HSRP; (b)
monitor the implementation of the policy and institutional reforms; (c)
supervise the goods and services procurement by the HSAs, and coordinate the
financial flows for project implementation; (d) implement the pilot programs
financed under the TAHRP; and (e' provide the Bank with a quarterly report on
the physical and financial status of project implementation (Annex 16).
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would
maintain the PCU lith a Proiect Coordinator and staffing satisfactory to the
Bank. The revised PCU terms of reference and the detailed operational
directives related to PCU responsibilities for project implementation are
contained in a PCU Operations Manual reviewed and agreed with the Bank.
Government's adoption of the PCU Operations Manual is a condition of Loan
effectiveness.
7.03      The executing agencies, i.e. HSAs, CSF, ISP, FONASA and the ISAPRE
Superintendency, would be responsible for the execution of their respective
project subcomponent. The MOH would sian an umbrella Subsidiary Aareement
with each of the executing aaencv covering aeneral obligations anplicable to
all oroiect comoonents in which these institutions are involved with terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  The signing of the umbrella Subsidiary
Aareements would be a condition of first disbursement for each of the
participating institutions. In additign. a separate oroiect aareement would be
Sian sd_f-ore disbursing for each subcomoonent (e.a. specific hospital work.
eguipment purchase) to be imolemented by the participating institution. Under
the Subsidiary Agreement the respective institution would be responsible for
the execution of the specific subcomponent and the MOH would transfer as a
grant the Loan proceeds required to finance such subcomponent. The specific
counterpart contribution of the institutions would also be specified. Drafts
of the umbrella Subsidiary Agreement and specific project agreement were
reviewed by the Bank. The PCU would furnish these institutions with an HSRP
Imolementation Manual, which provides the technical norms, administrative,
budgetary and procurement procedures to be followed by the institutions. A
draft of the HSRP Implementation Manual was reviewed by the Bank. Its
adoption by the Government is a condition of Loan effectiveness.
7.04   To guide the implementation of the Environmental Health component, the
Government prepared an Environmental Health Program Imolementation Manual to
be used primarily by the Environmental Health HSA. This Manual describes the
this HSA's responsibilities under the HSRP including budget allocation
procedures, accounting and auditing norms, reporting, and use of standard
forms. The draft Manual was reviewed by the Bank during negotiations. It
adoption by the Government is a condition of Loan effectiveness.



44
7.05   With regard the Training Program, the Bank reviewed during appraisal a
draft Training Proaram Instructions Manual which contains the indicative
training areas for each participating institution, as well as the technical
criteria and operational guidelines that should be followed in the application
and approval procedures under the Program. Government's adootion of the
Training Instructions Manual is a condition of Loan effectiveness.
B. Implementation Schedule
7.06      The project is planned to be imp3emented over a six year period,
i.e. 1993 - 1998. Most of the key activities under Component I
(Decentralization of Health Services) are anticipated to be compieted in the
first half of the project period. The target dates for start and/or
completion of these  activities are reflected in the Action Plan (Annex 6).  A
detailed implementation schedule for the Information Program is shown in Annex
12. With regard Component II (Faci.ity Investment for the New Health Care
Model), the Government has prepared an implementation plan for the execution
of civil works summarized in Annex 17. The preliminary drawings of the CRSs,
CDTs, the El Pino Hospital and the San Jose Hospital have been reviewed and
found satisfactory by the Bank. Schematic plans for the San Ramon and
Santiago Oriente Hospitals were reviewed during negotiations; preliminary
drawings would be submitted for Bank's approval during the first semester of
1993. The sites selected for the new facilities are satisfactory to the Bank.
The Bank has received proofs of site acquisition and surveys for most of these
facilities. The construction of CRS El Pino and CRS Cerro Navia would start
in the second semester of 1993; the rest would begin in early 1994. The
construction of the CDT Sotero del Rio, CDT San Juan de Dios, CDT San Jose,
and CDT San Borja Arriaran would start in the first semester of of 1994.
Hospital construction/reconstruction would start in 1995.
C. Procurement
7.07      The PCU would be responsible for monitoring all procurement
activities and for ensuring compliance under Bank Procurement Guidelines. All
bid documents and contract awards to be carried out by the NOH, HSAs, CSF and
ISP for their respective project activities would be subject to prior review
and approval of the PCU. Since there are no specific procurement laws in
Chile, the bidding documents for both international and local procurement
agreed with the Bank regulate the bidding procedures. The International
Competitive Bidding (XCB) and Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) standard
documents for works and goods were reviewed during negotiations and found
satisfactory by the Bank. Procurement arrangements are shown in Table 7.1 and
an estimated procurement timetable is shown in Annex 14, Table 6.
7.08      Civil Works. Civil works for the construction of the CRSs, CDTs and
hospitals as well as rehabilitaiton of hospital facilities would be managed by
the HSAs. Bank-financed civil works contracts valued at US$5.0 million and
above per contract would be awarded through ICB. Bank-financed civil works
valued at less than US$5.0 million and more than US$50,000 per contract
totalling about US$31.7 million equivalent would be awarded through LCB
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Civil works less than US$50,000 per
contract totalling about US$2.0 million, which would be awarded following
local shopping procedures, would be financed entirely by the Government.



45
Table 7.1: PROCURIUMNT ARRANGBMBNTS (a)
(US$ million equivalent)
ICB      _LC       Other    N     Total
Civil works, except:        89.2        31.7   0.0      2.0     122.9
(36.7)      (12.0)                  (48.7)
- 5 CRS                    0.0         0.0   0.0   17.1       17.1
Goods except info, equip.   10.1        49.4  11.0      0.0      70.5
(5.4)      (26.4) (4.3)            (36.1)
Infozmation system equip.    0.0         0.0   0.0   15.0        15.0
Consultant Services
-Studies/Monitoring        0.0         0.0   1.5     0.0       1.5
and Evaluation                              (1.4)             (1.4)
-Eng.Design & Supervision  0.0         0.0   0.0     6.9        6.9
NSA Proj. Management
Training                     0.0         0.0   0.0      7.8       7.8
Operating Costs (b)          0.0         0.0   0.0   52.8        s2.8
Project Administration (c)   0.0         0.0   4.3      0.0       4.3
(3.8)             (3.8)
Total                     99.3        81.1  16.8  101.6    298.8
(42.1)      (38.4) (9.5)    0.0     (90.0)
(a) Totals include taxes and contingencies. Amounts in parentheses show
allocation from loan proceeds.
(b) Includes salaries of staff and maintenance costs.
(c) Includes salaries of PCU staff, operating costs, and miscellaneous
equipment and supplies totalling about US$240,000.
7.09        Gagds and Materials. The bulk of goods and materials consiets of
hospital equipment and spare parts, vehicles, and office equipment and
supplies. Because of Chile's open market conditions, most reputable foreign
suppliers of hospital equipment are represented in the country assuring a fair
amount of competition and on site capacity for maintenance uervices for the
goods to be purchased under the project. Also, because of the project's
decentralized implementation in eight HAs, equipment procurement would be
mostly through LCB with average contract amount of about US$170,000. However,
purchases of similar types of hospital equipment and spare parts would be bulk
packaged as much as possible. Bank-financed goods and materials contracts
valued above US$250,000 per contract would be awarded following ICB with local
manufacturers being granted a preference for bid evaluation purposes in
accordance with the Bank Guidelines (May 1992). Bank-financed contracts
valued between US$250,000 and US$35,000 per contract totalling about US$49.4
million equivalent would be awarded following LCB procedures satisfactory to
the Bank. Local shopping procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank,



46
would be used for individual contracts valued at below US$35,000 per contract
(e.g. CRS, CDT, hospital, and PCU equipment and supplies) totalling about
US$11.0 million.
7.10        Servicea.  Consultants services for the PCU, the detailed design
studies under Component I (Decentralization of Health Services Delivery), and
the monit-rKng and evaluation studies for the Mid-term Review would be
contracted following Bank Guidelines (August 1981).
7.11        Prior Review.  The Bank's prior review of procurement
documentation for civil works and goods will cover all major procurement steps
(advertising, bidding documents, evaluation reports and award recommendations,
and contracts), and would apply to: (a) all contracts under ICB; (b) all LCB
contracts for works above US$2.0 million; and (c) for every year of the
project, the first LCB contract for goods above US$100,000 for each of the
participating HSA.  All other Bank-financed contracts would be reviewed exa
post in the field during supervision missions.  The prior review process would
cover about 80 percent and 30 percent of the total value of Bank-financed
contracts for civil works and goods, respectively.  These review levels are
appropriate taking into account Chile's open market conditions (para. 7.09)
and the fact that standard bidding documents approved by the Bank would be
used for LCB procurement.
D. Status of Preparation
7.12        The Government would be ready to start the local bidding
procedures for civil works and equipment purchase in the last quarter of
CY1992. Some of these activities would be eligible for retroactive financing.
The Government has also progressed in hiring consultants to prepare the
detailed design of the institutional reforms and some of the civil works.
S. Disburseents and Accounts
7.13        The proposed project is expected to be completed by December 1997
and the loan fully disbursed by June 1998, i.e. over a period of six years in
line with the Bank's average country profile for Chile. The estimated loan
disbursement distribution is shown in Table 7.2; the quarterly disbursem nt
profile is shown in Annex 14, Table 7. The operational experience gained by
the PCU since October 1990 for the preparation and subsequent implementation
of the TAHRP would facilitate disbursement flows of the loan proceeds.
7.14        The PCU would manage the disbursement of the loan funds. The PCU
would oversee the authorization of the transfer of required loan financing to
the budget of the HSAs, the CSF, and the ISP. The PCU would review and keep a
summary of the disbursements to facilitate requests for Bank reimbursements of
the special account and subsequent loan audit. The HSAs, the CSF and the ISP
would keep all the records and supporting papers required of each expenditure.
Annex 18 illustrates the different steps anticipated in the budget,
procurement, and disbursement cycle involving the PCU and the participating
institutions. Appropriate models of internal Government memoranda and forms
needed to obtain the required decisions to allocate funds from one level to
the next have been drafted and incorporated in the PCU Operations Manual.
7.15        Withdrawal applications for expenditures under contracts valued
below US$2.0 million for civil works and US$250,000 for goods would be based



47
on statements of Expenditures; supporting documentation would be retained by
the PCU for review by Bank supervision missions and for annual audits. All
other disbursements would be fully documented.
7.16        SRecigml Accgut.  To facilitate timely project implementation, the
Government would ostablish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, a Special Account in US dollars at the Central Bank
of Chile. The Bank would make an initial deposit of up to US$5.0 million, the
average four month project financing requirement, to the Special Account upon
request. Project expenditures would be monitored by the PCU. The PCU would
request replenishment of the Special Account on the basis of the standard
disbursement procedures.
Tale 7.2: DISSURSSMENT OF IBRD LOAN
Amount of the
Loan Allocated               Percent of
(Expressed in              Bxpenditures
ate2ry                         Dollar Eouivalent)        to be Financed
Civil Works (except 5 CR8)         43,900,000               50
Goods (except inform. equip.)      32,500,000               70
Consultant Services                 1,200,000              100
for studies/monitoring
and evaluation
Project Administration              3,400,000              100
Unallocated                         9,000,000
Total                              90,000,000
m~~ mz                   EML E
FY9    FY97   FY98
Annual                  5.6   20.8  24.0   18.9   14.3    6.4
Cumulative             5.6   26.4   50.4   69.3   83.6   90.0
7.17        Retroactive Financin.  The project would provide retroactive
financing of up to US$5.6 million (five percent of the proposed loan) for
expenditures incurred after February 15, 1992. Retroactive financing would
allow the early start of the detailed design of some institutional and policy
reforms, the hiring of short-term consultants to provide technical supervision
for the design of medical facilities, the refurbishing of some hospital
facilities, e.g. emergency unit of the Hospital San Ramon, and equipment
purchase for ISP and the Cervical Cancer Program.
F. Financial Manaaement. Accountina and Audits
7.18        The financial accounting and control system for the project has



48
been set up adequately in the PCU and the participating institutions. A Chart
of Accounts and an Accounting Plan have been devised which would facilitate
the monitoring of the financial performance of each participating agency at
the level of individual project components. The detailed features of the
project's financial accounting and control system are in the Project Files.
a.surances were obtained during necotiations that the prolect loan account.
503g. and Soecial Account would be audited by an indenendent auditor
acc82table to the Bank. The auditor would review all project components,
including those to be implemented by the MOH, CSF, ISP and HSAs which would
maintain separate subproject accounts. The Bank would require that the
auditor apply auditing standards and procedures satisfactory to the Bank and
conforming to generally accepted auditing practices; carry out its work in a
timely manner, i.e., an annual report 'would be presented no later than four
months after the end of each calendar year; and render an audit opinion or the
reasons whereby such opinion cannot be rendered.
G. Prolect Monitorina. Evaluation and Supervision
7.19        Monitoring and evaluation would include two sets of indicators:
(a) progress indicators that would reflect the smooth and timely
implementation of project activities; and (b) outcome indicators related to
project objectives. A list of these indicators is discussed in Annex 19.
Additional work is being done by the PCU to develop reference benchmark data
for each of the indicators. The corresponding benchmark reference data would
be sent to the Bank no later than April 30. 1993. and. as appropriate. qualitv
of care and efficiency of health services indicators (Action Plan. Annex 6).
Overall monitoring and evaluation of the project would be the responsibility
of the PCU. Specific tasks include: (a) preparing semestral report on the
physical and financial status of the hospital rehabilitation works to be
submitted to the Bank no later than the first week of the following semester;
(b) preparing annual implementation progress report and work plan, which would
be submitted to the Bank by December 30 of each year; (c) reviewing and
updating every six months the Action Plan; and (d) preparing a Project
Completion Report (PCR) that would be submitted to the Bank no later than six
months after the closing date of the Loan.
7.20        In addition, the Bank and the Government would hold  a Mid-Ter,
Review by June 15, 1995 to evaluate, among others, (i) the status of adoption
and execution of the different policy and institutional reforms; (ii) the
implementation progress of the hospital rehabilitation and construction works;
(iii) the adequacy of available and programmed sector financing; (iv) the
adequacy of the facility maintenance budget considering the results of the IDB
study (para.5.43); (v) the feasibility of incorporating cost-effectiveness
criteria in the Service Provision Agreement; and (v4) the project's estimated
benefits as reflected by the progress and outcome indicators being developed
for the project (para. 7.19).  Mid-term evaluation studies, as needed, would
be financed under the project.
7.21        The project is anticipated to require intensive supervision
because of its distinct policy-based design and the large scale hospital
facility construction and rehabilitation works. Supervision arrangements are
expected to require about 18 staffweeks in the first year, 15 staffweeks in
the second year, and 12 staffweeks thereafter.



49
H. Bnvironmental Imoact
7.22        The project would not have any significant adverse impact on the
environment. Standard safety procedures would be followed in the
implementation of the civil works, and the installation and operation of the
medical equipment supplied under the project. Procedures for safe handling of
hazardous wastes and materials (e.g., disposable needles) would be included in
continuing education programs for health personnel. Also, the project's
environmental health component would enhance the public's awareness of the
health effects of environmental conditions in and outside the project areas.
The Goverrment furnished the Bank an action plan (summarized in Annex 20) to
address the project's environmental concerns.
I. Imnact on Women
7.23        The upgrading of facilities and medical equipment under the
project would be gender neutral. However, the capacity of health facilities
to manage appropriately complications of delivery (the major causes of
maternal mortality) would be improved through upgrading of physical
infrastructure and equipment. In addition, the project's support for an
increased coverage of the Cervical Cancer Program would generate specific
benefits especially directed towards women (paras. 6.45-6.46).
VIII. &XPECTED BENEFITS AMD RISKS
A. Benefits
8.01        By supporting critical policy and institutional reforms and
priority health facility investments, the project, in conjunction with the on-
going TAHRP, would help improve the efficiency of resource use in the public
q*alth sector, enhance the quality of ambulatory and inpatient care,
strengthen the capacity of the system to respond more effectively to the
emerging health needs of an aging population, and increase the complementarity
of public and private providers. The project facility investments are
estimated to benefit approximately 40 percent (about 5.0 million) of the
Chilean population mostly belonging to the indigent and low-income groups.
The sector reforms intended to increase the health system's efficiency coupled
with improvements in cost recovery measures would generate benefits nationwide
in the long term. An integrated health services network and improved delivery
of cost-effective health care interventions would help diminish mortality and
morbidity from chronic diseases and injuries.
B. Riske
8.02        The major risks include: (a) the complexity of reforms in the area
of health financing; (b) the long-term horizon of the sector reforms, most of
which would be fully implemented either towards the end of the current
Government's tenure or during the next administration; and (c) the lack of
project implementation experience, especially of some HSAs and hospital
managers. These risks would be minimized by the close supervision by the Bank
at the different stages of the execution of the reforms; institution of a Mid-
Term Project Review by the Bank and the Government to evaluate implementation
progress; and technical assistance and supervision to be provided by the PCU
to the HSAe, as well as the training under the project. Also, the ongoing
TAHRP implementation is providing valuable hands-on training on project
management to HSAs that would be involved in this project.



50
IX. AGR$BMENT8 TO BE REAPHDMiD RSCOMMDATIONS
9.01         During neactiations the Government furnished the Bank: (a) a
guideline for the execution and content of a prototype Service Provision
Agreement (para 5.17); (b) a Health Policy Letter (para. 6.06); (c) a
Ministerial Resolution No. 530 dated September 25, 1992 amending the PCU
organixation and functions (para. 7.01);
9.02          Assurances were obtained durina neaotiations that:
(a) the new MOH structure and revised functions would be
operational on or before July 1, 1993 (para. 5.15);
(b) the Government would carry out specific actions and/or studies
related to, among others, the implementation of the Service Provision
Agreement, the transformation of CSF into an autonomous public enterprise, the
modernixation of ISP's production functions and supply system, and the
completion of the manpower planning methodology study, by the dates agreed
with the Bank (details specified in paras. 5.17, 5.19, 5.20, 5.26, 7.19);
(c) no later than March 1, 1993 the Government would start
carrying out a program to recruit and reassign staff; and review with the Bank
not later than June 15 and December 15 of each year starting June 15, 1993 the
progress of carrying out such program (para. 5.28);
(d) no later than August 31 of each year, the Government and the
Bank would review the availability of staff and the amounts required to carry
out the project for the following year; not later than October 1 of each year,
the Government would furnish the Bank for its cosments the proposed public
sector health budget for the next succeeding year (para. 6.05);
(e) the Government would maintain the PCU with a Project
Coordinator and staffing satisfactory to the Bank (para. 7.03);
(f) the project loan account, SOs, and Special Account would be
audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank (para. 7.18); and
(g)  the Bank and the Government would hold a project Mid-Te
Review by June 30, 1995 (para. 7.20)
9.03        Conditions of Loan Effectivenegs: (a) Government's adoption of the
PCU Operations Manual, HSRP Implementation Manual, Environmental Health
Program Implementation Manual, and Training Instructions Manual (paras. 7.02;
7.03, 7.04 and 7.05); and (b) Establishment of an MOH Training Secretariat
(para. 5.24);
9.04        Conditions of Disburementg :
The signing of an umbrella Subsidiary Agreement between the MOH
and the participating institutions (HSAs, the CSF and the ISP) with terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of first disbursement
for each of the participating institutions. In addition, a separate project
agreement would be signed before disbursing for each activity (e.g. specific
hospital work, equipment purchase) to be implemented by a participating
institution (para. 7.03).



51
CHILE
jALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
LIST OF ANNEXE8 Se
ANNEX I   HEALT  SECTOR DATA  . ............. . . . ....    51
Table Is  Crude Blrth Rates, Crude Death Rates, Infant
Mortality Rates, 1945-1990                                 52
Table 2:   Prlnclpal Causes of Death, 1980-1988  . . . . . . . .        53
Table 3:   Number and Type of Consultations, 1989  . . . . . . .        54
Table 4As  Number of Hospital Beds and occupancy Rates, 1981-1990    55
Table 4Bs Number of HospLtal Beds and Occupancy Rates:
HSRP RegLons, 1989                                        55
Table 5As  Hospltal discharges, 1978-1989  . . . . . . . . . . . .   56
Table 5B:  Hospital DLicharges: HSRP Regions, 1989   . . . . . . .   56
Table 6:   Publlc Sector Medical Personnel, 1978-1989  . . . . . .   57
Figure 1s  Health Sector Organizatlonal Structure  . . . . . . . .   58
Figure 2:  Minlitry of Health Organizational Chart ..59
Chart 1   Health ServLces Beneficiaries by Type of Provider, 1990   60
ANNEX 2:  Health Sector Financing . . . . . . . . . . .                      61
ANNEX 3:  Health Status and Health Services Network in Metropolitan
Santiago, Antofagasta, and Llanchipal   . ........ .   69
ANNEX 4:  Methodology for Evaluation of Health Care Facilities
and Health Service    ..87
ANNEX 5:  Frame of Reference for Health Investments          .  .  .  .      95
ANEX 6:  HSRP Actlon Plano ......                                           104
ANNEX 7:  TAHRP and HSRP Activlty Table.                 . .                107
ANNEX 8:  Proposed MOR OrganLzation Chart and Functions ...... 117
ANNEX 9:  Servlce ProvLsLon Agreement..  .  .  .                            120
ANNEX 10: Tralnlng Program Methodology          . . . . . . . .  .  .  .    124
ANNEX 11: New and Reassigned Staff of the Project          . .  .  .  .    130
ANNEX 12: Information Program            . . . . . . .          .   .       133
ANNEX 13: Cervlcal Cancer Control Program        . . .. .       ..   .      144
ANNEX 14: Detalled Project Cost and Financing   . . . .  .         .  .    149
ANNEX 15: Health Sector Policy letter . . . . . . . . .  .      ...         156
ANNEX 16: PCU Functions and Organizational Chart   . . .  .  .        .     166
ANNEX 17: Facillty Investment Implementation Plan          . .  .  .  .    170
ANNEX 18: Budget, Procurement, and Disbursement Cycle Chart   .  .          171
ANNEX 19: Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators..                    .  .    173
ANNEX 20: EnvLronmental Management Measures   . . . . .  .        .         177
ANNEX 21: Lint of Documents in the Project Files          . . .  .  .  .    180



52                             Annex 1
Page 1 of 9
Annex 1, Table1: CHILE - CRUDE BIRTH
RATES, CRUDE DEATH RATES, INFANT
MORTALITY RATES, 1945 - 1990
Crude Brth                     Crude Death                 Infant Mortality
Year                       Rate                            Rate                            Rate
1945                      35.5                              19.1                             165.0
1950                      34.3                              14.8                             136.0
1955                      36.0                              12.9                             117.0
1960                      37.0                              12.3                             120.0
1965                      36.3                              10.8                              95.0
1970                      27.9                               8.9                              79.0
1975                      25.0                               7.3                              55.0
1980                      22.8                               6.6                              32.0
1981                      23.0                               6.2                              27.0
1982                      23.8                               6..                              23.6
1983                      22.2                               6.3                              21.9
1984                      22.2                               6.3                              19.6
1985                      21.6                               6.1                              19.5
1986                      22.1                               5.9                              19.1
1987                      22.3                               5.6                              18.5
1988                      23.3                               5.8                              18.9
1989                      23.4                               5.8                              17.1
1990                      23.3                               6.0                              16.0
Smou: Chilum Mhitsy of Heat



53                        Annex 1
Page 2 of 9
Annex 1, Table 2: CHILE - PRINCIPAL
CAUSES OF DEATH, 1980 -1988
1980           1962           1984          1986            1966
T*INitbw           73,710        70,041          74,60          7326          74,435
CAUBX oF DXASX       %             s              %              s              %
of          of               of            of             of
toWd        toWttdtu                                      tow
Heart Diseases    26.6             27.6            28.4          27.4           27.9
Malignant
Tumors           15.4            16.8            16.1          17.5           18.0
Accidents and
violence        11.9            12.2            12.3          12.2          12.1
Acute
Respiratory
Diseases          9.5             8.5            10.5          11.0           12.0
Ill-defined
Conditions       9.6             8.6             8.5           8.3           7.1
Diseases of the
Digestive
System            8.1             8.6             8.7           7.4            6.5
infectious
and Parasitic
Diseases          4.8             3.8             3.6           3.5            3.5
Conditions
Originating in
Perinatal
Period           4.3             3.6            2.5            2.5           2.5
Diseagses of the
Genitourinary
system           2.3             2.1             2.2           2.2           2.4
Endocrine and
Metabolic
Diseases         2.5             2.8             2.4           2.4           2.2
All Other            5.0            5.4             4.8           5.6            5.8
Sucu: Chien Mhinity of HUWt



54                    Annex 1
Page 3 of 9
Annex 1, Table-3: CHILE - NUMIBER AND TYPE
OF CONSULTATIONS, 1989
_s                w .Wy Cm* 1d                 Ca...iwbn       NPew of lwgr  Cuot_ Cim
ft.dw Com*iadu    I  P 100 Otw Comakliam      Ps 100k o  CminlUhai
_ b    -                 _            A"                            A
Tomliis    1.53    0.26    1.01      0.74   0.20    0.41.    48.46      78.07    40.77
AgWSob      0.01    0.25    0.63     0.56   0.24    0.42      69.46     95.92     65.92
U.L*d      1.79    0.39    1.32      0.64   0.33    0.41      35.79     83.12    31.27
Nam        1.98    0.28    1.05     0.79   0.11    0.06      40.13     39.48     5.73
Codeba     1.60    0.26    0.98     0.82   0.17    0.40      48.56     66.50    40.91
cW&d       1.15    0.22    0.59     1.05   0.18    0.64      91.08     81.80   107.63
Odas       1.16    0.17    0.69     0.50   0.08    0.16      43.41     45.37    23.71
&W         1.55    0.19    0.88     0.80   0.19    0.39      51.83     98.71    44.85
u__ _od                _.        ..     .       .         .         .
MASoWAI jAm hU PM 4tre
&NlAML1hpmWMUpiVdat
A* _~ mw _,_ 



55                          Annex 1
Page 4 of 9
Annex 1, Tabte 4A: CHILE - NUMIBER OF
HOSPITAL BEDS AND OCCU-PANCY RATES,
1981-1990
VW           TOMd VW      Pa"Fdl                    Ml                       Pulvae
fthmi    Onp.                  F_th                        1fftmmi  Oomp
1981    37,547    3.31    .73.9        33,692    3.34        75.0      3,855    3.10       64.0
1982    36,254    3.37        73.9      33,904    3.34       75.6      4,350    3.14       60.7
1983    38,783    3.31        73.8      33,794    3.31       76.0      4,989    3.27       58.6
1984    41,100    3.45        73.8      33,642    3.28       75.8      7,458   4.46        64.7
1985    42,224    3.48        73.0      33,435    3.24       75.2      8,789    4.84       64.5
1986    42,288    3.43        73.1      33,103    3.19       74.8      9,185   4.65        66.9
1987    41,827    3.33        72.2      32,594    3.13       73.8      9,233    4.33       66.6
1988    43,049    3.37        73.7      32,850    3.14       75.9    10,199    4.44        66.6
1989    43,184    3.33        72.6      32,£1,8    3.16      75.5    10,366    4.00        63.5
1990    43,014    3.26         --      32,515    3.10         --     10,499    3.98         --
Annex 1, Table 4B: CHILE - NUMBER OF
HOSPITAL BEDS AND OCCUPANCY RATES:
HSRP REGIONS, 1989
Eqig                    Tod MPe  _ Ptl                    Pdi                       Pivate
Total Chile          43,184       72.6          32,818         75.5        10,366         63.5
Antofagasta           1,573        63.2             9S4        71.0            619       51.2
Llanchipal            1,122       64.6           1,101         64.9             21       50.4
Metropolitan
Santiago
Norte             3,481        77.6           2,470        81.0          1,011       69.5
Occidente         2,140        78.0           1,789        79.6            351       70.3
Contral           2,435        70.4           1,145        78.5          1,290       63.1
Oriente           5,214        71.9           2,062        84.5          3,152       63.6
Sur               3,005        83.1          2,675         83.5            330       79.6
Sur-Oriente       1,409        78.7           1,048        79.2            361       77.2
Woi:~S3Mia^I o'a.f



56                        Annex 1
Page 5 of 9
Annex 1. Table 5A: CHILE - HOSPIrAL
DISCHARGES, 1978-1989
Year                   Public Sector                         Privato Sector
Db_.ud                  A_  * L_I        Db_mu       Vbduu A_wW LOC
?a l        4tw                          
1978        938,232        28.3         9.6
1979        971,712        28.3         9.4
19.0        993,090        29.3         9.7
1981      1,005,732        29.9         9.0
1982      1,028,013        30.3         8.7                    -- 
1983      1,046,337        31.0         8.7            162,163    32.5        --
1984      1,006,509        29.9         8.1            214,074    28.7        --
1985      1,003,261        30.0         8.4            256,312    29.2        --
1986      1,003,544        30.3         8.5            269,395    29.3        7.6
1987      1,018,486        31.2         8.2            281,130    30.4        7.2
1988      1,069,954        32.6         8.3            301,946    29.6        7.2
1989      1,076,513        32.8         7.9            306,580    29.6        7.0
Annex 1. Table 5B: CHILE - HOSPITAL
DISCHARGES: HSRP REGIONS, 1989
Region                   Public Sector                         Private Setor
D_dmw       Dbd.g A_W L*                 Dbd-_      Dbdins   AVW_  L. 
Total Chile   1,076,513         32.8        7.9             306,580    29.6        7.0
Antofagasta        29,042       30.4        7.0              24,043    38.8        4.0
Llancnipal         40,719       37.0        6.2                 785    37.4        4.6
metropolitan
Santiago
Norte           37,497       15.2      26.3              29,238    28.9        7.4
Occidente       66,436       37.1       6.4                1,699      4.8    38.2
Central         45,887      40.1        6.5              46,270    35.9        5.4
Oriente         54,477       26.4      10.1              93,809    29.8        7.0
Sur             76,194      28.5        8.7                1,590      4.8    37.8
Sur-Oriente   36,356         34.7       7.6                  586      1.6   162.4
Surc: Chown Mwify of Reua



57                      Annex 1
Page 6 of 9
Annex 1, Table 6: CHILE - PUBLIC SECTOR
MEDICAL PERSONNEL, 1978-1989
Year       Physlcians             Nure             Auxlliary Personnal       Total
Number     Per housnd   Number   Per hoeuand  Number  Per Thousnd    Number
Perna                 Perim                Peron
1978     5,248      0.49       2,550      0.24        21,389    1.98       29,187
1979     5,671      0.52       2,780      0.25        21,286    1.94       29,737
1980     4,128      0.37       2,509      0.23        23,136    2.08       29,773
1981     4,128      0.36       2,509      0.22         23,136    2.04      29,773
1982     5,416      0.47       2,717      0.24         23,172    2.01      31,305
1983     5,527      0.47       2,710      0.23        23,277    1.99       31,514
1984     6,067      0.51       2,777      0.23        23,346    1.96       32,190
1985     5,549      0.46       2,800      0.23         23,589    1.95      31,938
1986     5,928      0.48       2,715      0.22        23,377    1.90       32,020
1987     5,744      0.46       2,461      0.20         21,943    1.75      30,148
1988     5,348      0.42       2,186      0.17         20,418    1.60      27,952
1989     5,438      0.42       2,367      0.18         20,089    1.55      27,894
Sour: Chioan MNisty of Heath
DM tr IMcwon.inO _  o  obW     - FONA
- pomIni do nb atlakh



Annex 1, Figure 1: CHILE - HEALTH SECTOR
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
PUBLIC SECTOR                                                    PRIVATE SECTOR
1OHZ
61111TRAL         l                       .UPERIUTENDENCY
I.S.P                FONASA                               LYAPRES
(wn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
SEREMI                 S.N.S.8.                                 CLINICS             O
(TIOUNICAL R*EULAW111
EiNTRSOBCTO@AL      (INUTITUTIONA
MODALITY)
ETSG"NlOAL UP§NVIS1QO1
THOSPITALS                      ORY
{   l_            T~~~~ENERS 
HEALTH
PRIMARY CANS                     UuSImL *mlsuat?mlso
CLINICS
HEALTH POSTS



Annex 1, Figure 2: CHILE - MINISTRY OF
HEALTH ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
UNDERSECRETARY
ADMIN. AND INTERNAL        LEGAL COUNSEL]
SERVICE DEPT.  I |LELCUNEL|.
I       ~~INTERNAL  IMLTAERLIINTERNATIONAL
PLANNING AND BUDGET         P ROGRAMING      RELATIONS    MULTILATERAL   COOPERATION
|PLANNING                           PRIMAR1
I~~~~ ~ ~ PRGRMMEG                                I  MOH -WB| |MOH -IDB |n
PROGRAMMI|G                        PROGRAMS                                                          U'
BUDGET                               ENVI- I-I
SUMAN RESOURCES                     RONMENT    NATIONAL   |ISAPRES SUPER- 771  CENTRAL
HEALTH FUND    INTENDENCY   LIPISUPPLY
IPHYSICAL  RESOURCESL J  FACILITY
.       .I  _   I .IV        VviL *                      VIII*  IX     X     XI 
ThAM*ANTOmOASA MACA CFoCUIS lmKAS   ETO    CI@IUSMAUL SI SI  ACUAC ASSMS  AALN
HEALTH  AMICA AHTOFAAOTS AU"MA COQUINSOOLT  T                                         M*AAULT  _pAUCO AUC  _LD   T"ALLANKE
ARE                                 V. Dt L U.
OSiSUE                     OV ILL.   CEiKL                LCANIDAm0   SRN
S. FELIP -MONTE              AUSLB        LLAGUVIUt             a
CIIILOS             i
ull                 LIClo SI        PALEWA
OCCIDENT1  *UN ORIENTS  DTL AUDIEUT1
I ISPs INUTITUTE OF PUBLIC HEALTH



Annex 1, Chart 1: CHILE - HEALTH SERVICES
BENEFICIARIES BY TYPE OF PROVIDER, 1990
SNSS
(9.2 million) 71 '/
ISAPRES
16% (2.1 million)
FONASA
13%  (1.7 million)
Distribution  of Beneficiaries
Source: Chilean Ministry of Health



61                           Annex 2
Page 1 of 8
Annex 2: HEALTH SECTOR FINANCING
A. 3ISTORICAL  UDU
1.        Total public and private health expenditure* in Chile are
approximately VS$2 billion per year or about 6.4 percent of the gros dmestic
product. Total public expenditures in the health sector account for about 39
percent of all health expenditures, while prlvate expenditures account for
about 61 percent of total health expenditures. Table 1 shows the total public
expenditure in health for tho 1980-1992 period in relation to gross national
product and to total central government expenditures. while there have been
fluctuations in both of these relationships, the general trend from 1980 to
1989 in public spending for health care was downward. This was particularly
true for the 1985-1990 period.
2.         However, with the new government's *phasis on the social sector,
public expenditures in health began to rise. In 1991 expenditures increased
to 10.5 percent of total central government expenditures higher than any other
year in the previous decade. After adjusting for inflation the variation in
public spending in the health sector from 1990 to 1991 was +27 percent. In
1992 public expenditures in health will remain relatively high at an estimated
9.4 percent of the total government budget.
PUBLIC ZZPEXDITURZS  N NEaLT
(in millions of cuzret Chilean Pesos)
AGROSS      TOTAL PULIC    TOTAL PUBLIC    TOTAL PUBLIC   TOTAL PUBLIC
NATIONAL         SECTOR         i3EITUl          zPUDI1TuR       UZPUDITURUS
PRODUCT'I       DUDUT           IN NLTA'         IX SEALT         in  EALTH
As A % OF       AS A % OF
MPl         PUBS. SECTOR
DUDGMT
1950    1,075,269           343,131          27,575            2.6               8.0
1931    1,273,123           460,052          36,593            2.9               sn
1982    1,239,122           533,242          43,067            3.7               8.1
193     I,557,709           534,386          45,514            2.9              S.5
1964    1,M,394             658,019          53,001            2.8               8.1
1955    2,576,638           863,468          66,52             2.6               7.7
1986    3,246,106          1,064,570         79,259            2.4               7.3
1967    4,159,762          1,293,094         94,302            2.3              7.3
195     5,411,025          1,66a3,34         122,577           23               7.4
1959    6,775,442         2,404,327          150,34            2.2               6.3
1990    8,477,361          2,663,574        109,537            2.2               7.1
1991    10,939,231         2,655,304        276,219            2.5              10.4
192*      -                3,414,055         319,383                            9.4
b    ~ bum im &~Clowa d.cab '.mIMS.IM almid by Is WMW  63ahMd~ 1151119 alwf bm do WIP sM Iqatuu by  Ubusa
I_ 9  ib 3malrn Dhui r P         . On p- 4ll_^" y4 * 
It Al kV daguIie b buas am to euNiui C('tulb bs~ouePN  t sfw   I SW )pu~ wimsm wM wats bowie OR go kw
I S I Osmibm lotvh by Camps. CLAY dg fta1Ms*s).



62                     Annex 2
Page 2 of 8
3.           Chart 1 further illustrates annual public sector health
expenditure trends. The augmentation of public spending in the health sector
beginning in 1991 is being financing by an increase in gov rnment revenues
from taxes. This increase in tax revenues can be attributed to three faetors:
(i) strong economic growth which has expanded the tax base; (ii) improved tax
collection; and (iii) a reform in the tax law increasing the tax rate.
Chart 1
HEALLTH ZZMIEDTURZ TREND
10 -.
4 .
Woo w    It n2 1903 IO w19e los 197 Ms INS moo low 
-   t of 3P -*- oftal  xp
4.        Financing for public expenditures in health are derived from five
sources: (i) income from operations; (ii) transfers from the mandatory 70
payroll deductions; (ii) sales of vouchers for the free election syotem; (iv)
treasury allocations; and (v) income from other sources. The flow of theme
funds is illustrated in Chart 2.
Cbast 2
FLOW OF PUBLZC SECTOR FUNDS FOR MEALTH
PUBLIC FUNDS:          |SOIAL
GENERAL REVENUES, ETC.                                  SECURITY
IMINISTRY OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE BUDGET
MINISTRY OF HEALTH   ..                               MINISTRYOR
~HELHSERVICES |t |MUNICIPALITIES|
*AENUMIRAVTHEINTRIO
~~UE~~~- ~~TALS     [REGONA
-g...      6*  SLSq4P  . IIo*  U-   - -
RE[              HOSPITAL          CLIN=C
H  e*^_ee e s"^^*s e *vset*e e e ^^^b. ee.***.*POO s "ea"Wn  ""* 



63                       Annex 2
Page 3 of 8
5.        Table 2 demonstrates the changes that have occur-ed over the last
ten years in the sources of funding for public expenditures in health. The
most significant change has been in the distribution of financing from
treasury allocations and from mandatory payroll deduction tranfers.  In 1980
treasury allocations were the primary source of funding and financed 54.5
percent of all public health expenditures. By 1990, however, treasury
allocations financed only 38.7 percent of all public expenditures in health.
Treasury allocations to health as a percent of GP declined from 1.4 percent
in 1980 to 0.9 percent in 1990 (Table 3).   In contrast, the importance of
transfers from the mandatory payroll deductions increased during these years.
In 1980 transfers financed 28.4 percent of all pubic expenditures in health.
By 1990 transfers were the primary source of funding and financed 45.0 percent
of all public expenditures in health. However, it should be noted that
treasury allocations began to increase in 1990 as a result of the government's
new policies.
hIbILi
vzuAwCZus FOR yum.ZC W=3DXTURDS Xi
IMALTE, 1980-1992
YEAR                          DUCET or CONTRUTZON
Incom  from   Transfers   Sales of    Treasury         Inome from
Operation                  vouchers   Allocations  Other sources
1980         7.0          28.4          4.6         54.5            5.4
1981         7.2          26.7         10.8         50.2            5.1
1982         7.4          26.0         10.6         46.4            9.6
983          6.7          31.4         13.          54.1            3.9
1984        6.1            34.9        12.9         44.2            2.0
1985        5.5           343          13.4         43.4            3.4
1986         5.2          39.5         13.0         39.5            2.8
198         5.5           41.2         10.0         403             3.0
1988        7.4           40.3         10.7         38.6            3.0
1989        6.1           46.4         9.2          34.9            3.4
1990        5.5           45.0         8.3          38.7            2.5
991         5.3           40.0         7.2          41.8            5.7
im!8         9.0           373          6.5         40.1            7.1
sousaZCem Cblm minotzy of lealth    * ktoltsi  data
Table 3
TREASUYWCAIU  TO PUDZIC SECTO
ELTH CARE VENACZ36, 1960-1991
YNAR               %O11 O  O
193                  1.4
1981                 1S
1982                 1.6
1983                 13
1984                 12
1985                  1.1
1936                 0.9
1987                 0.9
198                  0.9
1989                 0.8
1990                 0.9
1991                 1.0
acae *em IL Oaao, *aalii. critioo de Ma  loaeniag del Hatol Ialud Oa 1 DOOed 1de 10 .    Y
IzcgXue e afre U lefo. * flWUotgetoea Iad the CUM NlaeY f eath



64                     Annex 2
Page 4 of 8
6.       The decline during the 1980s in the importance of treasury
allocations as a source of funding for public expenditures in health was also
reflected in annual health expenditures per beneficiary (Table 4). Although
total government health expenditures per beneficiary remained relatively
constant from 1980 to 1992 fluctuating between 16.7 and 21.7 million pesos
annually, treasury allocations to the health sector per beneficiary fell from
10.1 million pesos in 1980 to 6.9 million in 1989. This clearly demonstratem
the emphasis during this period of reliance on payroll transfers as opposed to
central government financing. In 1991 and 1992, after a decade of decline,
annual treasury allocations per beneficiary rose close to early 1980 levels.
Tabl 4
A A HELTH EXPENDITURES PER
D3eWICIARY, 1980-1992
(in millions of 1990 Chilean Pesos)
YEAR    TOTAL OOVERNET      TRASURY ALLOCATIONS
1980          18.1                  10.1
1981         20.4                   102
1982         21.2                    9.6
19#           17.S                  7.9
1984         16.9                   7.4
1985         18.2                   6.8
1986         16.5                   6.4
1987         17.1                   6.7
1988         19.7                   7.S
1989         20.0                   6.9
1990         19.9                   7.9
1991          24.1                   9.9
1992    _     21.7                   9.4
ourta CyWaso aM VW elaboration by Jorge Cmzllo  * prellilary data
7.       The impact these increased finances will have on public sector
health expenditures can be seen in Table 5 and Table 6. Table S illustrates
the break down of public health expenditures over the last decade.  As is
typically the case, the largest share of health expenditures is spent on
salaries. In contrast, the proportion of public expenditures for investment
were consistently low from 1980 to 1990 resulting in severe deterioration of
the health system infrastructure. However, in 1992 it is estimated that
health care expenditures for investment as a percent of all health expenditure
will dramatically increase from 2.4 percent to 7.9 percent of total health
expenditures. The increase in government funding for public expenditures in
health for each category of expenditure is clearly demonstrated in Table 6.



65                        Annex 2
Page 5 of 8
PUBLIC By!TR HE FALTH EPENITU8, 1980-1992
TEAR        PERCET OF TOTAL HEALTH 3EZPDITES
WAGS   OowDS AND SEVXCES  INSMNT  OTsE'
1980   36.6           20.8             3.8        38.9
1981   36.9           18.8             2.7        41.6
1982   36.9           19.2             2.3        41.9
1983   36.8           21.5             0.8        40.9
1984   37.6           21.8             1.7        39.0
1985   37.3           21.8             2.3        38.5
1986   38.0           21.7             1.6        38.7
1987   39.1           23.6             1.5        35.8
1988   40.3           23.5             2.4        33.8
1989   39.2           22.0             3.0        35.7
1990   33.5           27.8             2.2        36.5
1991   32.6           27.3             2,4        37.7
1992*   26.7          27.5              7.9       37.9
"ool aI1ea Wastrv of Heath    * teliay dtta
Tauba trawlrse to the fie* otcuoa myst and sialdaW fox autzltic OM tetat eta.
Trable 6
INCREASE IN PUBLIC SECTOR EXPEDITUR  IN HEALTH
(Chilean $ Millions)
TOTAL     WAGS   GOODS AIN   INVLSTUENT    OTHER
SPENDING             SERVICES
1990             189,537    63,491     52,695       4,116       69,235
1991             276,219    90,029     75,519       6,560       104,111
MNoNIAL           45.71     41.20       43.31        59.4t       50.4%
INCREAS       _            _ L  I
RRAL INCRBASB     27.0    | 22.5 |   24.6%           40.7%       31.70
(base yr 1990)                 _
urte, Chilean Miatsury of ealth
B. FIXNNCING OF TWE NEl LTK SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
8.        In order to determine the capacity of the Chilean government to
finance the incremental recurrent costs that could arise from the health
aector reform investments a financial simulation was undertaken. For this
study a model was developed utilizing assumptions about future flows of income
and expenditures in the health sector. In running the computer analysis three
separate economic scenarios were considered: (i) pessimistic; (ii) basel and
(iii) optimistic.
9.        Using these three scenarios two different series of simulations
were run. The first set of simulations focused solely on determining the
capacity of the government and the health sector to finance the incremental
recurrent costs associated with the utilization of external financing for a
portion of the health sector reform investments. WLth this as the goal, this
analysis concentrated only on the period 1992 to 1994. The second series of
simulations were done to determine the capability of the health soctor to



66                      Annex 2
Page 6 of 8
finance the incremental recurrnt costs associated with the total planned
invoutments in the health sector. The analysis then focused on the period
from 1992 to the year 2000. The macroeconomLo assumptions for each scenario
are s.hown in Table 7. in addltlon to the assumptLons listed bolow it was also
presumed that extra sectoral invstment flnanced under the National Regional
Development Fund (FNDR) would remain constant at 25 million ($US) yearly.
NOxRO3 KIC ABOMP IW OS MR -   FINNCIAL SZMULAXIONS
ASSUMPTIOP    G NP    DOMESIC |  EAa |                LAaIMS         GROWTH OF
INF WIOU   AILCEICUS   (in real terms)  REFICIARY
(it of  N)                      POPULATION
FIRST SIMULATION 1992-i994
PSSIInSTC      4.0                     0.9     1      constant          1.0o
1992  16.5       
BASB           4.0    1993  15.0       1.0      |     constant           3%
J     I ~~1994  15.0                                I
OPTIMISTIC     4.0  J ____              1.1           costant            5%i
SECOND 1SMULATION 1992-2000
PBSSDIISTIC     4%       3IS%          1.0         dease by 2 |  Run with:
BDBS           54         15%          1.2            constant           3%
OPTIMISTIC      6%        15%           1.4        i       bye"e b 2%1
smcol Hu* tnol. ebia erws of eswt
10.       In the fLrat set of simulations the amount of external financing
was set at 564 million ($US). It should be noted that this is relatively
close to the actual figure of 528.5 million ($US) recently released by the
Ministry of Finance (Table 8).   For the second set of slmulations two
different plans were tested wlth regard to the total amount that would be
invested annually. In the first plan the flow of Lnvestment would be
relatively constant. In the second, investment would be greatest during the
1992-1996 period then decrease thereafter. Both of these plans are
illustrated in Table 9.
PROGRAUUUD  ERR U0VEUIKENT FIEDeCnS
(in millioss of tM dollars)
rFKancIx  sOusC      1992     1993      1994      TOAL      1995-97    TOTAL
1992-94                1992-97
hIRDi  16.5                   65.2      68.5       150.2       140.0      290.2
IDB                  22.0     21.4      20.6       64.0        36.2       100.2
,ILATERAL CREDrT     33.0      14.0     16.0       63.0        34.2       97.2
GOVERIIEET 1UNDI_    10.5      12.0     10.5       33.0        7.9        40.9
TOTAL                82.0     112.6     115.6     310.2        218.3      528.5
"wool .Npou     . _    o namo ,,i inwa
ag.,Muluz ot Hat4. 31210o lamu erS *_at



67                        Annex 2
Page 7 of 8
Table .9
ANNUAL INVMSTMINT
(millions of USO)
EaR   PLAN ONE   PLAN TWO
1991      85.0      85.0
192      8S.0       105.0
399      10f3       125.0
1994     105.0      115.0
199      106.0      111.8
1996     106.7      111.4
1997     105.0       85.0
198      10S.0      8S.0
1"9      105.0      85.0
2000     105.0       85.0
&Wm PON HMa. Tm .  &m mIDB at Rm
11.      Table 10 displays the results of the first series of simulations.
Under the pessimistic scenario the health sector would incur a large negative
balance which would decrease, but still be significant, by 1994. In both the
base and the optimistic scenarios the health sector would be capable of
financing the incremental recurrent costs associated with the investment from
external sources.
Table 10
FINANCING CAPABILITY: FIRST SERIES OF SIMULATIONS
(millions of $UB)
TEAR    PESSINISTIC SCEWARIO  BASS SCENARIO  OPTIMISTIC SCREARIO
Balance           Balance            Balance
1992               - 29               15                59
1993               - 22               28                 82
1994               - 7                56                121
_mom           Mbbjuyd HiN
12.         In the second set of simulations the base scenario with its
conservative assumptions was considered to be the most realistic. Using this
scenario it was concluded that after 1993 the health sector will be able to
finance the incremental recurrent costs associated with the new investments
under both investment plan one and two. Based on the simulation it appeared
that there would be problems financing heal'th expenditures in 1992 leading to
a deficit of 8 to 22 million dollars. However, actual investment for 1992 is
expected to be less than the amount originally used for the exercise. Hence,
the noted deficit would not occur. Pull results of the base model simulation
are presented in Table 11 and Table 12.



68                                  Annex 2
Page 8 of 8
zUvUSUT PUN 1
(mIlLome of Chileem Peos)
T.am  .o.....  ..I t_D   IALANCE  IMANCI .                                          AANC  ..
nu              UZIWNZR.l                           (us$),   TOTAL Up.
1991           282,170             281,013             1,157            3              0.4 %
1992           313,123             310,901            -3,07            -8             -1.0%
im             35,155             324,51S            15,640           38              4.6 %
I994           433,522             388,341           45,241           102             11.6 %
1995           S19,367             441,349           73,018           161             17.7 %
1996           621,659             501,97           119,687           225             23.8 %
1997           742,4               570,104          172,750           300             303 %
1998           *U,9"6              649,261          239,725           382             36.9 *
1999         1,060,914             740.042          320,870           469             43.4 %
2000         1,271,876             844,171          427,206           572             50.6 %
"~WIPetE,S                       .   .~t~   C .  X .                . IOU
lizt M t a                               318.  MOBiL U4 ZIWlt!
A ~~~~~~~923MPUN 2
(aillL.        of ChLILom Pesos)
TZAR                   PROINTD      OlCTED   DAAMSON  BALM=O  DM503 %
m                   In     DIT.'                      (11o's        TTAL. NI.
1991   j       282170              281,013             1,157            3              0.4 %
1992           316,070             324,392            -8,322          -22             -2.6%
1993           360,560             350,560             9,880           24              2.8 %
1994           435,543             392,791           42,752            96             10.9 %
1995           520,206             443,9M0           76,286           157             17.2 %
1996           622,374             50X,457          117,918           223             23.4 %
1997           738520              558,578          179,941           312             32.2 *
1998           8u4,7              s63693            247,579           394             38.9 %
1999         1,055,301             726,650          329,451           481             45.1 %
2000         1,2Z5,825             829,215          436,50            585-            52.6 %
_ . .:~t



69                      Annex 3
Page 1 of 18
Annex 3:    IH STAI U AND EALTH
SiE:RVCES NEDTWORK IN MIETROPOL0A
SANTIAGO, ANTOFAGASTA, AND
LLANCHIPAL
The investment component of the project would be implemented in
three regions: Metropolitan Santiago, Antofagasta, and Llanchipal. These
regions were selected on the basin of demographic, epidemiological, and
socioeconomic criteria, as well ao on health service infrastructure needs in
each region. The GoverAnment's investment program for 'che public sector as a
whole, including the support from bilateral and multilateral organizations,
was also taken into account.
Overview. Notwithstanding Chile's substantial achievements in
improving the health status of the population, behind the national averages
are wide variations between the health status of different population groups
as reflected in the health indicators of the HSAs in Metropolitan Santiago,
Antofagasta, and Llanchipal --the proposed project areas. The efficiency and
effectiveness of the public health services network in these three regions are
constrained by a lack of specialized ambulatory services and by the decaying
hospital infrastructure. In various hosopitals, particularly in Met-iopolitan
Santiago, some wards have been decommissioned as unsafe, while others are
below normal standards for the type of services performed in such facilities.
Outdated medical equipment exacerbates this situation severely affecting
hospital performance. Support services such as water supply and heating,
sterilization, laundry and kitchen services, as well as sanitary facilities,
are also in serious disrepair. Maintenance of buildings and equipment is a
serious problem throughout the system. Discontent over the lack of
specialized ambulatory care facilities, both for diagnostic and treatment
services, and low quality of hospital services is widespread among low and
middle-income groups who are dependent on the public system.
A. metropolitan Santiago (NS)
Contrary to its name, NS covers rural as well as urban areas. It
extends far beyond the city limits and covers an extended area of
15,348 sq. km., reaching 40 km. north and 80 km. south of downtown Santiago.
NS is comprised of 6 provinces (Santiago, Chacabuco, Cordillera, Maipo,
Melipilla, and Talagante) and 51 communes. Municipal administration is fairly
decentralized; each municipality has ius own mayor and municipal council,
collects local taxes, and runs social services, including primary health care
facilities.
MS total population of 5.1 million in 1990, or approximately 40
percent of the country's populatior., is projected to rise to 5.8 million in
1995 as the result of the growth of satellite cities and neighboring rural
communes.  About '0 percent of the population is rural and is partly scattered
through the Andean and coastal mountains. A recent study has shown that two



70                     Annex 3
Page 2 of 18
different socioeconomic groups coexist in MS: the high income dwellers of
Northeast Santiago and the low-income population of the other districts.
Marked differences separate these two groups in terms of income, employment,
family composition, housing, sanitation, health and nutrition, and overall
quality of life.
For reasons of size, manageability and distribution of municipali-
ties, MS was divided into six health service areas (HSAs): North (570,000
pop.); West (961,000 pop.); Central (595,000 pop.); East (1 million pop.);
Southeast (925,000 pop.); and South (989,000 pop.).  Each of these areas
generally is demarcated by major thoroughfares radiating from downtown
Santiago, with their extension corresponding to the spatial dispersion of the
population. Overall, more than 60 percent of the MS total population is
beneficiary of the public health system.
Health Status. When infant morcality rates are disaggregated by
MS's 6 HSAs, variations appear reflecting social disparities, with the highest
rates in 1989 in relatively low-income Metropolitau West HSA (17.6/1,000),
Metropolitan North HSA (17.2/ 1,000), and Metropolitan South HSA (15.6/1,000).
The vast majority of infant mortality occurs in the perinatal period. Within
Metropolitan North, West, and South HSAs, 14.2, 12.4, and 10.7, respectively,
out of every 1,000 new-borns die before reaching 7 days of age. Variations
also exist in the maternal mortality rate (MMR), ranging from 0.5/10,000 live
births in affluent Metropolitan East HSA to 3.5/10,000 live births in poorer
Metropolitan North HSA. The rate of maternal deaths from miscarriages/
abortions varies considerably between HSAs in Santiago, with rates above the
national average (1.6/10,000 live births) observed in Metropolitan Southeast
HSA (2.7/10,000) and Metropolitan Central HSA (2.6/10,000). Chronic diseases
and injuries are leading causes of death in all 6 HSAs.
Health Facilities. The MS has 155 primary health care facilities
inder municipal control -nd 28 public hospitals, of which there are 17 Type 1
d Type 2 facilities (Table 1). These hospitals have 70 percent of the total
number of beds in the region. The 1.9 ratio of public hospital beds per 1,000
population in MS is much lower than the country's average ratio of 2.4 (Table
2). Most MS hospitals are over 60 years old (Table 3); little investment has
taken place over the last 20 years. Reflecting wide disparities in health
service availability, access to primary care facilities and public hospitals
varies greatly within MS (Tables 4-5).
The Metropolitan North HSA, with 26 health posts and centers,
provides primary health care services to its intended beneficiaries. In 1989,
it had an averapoG number of general and specialized consultations of 3.1 and
0.57 per person per year, respectively (these figures are above the national
average). This HSA also has 5 hospitals (4 Type 2 hospitals and one small
Type 4 hospital), and a ratio of 1.4 beds per 1,000 population. Three of the
four Type 2 hospitals are specialized pediatric, psychiatric, and oncological
facilities that serve as reference centers nationwide; the other Type 2
facility is the 160 years old San Jose Hospital which has reached a stage of
physical dilapidation beyond repair. Most of the secondary care and tertiary
care needed in this HSA is referred to centers in other HSAs in KS because of
the lack of secondary care facilities and the limited diagnostic and treatment
capacity of the San Jose Hospital. Less than 10 percent of its total
population has access to private health coverage.



71                      Annex 3
Page 3 of 18
The Metrogolitan Central NSA, which covers downtown Santiago and
two peri-urban districts, occupies a midway position in terms of hospital
resources with 2 beds per 1,000 population (it has one Type 1 and one Type 2
hospital). However, its 10 primary care f£cilities are insufficient to meet
the demand for basic ambulatory care, and access to secondary diagnostic and
treatment services is limited. As a result, in 1989 this HSA performed only
2.4 and 0.25 primary care and specialized medical consultations per person,
respectively, and the emergency room of its Type 2 Asistencia Publica hospital
was overburdened by cases which could have been treated at lower level
facilities. This situation is further aggravated by the lack of an outpatient
department in the Type 1 San Borja Hospital.
The Wuat L. , with a third of its population living in rural areas,
is the largest H8A in US. The average income in this HSA is one of the lowest
in MS, and it includet large pockets of population in extreme poverty. There
is a good balance between its 43 primary care facilities and 7 hospitals of
different levels of complexity (one Type 1, three Type 2, including one
specialized trauma hospital that serves the entire region, two Type 3, and one
Type 4). In 1989 it performed 2.8 primary care consultations, and 0.55
specialized medical consultations per person. However, secondary care for
ome specialized services is limited and available only in two large
hospitals, the San Juan de Dion and the Felix Bulnes, which are severely
deteriorated and underequipped. This HSA is also short of hoopital beds, with
a bed population ratio of 1.7 per 1,000.
The Matronolitan Bast HSA covers a relatively well-endowed, high-
income area. More than half of the population receive medical care from
private providers. The rest of the population in this HSA relies on the
public sector's 13 primary care facilities, a large Type 1 hospital, three
Type 2 hospitals, including two specialized hospitals for neurosurgery and
chest surgery, one Type 3 geriatric care hospital, and one Type 4 hospital.
in 1989, this HSA provided 3.2 and 0.86 primary care and specialized medical
consultations per person, respectively (these figures are above the national
average). The public sector's bed population ratio is 1.8 per 1,000. The
beneficiaries of the public health system are concentrated in the low-income
districts of La Reina, ilufioa, Peflalolen, and M&cul and seek secondary and
tertiary services at the Type 1 Del Salvador Hospital. However, this hospital
is very distant from its intended beneficiaries. In addition, this
underequipped and overcrowded hospital cannot meet the demand, particularly
for *emrgency and maternity services, and the deficit translates into delays,
slow processing of patients, and rejections. This situation is exacerbated by
the lack of specialized ambulatory care facilities that could relieve the
excess demand in hospital facilities. Insufficient surgical capacity affects
the operation of the Type 3 Calvo lckenna hospital.
The Metronolitan BouLft HNA shares with the Metropolitan Southeast
NSA the poorest segments of the MS population, some of whi h were relocated
from different slums into peripheral districts of these two HSAs. This HSA
show the fastent population increase in the last decade. As it is centered
around the main highlray to the country's souther territory, it is expected
that rapid population growth will continue during the 19903. The public
health network includes 36 primary care units and 6 hospitals (one Type 1
hospital, one Type 2 hospital, and four '7ype 3 hospitals). In 1989, it
provided 2.7 and 0.51 primary care and secialized medical consultations per



72                     Annex 3
Page 4 of 18
person, respectively, and has a ratio of 2.2 beds per 1,000 population.
Overall, the operation of the hospitals in this HSA, particularly the Type 1
Barros Luco Trudeau Hospital and the Type 3 B1 Pino Hospital, is seriously
affected by the deteriorated state of their infrastructure and equipment.
The Metrooolitan Southeast HSA, with 27 small primary care
facilities and only two hospitals (the Sotero del Rio, a Type ' hospital, and
one Type 3 hospital that is used as a nursing home), covers extensive rural
areas and serves the poorest segment of the MS population. The primary care
facilities provide limited coverage and low quality of services (a low 1.5
coneultations per parson were provided in 1989), and access to hospital
facilities, both for secondary and tertiary care, is difficult. This HSA has
a severe shortage of beds with a ratio of 1 bed per 1,000 population; in 1989
it provided only 0.25 specialized medical coa3ultations per person. Obsolence
and outdated equipment in the Sotero del Rio Hospital aggravates this
situation.
Hospitals in MS play a special role in that thley receive patients
from three different sources: (a) referred patients from other regions of the
country, particularly for specialized treatments, extensive surgery, and all
treatments still at the research or development stage, account for 20 percent
of admissions; (b) patients who are not referred from other regions, but who
have relatives or acquaintances in the city, represent another 15 percent of
all admissions; and (c) patients from the MS, routinely referred by their
local health services, make up the remaining 65 percent of admissions.
B.   Antofacasta Reaion (AR)
AR, the second northernmost and largest region in the country,
spans an area of 126,444 sq. km., and is composed of three provinces
--Antofagasta, Tocopilla and El Loa. AR total population of about 396,000 in
1990, represents 3 percent of the country's population for a low population
density of 3.1 inhabitants per sq. km. Rugged desert topography has led to
the concentration of the AR population in urban centers separated by wide
distances. As a result, more than 95 percent of the population is urban. The
two major cities are Antofagasta and Calama.
Health Status. The health status of the AR population is worse
than the rational average. In 1989, the infant mortality rate stood at
19.2/1,000 live births, and maternal mortality at 6/10,000 live births. The
high mortality rate from cancer observed in AR (22.5 percent versus the
country's average of 18.1 percent in 1989) is the highest in the country.
Studies have indicated that one the most important factors associated with the
onset of cancer in Ak may be the presence of arsenic in the soil and water;
this agent is also a risk factor for cardiovascular conditions. AR also has a
high prevalence of respiratory disorders, which are related to the mining
industry--the main economic activity in the region.
Health Facilities. The network of public health facilities in AR
is relatively simple and is locatad along the main highway system. AR has 26
primary health care facilities and 5 public hospitals; only one of them is a
Type 1 facility--the Antofagasta Hospital (Table 1).  In 1989, 2.5 ard 0.38
primary care and specialized medical consultations per person, respectively,
were provided.  There are 13 private hospitals, for a total of 621 beds, as



73                     Annex 3
Page 5 of 18
compared to 961 beds in the public sector. The relatively large private
health sector is a by-product of the development of the mining industry since
most of the mining copanies operating in AR have their own health facilities
or enter into contractual arrangements with private physicians and hospitals
for the provision of health care to employees and their families. The
bed/population ratio in the public sector is 2.4/1,000. Overall, the public
system covers about 60 percent of the population, and private providers the
remaining 40 percent.
Most of the health care services in AR are provided in Antofagasta
and Calama, particularly for specialized care that is offered on a referral
basis by the Antofagasta Hospital, and in some measure by the Calama Hospital,
a Type 3 facility (Tables 2-3). However, obsolescence, lack of maintenance,
and outdated equipment severely constrain the performance of these two
hospitals. According to an evaluation of medical and support services
equipment carried out in 1991, about half of all the equipment in these two
hospitals would only last in useful form two more years. If this situation is
not corrected promptly, there is a danger that a virtual paralyzation of the
hospitals would occur in two to nine years. In addition, it was observed that
in the Antofagasta Hospital there is a severe deficit of equipment needed for
the adequate provision of radiology, traumatology, cardiology, and oncology
services'
C. Llanchical Rection (LLR)
The LLR, located in the southern part of the country, comprises
thrze provinces: Llanquihue, Chiloe Island, and Palena. It presentb totally
opposite characteristics to those of the AR:a cold rainy climate, difficult
transportation in spite of relatively short distances, and localities
inaccessible in winter. The LLR, covering an area of 39,360 sq. km., has a
population of 380,000, or 3 percent of the total population irn the country,
scattered in small villages, agricultural settlements, and fisheries. There
are a number of communes, particularly in Chiloe Island, with a large
proportion of rural population. The average per capita income is low and
close to 90 percent of the population depends on the public system for health
care.
Health Statu. The level of health in LLR is below the national
average. In 1989 the estimated infant mortality rate was 18/1,000 live
births, while the maternal mortality rate stood at 4/10,000 live births. Late
fetal and perinatal mortality rates are the highest in che country; the LLR
also has a high proportior of children who are born underweight. These
indicators reflect deficiencies in the health care system, particularly
limited access to prenatal care. Degenerative diseases and chronic
conditions, such as cancer and cardiovascular diseases, are the principal
causes of morbidity and mortality. However, the LLR shows a large proportion
of ill defined causes of death, which is a result of death certification by
witnesses rather than by trained health staff.
Health Facilities. The public health network in the LLR is
composed of 286 small primary care facilities and 14 hospitals (Table 1). The
existence of a large number of primary care facilities has allowed wide health
services coverage, evan though some high risk rural areas of difficult access
are only partially covered (some of these areas are covered by hospital ships



74                     Annex 3
Page 6 of 18
that visit them sporadically). The Type 1 Puerto Montt Hospital is the
inevitable referral center for secondary and tertiary care as all
transportation in the LLR converges on this city. The LLR performed 2.7
primary care consultations and 0.23 specialized medical consultations per
person in 1989. The public sector's bed/population ratio is 2.5 per 1,000
(Table 2). There are only 3 small private hospitals in LLR.
An extensive survey of the facilities in the LLR, together with an
analysis of present demand and supply of services, indicated major
deficiencies in physical infrastructure, as well as disrepair and outdated
medical and support service equipment, in 9 of the 11 Type 4 facilities, and
in the Type 3 hospitals of Ancud and Castro in Chiloe Island. This situation
is particularly acute in the Castro Hospital, which was constructed after the
1960 earthquake with building materials that were inadequate for the climate
of the region. Insufficient surgical capacity, outdated medical equipment,
deteriorated heating, plumbing and laundry system, as well as limited
outpatient care capaci$y hamper the operation of the Puerto Montt Hospital.
The recent classification of the Puerto Montt Hospital as a Type 1 facility
requires additional investments in diagnostic and therapeutic technologies to
ensure that it operates at the same level as other hospitals in a similar
category (Tables 3-4).



Annex 3, Table 1: CILE - LOCATION OF
HEALTH CARE FACILITIES:
HSRP REGIONS, 1991
Region          Type One        Type Two        Type Three       Type Four         Urban        Rural    Rural    Rural
Hospitals       Hospitals        Hospitals       Hospitals       Clinics    Clinics    Posts   Stations
ANTOFAG&STA          1              0                2               2              a            0         13          2
LLANCHZPAL          1               0                2              11              7            5        138       121
MTROPOLITAN
SANTZMO             5             12                 8               3             87          15          50          3
Norte             0             4                  0               1             14            4           6         2
Occidente         1             3                  2               1             17            5         21          -
Central           1             1                  0               0              7            0           2         1
Oriente           1             3                  1               1             13            0           -         -
Sur               I             1                  4               0             21            4         11          -
Sur-Oriente       1             0                  1               0             15            2         10          -
Swre: Chilemn Mintty of Hahh
OQ 
0
Go



76                             Annex 3
Page 8 of 18
Annex 3, Table 2: CHILE - PUBLIC SECTOR
HOSPITAL BEDS: HSRP REGIONS, 1991
Number of                                Beds Per
Hospital                                      Beds                                   Thousand
___= I 0I lIW_ 
Dr. L. Guzman (Atofga Hospitl)                 687
Calm  Cidetnas                                 154
Marcos Macuads (Tocopila)                       78
Tal Tal                                         40
Mejiionsa                                       13
MM              .   ..   .....   ...     .   .   ..o
PuertoMc a                                     414
Cstro                                          108
Aneud                                           84
Llanquihue                                      33
Fratllar                                        60
Frtes                                          48
Calbuco                                         41
Maullin                                         40
Achao                                          31
Queilen                                         15
Quellon                                         44
Chaiten                                         25
Palen                                           23
Futaleufa                                       12
Roberto del Rio                                308
Psiqustrico Dr. Horwitz                        944
Caupolican Pardo Cons                           75
rd-rd                                           10
San Juan do Dios                               S37
FeiLx Bulns                                    381
Traumatologico                                 131
MeLipill 115
Tdasante                                        66
Pmnflor                                         41
Cureavi                                         17
San Doria Arrisran
Asitanda Publiec                               280
Luis Calvo Mackme                              280
INs Nrocn ia                                   146
Inasy                                          209
Co Oltio                                       140
Piedo Auia. C&-                                53



77                    Annex 3
Page 9 of 18
Annex 3, Table 2: CHILE - PUBLIC SECTOR
HOSPITAL BEDS: HSRP REGIONS, 199l (Cont'd)
number of                    Dads Per
RospLtal                         Bes                         Thousand
Bx.quId Goooas Conn              212
a hdb de Buin                     112
Dr. LAia Cordov                  134
El ho                             141
Sautoo 3l Pee                    798
so so" de MiSpo                   298
TOTAL HSRP REGION                   10,969
TOTAL COUNTRY                       32,127                       2.4
Baum: Cih.. M;nbby of Hoe&



78                                 Annex 3
Page 10 of 18
Annex 3, Table 3: CHILE - PUBLIC SECTOR
HOSPITALS CONSTRUCTION DATE AND SIZE:
HSRP REGIONS, 1991
Hospital                                     Type                        Year of                               INe,
Coastruction                           (2)
Dr. L. Guzmn (Antofagasa Hospial)             1                              1955                            26,000
CaamA Citerns,                                3                               1964                            6,100
Macos Macuada (Tocopilb)                      3                               1940                            5,570
Tul Tal                                       4                               IffO                            1,740
Mej Wones                                     4                               1972                             490
Puerto Monta                                  1                               1968                           19,609
Cas                                           3                               1964                            5,460
Ancud                                         3                              1952                             3,692
Lanquihue                                     4                              1966                             1,754
Fnuillr                                       4                              1957                             3,210
Fresia                                        4                              1958                             2,200
Calbuco                                       4                               1969                            1,955
Maullin                                       4                               1991                            1,938
Achao                                         4                              1960                             1,838
Quulen                                        4                              1962                              793
Qoueon                                        4                              19"                              2,237
Chon                                          4                              1982                             1,024
Ialena                                        4                              1962                             1,539
taleufa                                       4                              1969                              603
Norte
San loe                                       2                               1830                           21,613
Roberto del Rio                               2                               193S                           17,4U8
Psiquarico Dr. Horwitz                        2                               1958                           21,210
Caupolican Pardo Coffa                        2                               1930                            7,800
Il-Trl                                        4                               1970                             850
Occidente
San luan de Dios                              1                               1944                           19,884
Felix Bulno                                   2                              1945                            27,172
TraunAtologico                                2                               1937                            7,8S0
MelipUIs                                      2                               1987                            8,612
Talagante                                     3                               1990                           11,788
Pmflor                                        3                               1968                            2,495
Curacvi                                       4                               1986                            1,213
Central
San Boija Aniarn                              1                               1967                           63,126
Asituci Publica                              2                               1911                             4,98I



79                        Annex 3
Page 11 of 18
Annex 3, Table 3: CHILE - PUBLIC SECTOR
HOSPITALS CONSTRUCTION DATE AND SIZE:
HSRP REGIONS, 1991 (Cont'd)
Hospital                        Type                 Year of                   Size
Construction                (re)
Oriente
De Sdvador                       1                      1872                  53,956
LoCalvo Mak..                    2                      1926                  17,089
haL N.utoIsl                     2                      1954                   7,982
lnuyct                           2                      1954                   9,663
COM oa,kico                     3                      1394                   7,398
Pedro Aklrre Carda               4                      1920                   2,856
Sur
BarroLumcowTmdeau                1                      1917                  46,511
equwll Goanadl Coat.o            2                      1940                  13,647
Son ls de udn                    3                      1887                   4,417
D_. l.oo Cordova                3                      1949                   8,625
D Ilno                           3                      1941                   8,209
SBMtWIoU P paw                   3                      1927                  13,862
Sur Oriente
Botwao de Rio                    1                      1938                  33,121
gamlo d Mlipo                    3                      1890                  10,616
omt.: Chilea Minlty of Huaf



80                                 Annex  3
Page 12 of 18
Annex 3, Table 4: CHILE- PUBLIC HOSPITAL
ACTIVITY: HSRP REGIONS, 1990
RLL~~~~~am                                  £dQhs mayu
Number of Beds               687                           Number of Beds                154
Numb. of Almidons            20,406                        Number of Admisions           7,162
Occupay Rat                  75.70                         Occupany Rate                 61.50
Averge Lnth of Stay           10.20                        Aveap Leng of Stay            4.60
Number of Bds                78                            Number of Bes                 40
Number of Admisdons          2,931                         Number of Admisions           1,729
Occpny Rat                   58.50                         OccupanyuRa                   37.20
Avee Lenoh of Stay           5.703                         Aveap Lngt of Sty             3.14
Md9kU 
Number dBb                    13
Numbr of Admisdon            319
OccupancyRat                  18.14
Aveag Lent of Sbty           2.69
Numbr of Beds                414                           Number of Beds                108
Numbr of Adissions            G,sll                        Numbr of Admissons            5,495
OccupancyRat                 81.0                          Occupany Rate                 72.2
Avrge Lenh of Stay           6.3                           Averg Lenh of Stay            4.9
AjMA
Namber of Bab                84                            Nunber of Beds                33
Numbr of Admisdons           4,185                         Number of Admissons           1,446
OcumpanyRas                  713                           ObcparnyRate                  59.2
Averp Lengt of Sy            5.0                           Averag Length of Stay         4.7



81                               Annex  3
Page 13 of 18
Annex 3, Table 4: CHILE- PUBLIC HOSPITAL
ACTIVITY: HSRP REGIONS, 1990 (Cont'd)
EIg                                                      rEa
Number of Boa                60                           Number of BDd                 48
NumberofAdmniuons            2,032                        Number of Admissions          1,794
Ocoupaey RAW                 54.7                         Occupany Rate                 53.0
Avmg L_t of 8ty              5.6                          Avea  Lengb of Sty            5.2
CaEw                                                      Mo
Number of Deda               41                           Number of Beds                40
Numbr of Admiaaions          2,064                        Numbe of Adinaons             1,758
Omcpny Raw                   6.9                         OQcupany Rae                   70.7
Avene Lmh of Say             4.3                          Ave . , .eStb of Stay         5.6
Mm~~~~~~i
Number of DRds               31                           Number of Bed                 15
Numbet of Admiadions         996                          Number of Admissions          329
OccupancyRaft                61.6                         OcupzylRats                   39.5
Avenra  Length of Sty        6.6                          Aver p Lengb  of Stay         5.9
Number of Bedd               44                           Nunber of Dad                 25
Number of Admiasions         1,723                        Numbr of Admiaaona            689
OccupancyRa.                 57.6                         OcpanyRae                     35.2
Avea  L_nh of Stay           4.7                          Avea  LGth of Stay            3.6
himh
Numb_ of BRda                23                           Number of Dada                12
Number of Admisions          255                          Number of Admlaaons           197
Occupancy Rae                20.6                         Occupany Ra                   41.6
Averp Leh of Sty             7.0                          Averg LeGt of Sty             8.5



82                               Annex  3
Page 14 of 1$
Annex 3, Table 4: CHEILE- PUBLIC HOSPITAL
ACTIVITY: HSRP REGIONS, 1990 (Cont'd)
Number of Bada               406                           NueoB                        308
NumbW of Madrion             20,564                       Nute of Admisons              9,496
OcupcRat                     80.4                         Ocupy Rats                    663
Averp Lent of Sty            5.7                          Averg Lgh of Sty              6.9
Num  of Beds                 944                          Number of Beds                75
Number of AdminonA           1,J46                        Nuetr of Ad fm                2,171
OccupancyRdae                69.7                         OcupayWRae                    70.7
Averg Lgh of Say             113.5                        Average L      of Stay        9.1
Number of BDds               10
Number of Admisions          347
OccupancyRat                 29.8
Avetge  ngh of S"y           2.9
So Ja  de Dios                                            Fdi DB_
Numb_ of Bads                537                          Numbe of Dada                 381
Number of Admiuona           23,808                       Number of Admusaoa            17,404
OcancyRate                   80.4                         OcupayRat                     82.3
Avant, Legh  of Sty          6.6                          Avg Length of Stay            5.96
ZMEMM_1ke                                                 MiS
Number of Das                131                          Numberof Das                  115
Nueer tof Admasions          3,765                        Number of Admisson.           7,395
Ocancy Rat                   71.3                         OocuMpayRe                    74.7
Aveg Lengt of Sty            12.1                         Averp Legt of Sty             5.4



83                                Annex 3
Page 15 of 18
Annex 3, Table 4: CHILE- PUBLIC HOSPITAL
ACTIVITY: HSRP REGIONS, 1990 (Cont'd)
Numbe ot ad                    6                             Number of Beds                 41
Number of Admsiao             3,57S                          Number of Admissions           2,551
Ocupancy R                    67.5                           Occupany Rate                  76.0
Avea  Lenth of Sty            4.4.                           Averge Length of Stay          4.38
Numberof Bld                  17
Number of Admadon             626
Occupancyate                  47.6
Avea Leqt of Sty              4.60
Number of Bob                 750                            Number of Beds                 280
Numbe of Adwhsalo             34,492                         N mber of Admissions           11,346
OcpanyRawte                   772                            Occupany Rate                  82.9
Averge Lng  of Sty           6.4                            Averge Length of Stay          7.5
,  Number of  ed                   953                           Number of Beds                 280
Number of Admiaaoca           32,458                         Number of Admissions           11 927
Occupa   Rs                   86.1                           Occupany Rate                  81.4
Aversp L_*t of Stay           7.3                            Average Lenh   of Stay         4.8
-  .t-- Nhmd
Mumbr of eds                   146                           Number of Beds                 209
Number of Admi_o              2128                           Number of Admisions            3,420
OccupanyRats                  878                            Occupny Rate                   76.5
Avea   Iang  of ity            16.1                          Average L th of Stay           15.8



84                           Annex 3
Page 16 of 18
Annex 3, Table 4: CHILE- PUBLIC HOSPITAL
ACTIVITY: HSRP REGIONS, 1990 (Cont'd)
Numbw of Bed             140                       Nubr ot B                53
Numbecof daons                                     Nuomrof A dm             1,110
Ooupansy R&t-                                      OwcupRat                 79.2
Aveng Len& of Sty                                  Avea Leg of Sty           13.8
Numb of Bod               42                       Numb of Bd               212
Numb otAdmdolA           28,781                    Numbe of Admndsions      7,S40
Oaipany RAt              80.7                      OccypayRa                73.8
Avmpag Lang& of Stay     7.40                      Avenp Length of Stay     5.2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dr. Led Cora
Number of Bodb           112                       Nuber of Boda            134
Numbwe of Admiuom        S,141                     Numbe of Admisuons       3,620
OcupyRat                 732                       OccupuryRa               91.5
Aveg Leh of Sty          5350                      Avwa Len& of Sty          12.0
Number of Beds           141                       Number of Dad            798
Number of Admisons       7.640                     Numbe of Admds            1,328
Occupaoy Ra              70.9                      OecuwpRate               93.1
Avep Legh of BUy         4.10                      Avene Legh of 8ty         146.0



85                       Annex 3
Page 17 of 18
Annex 3., Table 4: CIILE- PUBLIC HOSPITAL
ACTIVITY: HSRP REGIONS, 1990 (Cont'd)
Nunmbr of Beds  640                         Number of Bedo        298
Nlumber of Admisons  33,140                 Number of Adamisions  770
Occupany Rate   90.0                        Occupancy Rae        54.0
Avmp Lth of Stay  5.8                       Avergp lm*h of Swy    35.8
Sourcc: Chilean Minisuy of Health



86                          Annex 3
rage 18 of 18
Aniexi 3. Table 5: CHILE - WAITING PERIOD
FOR HOSPITALIZATION: METROPOLITAN
SANTIAGO REGION, 1991
Average Waiting Period                 Maxisum Waiting Period
Clinical Service                      (days)                                (days)
Medicine                               8.7                                     548
Surgery                              21.4                                      548
Ophthalmology                       126.9                                over two years
Otorhinolaryngology                   98.0                               over two years
Gynaecology                           28.2                                     276
Traumatology                          38.8                               over two years
Neurology                              8.4                                     276
Urology                               92.6                                     548
Neurosurgery                          15.4                                     276
Pediatrics                             2.6                                     276
Infant Surgery                       72.0                                over two years
S oas: Chi  MWinsty of He"lt



87                      Annex 4
Page 1 of 8
Annex 4: METHODOLOGY TO EVALUATE
HEALTH CARE FACITIES AND HEALTH
SERVICES
The existing Chilean health care system, now in operation for fifty
years, had proved to be extremwey efficient and was universally recognized as
one of the best in Latin America. However, due to progress achieved in
primary care, changes in the pattern of diseases, growing urbanization, and
advances in medical technology the present system needs to adjust and be
modernized. This will be done as part of the Health Sector Reform Project.
To efficiently implement health sector reform it was necessary to
establish a framework for the impending investment projects. In order to do
thim the Ministry of Health (NOR) initiated a review of the health care
delivery system. In 1991 a study, known as "Adjustment of the Public Health
Care Delivery System" was c*ariid out in eight regional health service areas.
Through this study, the MDR identified the changes that were needed in the
health care delivery system in these eighi areas.
The Adjustment oZ the Public Health Care System study has two
parts. The first section analyzed the physical resources of the health care
delivery system, focusing on clinics and hospitals. The second part of the
study evaluated the supply ard demand for health care services at all level of
care.
A. SELECTION O  THE STUDY SITES
The eight Health Service Areas (HSA's) which the study focused on
were: Antofagasta in the 31 Loa region; Llanchipal in the Los Lagos region;
and Norte, Sur, Sur-Oriente, Occidente, Oriente, and Central in the
metropolitan Santiago region. Antofagasta was chosen because it is the
largest HSA in tls country and typifies a HSA in which the population is
concentrated in small towns separated by great distances. Llanchipal is
representative of a HSA with a widely dispersed and isolated rural population.
The HS's in the Metropolitan Santiago Region were included in the study
because together they pose the major health problem in the country, as well
as, include the majority of the country's population.
S. ERVALUATION OF PHYSICAL RESOURCES
The examination of the health Wystem's physical resources in these
eight HSA's focused on: (i) quantity and quality; (ii) productivity capacity;
and (iii) performance.
ouantity and Oualiy. in order to measure the quality of health care
faci3lties a quantitative methodology was developed. Information was gathered
for each service within the hospital (see Annex 4-1) on: a) condition of the



88                      Annex 4
Page 2 of 8
physical structure; b) number of installations in the building including but
not limited to water, sewers, electricity, liquid gas, heat, clinical gases
and communications; and c) operation of installations. Teams of architects,
encineers and construction workers then assisted in converting this
information into three separate numerical indicators (see Box 1). These
indicators were then utilized to evaluate the vulnerability of the facilities
at both the disaggregated and aggregated level.
B.OXal
INDICATORSMASRNQULl
X_   .-truzolua.4gt
2 ~  om  4~a~ebutreptraibl.
. ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ r    _TA
:. ~ muOd     e   t4    .     d.i4:: i. : ot Aepa..... . . an    :   .   : a''2- 
:. .... .. .... ..                   .      T. .- .
Z  ine2ud. aI  t) at axe' nddadmt d              o
In. ~addiutio  tod this quantitdatie aayi,te4Has okit
consideration qualitative data. Included in this analysis was information on
location, size and occupancy rates of facilities, as well as, the
poeoiibilities for expansion. Equipment valued over U.S. $3,000 was classified
int. three categories: medical; indust:rial; and vehicles.  Basic data was
obtained concerning age and expected life-use left.
Productivity CaDacity.  A review of the human and phyoical
resources utilized for the production of each medical and support service was
undertaken. This data was used for a qualitative evaluation of the adequacy
of these resources. Through this analysis bottlenecks in the production of
services, due to lack of human and physical resources, were identified.



89                   Annex 4
Page 3 of 8
Performance. The performance of health care facilities at the
hospital level was evaluated by two quantitative methnds. In the first method
a matrix was developed to measure the level of coordination within the
hospital between the different medical and support services. In the matrix at
the intersection of each row and column, where the different services were
listed, one of three codes (see box 2) were registered to indicate the level
of coordination that, based on the judgment of experts, ought to exist within
the hospital.  Next, an evaluation, based on observation and experience, was
done on the level of coordination between the services that actually occurs
within each given hospital. The information obtained was converted into three
quantitative indicators (see Box 2) and entered into a matrix. The numbers in
the matrix were summed to evaluate the performance of individual services,
hospital areas, and the hospital.
...             Z-\.,.s   s   f  s  E - i; 0 - V f l x . 0~"  .f.  ...   ................................,   
OTMAL LBI M1 'FcooiZATO
I O wft. 'OW
fcltefoueon evlaigthespcfic medcladspot sevie
X.. I.  ,,.A  -',   "'a'        s  _
.                                       ,    : :,  '    - ,-'   '' .'  ..... '. ' . 0 ''0 . ........................................ 0' .. 0 :.   '   C . . .   . . . .. .   . . . .
s : . ~~~~~~~~~~-.-    :      . ... 0.    :-- -     - .......... . .. 
The second method for measuring the performance of health care
facilities focused on evaluating the specific medical and support services.
Individual services were rated according to: (i) size based on recommendations
(see Annex 4-1); (ii) number of resources based on the information obtained in
the analysis of productive capacity; and (iii) the flow of personnel and
materials. For each of these measures a numerical value was given (see Box 3)
which were then aggregated to evaluate the service and the facility.
A quantitative analysis was also undertaken which examined the
relationship among the different health care facilities. Emphasis was given
to evaluating the referral system and vias of access.



90                     Annex 4
Page 4 of 8
subprogram  directors, h  althmcare experte, and the D$v$eio of ^........  .
aaal ncue    wmod$ca  e   etadr
With$n  eac ofteee claEtegor$eede tht op$alnmptafbi.ie  ta  *oldb
receive  per  44 bnfcary during4 ai~ on   tbar per$od0 W0'oetob$he* t h
primaryigataucp~~a level(SeAOX-2
Next,i tho  Standard. ofo *ch rmrare.T  evlate the  wadeqmuacy o of
aovalle health cactre toervicsf thoe prHimrst cadrt establish $nroa standard.
ofr care. Thiscwasdone thoughete$ollfabtorativ effoiicts ofc H5A program and
thek ino Takicgunt oCA consdertione the best esifte of$ar disalth parevaec
Waiithineea  ofethmaese cathegnoies the  eoctndaly numbr ofsece  tha prhvouldb
reperivednper beneficiary durtingn vraboneyeapeidasstbshdtte
forDUd sb endary care.wt Thcovrinftr wasfi    spcii tol each HSuAo _Ab  reio  and u*wh
tok nt  ccun lcl onitos,th   apciy  fprmay,elt cr
facilities, estimates of the need for secondary care..ased.on.previou
experience and other pertinent variables.....
I/Sandrd.fordenal ar.wer it~ecSe o echcas. ad mnotse.....leo ........u..whle



91                         Annex 4
Page 5 of 8
BOX 4-
i:DEFIC1T' 1N HALT (INCARE SERVI
QPflMRL          ~~~~~6I,259, 977  Is6648 
VE1~~CZT           66820            ,145
NUJDZ   :.0.:.-t-  . -  - 0J
7778                                                  2     .-
*        -                  .                 i - - -; 97''
..  ..     O                                                             -
..   ,   :,".   ..   ,  ,  ,.  ,, ' ' .' . ' ' , - ' g ff 0 0; . H. , . , S~~mm.



92                     Annex 4
Page 6 of 8
In order to simplify the evaluation of tertiary care three
indicators, which are typically used and relatively easy to measure, were
chosen: (i) consultations per admission; (ii) beds per population; and (iii)
admissions per population. The optimal ratio for each of these indicators was
calculated by adding the current level of care provided by the hospital to the
amount of additional care needed for those on the hospital waiting list.
Estimatina the Beneficiary ponulation. In order to convert the
standards per beneficiary into standards for an entire health service area,
the beneficiary population for each area had to be estimated. The number of
beneficiaries, defined as a persons utilizing the public health sector as
described under Law No. 18,469, was obtained from the 1990 National Socio-
Economic Characteristic Survey (CASBN). Approximately seventy-five percent of
the population was identified as public system beneficiaries. However,
although CASEN collected data on the utilization of health care by sector
(i.e. Public, ISAPRBS, OtherW) this information was nc* disaggregated by sex
or age group.  To obtain these figures the assumption was made that the age
and sex distribution within the beneficiary population would be the same as in
the total population. Using data from the National Institute of Statistics
(INN) and the Center for Latin American Demographics (CELADE), which collects
information on total population by age and sex for each HSA region, the age
and sex distribution of the beneficiary population was calculated.
For Llanchipal it was not possible to use CASBN to determine the
number of beneficiaries because in this HSA the CASEN data was not
disaggregated by province. Instead, the number of beneficiaries was assumed
to be equal to the percentage of children under the age of one who received
public health care services.
Standards for each HSA. By multiplying the standard number of services
per individual beneficiary by the total number of HSA beneficiaries (in that
sam age and sex group) the optimal level of services which should be
delivered in each HSA was obtained. Tlhese figures were calculated for the
base year 1990 and were projected for the next ten years based on an estimated
population growth of 1.8 percent.
Calculation of Deficits. Deficiencies in the availability of
health care services were calculated by subtracting the current levels of care
provided from the standard levels of care as defined above. (See Box 4) This
was done at the aggregated and the disaggregated level including: the entire
nation; HSA's; facilities; and individual medical and support services.
aDu, to dat con_atp uplhs W  t public/puvat fi.edon q_m wi. ouidd public ymtem bs8ciadu.



93                          Annex 4
Page 7 of 8
Annx 41: HOSPITAL SERVICES EVALUATED
BY TIE MOH AND RECOMMENDED SIZE
BOSPITAL UNITS  SPECXFIC SERVICES                          EECODAID SIZE
I¶13&2        TW33&4
SUPPORT                SURGICAL                    135-165 per paviion
OBSTURICAL SURGICAL        115-145 per paviion
INTENSIVE CARE             55-70 pe bed              200.220 for
INTER'l EDIATE CARE        12-15 per bed              the rea
CHILD DNMNSIVE CARE        30-40 per bed
NEONATAL                   15.20 per cib
HOSFITAL               SURO'RY
INTERNAL MEDICINE               15-20 per bed        10-12 per bed
GYNECOLOOY/OBSTURCS              for each             for etch
PEDIATRIC8
AMBULATORY             CONSULTATIONS               10-15                10.15
PROCBDURES                 15-20                15-20
AMBULATORY SURGERY          20-25                _
DIAaGNOSTI             X-RAY                       20 per rom           20 pe toom
LABORATORY                 0.8-1.0 per bed      0.4-0.7 per bed
BLOOD BANK                 03-0.4 per bed       0.4-0.7 per bed
PUBLIC PHARMACY            30                   6-12
PHARMACY                   0.35-0.65 per bd     a/a
IaNEiTHERAPY AND REHAB.   1.15-1.7 per bed      n/a
ST1RILIZATION              0.65S0.9 per bed     0.5 per bed
EMERGENCY              OBSTETRICS                  15                   12
PRE-BRT BEDS               12 per bed           12
BIRTH ROOMS                18-25 per room       IS
ADULT A" ETIRTON           12                   12
ADULT OBSERVATION          IS                   12
ADULT PROCEDURES           20                    IS
PEDIATRIC ATTENTION        12                   12
PEDIATRIC OBSERVATION      12                   12
PEDIATRIC PROCEDURES       18                   15
GENERAL SERVICES       SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL        0.17-0.21 per bed    0.17-0.30per bed
REPAIR SHOP                0.5 per bed          0.5 per bed
FOOD STORE                 1.5 per bed          1.0 per bed
MORGUE                     nla                  nba
LAUNDRY                    0.6-0.75 per bed     12-1.5 per bed
LINEN ROOM                 0.6-0.75 perbod      12-1.5 per bed
CENTRAL SUPPLY             0.75-1.0 per bod     1.8-2.0 per bed
MILK STERIIZATION          45 - 60              36
ADMINISRATION          RECEMPION                   0.70-1. pw bed       1.2 per bed
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES     0.70-1.2 per bed     1.7-3.0 per bed



Annex 4
Page 8 of 8
Annex 4-2: STANDARDS FOR PRIMARY
HEALIH CARE SERVICES
HAITH CARM  SERVICE                 ]BEEF.               STANDARD
POP. I    -rl/oro/)
ADULT (over age 14)                                                                 |
EXAMINATION                                  100%
age 15-59                                                       0.10
age60+                                                           1.00
CONSULTATION FOR ILLNESS                     100%
APe 1-59                                                        1.50
ge 60+                                                           3.00
AMBULATORY SURGERY                           N/A                   N/A
CHRONIC CARE                                 30%
first year examinadon                                           0.06
fist year folow-up examiration                                  0.03
follow-up amIntion                                              0.27
MATERNAL (females over 14)
PERINATAL EXAMINATION                        96%                   8.64
PUERPERUM 8XAMINATION                        100%                 1.00
NEWBORN EXAMINATION                          100%                 1.00
GYNECOLOGY EXAMINATION                       80%                  0.24
BIRTH CONTROL                                36%                  0.72
BREAST-FEEDING TRAINING                      40%                  2.00
OBSTlERICAL PROB. CONSULTATION               30%                  0.60
NUTRMONAL CONSULTATION                       25%                 0.5 . 0.75
INF}ANT AND CHILD (under age 14)
NEWBORN EXAINATION
0 day - 27 days                           100%                  2.0
28 days - S mth                            100%                  4.0
6 rnth -I 1mth                            100%                  3.0
12 nh -23 rath                             100%                  4.0
2yrr - Syr$                                100%                 2.0
RISK DETECrION CONSULTATION
0 - 6 yr                                   W0el6                1.35
NUTRMION DEFICIENCY CONSULTATION
lto than 2 yr                              100%                 0.41
2 yr - S yr                                100%                 0.19
PSYCHOMOTOR DEPICIENCY
0-6yr                                      100%                 0.96
CONSULTATION FOR ILLNESS                     100%                  3.0
NUTRMON CONSULTATION                         100%                 0.03
CHRONIC DISEASE EXAMINATION                  100%               0.30 -0.60
SOCIAL ASSISTANCE ECAMINATION                100%                 0.10



95                     Annex 5
Page 1 of 7
Annex 5: FRAME OF REFERENCE FOR HHEALTH
INVESTMENTS
Ihis Annex summarizes the major recomnendations of the Study on
the Reorientation of the Health Care System. Those recommendations have been
approved by the Government and will sorve as the guideline for investments in
health care establishments in Chile.
A. BACKGROUND
The Ministry of Health (MNH) initiated a reviow of the public
health care system for the preparation of the proposed Health Sector Reform
Project to be financed by the World Bank.
The profile of the public health caroe sytem consists of a
breakdown by levels of care and types of astablislments, taking into account
the geodemographic location, the type of services to be provided and the
referral systems linking them. The review focused on four main issues withir.
the health care system:
-    health policy
=    epidemiologic profile
=     geodemographic situation
-    potential sector resources
Flexibility will be required in the application of the results of
the study in order to be able to take local circumstances into account and to
ensure that the instrument developed will be useful within a general framework
for investment decisions.
D. OBDJCTIZS
The study has a dual purpose: to design a support instrument for
investment decisions and to contribute to the restructuring of the public
health care system.
The profile seeks to provide guidance in rosolving ome of the
problems observed in the health care system; i.e. how open care is valued,
how care can be decentralized and regional autonomy increased, and how levels
of complexity and referral systems can be organized through a range of
alternative solutions. The mouol proposed for solving some of these problems
emphasizes social participation, intersectoral work and decen';,il.ation as
basic components of the care sytem.
*     In this docuasnt, *ope cara  refers to outpatifant/bulatory services wnd aclosed care" to
hospitatfzation (see Table 1).



96                 ~~~~~Annex 5f9
Page 2 of 9
The proposed health care system is organized according to levels
of coMplexity for open and clooed care taking into consideration the following
objectives:
bringing the care as close as possible to the user, within a
context of cost effectiveness;
providing the services in the lowest possible level of complexity
while maintaining them at an adequate quality level;
ensuring the appropriateness of the health actions;
giving the regions autonomy and thereby contributing to greater
decentralization.
C.  METHODOLOGY
For each of the proposed establishments t list was prepared of the
services they could provide, using as guidelines the solving of health
problems in the closest level of complexity closest to the location and
promotion of ambulatory care.
By way of more speciiic criteria the following were taken into
consideration: potential demand for care (frequency), availability of
resources, the appropriateniess of the care, the complementarity ox the
activities among themselves, the cost of the services and the patient's
safety.
The list consists of 2,094 services, grouped into direct care
services, laboratory examinations, radiological examinations, radiation
treatment, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and surgical interventions
in the different medical specialties and dental services.
In the list there is a "yes" by each service when it can be
provided in the establishment in question and a blank when not. "Yes" for the
laboratory examinations refers to the prucess and not to sample taking.
It is important to bear in mind that the list must be applied with
sufficient flexibility to take the differing local circumstances into accotut,
while in light of techunological advances the list itself will have to be
periodically reviewed.
In establishing which areas the proposed health facilities should
serve the following different geodemographic circumstances, which prevail in
the country, were used-
-    Urban-Rural Area:  an area consisting of a city of fewer than
10,000 inhabitants plus rural zones with predominantly scattered
population.
-     Small City:  cities with between 10,000 and SO,000 inhabitants.



97                     Annex 5
Page 3 of 7
Intermediate City:  cities with betwe6n 50,000 and 100,000
inhabitants.
Large City:  ;cies with over 100,000 inhabitants, including the
major urban areas such as Santiago, Valparaiso-Viftia del Mar and
Concepci6n-Talcahuano.
The population oiz. proposed for each establishment is flexible;
the guiding principle considered for the low-complexity establiohments waa
accessibility, and for those of greater complexity, optimum size. The
suggested population corresponds to the Public Health System beneficiary
population.
D. FACILITY DZSCRIPTZOI
The proposed establishments are set out in the following table, by
levels of complexity and care subsystem:
a..;  .::.."'.. ...x.
OM*
.Z-''..'Ruta CCl'  i.           .'.icX
W~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ .,...,,...
A ftrasectoral Area, which would have shared responsibility with
the community and social organizations, and an Intersectoral Area, which would
havs shared responsibilities with the other public agencies, are also
proposed.
A brief description of all the proposed establishments is given
below:
Rural Health Post (RP): The Rural Health Post is an ambulatory care facility.
It offers easy access to health care for communities of 600 to 2,000
inhabitants.



98                          Annex 5
Page 4 of 7
This facility would be run by a resident rural health auxiliary
who periodically recoives assistance from the professional team consisting
basically of a general practitioner, dentist, nurse and midwife, who may come
together or on an alternating schedule. This team supervises the work of the
resident auxiliary and coMplements his or her training, as well as provides
care. This facility will provide basic primary health care.
Rural Clinic (RC): This in an *etablishment met up in localities of 2,000 to
5,000 inhabitants with an assigned population of up to 20,000 persons. It is
ranked under the Urban General Clinic and/or Type 4 Hompital.
The rural clinic health team should comprise: a general
practitioner, a dentist, a nurse, a midwife and a rural paramedical auxiliary.
It will perform primary care level promotion, protection and recovery
activities in the adult, child, dental and maternal programs.
Vrban Goneral Clinic (W30: An Urban General Clinic can be located in small
cities as a stand-alone establiNhment or attached to a low-complexity
hospital; or in medium or large cities as part of a network of urban clinics,
in conjunction with the Health Referral Centers. The population for which it
is responsible will not exceed 40,000.
The Urban General Clinic's professional health team will include:
general practitione:., general dentists, nurses, midwives, nutritionists and
social workers. This facility performs promotion, protection and recovery
activities in the adult, child, maternal and dental programs, for the primary
care level.
Health Referral Center (MaC): The Health Referral Center is an open care
establishment, of medium ccmplexity, located in medium or large cities as part
of the network of urban clinics, where it can be a stand-alone establishment
or attached to a Type 2 or 3 Hospital.
It is technically and administratively under the jurisdiction of
a pertinent Health Service Area staffed by specialists and serving persons
referred to it. This facility should meet the demand for medium complexity
diagnostic and therapeutic services from the low-complexity establishments.
its diagnostic and therapeutic services will handle referrals from four to six
UGCs.
Diagnostla and Therapeutic Center (DTC): Diagnostic and Therapeutic Centers
are located in the headquarter cities of the Health Service Areas, with at
least one per Service. These facilities are attached to a Type 1 Hospital, or
to a Type 2 Hospital if the Health Service concerned does not have a Type 1
Hospital. They are the most complex, technological establishments defined as
open care establishments, but, they also serve the closed care of the hospital
to which they are attached.
The Diagnostic and Therapeutic Centers furnish ambulatory care to
patients referred to them by the establishments of lower complexity and to



Annex 5
99                         Page 5 of 9
hospitalized patients, in all specialties and subspecialties pertaining to
high-complexity medicine and dentistry. .They have the necessary equipment
diagnostic and therapeutic services of a high level of complexity. They do
not provide walk-in consultations.
Type 4 Hospital (34): This level hospital is located in cities of over 10,000
inhabitants whose catchment areas include the communities assigned to the
Rural and General Clinics, but not exceeding 30,000 inhabitants. It may have
an Urban General Clinic attached to it and has fewer than 100 beds.
Its current professional human resources are: general
practitioner, nurse, midwife, social worker, medical technician and
nutritionist. The level of its equipment is sufficient for it to perform
diagnostic support with basic laboratory and imaging facilities, electro-
cardiograms and study of the fetoplacental unit. It provides round-the-clock
emergency medical service.
Type 3 Hospital (H3): This facility is located in localities of up to 50,000
inhabitants, with a catchment area made up of the communities assigned to the
Rural and Urban General Clinics and not exceeding 70,000 people. It may also
be located in large cities, where it would meet the demand for hospitalization
for cases of lesser complexity and also for emergency care in such cities. It
would have fewer than 200 beds.
Activities in Type Three Hospitals are designed to meet the
greater part of the closed care needs in the basic specialties of the
population for which it is responsible. It has differentiated basic services
(pediatrics, internal medicine, obstetrics/gynecology and surgery), in
addition to basic neonatology units and intermediate care units.
Type 2 Hospital (X2): A Type 2 Hospital may be located in cities with over
100,000 inhabitants, as the sole hospital establishment, and may have a Health
Referral Center attached to it. It can also be located in large urban areas
as a supporc establishment for Type 1 hospitals. It is suggested that its
size be below 400 beds.
The hospital has a differentiated emergency service staffed by the
resident interns, and differentiated clinical services for basic specialties.
It also offers intermediate care units for basic specialties, neonatology and,
where justified, an intensive care unit. It has basic specialists and
subspecialists in high-demand areas.
If it happens to be the highest level in the Health Service Area
concerned, the Type 2 Hospital may upgrade its complexity level above that
laid down in the list of services and have a Diagnostic and Therapeutic Center
attached to it.
Type 1 Hospital (Hl): This facility is located in the main cities of the
Health Services, which forms the base hospital of each system unit when the
size of the Health Service or its geographic location so warrant. It is the



Annex 5
100                       Page 6 of 9
closed care establishment of the highest level of complexity. It has a
Diagnostic and Therapeutic Center attached to it. It should have about 500
beds, with a catchment area of over 500,000 inhabitants.
The Type 1 Hospital has organized emergency service, resident
interns differentiated by clinical service, intermediate care units and an
intensive care unit. Its human resources comprise almost the full range of
clinical specialties and subspecialtion, though it may not include some which
for reasons of cost-effectiveness should be concentrated in certain system
units strategically distributed throughout the country.
It is proposed that the present specialized institutes or
hospitals be included as clinical services with the Type 1 or 2 hospitals or
hospital complexes, and could in these cases be made national or regional
referral centers.
Parasectoral Nstablishments: This group could include: Recovery Center for
Malnourished Cases, Community Center for Care of Patients with Stable
Psychiatric Pathology, Home for the Elderly, Home for Pregnant Adolescents,
Integral Family Support Center, Basic Medical Care Center, Home for Pregnant
Rural Women, Socio-Labor Rehabilitation Center, Protected Homes and Workshops
for psychiatric patients, Predischarge Establishments for young children, and
others, in accordance with local needs.
These establishments would share responsibilities with the
community and social organizations. Even though they do not fully belong to
the public health system, they would have to be considered as means for
filling gaps detected in the care system, with the relevant Health Service
Area being made responsible for technical supervision of their funcuions.
The location of the proposed Parasectoral Establishments would
take into account basically the size of the population and the existence of
open and closed care establishments in the area.
E. RNINRRAL SYSTEM
The referral systems (Figures 1 and 2), which describe the flow of
patients between the different establishments of the system, were approached
from the standpoint of inclusion of the model in the different geodemographic
situations, and separating the flow of elective patients and those for
emergency care.
Flow of elective patients: Figure 1 represents the flow of elective patients
in the different situations. As a general rule, elective patients will be
sent to the ambulatory care or hospital establishment -- as appropriate -- of
the next-highest level of complexity, under a system of obligatory staggered
referral.
Flow of emergency patients: Figure 2 represents the emergency flow. Only
establishments providing this type of care are included. All the
establishments serve spontaneous demand and can, in principle, refer cases to



Annex 5
101                        Page 7 of 9
any establishments of higher complexity, at the referring physician'>
discretion.
It must be stressed that in both instances -- elective or
emergency -- it in essential for the proper functioning of the care system
that adequate means of communication and transport be available in each of the
establishments described.



Lernex 5. Fiure1: FLOW  OF ELECTIVE
PATIENTS
URBAN-RURAL AREA                    SMALL CITY                 INTERMEDIATE CITY
RURAL CLINIC'                       u7c                     UGC*            HRC
UGC                         HRC or UGC                         HRC
HOSPITAL TYPE 4*                HOSPITAL TYPE 3                 HOSPITAL TYPE 2
HOSPITAL TYPE 1        V
DTC
HOSPITAL TYPE 2                                           HRC
HRC or DTC                                             UGC'
L
LARGE CITY
*gerwe  w^ak-l eeuuu|tlalea



Annex S. Figure 2: FLOW OF EMERGENCY
PATIS
URBAN-RURAL AREA                    SMALL CITY                 INTERMEDIATE CITY
RURAL CLINIC |I|EC                                                 EF    J
HOSPITAL TYPE 4                 HOSPITAL TYPE 3                HOSPITAL TYPE 2
VlV          HOSPITAL TYPE 1         V
HOSPITAL TYPE 2                                                       UGC          It
LARGE CITY
All *stealleshueut. aeept auetoeenGY eooeltatloms.    Caly *SISbIlbflc@o*     ptroidinhg S*1e8acy S OcsIOes at* shown.



Annex 6: HSRP ACTION PLAN
OBJECTIVES              :                   ACTIONS                      :       TIMETABLE        :              STATUS/
:                                    :                                                                                        REMAR:
POLICY/INSTITUTIONAL  REFORMS
:  A. HEALTH FINANCING               :A.1  Furnish the Bank information on the        :A.1  No later than       :A.1  Pilot test started
:  :    progress of implementation of the new    :    Deceaber 15, 1992  i      in June 1992.
:  :  financing schemes at the secondary
:  :  eand tertiary care levels in the five     :
:                         :    ~~~~~~~~~pftot HSAs.
:A.2  Revieu with the Bank the results          :A.2  No later than       :A.2  TAHRP Nici-Term Review
:  :    of the above pilot test and agree             June 30, 199 
:                                    :     an appropriate subsequent actions.
:A.3  Review status of adoption of the          :A.3  No later than       :A.3  TAHRP Mid-Term Review
:  :  new primary care financing scheme and,   :      Jure 30, 193M
: : as appropriate, carry out recommended
:  :  options.                                                            * 
B. MON STRENGTHENING             :B.1  Complete NON restructuring and             :B.1  No later than       :B.1  Terms of reference
:  :  carry out revised MO  functions.          :     July 1, 1993        :     satisfactory; consultants
being hired.
:B.2  Commence initial implementation phase    :8.2  Mo later than
:  :  of the Service Provision Agreement in           May 15, 1993
:                                    :     at least five NSAs.
:B.3  Review with the Bank the results of the  :B.3  No later than
above phase.                              .    December 31, 1993
:8.4  Set up the Training Progrm Secretariat  :B.4  No later than         :B.4  Condition of Loan
:  :  in the MOM.                               :     January 15, 1993.  :      Effectiveness.
:8.5  Adoption by the Goverrment of the         :8.5  No later than       :B.5  Condition of Loan
:  :  PCU Operations ManuaL, MSRP Implemen-    :    January 15, 1993   :        Effectiveness
:  :  tation Manual, Envirorsental Health       :
:  :  Implementation Manual., and Training      :                         :
Instructions Manual.                      : 
:B.6  Furnish the Bank the resuilts of the      :B.6  No later than       :8.6  Term of reference reviewed.:          0%
:                                    :    Naunpower Plaming Methodology Study         :     Jure 15, 1993      :                                   :
:  :  and an action progra for the
:                                    :     implementation of its recommendations.   :                                                              :
. .......................  ..............................  .. .. ............................................. .................................................................. ---------------------------------..... ...  . .. 



Annex 6: HSRP ACTION PLAN (Cont'd)
:             OBJECTIVES                                     ACTIONS                       :        TIMETABLE                         STATUS/
REMARKS
:B.7  Impleent the foregoing action program   :9.7  No later than
:                                      :      according to agreedl schedules.              :      Janury 15, 1994   :
:                                      :5.8  Carry out a progruw  of staff recruitment :8.8  No later than
:                                      :      and reassigWnent besed on schedules and            Narch 1, 1993
:                                      :      targets agreed with the Bank.
:B.9  Review with the Bark semi-annually the   :8.8  No later than
:  :  progress of the abcve staff recruit-         :      June 15 and Decem- :
:  :  ment and reassignment program.                      ber 15 each year,  :
:     starting on June   :
:  :: 15, 1993
......... ............. ... ... ......  ---------------------------  ----- --------    ----- ---------------
C.  HEALTH SECTOR SUPPLY           :C.1  Furnish the Bank for its review               :C.1  No later than         :C.1  Terms of reference reviewed.:
:       SYSTEB  (CENTRAL SUPPLY        :      the draft CSF strategic plan.                :      June 30, 1993 I
:       FACILITY)                                                                                                                                           :
:C.2  Furnish the Bank fcr its review             :C.2  No later than
:                                      :      an action program cletailing the steps    :         June 30, 1993
:  :  to be taken for the conversion of
:  :  the CSF into an autonomous public
* :   enterprise.
:C.3  Review with the Government the status    :C.3  No later than
:  :  of the action program implementation                September 15, 1993
:  :  including the legal framework corwertinrg
:                                      .      the CSF into an autonamous enterprise.
................................... .... ............................................ ... ............. ..  ......... ----------------------
:     D. STREAMLINING OF THE           :D.1  Furnish the Bank for its review               :0.1  No later than         :D.1  Terms of reference reviewed.:
PUBLIC HEALTH INSTITUTE   :        a draft of the feasibility study on          :      June 30, 1993
:  :  ISP's potential to enter into
- .   joint venture with a private firm.
:D.2  Furnish the Bank for its review a draft  :D.2  No later than             :D.2  Terms of reference reviewed.:            D
:  :  program  for  odenization of ISPs            :      October 15. 1993   :                                             1
tariff structure, aedinistrative                                                                                         :
*  :  procedures and suply functions.              :                                                                :      ;
:D.3  Implement, as approriate, the recommn- :D.3  No later than                                                    :      0
dations of the above progrm  according   :         Jnuaary 15, 1994   :                                       *
to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.                                :                                     :
.................. ....................................... ........................................ ............................................................................. ........................ -------------------------



Annex.6: HSRP ACTION PLAN (Cont'd)
OBJECTIVES                                  ACTIONS                            TIMETABLE         :             STATUS/
:                                    :                                               :                        :             RENARKS
E. NONITORING AM  EVALUATION  :E.1  Furnish the Du* reference bnch rk           :E.1 No later then
:  : date for the monitoringod antevlurtion   : tApril 30  1993
:                                    :     indicators and  s apprqprate  quality
of car and efficiency of health "ervicas:
:                              ~~~~~~~~~~indicators.:: 
:                                    :E.2  Start Governeent nd Bank Nid-Tem          :E.2 No tater than       :
:                                    .    Review of the NHP.                         :    June 15, 1995
F.  POLICY LETTER                  :F.1 Furnish the Bank a letter incorporating  :H.1 No later than          :H.1 Ccqleted
:  :  Governmntfs comsituent to provide              October 15, 1992
:                                   :      the re9qired financing for the direct                              :
\   :                                 :      ~~~~~~~~~~~nd incremental recurent costs imptied:::
:  :    by the iptlementation of the agreed     :
:                                    :    sector reforms and infrastructure works.
I ~ ~    ~   ..................    ................................    ....................    ----- - - - ------------
NSRPPLAM-10/15/92
I!



107                            Annex 7
Page 1 of 10
Anexl: TAHRP AND HSRP ACTIVITY
TABLE
Component I: Decentralization of Health Services Delivery
(Thousands US$)
SUBCOMPONENTS                HSRP                    T    _N _       GRANT
LOCAL    CREDIT       LOCAL    CREDIT
1. MINISTRY OF HEALTH
a. Restructuring the MOH
1. consultant services             14.9    133.9
2. seminars                                             0.8       7.0
3. operation                      801.3
b. Study of Manpower Planning
Methodology
1. consultant services             11.5    103.6
2. seminars                                             0.6       5.5
2. AUTONOMY FOR CENTRAL SUPPLY
FACILrTY (CSF)
a. Operation                      3,339.1
b. Strategic Plan
1. consultant services              3.4      30.4
2. seminars                                             0.2       1.6
c. Study credit/billing pol.
1. consultant services              3.4      30.4
2. seminars                                             0.2       1.6
d. Study of supply and trans.
1. consultant services              6.7      60.6
2. seminars                                             0.4       3.2
e. Transformation to Autonomy
1. Prop. term. of reference                             1.6      14.8
2. consultant services             10.5      94.1
3. seminars                                             0.6       5.0
3. STRENGTHENING OF PUBLIC H.
INSTITUTION (ISP)
a. Operation                        366.3
b. Study to Form Joint Vent.
1. consultant services              7.1      63.6
2. seminars                         3.7       0.0
c. Customs System
1. consultant services              3.3      29.8
2. seminars                                             0.2       1.6



108                   ~~~~~Aninex 7
108                          W -Pag  2 of 10
Component I: Decentralization of Health Services Delivery
(Continued)
SUBCOMPONLNTS               HSRP                 TAHRP          GRANT
LOCAL    CREDIT    LOCAL    CREDXI
d. Supply System
1. Prop. term. of reference                         0.5      4.4
2. consultant services            7.8     70.5
3. seminars                       4.1      0.0
e. Replacement of Equipment
1. Prep, detailed design                            1.1       9.9
2. Prop. actlon plan                                1.1       9.9
3. Equipment                    683.8  1,014.6
4. EVALUATION AND MONITORING
a. Consultant *-rvices             40.0    360.0
5. DETAILED DESIGN OF FXNAN.
a. Consultant services                               11.5    103.5
6. PILOTr PROGRAM FOR FINANCING
a. Consultant services                               27.0    242.7
b. SamLnars                                           3.0      27.0
c. Equipymnt                                         84.2    467.6
7. INFORMATION DEVELOPMENT P.
a. MOB
1. conoultant services                                                 105.2
2. Equipment                    737.4      0.0                         100.0
3. Training                                         5.7      51.1
4. Operation                    562.3
b. HSA
1. consultant services                             26.4    237.2       190.0
2. Eouipment                  8,007.6      0.0                         100.0
3. Training                     273.0      0.0
4. Operation                  7,245.1
c. Health Dellvery InstLt.
1. consultant services                             12.3    110.4
2. Equlpment                  5,283.0      0.0
3. TraLnLng                     144.6      0.0
4. OperatLon                  S,882.5
d. CSF
1. consultant wervlces                              1.8      15.8
2. Equlpmnt                     321.7      0.0
3. TraLnLng                       7.3      0.0
4. Operation                    374.7
O. ISP
1. consultant services                              1.8      15.8
2. Equipmnt                     334.3      0.0
3. Training                      11.1      0.0
4. Operation                    385.4



Annex 7
109                           Page 3 of 10
Component I: DecentrUzation of Health Services Delivery
(Continued)
5U3COPON?S3                 NsRP                   TAHRP           GRANT
LOCAL    CRUDZT      LOCAL.   CREDIT
f. Tleoommunicatlons
1. SquLpment (stage 1)           300.9       0.0
2. TraLnLng                        10.9      0.0
3. EquLpment (stage 11)                               94.1    522.6
4. Operatlon                      112.1
S. TRAINING
1. xqulpment                        1.1      3.6
2. Consultant Services             25.5    229.6
3. Tralnlng                    7,170.2       0.0
4. Operatlons                    457.2
9. SPECIAL PROORANS
a. Health Education
1. consultant s*rvicie             55.6      0.0
2. Prop. terms of ref.                                 0.9       7.7
3. materlals and  quiypment       147.0      0.0
b. NatLonal Food Program
1. consultant servlces              0.0               34.4    309.4
c. Cervlcal Cancer Control
1. EquLpment                     484.4    556.1
2. operatlon                   1,201.4



110                          Annex 7
Page 4 of 10
Component II: Facility Investments for a New Health Care Model
(Continued)
SUBCOMPONENTS               HSRP                  TAHRP           aRAAT
LOCAL    CREDIT      LOCAL    CREDIT
1. SUR-ORIENTE
a. San Ramon CRS
1. Equipment                    775.8    890.6
2. Detailed Design              1252  0j      0                            32 .9
3. Technical InspectLon          48.6       0.0
4. Infrastructure             4,713.0       0.0
5. Operation                  5,523.7
b. San Ramon Emergency Unlt
1. Equlpment                     75.8      87.0
2. Detailed Deslgn               11.1       0.0
3. Technical Inspection           4.8       0.0
4. Infrastructure               272.4    190.2
5. Operation                      0.0
c. San Ramon Hospital
1. Equipment                  2,745.7  3,151.9
2. Detailed Design              427.6       0.0
3. Technical Inspectlon         168.8       0.0
4. Infrastructure             9,602.8  6,704.4
5. Operation                      0.0
d. Sotero del Rio CDT
1. Detailed Design               64.7       0.0
2. Technical Inspection          35.3       0.0
3. Infrastructure             2,052.5  1,433.0
4. operation                  1,238.6
e. Sotero del Rio Surgical P.
1. Detailed Design                                   7.1      63.9
2. Technical Inspection                              3.7      33.1
3. Infrastructure             2,126.6  1,484.8
4. Operation                      0.0
f. Sotero del Rio Norm.Board.
1. Equipment                    212.1    243.4
2. Detailed Design                          0.0       2.5     22.1
3. Technical Inspection                     0.0      0.8       7.2
4. Infrastructure               456.5    318.7
5. Operation                      0.0
g. Consultant Services             550.3
...,  .W   ..                                   -._ 



111                          Annex 7
Page 5 of 10
Component II: Facility Investments for a New Health Care Model
(Continued)
SSIMMPOHNNTS                HaRP                  TAHRP           GRANT
LOCAL.   CREDIT     LOCAL    CREDIT
2. SUlt
a. 31 P)no CR5
1. Zquipmnt                     591.0    678.4
2. DetaLled Design                0.0       0.0
3. Technical Inspection          34.4       0.0
4. Infrastructure             3,464.6       0.0
5. Oparation                  3,276.3
b. B1 Pino Replac Hospital
2. Equipment                    559.4    642.1
2. DetaLled Design                0.0       0.0
3. Tochnical Inspectlon         126.1       0.0
4. Infrastructure             7,526.2  5,254.6
5. Operatlon                    633.0
c. Barroo Luco CDT
1. ZquLpment                  2,111.0  2,423.3
2. Detailed Design              231.8       0.0                          51.8
3. Technical Lnspaction          75.6       0.0
4. Iiafrastructure            4,331.8  3,024.4
5S  Operation                 1,148.2
d. Trudeau Normalze Hospltal
1. Zquipment                    358.3    411.3
2. Detailed Doslgn              213.8       0.0
3. Technical InspectLon         104.8       0.0
4. infrastructure             6,108.8  4,265.0
5. Operation                      0.0
. Consultant Services            440.8
3. OCCIDENTE
a. Pudahuel CR8
1. EquLpment                  1,OS7.7  1,214.1
2. Detailed Design               91.1       (.O
3. ToehnLial Inspectlon          28.9       0.0
4. infrastructure             2,771.1       0.0
5. Operation                  4,836.S
b. San Juan de Dloe CDT
1. Equipment                  2,493.0  2,861.8
2. DetaLled Design              274.9       0.0
3. Technical Inspectlon          86.7       0.0
4. Infrastructure             4,924.6  3,438.2
5. Operation                  1,573.7



112                         Annex 7
Page 6 of 10
Component II: Facility Investments for a New Health Care Model
(Continued)
SUUCOMPQNUNTS               HSRP                  TAHRP           GRANT
LOCAL    CREDIT     LOCAL    CREDIT
a. San Juan de Dioe Emergency
1. Equipment                    302.1    346.8
2. Detailed Design               33.3       0.0
3. TechnLcal lnspectlon          10.S       0.0
4. Infrastructure               597.3    417.0
S. OperatLon                     84.3
d. Consultant ServLces            269.4
4* NORTE
a. San Joe& Hospital
1. EquLpment                  8,138.6  5,901.5
2. Detailed Design                          0.0     35.2    669.0
3. Techplcal InspectLon                     0.0     11.9    226.3
4. Intrastructur*            15,321.5  7,608.1
5. Operation                      0.0
b. San Jos& CDT
1. Equipment                  1,482.8  1,702.1
2. Detailed Design              208.4       0.0
3. TechnLcal Inspectlon          74.9       0.0
4. Infrastructure             4,307.9  3,00o.7
5. Operation                  1,061.9
c. San Josd Emergency Servlce
1. Equipment                    189.0    217.0
2. Detailed Design               26.5       0-0
3. Technical Inspectlon           9.5       0,0
4. Infrastructuro               548.5    38;.9
5. Operation                    575.0
d. Consultant Services            495.9
5. ORIENTE
a. Peflalolen CRS
1. Equipment                    495.1    568. 
2. Detailed Design               87.4       0.0
3. Technical Inspectlon          33.6       0.0
4. Infrastructure             3,259.0       0.0
S. Operation                  3,275.8
b. Pefialolen Hospital
1. EquLpment                  1,227.2  1,408.7
2. Detailed Deslgn              208.3       0.0
3. Technlcal Inspectlon          82.6       0.0
4. Infrastructure             4,727.9  3,300.9
S. Operation                  2,405.3



113                         Annex 7
1Page 7 of 10
Component II: Facility Investments for a New Health Care Model
(Continued)
SUBCONPONENTS               HSRP                  TAHMP           GRANT
LOCAL     CREDIT    LOCAL    CRDIT
c. Salvador Normalize
1. Equipment                    129.9    149.2
2. Detailed Design                          0.0      8.8      89.9
3. Technical Inspection                     0.0      4.8      42.8
4. Infrastructure             2,751.7  1,921.2
5. Operation                     31.0
d. Calvo Mackenna Surgical Pa illion
1. Equipment                    780.0    89S.3
2. Detailed DesLgn               54.7       0.0
3. Technlcal InspectLon          10.9       0.0
4. Infrastructure               593.8    414.6
5. operatlon                      6.3
e. Calvo Mack.Norm.CAB and S.
1. Detailed Design                4.5       0.0
2. Technical Inspectlon           2.3       0.0
3. Infrastructure               133.8      93.4
4. Operation                      0.0
f. Consultant ServLces            426.3
6. CENTRAL
a. Maipu CR8
1. Equipment                  1,120.1  1,285.7
2. Detailed Design              105.4       0.0
3. Technical Inspectlon          30.2       0.0
4. Infrastructure             2,907.7       0.0
5. Operation                  2,938.4
b. San Borja CDT and Emergen.
1. Equipment                  4,582.9  5,260.8
2. Detailed Design              308.0       0.0
3. Technical Inspection          77.0       0.0
4. Infrastructure             3,934.4  2,746.9
5. Operation                  1,876.6
c. Consultant Services            278.7
7r LLANCHIPAL
a. Puerto Montt Surglca)
1. Equipment                    880.8  1,011.1
2. Detailed Design              126.4       0.0
3. Technical Inspection          52.0       0.0
4. Infrastructure             2,896.6  2,022.4
5. Operation                    372.9



114                         Annex 7
Page  8 of 10
Component II: Facility Investments for a New Health Care Model
(Continued)
SUBCOMPONENTS              us"                  TAR"            GRANT
LOCAL    CREDIT    LOCAL    CREDIT
b. Puerto Montt Thermal Cent.
1.  quilpment                  122.5    140.6
2. Detailed Design              14.4       0.0
3. Technical Inspection          4.7       0.0
4. Infrastructure              257.1    179.1
5. Operation                    18.3
Co Puerto Montt Center
1. Equipment                   228.4    262.2
2. Detailed Design              13.3       0.0
3. Technical Inspection          1.5       0.0
4. Infrastructure               72.1      50.3
5. operation                    40.9
d. Castro Normalize Hospital
1. Detailed Design              22.6
2. Toechnical Inspection        11.7
3. Infrastructure              668.6    466.8
4. Operation                     0.0
*. Consultant Services           274.1
S. ANTOFAGASTA
a. Antofagasta Hospital Surg.
1. Equipment                   467.0    536.0
2. detailed design              21.4       0.0
3. operation                   132.7
b. Antofagasta Intensive c.
1. Equlpment                   296.3   340.1
2. e-tailed design              14.2       0.0
3. operation                    56.4
c. Antofagasta Laundry
1. Equipment                   206.9    237.6
2. detailed design              10.0       0.0
3. Operation                    69.3
d. Antofagasta Gynecology
1. Equipment                    50.9      58.4
2. detailed design               2.4       0.0
3. Operation                   148.0
e. Antofagasta Med. Subeep.
1. Equipment                   280.9   322.4
2. detalled design              13.5       0.0
3. Operatlon                    42.0
f. Antofagasta med. and Sur.
1. Equipment                   184.6    211.9
2. detailed design               8.9       0.0
3. Operation                   323.5



115                           Annex 7
Page 9 of 10
Component II: Facility Investments for a New Health Care Model
(Continued)
SUBOPONENTS                HSRP                  TA|HP           GRANT
LOCAL    CREDIT     LOCAL    CREDIT
go Antofagasta TSA.C.
1. Equipmnt                     239.9    275.4
2. detailed deslgn               11.0      0.0
3. Oporation                     61.9
h. Antofagasta Mammography
1. Equipmnt                      25.7     29.5
2. detailed design                1.2      0.0
3. operation                      7.4
i. Antofagasta Urology
1. Equipment                     51.9     59.6
2. detaLled design                2.5      0.0
3. Operation                     33.8
j Antofagasta Nour. Opth.
1. Equipment                    214.5    246.2
2. detailed design               10.3      0.0
3. Operation                     91.4
k. Antofagasta Trauma
1. EquLpment                     14.5     16.6
2. detailed design                0.7      0.0
3. Operation                     39.3
1. Antofagasta Infant Surgery
1. Equipment                    147.7    169.5
2. detailed design                7.1      0.0
3. Operation                     45.7
m. Calauma Surgical Pabellion
1. EquLpment                    101.3    116.3
2. detailed desLgn                4.9      0.0
3. Operation                     38.4
n. Calama Obstetrics
1. EquLpment                     35.4     40.7
2. detailed design                1 -      0.0
3. Operation                     28.j
o. Calauma Medlcal Service
1. Equipment                     76.3     87.6
2. detailed design                3.7      0.0
3. Operation                     31.1
p. Consultant Services            242.7



116                          Annex 7
Page 10 of 10
8 W COHPON3HTS             ESP                  SAHRP          GRANT
LOCAL    CRUDOT     LOC1L    CRUD!T
9. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
a. AdmLnistratLon                425.1  3,825.5      240.0   1620.0
b. TraLnLng                                                             120.0
a. AuditLng                       18.6    167.7
10. HOSPITAL REun. (TAHRP)
a* HospLtal RehabliLtation                        17,659.0  18,720.0
b. PPF Refinanaing                                              750.0
a. TAHRP Unallocated                                          2,580 0
TOTAL PROJECT COST            208,797   90,000   18,284      27,000    700



hlt'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I1 WE  I. I I I I I
]~~~~~ I    'I I i I I  
WS E        W    .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I I I I



118                          Annex 8
Page 2 of 3
Annex 8-1: OTLINTE OF PROPOSED MOH
FUNCTIONS
KINISTER OF EALTH
o The Minister is the highest authority within the Ministry
of Health.
o The Minister defines and sanctions the overall objectives of the MOH
and the activities which need to be undertaken to meet these goals.
o The ultimate responsibility for management of the Health Service Areas
lies with the Minister.
UNDERSECRETARY OF HEALTH
o The Undersecretary is responsible for the internal
management and coordination of all institutions within the
health sector.
o The Undersecretary operationalizes the MOH mission.
PROGRAMS DIVISION
o The Programs Division is responsible for defining the
norms, standards and health programs needed to improve the
health of the population.
o The Division provides advice and support concerning
efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of services.
OPERATIONS DIVISION
o The Operations Division is responsible for the
coordination of strategic and operational actions between
the Ministry of Health and the Health Service Areas.
o The Division will have five subunits each of which will be responsible
for five to six Health Service Areas and will:
(i) assure there is consistency between the policies
issued by the Ministry of Health and the HSAs' execution
of these polices; and
(ii) coordinate, elaborate, and modify, as necessary,
management and operational policies at the HSA level;



119                             Annex 8
Page 3 of 3
Aimex 8-1: OUTLINE OF PROPOSED MOH
FUNCTIONS CONT'D
3=DG13T AND PLAMUN G DIVISION
o The Budget and Planning Division is responsible for the efficient
allocation of human, physical, financial, and information resources
within the decentralized health sector. I. is also responsible for
the evaluation and improvement of MOR institutional,
organizational, planning and management strategies.
INT3RNAL ADMINISTRATION DIVISION
o The Internal Administration Division is in charge of all
internal operations needed to maintain and improve the
logistics of MOH operations including: payroll, personnel,
daycare, internal comuunications, and office supplies.



120                      Annex 9
Page 1 of 4
Ann x : SERVICE PROVISION AGREEMENT
1.          A management contract called Service Provisign Agreement would be
used an a tool to reflect the commitments between the MOH and the HSAs on the
type and volume of services to be rendered and the corresponding financial,
human, and capital resources required to provide those services. Performance,
which will be linked with allocation of resources, would be monitored through
mutually agreed upon annual targets using a set of indicators being developed
with HSRP financing.
Performance Indicators
2.          A sample of performance indicators currently being analyzed by the
NaH (PCU) is shown below. Reference bench-mark information for these
indicators would be defined. The performance indicators are classified into
three groups: Impact Indicators (Variables de ImDacto Final - VIF); Progress
Indicators (Variables de Ooeracion Intermedia - Vol); and Exogenous Factors
(Variables Exoaenas - VEX)
A. Impact Indicator. (Variables de ImDacto Final-VIP):
3.          These indicators would measure the results of health-related
actions. They can be grouped into: Impact indicators measuring health
status (YIFa) and Impact indicators measuring the quality of health delivery
(VIFa)   (i . ~ a
-Mortality by selected causes (for example: respiratory
diseases, hepatitis, typhoid fever)
- Adjusted mortality for all causes
- Infant mortality (for infants less than 1 year of age)
- Maternal mortality
Mortality by preventable causes (for example:
intrahospital infections, lack of early health care
delivery, lack of resources)
(Note: To associate changes observed in these indicatore
exclusively with health-related actions or interventions would not be totally
right. Changes observed are caused by pumerous factors and analysis would
thus include qualitative evaluation of existing conditions in the HSA area.)
(ii) V2a
- Waiting period for patients to receive care
- Percentage of refusals
- Length of the waiting lists (number of people)
D. Proaress Indicators (Variables de oDerAcidn intermedia--
h I)e:
4.          Theme indicators measure the health-related interventions that



121                      Annex 9
Page 2 of 4
affect the VIF. They can be classified into three types: preventyIY (VOXD),
curative (VOIc) and onerational officiencv measure (VOle). Examples include:
(i) m
- Total number of vaccines by type
- Total number of check-ups for healthy children
- Percentage of professionally attended deliveries
- Number of educational activities of various types
- Environmental quality, measured as contamination levels
exceeding certain standards
(ii) 3=
- Number of ambulatory services by type
- Number of total surgical procedures and by hospital
services
(iii) VOI
- Cost of vaccines per user
- Number of days-hospital bed by clinical service
- Decrease in the number of cases by type of disease
versus the cost of preventive interventions by type
- Normal deliveries versus total
- Net (real) cost of curing diseases by type
- Number of diagnostic interventions per visits
C. Exoaenous Factors (VEX):
5.          Exogenous factors have an effect on the health status of the
target (attended) population (measured by the VIFs) but are not controlled by
the interventions performed by the services. They would provide information
to be incorporated in the analysis of HSA performance. They would help
explain certain behavior observed in the impact and progress indicators.
Bxamples include:
- coverage of potable water supply and sanitation
- degree of contamination
- growth (or decrease in growth) of the population
- average income of the population
- distribution of the population by socioeconomic
grouping
- educational levels
6.          During the Project Mid-term Review the Government and the Bank
would assess the feasibility of introducing cost-effectiveness indicators in
the Service Provision Agreements based on results of a number of ongoing
efforts that would help build the bases for the use of the cost-effectiveness
criteria for resource allocation. These efforts include, among others, Mi) a
study to estimate the cost-effectiveness ratios of a series of interventions
in the areas of smoking, cervical cance, and accidents; (ii) HSRP-supported



122                     Annex 9
Page 3 of 4
studies to determine the actual cost of the different NOH programs; and (iii)
the eotablishment of modern cost and financial accounting information systems
under the proposed project.
Initial Imlementation Phase
6.          The initial implementation phase of the Service Provision
Agreement will be carried out in 1993. Implementation will be periodically
monitored and adjustments will be instituted as necessary before the Agreement
io used in all the HSAs. The design of the initial program includes the
following features:
(1) Soscific Oblectives
a. Select the appropriate indicators to include in the
Service Provision Agreement.
b. Implement the Service Provision Agreement gradually in sample
HSAs.
c. Based on a sample of HSAs, evaluate the impact of the
utilization of the Service Provision Agreements.
(2) Nethodoloov
a. The set of progress and impact indicators to be used in the
Service Provision Agreements will be selected with the involvement of experts.
In addition to technical considerations, the selected indicators will have, at
the minimum, the following characteristics: reliability, prompt turnaround (a
minimal duration to obtain validated information), and easy collection,
management and updating.
b. The Service Provioion Agreement incorporating the chosen
indicators would be implemented in soample HAM for one year. This phase would
involve the following steps:
(i) The Agreement would be initiated at least in the five
HSAs where the new health financing ochemes are currently being pilot-tested.
At the same time the MOH would analyze the capacity of other HSA. to design,
manage, implement, monitor and evaluate the provision of services, as well as
the availability of appropriate information to monior the USA performance
taking into account the goals set in the Service Provision Agreement. This
analysis would be critical in order to support those services that are
deficient in these areas in case a decision is made to include some other USA.
in the first year of implementation.
(ii) IDH would then set goals and budgets for each HSA.
These goals would be generally quantitative in nature; whenever appropriate
qualitative goals would be considered.
(iii) The above goals would be negotiated with the HSAs.
The HSAs would send counterproposals, as necessary. After some iterations,
agreements would be incorporated in a Service Provision Agreement. The
negotiating process would require that HSAs analyze the type and volume of



123                        Annex 9
Page 4 of 4
activities required to accomplish desired goals and the resources needed to
carry out these activities. Planning and evaluation skills would be necessary
in this process. At this stage the new financing mechanisms (PAD, PPD) will
be of vital importance because they would relate production goals to the
required resources.
c. The initial phase would be monitored periodically and
corrective actions would be instituted as needed. The exporience would be
evaluated at the end of one year and if appropriate applied nationwide to all
HSAs. Also, selected indicators will be monitored in all HSAs during the
initial year. This would help establish a data base and reference benchmarks
for the subsequent full scale implementation of the Service Provision
Agreements
wpSl\service.anx
7.26.92



124                    Annex 10
Page 1 of 6
Annex 10: TRAING PROGRAM
METHODOLOGY
1.          Program Demian. The Training Program aims at managing efficiently
and effectively the investment in the development of human capital needed by
the public health subsector in the short and medium term. NOH and its four
institutes (ISP, CSF, FONASA, and ISAPRES Superintendmncy), HSAs, and the
municipal health services would be included in the Program. Throe tvDeL of
tr inin would be offered: (i) senior management training; (ii) middle
management training; and (iii) clinical training. The partipating
institutions would present annually a eot of training projects using standard
formats that would be evaluated according to five known and transparent
criteria. Three criteria would be related to national priorities and two
criteria would reflect the priority and impact of the projects as judged by
the proposers. An MOH evaluation evaluation committee would rank the projects
according to a pre-established points system and reccmmend approval or
disapproval. In line with the policy of decentralizing decision-making, the
points system would 4radually assign more importance to the priorities and the
judgments of the proposers and less weight to criteria that permit the central
level to influence the evaluation process.
2.          The program's design clearly reflects the decentralization
philosophy of the new public health sector with delegation of decision-making
to operating levels, the attention to the efficient use of financial
resources, and the concern with integrating actions at different levels of the
system.
3.          Oraanization and Manaaement of the Trainina Program   Four
principles underlie the design and organization of the Program: (i) support
for the decentralization policy; (ii) ensure the effectiveness of training
actions; (iii) pursue efficiency in tho use of training funds; and (iv)
provide a stable structure and consistency with MOH's mission and the goals of
developing human resources.
4.          The organizational structure supporting the Training Program would
consist of four entities: (i) three ad-hoc evaluation committees; (ii) a
Secretariat; (iii) the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU); and (iv) the human
resources development units of NDH and of each of the participating health
services institutions. The program's Secretariat would be staffed by one
full-time program manager, three part-time professionals and a full-time
secretary. Attachment 1 contains the Terms of Reference of these four support
groupe. The TORe have been reviewed by the Bank and were found satisfactory.
S.          Selection Criteria. The annual amount of money available for
training projects would be estimated and an indicative amount would be
communicated to each participating service institution. The proportion of the
indicative amount to be spent on each one of the three types of training
programs would be mentioned. This firet stop in the procedure would eliminate
the current obstacle of service institutions not knowing if money will be
available for training purposes and how much which discourages the submission
of training projects. Indicative amounts would be correlated with the number



125                    Annex 10
Page 2 of 6
of total staff of the participating service but would not constitute a
commitment to allocate resources. Commitment would coma only after
application of the oelection criteria by the evaluation committees and formal
approval of the projects.
6.          Three initial screening criteria would be applied by (the
Secretariat to make sure that the training proposals qualify and are ready to
be submitted for evaluation:
(a) Basic Inforation and Forat: use of standard format, identifying
information, completeneoo and timeliness of submission, signature by
appropriate authority, and reference to a specific type of training program;
(b) Nuer of ProbatE  Submtitted: to make sure that each service
proposes several projects in order to avoid situations where only one large
project 13 submitted which - if disapproved - may leave that particular
service without a training program for that year. A formula would be used to
assure that each service submits on tho average five or more training projects
foz each type of training; and
(C) T&et PoDUlation: resources can only be spent for training
personnel employed by the service institution submitting the proposal. For
municipal staff the application would be handled by the corresponding HSA.
7.          Proposed training projects that meet the three minimal screening
criteria would be assessed and ranked according to a points system by one of
the three evaluation committees according to the type of training. The
evaluation comittees would be given an evaluation methodology to ensure
consistency across the three commAttees. Vive selection criteria would be
used for each type of training: the first three reflect the policies of the
central government and the last two take into account the qpe%cific and
ideosyncratic interests of the proposers.
(a) Level of Ca: high, medium and low levels of care are identified
according to the complexity of the service delivery institution. The
weighting given to each level of care provides a signal to the proposer on the
importance attached to each level from a totrL system perspective. For the
clinical training program the weightin3 wou2  be the same for all three
levels.
(b) Innatient Care verus outoatint Care: outpatient care would be
assigned more points for the first year of operation (15 versus 10 points).
(c) Consistencr with National Policies and Goalg: training projects for
senior and middle level managers would be evaluated on their consistency with
national human resources policies and goals; clinical training projects would
be asesseed on the degree that they meet specific health policies promoted by
MR. In each case the level of agreement is either maximum with 10 points or
minimum with 0 points.
(d) Priority of Prolect: each project in the three types of training
would be prioritized by the proposer and a lesser number of points would be
assigned in descending order of priority to each project.



i26                    Annex 10
Page 3 of 6
(e) Impact of Project: the maximum. number of 25 points would be assigned
to those projects that are considered by the proposing institution to solve a
specific problem of crucial importance in service operationa.
S.          Training projects for senior management would be formulated by MOH
and senior managers of -I0H and its institutes, of HSAs and of hospitals would
be invited to participate.  These projects would be eubmitted for financing
only if there is sufficient demand.
9.   MNaament Trainina for NOR Staff.  The restructuring of MOE, the
addition of senior managers, the policy of decentralizing decison-making, the
intended change in values applying a customer oriented relationship with the
executing agencies, and availability of new technologies necessitate an
intensive management development training program. Four areas of emphasis
have been identified:
(a) Decision-making: organize training sessions in problem solving and
decision making using a strategic issues management approach; promote the use
of quality circles and improve interpersonal relations;
(b) Information handling: enhance upwards, downwards and lateral
conmunications within M0H; organize monthly staff meetings to share and
discuss goals and opportunities; and issue a news bulletin regularly;
(c) Reward systems: develop mechanisms to reward individual performance
and achievement of organizational goals such as visits inside the country
(e.g. private sector institutions) and abroad to learn about alternatives in
health service delivery, or continuing education in selected topics; reward
new and innovative ideas for improving efficiency and productivity; and
(d) Structural and functional relationships: develop inter-departmental
ad hoc teams to solve problems crossing structural boundaries; rotate managers
within departments and divisions.
10.         Training Methods and Trainers.  The training programs would offer
a variety of methods: workshops, intensive courses, inservice training,
seminars, symposia, attendance at professional meetings, and formal full-time
courses in Chile and abroad. The kind of training method preferred would be
stated in the tritning project proposals. The training could be given by: (i)
the service institution itself; (ii) other service institutions different from
the one proposing the training; and (iii) training institutions outside the
public health sector. In the latter case three bids would be obtained unless
the outside training institution would be a university. The performance of
the trainers would be evaluated by the participants. The Secretariat would
consolidate the evaluations and keep a record of the performance for future
use.
11.         Onerating Procedures.  Standard operating procedures have been
defined for: (i) the presentation and approval of annual programs of projects;
(ii) the implementation of programs; (iii) the flow of funds; and (iv) the
evaluation of the trainers by the trainees. Details of these procedures are in
the Project File. The deadline for receiving the annual programs would be
July 31 of each year and the results of the evaluations would be ccomunicated
to the applicants before the end of the month of August of the same year.



127                    Annex 10
Page 4 of 6
Agreements would be signed between MOH and the successful applicants dealing
with the financing of the projects and with the commitment for timely
execution. Agreemento would also be signed between the training institutions
and the purchasers of training programs. Progress reports on training
activities would be submitted semi-annually to the Secretariat by the
participating services institutions. Monthly expenditure reports would be
submitted to the PIU by the participating institutions.
12,         Retention of Trained Personnel.  The private sector competes with
the public sector for the acquisition of skilled health services managers and
is able to offer better financial incentives. The strengths of the public
sector residb in a larger degree of stability and job security and in an
appeal and a response to the values of oervice to others. The proposed
project would develop a strategy to retain trained personnel by: (i)
emphasizing that participation in training programs increases job security and
improves the intrinsic reward of the job; (ii) proposing the development of
career ladders with increasing responsibilities related to the acquisition of
additional technical and managerial skills; and (iii) requesting a two year
commitment by the trainee to remain with the organization with an obligation
to raimburse the training costs if the commitment is broken.
13.         Samnle Trainina Plans. Three preliminary training plans have been
developed, one for management development in MDH and the H8As, one for CSF
staff for technical and managerial skills, and one more detailed and mainly
focused on technical skills for ISP. Estimates of the number of people to be
trained adding across all training methods are about 3,200 for MOH and HSAs,
about 1,100 for CSF and about 600 for ISP or a total of about 4,900. These
training programs and number of participants are indicative and are for the
duration of the project. The training program design emphasizes decision-
making at operating levels and therefore the program would be adjusted on a
yearly basis during execution. The preliminary plans constitute however a
good starting point and would assure early and rapid implementation of human
resources development programs after project approval. The sample training
plans are part of the project files.
14*         Cost of Proaram. The annual recurrent cost of managing the
program is estimated at approximately US$70,300. A one time investment cost
to purchase a computer for the Secretariat would be US$3,000. A preliminary
estimate of the base cost of the training programs over the life of the
project would be approximately US$6 million.



128                        Annex 10
Page 5 of 6
Annex 10, Attachment 1: TRAINING PROGRAM
ORGANIZATION: TERMS OF REFERENCE
OXCL%TARIAT t
The Secretariat oversees all the functions required for management
and supervision of the Training Program. In this capacity the Secretariat
will be responsible for:
o Establishing criteria, guidelines, and policies for the continued
development of the Training Program;
o Evaluating the performance of the Training Program and redesigning
the program as needed;
o Supplying information to the Health Service Areas and health
institution, regarding, but not limited to, authorized bidders,
evaluation results, and necessary documentation;
o Maintaining information system records, as well as, preparing and
distributing this information to those who may need it including
training program applicants, MOH, the Ad-Hoc Evaluation
Commissions and the PCU;
o Organizing the meetings of the Ad-Hoc Evaluation Comnissions;
 Supervising the performance of the Ad-Hoc Evaluation Commissions;
o And aWproving the results of training program evaluations carried out
by the Ad-Hoc Evaluation Commissions.
The Secretariat will be headed by a professional with experience
in the development of human resources and in management who will be appointed
by the Head of the Resources Division. This full-time program manager will be
in charge of management, coordination, and the general policies of the
Secretariat. There will also be three part-time professionals who will each
be in charge of ten health care institutions including Health Service Areas
and MDH's subordinate Institutions. These professionals will assiet their
respective units in solving operational problems and will support all training
programs. The Secretariat will also include one full-time secretary.
AD-HOC 3VAtLUATIXC  CCUISSOUNS:
The Ad-Hoc Evaluation Commissions will be in charge of evaluating
the training projects submitted each year for funding. There will be three
different Ad-Hoc 3valuations Commissions with one specializing in each of the
three types of training programs: (i) a Senior Management Commission; (ii) a
Middle management Commission; and (iii) a Clinical Training Commission.
Individual Commissions will evaluate only those projects corresponding to the
area in which they specialize.



129                    Annex 10
Page 6 of 6
The Comnissions w$il be staffed with experts in subjects related
to the respective specializations. Each Commission will be limited to eight
members all of whom will be appointed by the Secretariat.
PROJECT COORDINATING WNIT (PCU) s
The Project Coordinating Unit will be responsible for the
administration of financial payments to approved training programs.  The PCU
will also review the activities of the training programs to determine, in
accordance with standards established for HSRP, that the training programs'
use of resources correspond to the purpose of the loan. In addition, the PCU
will have an advisory role with regard to the Ad-Hoc Evaluation Commissions
whereby the PCU wlll give guidance concerning procedural and administrative
requirements. To facilitate this each commission will include a PCU member
who is appointed by the General Coordinator.
UKMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPNQMT UNXTBs
As appropriate, Human Resource Development Units will be
established in the Ministry of Health, the Health Service Areas and in each of
the participating health oervice institutions (FONASA, ISP,CBNA9AS, and
ISAPRBS Superintendency). Each unit will be responsible for the formulation
and management of policies for personnel training and development. In working
with the Health Service Areas the units will work with the Directors of the
establishments and with the Human Resources Departments in each Health Service
Area. The size of each Human Resources Development Unit will depend on the
size and the complexity of the health institutions it is responsible for. The
ZIH will decide on establishing these Units in the participating institutions
after assessing the need, scope of training requirement, and budget needed for
this Unit by the health institution.
The specific responsibilities of the Human Resources Development
Units are to:
o Ensure the development of skills which enable personnel to
function in an efficient and effective manner;
o  Identify the personnel training and development needs of the
different health institutions;
o  Encourage and promote "permanent improvement";
o  Organize and coordinate resources to develop integrated training
programs;
o  Establish systems to monitor and control individual training programs
and development objectives;
o  Evaluate the impact of the training programs and report to the
Executive Secretariat.
wpSl\training.anx



130                   Annex 11
Page 1 of 3
1! i1 __.___|  
E|       _ _  ___.__ af
XL    t   i ER             ____,i
N           U~~~z 
ER  a  ~~~~~~   2~
N        2  2~~~~~~~t
ER~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
i i                       _  _  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
~IV



Annex 11, Table 1: ESTIMATED NUMBER OF NEW STAFF AND
STAFF TO BE REASSIGNED FOR THE PROJECT BY YEAR
CONT'D.
1992        1993          1994         1995         1996         1997         1997+
- ~~ ~ m a.               .        -      -e   -                                                                              
____=__ ______                                               _  _an-m   -  -  -    Nm _f   -- m1um -1l mm      m
ktatiego - Sort.                                                          98   196                   105  490    203   86"
COT am JO"e                                                              63   196                                6S    196
Urg Sea Jo"O                                                             35                                      35
NM. tan JO".                                                                                       105   40      105   490
Santiao - uar                                                13   89      23   279           228           137    36    733
Vr9 Barrr. LucO                                                          23   2"1                                23    279
Urg BurliO. 1110                                                                                         137            137
HN 31 Pi_                                                   13  69         _                228                  13    317
Santiao - O0aid.nt.                                          116                384                                116    8
CM' & Urgr Ban Jana                                                           384                                      184
BI Cargo lbala                                              116                                                  116
antiago - Orient.                        p2                                     141          373             _96
II.      O~~rg Salvador                                                                  141                                     141
03.5 OrIent.                                     8~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 82
FACILIT         no.8 Dip Oriento                                                                            373                        373           L
FOR A       SA&tIOo  Siaur/Orlont_                                        182  475                        174    419   9       601   658
CDT Botero del .10                                         48   475                                              46    475
NEW HEALTH       Placa  i. Sot0ro                                                                            174                         174
CAQR  IODEL      PeRB Inado eO1erO                                                                                   32           32    9
CR3 Ho. Snason                                              102                                                  102
lrg Son oa                                                  32                                           9       32
ROD San aen-                      -      -     -      -     -      -      -     -      -      -    387           387
Satiqao - Cantral                               82   386                  116                                      198   386
T  Vrg Saa lo" _ja                            82   386                                                           82    386
OR Sio                                                                   116                                     116
Lanhigo1                                                           649                                                   64
______   ____ __Tom- p2   396    311 -" 123     23                                             N  126-      7     i2n  636    I1    4292
Souroee Cbiltam N*try of Halth
tQ
(~0
I1X
o a



Annex 11, Table 2: ESTEIATED NUMBER OF NEW STAFF AND
STAFF TO BE REASSIGNED FOR COMPIONENT II BY TYPE
OF STAFF
-                   I            I~~~~~~mf       now.vuu   M=1w    mm W.
[-If     axrfP-                         ~              --l 1-   I-  -Ii-'I                                                          I
tbete  - auto          3      100           27   1       7     22           74    26s    S       52   S3    121   263    62
aP3.s acm              6     26                 I!2  1  2    13   41       20     63    4       11    6      26            In13
Uti.J "aja                                       I            I            11            2            5             35
16    76                 13      70    2    8       43    20      2      41   20       Os   105    430
8snti~-jz        6    112     a      32    2     57    3   45        13    2so    4       n  -         14   -        7
amreua                 4     so     2     25            s    3   35        10    115    2      27    2       23    as    27_
uzgmsruice lA.               24            613                                    73            4            is            In7
Me ml Ple              2     38                  a     33          la 1    3      71    2      46    4      All    15    S17
ft1m.- accimete        14    70      7                   22   10   51       22    237   24       43   32    123   116    31
1& to3 jam~             90           162                      51l           237           43          1u3            56
srro           14           o            7           10           22            24           32            116
atr  - Ort                     32                         6          2             200           55            2 s
II.       Urram0Slvador                2                          16                        70                         27            141
Pncn.m       I b £                            1L    e     ri 25  6      6 3         10            2              3            *_            n
mm & Vra-Orion"-                                  74-  -in_ __               0            493           a2            75
FoMA         6aaUag- joratelX        77    113   10    42 115         63    3           216    253   54       25 - 4        33   601      5
COT o.t"d a3ao         3     63     2    21      4     36    6    62       1     IU      2     2a  2  6      6      46    475
MDII MELK        plea. Gulf.                  soOr  3      21            26,          a             64                         283          174
CAM 8    MEL      al1ondo "taro        1            7            12      1     1           10      6     I             1      2      32     9
co NW ma MMa          21            1            7           1t            31            7            10           lea
angmaams               a                         4                         11            2            6             32
bgm  a &MMOR          38                        68            3           145           36            71           367
Umatjag.- astrel        14    53     7    22    is       17   26    63    64       163   35      41   41       35    1"     -U
o3r a er  "a _mje            55           u      4     17   16    63    42    163   11          41    3      35    62    3"6
cm aft-                      7 14    - 7                     10            22           24 --32 l_=
ja         I                                7 °2                     21            269           54           120           6__
Tom             ~~~144    636   25   147   15    413    a6   213      i     1651   in32   34376   U35    426
I ludae muses. intra. etc.                                                                                                                             0
' Incub media|l tealmcla
*imedi  jaltoiel tuft.  @mmu. dziws *te.                                                                                                                  f
6tmam  Chile" NMiItry of WealthW 
0
w~



133                          Annex 12
Page 1 of 11
Annexl2: INFORMATION PROGRAM
I - Intrgduction
1.    Institutions in the Chilean health sector will faco, as a result of
Government policies supported by this project, a drastic change in their
operations, policies, and management processes.   The central ministry,  for
example, wvil need to strengthen its policy formulation, program design,
monitoring and evaluation capabilities, while gradually phasing out its
operational role in the sector. Bxecuting agencies at all levels (Health Service
Areas, Central Supply Facility (CSF), and Institute of Public Health (ISP)) will
need to strengthen their management and operational capabilities to match their
increased autonomy and accountability under Service Provision Agreements. Tne
quality of information systems in the sector will be a key success factor in
effecting these changes.   The Government has therefore developed, and this
project supports, a plan to strengthen the information systems through
administrative reform, introduction of computer-based information systems, and
staff training.
2.    This document summarizes the informatics program proposed under the
"Decentralization of Health Services Delivery" component of the HSR Project. The
informatics program is a series of coordinated activities whose scope, cost,
schedule, objectives, and technology requirements are described in detail in
corresponding documents in the Project File.
1I - Institutional groblems and broiect Cponent Activities
3.    The information systems of practically all institutions in the public
health sector in Chile are cumbersome, unreliable, or incomplete.  Staff at all
levels are both burdened by outmoded administrative procedures, and frustrated
in their need for relevant, timely information to provide patient services,
analyze policy options and make decisions. Administrative procedures have been
developed and expanded over decades, and except for very few cases, they have not
been modernized to take advantage of improvements in technology. Clear and
measurable problems result from this situation:
-    Hospital managers  learn only too late of the grossly uneven
utilization of professional resources.
-      SHA managers lacking timely accounting data overspend in certain
budget categories and are then forced to curtail priority services
to compensate for shortfalls.
-    The ailing public wastes considerable time obtaining multiple
clearances for the same service.
-     Inventories of essential pharmaceuticals and hospital supplies are
kept at very high levels for lack of adequate information on
patterns of use and availability.



134                          Annex 12
Page 2 of 11
Emergency communications must rely on outmoded and unreliable
equipment making the country highly vulnerable in cases of natural
disasters.
4.    It is clear that much more than technology is needed to solve these
problems. Existing operational and administrative procedures must be changed
before computerization can pay off, and staff must be trained to understand the
potential of computers and become skilled in their use.
5.   The project's  Information  Program  consists therefore  of technology
acquisition, system development, and staff training activities carried out with
a strategy and schedule that avoid overflowing the absorptive capacity of
sectoral institutions. These activities are grouped into four subcomponents
dealing with 1) the Central Ministry, 2) the regional Health Services, 3) the
Central Supply Facility, and 4) the Institute of Public Health.
III - Imalementation Strateov
6.   The strategy for implementation of this component recognizes the complexity
of the objectives pursued and goes far beyond the gradual procurement and
installation of computers in sector institutions. The Component is viewed as an
entire program to reform administration and streamline operations in sector
institutions. Important aspects of the implementation strategy are:
a)    The up-front planning, analysis, and design necessary to ensure
long-term integration of information systems and technology will be
done during an initial design phase.   An overall design of
information systems and data bases in the sector will be produced
(and thereafter maintained by the central Ministry); models of
common  systems  such  as  accounting,   inventory  management,
procurement, etc., will be developed; and technology guidelines and
standards will be discussed and adopted.
b)    Implementation will be in phases consistent with the absorptive
capacity of institutions: information systems of high priority will
be designed and implemented first in selected institutions.   In
successive phases, additional systems will be developed and more
institutions incorporated in the program.
c)    Management responsibility for project activities will be placed at
the institution level, with the Project Coordination Unit providing
only coordination, advice, and technical support.  Participating
institutions will autonomously procure the information technology
and services needed to put in place the information systems financed
by the project.
d)    To participate in the informatics program, however, and to receive
tochnical support and model systems, sector institutions will need
to enter into agreements with the MNH to provide the staff time,
resources, and facilities necessary for successful implementation of
the program.   In particular, institutions will need to provide
assurances that they have the technical staff necessary not just to
implement the new systems, but to operate and maintain them in the
long run.



135                        Annex 12
Page 3 of 11
*)    Substantial invesu=mt  in training will be indispeniable  for
Ministry staff to adopt the technologies and work methods required
by the now information system. Staff appear to be interested, even
eager, to go through this process.  nevertheless, the training
program, in addition to imparting now skills, must demonstrate
conclusively: a) that the new systems can increase productivity
without threatening eployment; and b) that staff participation is
indispensable in devising novel, effective work procedures which
take advantage of the flexibility of computers.
IV - 9chfdula
7.   The Znformatics Program will be implemented gradually over the first four
years of the project as shown in Attachment A.
V - Cgt
S.   The total cost of the Information Program, including financing under the
TAHRP, is approximately $14.3 million. A detailed cost table is attached to this
document as Attachment B.
VI - Manaement and Coardination
9.   The Program will be managed as other sectoral programs in the Ministry of
Health: with central design and coordination and decentralized implementation and
control:
a-    The central design and coordination functions are required to
capture obvious economies of scale in system design and
construction, and to ensure compatibility in the information systems
of the sector. For this purpose, an informatics program coordinator
and other consultants as needed, will be retained in the Project
Coordination Unit for the duration of the project.
b-   The decentralized implementation is required by the Government's
decentralization policy supported by the project. For this purpose,
the government will support the creation or strengthening of
information systems units in the various institutions, either by
appointing new staff or by regrouping scattered technical staff
currently employed.



136                          Annex 12
Page 4 of 11
VII -ubcomonents
A - Central Health Ministry
10.   The project will finance investments of $1.648 million to put in place the
information systems needed by the central ministry to function as an efficient
coordinating and guiding institution in the health sector. These systems will
affect the core business of the Ministry and link the management teams of all the
institutions in the sector.   They will be the main vehicle for monitoring
institutional performance; for collecting, processing, and disseminating sectoral
statistics; for formulating and reporting on management performance agreements;
and for analyzing, preparing, and distributing policies and plans.
11.   Four functional areas of the Ministry will be improved through the
investments in information systems:
1)    Administration will be improved through computerized systems for
accounting, budgeting, payroll, human resources, document control,
and supplies inventory management.
2)    Nanarement  will  be  improved  through  systems  to  support  the
formulation of management performance agreements, the consolidation
and analysis of accounting and budget data, and the compilation and
diosemination of sector statistics.
3)    Staff productivity will be improved through the use of personal and
shared computers equipped with analytical, word processing, and
communication software.    Instead of targeting to improve the
productivity of the entire organization, specific, current tasks in
various organizational units will be targeted for improvement
through the investments in new technology.
4)    Inter-Institutional coordination will be improved through a new
communication system which will carry and track messages, documents,
distribution lists, and pending actions between the Ministry, the
Regional Health Secretariats, the Regional Health Services, a.d the
specialized institutes (ISP and CSF). In addition, the Ministry's
emergency telecommunication system will be modernized through
investments in new packet radio, telephone switching, and power
backup equipment.
12.   The following are some of the Central Ministry's problems whose solution
or alleviation is sought by the project through investments in information
systems (full list is contained in project documents):



137                                      Annex  12
Page  5  of  11
Table 12 Central Ministry - Institutional Impact of Informatics Program
PROBIM                            ACTIVITES                     IMPACT INDICATORS'
Lenty mnual offon requred to produce financial    Development of a      Pinancial pors by co  cewnte  va. 'Ito u
manaement repot, ad low data qulty of repons    computed                maagm through on4ie query of a
produced.                                        accountigflnsnclal     computeuried, upto-dat. data bas.
______ _____ ______      _____       maMOnagmetystem.
Delys, rdundancy of controls, nd high loss rtio  Compueized             Avalabilty of an on-Une, oommon egisty of
In proceSg the la  number of  tnal              docunmnt monitoring     document to track the procesg of any
documnts and trction reques received            and control system      document from receipt to reply.
(SWO/day).
Ib. annual national balth satitics are produced  Computerixed           Helth datidics available on-line, country-wide,
with a delay of between 12 and 18 month.         statical systm based   15 days aft each monthly closing.
on decnanlzed data
captuto in A  eglon.
lage re of the country not covad through        Instaation of radio     Communication wihin 5 minutes wih any
emgncy radio communication.                      anten.                 ambulance or insituion in the public helth
Lack of computing equipmnt nd soft-aoe for       Staff Productivity     Compieion of taining cour   nd availability
antical work.                                   Progm.                 of microcomputers and analyticl software in
I______________        I specific are  of the Minitry.
Impact would be evaluated as of the compldion date for the ascited projct activity,
as per the project schedule, unles otherwise indicated.
B - Health Service Areas
13.   Tho project will finance investments in information systems to improve the
management and operational efficiency of 23 regional health directorates, 7 large
hospitals, 1 medium-size hospital, 2 "Centros de Diagnostico Terapeutico
(CDT's)n, and I "Centro de Referencia de Salud  (CRS)".  The Government is
financing similar investments in other institutions through other funding
sources.
14.    The objectives of information systems investments in the HSAU are as
follows:
1)    At the levei of Reaional Health Directorates, administration  -
particularly procurement and supplies control -- and management --
particularly the programming and control function ) will be improved
through  new  computerized  systems  and  streamlined  related
administrative procedures. As in the case of the central ministry,
these systems will affect the core business of the Regional Health
Directorates, and thus require careful staff training,



Annex 12
138                               Page 6 of 11
administrative  change,  and  isplemntation  timing.    23  health
directorates will be  included.   The  investment  cost per health
directorate im eatimated at $322,000 of which $75,600 would be for
hardware, $236,000 for computer software, and $10,400 for training.
2)     At the lel gf aomitals.              s. and CRS  the project will target
for  improvement:  a)  the  key  general  administrative  areas  --
accounting, budgeting, human resources, and supplies controll b) the
key service administration areas -- patient registration, medical
history tracking, medical appointments and laboratory scheduling,
laboratory *xam results tracking, blood bank control, patient
hospitalixation registry; and c) management information, statistics,
and epidemiological inforzation. Computer equipment, software and
associated trained will be financed for 14 different information
ystems et the various levels of sorvice organizations.  Znvestmnt
cost estimates are $571,000 for a large hospital, S398,000 for a
medium-size hospital, $263,500 for CDT's, and $73,000 for CRS's.
15.   The following table summarises major problem  at the level of the Regional
Services and project activities designed to solve these probleus:
Table 2: Regional Health Services - Institutional impact of Informutics Program
IR_ -f. S          ._ .ACTMIM                      IMPACT IDICATOW
Consolidated m_ngent rep" on reoure uag    Despmen of an  Avaiabity of aggregated da o. reue uap
and svices delivetod am obtnabl oly trou  Mm coedt       ad eve lmwn fobr  o-lin emdt1o_  by
etaordiuny saff effo, ueelabl, and lack oNeala,fialm     anAger. Daa dwol be two wee dd t a
timelinen.                            and Mod mt da.    mszirwjm
Inabliqt to audit the conm an  con-e e of  Dbeepmet of a  Swaitg 6 incUb afr loa of COMIN
fie for servc (FAP) reimburewi  do     oxh       fwinncial  systm isub Reaa  Swric Direcrle,
Regional Helth Diecorae.              co     ton  _      availab  of a permanet, oft-ilne Ieoc.
(COMMD  **UsL     refeenc betwenservicesrederedan
OmiUbuem*a_ tecelved.
Dat on supply anodmecation by tbe vaiou  I) De_opmutof   0nlin ay of apply rques  d NWmei_
clnical vic i not cred WIth nvm  lbvel    uplysysm.      vaa onf ailabl tokL
on a tmey man. Tbisegeneask- o,
over-scb, Nd in gnal poor inmy        2) Deeop_m of      wel gton of Moab cd year-tda
maINageMent                           Pi  *mneu-da       report on phsranmoeotle comamoyon In each
Coum s            RegiWo  Hefth 9ndc.
Mom infficiencin in th admuAivo paee  D_ecmuof          Aly t decide on *i pot truSh o-b.
of patient rgiion, evi  cdMdg, and     o_   systn   ame to appropritebdas: 1) wbshe
hoptl admissio.                       for patet regIsron,  pent reords r avaibl, 2) uwh ca whr
proeni "Wi        pdate w  be gSi  an appolntmiwwdl a
scealt, ce        heat  rvice pvider, and 3) wb* patiedt
hoepital adnieslnk.    can be hoeplieed.
lnyactwouldbeevahumedas ofo  tondatedwatondae fr odprojsecactvity,ap per s*schedul, _  othwbbeiNdiL



139                        Annex 12
Page 7 of 11
C - Central Supply Agency
16.   CSF will be transformed by the Government into an autonomous state
enterprise. For this purpose, the project will finance critical invastments in
institutional development described under the Institutional Development Component
section.   In addition, under this component, approximately $300,000 will be
financed to improve the human resource management, inventory management,
purchasing, warehousing, data processing, communications, and financial control
systems of CS1.
17.   Institutional improvements pursued through the Informatics Program  of the
Project pertain to three critical areas:
1) QOerations. Computerized systems will be created to simplify, speed up,
and increase reliability of customer queries, order placement, inventory
management, shipping, and invoicing. CSF staZf and management will have
on-line access to information on stock, usage, price, and location of
supplies which is needed for effective inventory management, purchasing,
and order shipmer't.
2) Administratio_n. Existing systems will be improved and new ones created
for financial management, governmental accounting and budgeting, cash
management, and fixed assets management.
3)  Data processina.   CSF has been using an outside service for its data
processing needs. The project will support the development of an internal
function commensurate with the central role that computerized information
systems will acquire in the institution. This function will be staffed by
3 people (a marager and 2 experts) whose positions and budget will be
funded by the Government on a permanent basis.
18.   Informatics Program activities at CSF will be completed during the first
24 months of the project at a total cost of $300,000.   Of this amount,
approximately $138,000 is for hardware, $154,000 for software, and $8,000 for
training.  Incremental costs of $70,000 per annum will finance new technical
staff, increased telecommunications usage, supplies, and hardware/software
maintenance.
19.   The following are some of the major institutional problems at CSP, and
project activities designed to solve those problems:



140                          Annex 12
Page 8 of 11
Table 3s Central Supply Facility - Institutional Impact of Informatics Program
PROBUEMS                ACTnVTiS            IMPACT DDICATOIW
Curtent syem cannot provido updated infrmation   Development of  Up-to-dae, on-line informtion on warehouse
on warehoue stook lve.           Inventy contol  dock levels avible to authorized usemr
sys_  m        throughout th intitton.
|Informtion needed for purchm deciions is  Developmt of  On-line progmrmming of purchas and
scattered, unreliable, and difficult to obtain,  purchs control  ominteac of a historic.! date base.
systm.
Anlysis and selection of vendor proposb to be
rmde widhin ton days of bid closing date.
l__________________________ ___________   Availabilit,y of montily purchas dtitics.
Information needed for sale decion Is also  Developmnt of sales  Sales decions will be ported by an on-line
scattered, unreiable, and difficult to obtain  ngement sysm.   date base with up-to-date infonnation on orders,
accounts receivable, inventories, and clients
Fixed aseu data is nt available except through  Developmsnt of fixed  On-Une acess to updated, comprehensive fixed-
timenconsuming mnuaul effor.     assets control systm.  aset data.
Iacaut would be evaluat of the completon date for the asociated p_tec actvity, as per the prect schedule, unle otherwise Indicat.
D - Public Health Institute
20.   As otlher institutions in the health sector, the ISP lacks information and
management systems consistent with the expanded role and increased efficiency and
accountability pursued by the Government through this project. Procedures are
slow and unreliable; information on the status of work in progress is very
difficult to obtain for most of the laboratories and services of the institute;
statistics are compiled only occasionally at an extraordinary cost of money and
time. Staff find it hard to keep up with growing work demands and budgetary
restrictions .
21.   Institutional improvements pursued through the Informatics Program of the
project are mainly in the operations area since the ISP is financing with its own
funds, a related project to improve financial management and administration. The
project will finance the development of key operational systems such as: AIDS
patient monitoring, transplant candidate/donor tracking, laboratory test
tracking, and biological and environmental test monitoring. On-line databases
will be available in the three operating departments of ISP to support the above
systems, with data on registration and tracking of projects, products,
substances, costs, and services. In addition, the project will finance the
preparation of a new administrative manual, and related staff training, in an
effort to simplify operations before introducing computerized systems.
22.   Informatice activities at ISP will be carried out during the first 24
months of the project.   'heir total cost under the project is approximately
$314,000, of which $203,000 are for hardware, $99,000 for software, and $ 12,000
for training.
23.   The following are some of the major institutional problems at ISP and
project activities designed to solve those problems:



141                          ~~~~~Annex  12
141                                      Page 9 of 11
Tble 4:  Institute of Public Hoalth - Institutional UIpact of Informatic.
Program
_mODn   ACIinVm                      IWACT NICATORS'
cunb.     e  modme redundan, en                  Adm_nsgratlve           Admintrstv mum. devdopd fol ISP
unadonilnasdaftlaveproosdunsam                   rAtondallato            duumm.Ma
llowed in moht    c   ou   of th laiu.           Prorm.
Only 25% of health lboatoI  in th  outry an      Dwelop a belt           Yea* evaluao  of a Mm 75% of hodt
"a                                               hbowAfty       rk-     laborstora.
uatd on aregula bale. Ienat opawihout wysem.-
&e ovwA    nd q"lig eoM    dmt ISP's cr
Sbw, dhfflt acut to infonmtlo on                 Delop a labo  o         On-lm nccin avnd quy of t auad ad
proximaa  180,000 lb tory e            pi yer,   sm monIto               pror    of evay lboty em proed by
_ _ _b_ _ _       __m _    __w_        _            m,                   te ISP. MoofhF lwducton of rlatd taec.
Ovwr 30,000 pharmaceutc  prod    cords ar kep    Devop a naon            At las 20,000 up-o."  prod        recrd wi
memmaiy, ed aba nd amoitng of dti da             pbarmec prdu            be avaiable on4ine fr ehne and anuyss.
ban is dh  vay iwnal. Only 50% of th             rgrai  and
prduc  subje to coro ae effecdvely oolled.   m         I  Fyo.           100% of coolled phrmut    products wi
be monitore d tough an on-line upo-dtem
database.
pactwould bevaluatd  ofth coylpdomdateforditesaolatd dprojecta ativ       spo,  tproject ed et, ueasthwa Indcatd.
wpSl\inform. anx
8/4/92



142                                            Annex  12
Page 10 of 11
Annex 12, Attachment A: IMLEMENTATION
SCHEDULE
....................................................................................................
I                                 I                                                                      I
I SUBCOIPONENT ACTIVITIES         I    1992          1993         1994           1995         1996       1
I                        It
..................... ..... ...... .... .... .......... .......................   I...........
I CENTRAL MINISTRY                I              XXXXXXXIX                                               t
I EMERGENCY TELECONMUNCATIONS   I                XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX
I SYSTEM                          I                                                                      I
I REGIONAL HEALTH DIRECTORATES  I XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX                    I
I                                 II
I REGIONAL SERVICE INSTITUTIONS I                              XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX I
I                                 II
I CENTRAL SUPPLY AGENCY  -                       XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX                               I
I CENABAS                         I                                                                      I
I                                 I                                                                      I
I PUBLIC HEALTH INSTITUTE --    I                XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX                               I
I I.S.P.                          I                                                                      I
I...
m:\tac\chl\heaLth.068\cronoto.wkI



143                                      Annex  12
Page 1I  of 11
Annex 12, Aent B: COST TABLE"
s                                             :                            COST PMRYU                       TOTAL OOA T O
*                                                1 t992     l99         1994       1995       199    (U63 COO$  )   :.
....   :......
1. CENTRAL MINISTRY                                                                                                   s
Hardware                                s                  344.5                                           344.5   s
Operating Software                                         146.9                                           146.9
Application Software                                       276.6                                           278.6
Training                                s                   50.0                                            50.0
SUSTOTAL CENTRAL MINISTRY               :         0.0      620.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        820.0
It. EMERGENCY TELECOSSJNICATIONS SYSTEM     I                                                                          s
Hardware                                :                   29.                                            8"29.7 :
Training                                :                    6.9                                             6.9
SUBTOTAL EMERGENCY TELECOWUJNICATIONS             0.0      136.5         0.0        0.0        0.0         83W65   :
III. REGIONAL HEALTH SERVICES
A. Regional Directorates
Hardware                                   606.3       427.6       700.1        0.0        0.0        1734.2
Operating Software                         291.2       389.7       345.5        0.0        0.0        1026.4   ;
Apptication Software                         0.0        97.8      2151.2     2160.9        0.0       4409.9   :
Training                                    5 52.4     6S.1        101.3        0.0        0.0        23.8 
.....          ..........   ......   .   ....   .   . ......................... ... 
Subtotal Regional DOirctorates                 949.9    1000.4        3296.1    2160.9          0.0       7409.3   a
B. Service Instftutions
Hardware                           :         0.0         0.0       543.3      566.6        0.0       1112.1   s
Operating Software                  s        0.0         0.0       265.3      266.1        0.0        533.4   s
Application Software                s        0.0         0.0       702.0     1297.6      627.6        27.2 2
Training                                     0.0         0.0        78.7       46.0        0.0         124.7   :
...        ...      ......     ......      ...          ......
Subtotal Servico Institutions           :         0.0        0.0      1589.3     2160.5      827.6        4597.4
SUBTOTAL REGIONAL HEALTH SERVICES       :      949.9      1000.4      4867.4     4341.4      627.6       12006.7
IV. CENTRAL SUPPLY AGENCY "CENAAS"        a
Hardware                                                   112.3                                           112.3   s
Operating Software                      :                   25.4                                            25.4   t
Application Software                                       154.1                                           154.1   s
Training                                                     6.0                                             6.0   s
SUBTOTAL "CENABAS"                      s         0.0      297.9         0.0        0.0        0.0         297.9
V. PUBLIC HEALTH INSTITUTE                                                                                            s
Hardware                                :                  163.4                                           163.4   s
Operating Software                      :                   39.7                                            39.7   s
Application Software                    :                   990                                             99.0 
Training                                                    11.9                                            11.9   :
SUBTOTAL PUBLIC HEALTH INSTITUTE        s         0.0      313.9         0.0        0.0        0.0         313.9
TOTAL INFORMATICS CONPONENT             s      949.9      3270.7      48T6.4     4341.4      827.6       14277.0   t
:                                              a      a.... s                  a_  _                                      t
:.................... .......................
m:%l1c%chL%health.068%Ico*t.wkI
1/ Includes TABRP financing.



144                     Annex 13
Page 1 of 5
ANNEX i3: CERVICAL CANCER
CONTROL PROGRAM
Chile is a country which has been successfully overcoming the main
health problems associated to pregnancy and delivery, transmitted diseases, and
nutritional deficiencies in children and pregnant women. Infant mortality today
stands at nearly 16 per 1000 live births. Maternal mortality is 0.4 per 1000
live births. The proportion of overall malnutrition in children under five is
eight per cent, with moderate and advanced malnutrition at 0.8 per cent. In
addition, the population structure has been evolving towards an intermediate type
pyramid with a large proportion (69*) fifteen years of age and over due to a
decrease in the birth rate, which today is 23 per 1000. As a result of these
epidemiological changes, for rearly two decades the major cause of death has been
cardiovascular disease followed by cancer, which accounts for one of every five
deatho in the country.
Mortality associated to cervical cancer The mortality rate from
cervical cancer is higher in Chile (adjusted rate of 13.7 per 100,000) than in
other Latin American countries (Costa Rica 11.1; Venezuela 10.3; Uruguay 4.9;
Argentina 4.8; Cuba 4,6) and both the United States (3.0) and Canada (2.9).
Cervical cancer, currently ranked third as the cause of death associated with
malignant tumors in women is, nonetheless, the type of cancer which accounts for
the largest lose of potential life/years among women (129 per 100,000
women/year). It ranks first in hospital discharges from malignant tumors (14%)
with a rapid growth rate of discharges for the aforementioned cause during the
past few years (from 9 per 100,000 women in 1975 to 65 in 1988).  It is also the
most readily detected and effectively controlled malignant tumor in women.
Backaround of the Cervical Cancer Control Proar. The risk of dying
from cervical cancer has not changed during the twenty-seven years that the
Cervical Cancer Control Program (CCCP) has been in operation.   Under this
program, activities for early detection were initiated in 1966 through an
agreement between the Ministry of Health (MOH), PAT.O, and the University of
Chile.   These activities have continued to date while undergoing several
modifications. The lack of impact by the CCP may be attributed to the following
causes: (i) very low coverage of only approximately fifteen percent; (ii) high
volume of repeated Pap Smears in the same small group of women as until recently
one Pap Smear per year was recommended; (iii) targeting of low-risk women (15 to
35 years of age) by the CCCP because this group has always been linked to
maternal-child health activities; (iv) precarious quality control in performing
and reading Pap Smears and at the gynecological units for cervical pathology; (v)
sporadic continued education, supervision, and control programs; and (vi)
obsolete equipment and physical facilities.
Reform of the Cervical Cancer Control Prooram.  The four main goals
of the Cervical Cancer Program will be to:
(i)      Provide coverage for women aged 25 to 64, with an
emphasis on those aged 40 to 54, who are at higher risk
of this type of cancer;



145                    Annex 13
Page 2-of 5
(ii)    Reach 80 percent of all women in the targeted age group
and provide a Pap smear test every three years;
(iii)    Ensure reliability of the Pap smear diagnosis by means
of quality control programs, supervision, and training;
(iv)    Ensure a verification diagnosis (colpewcopy and biopsy),
and timely treatment (conization, hysterectomy or
radiation as required) to all women with detected
cervical cancer.
Meeting these goals means that a total of approximately 785,000 Pap
Smears will be targeted to be performed per year. An average of 10,900 cases of
cervical cancer would probably be detected, of which 9,800 will be in the
preinvasive stage. It would be necessary to attend 39,000 cervical pathology
consultations and perform 15,700 cervical biopsies to confirm these diagnoses.
With the improvement in the detection of cervical cancer, it is
estimated that 65 percent of the cases detected would be in the preinvasive stage
(NIB I and NIB II). Approximately 5,400 of these cases would be treated on an
ambulatory basis and another 5,800 will be treated through regular gynecological
surgery (4,400 conizations and 1,460 simple hysterectomies). The 900 to 1000
cases which are expected to be diagnosed in the invasive stage (Stage I and II),
would require 500 radical surgeries and 22,500 radiotherapy sessions per year.
In approximately 110 women, the tumor would be detected in such an advanced stage
(Stages III and IV) that they may only receive palliative therapy.
Imoact of the Reformed Cervical Cancer Control Proaram. As a result
of increased detection and treatment 90 per cent of all detected cervical cancer
cases would receive timely medical attention (i.e. the remaining ten percent the
tumor would be too advanced for med4cal treatment). This is expected to bring
about a 50 per cent reduction of deaths associated to cervical cancer once 80 per
cent coverage has been attained, and an even h%gher percentage starting from this
point. See Diagram 1.
Primary Lev_l Ativities. in order to attain it's objectives Cervical
Cancer Control Program will undertake activities at the primary, secondary and
tertiary levels. Pap smears will be performed by a duly trained "matrona" at all
primary level health institutions 'health centers), so that by 1995 the current
15 to 20 per cent coverage may be increasse to 50 per cent, and by the year 2000
the 80 per cent goal may be attained. With this coverage, and a Pap smear every
three years per 110.000 women, 30.000 will be attended per year, which requires
some 36.000 Pap Smears (the additional 20% is divided up as follows: 13* for
repetitions and 7* for Pap Smears in the 25 year and under age group having
special risk conditions).  ahe following supplies are required for these Pap
smear tests:   36.000 spatulas; 36.000  microscopic slides, 420 specula, 10S
hours/week per "matrona" (4 Pap Smears/hour), full time auxiliary and one
consultation room.



,                               ~~~~~~~~~~~146
DI&~             I: ANNUAL SE:RVICES  Annx 13
Page 3 of 
.77J,000)'tsp SmsaI
Hicaptb^olov             no  C"es Soen  to        |      Women 'Po  N4&-         4,40  Cm"
13,696 B.Vsiw              Ciedv cal  aoStaf  (2S)"         Lve 640.920 (98t    66,034 Elocks
39,240 blacsd 
1,461 Eystereet. (58.424 blocks)            CoufS=. DaSg. Leesion          Total Co@eultaefO
Toelalblob t:  163.718                            10,900                   CarvicaL Platolor
39,240
Preftwaiv  1"Iso                     .          nvasi   lostoms 
9.610                                           1,090
AibuaC7 Car& In Ce cal               ,yuecol. surgery      Ocolog                   Oncqx log
Paeholou                     X,406 C"Surg,ery or Radiat   Pall±ati:v  Care
5,406 (0,8)                       2,834 HU  IXI            981 Cases            109 Cases
3,831 VIE I                        1.570 NU IV              610 Stage I         Stages III, IV
1.539 ND I                                                  371 Seage IU
4,404 Cans                              480 Radical S,orgey                   109 Radlation
1,461 .yetactoes                       So01 RAdIktsoU
5,664 Total Suvsef.es               2Z.583 Radiation Sessios
* C.sSUql3am  a alUtuL 20 fog goruge  ta   ad Par Seems for MA-risk sop apd 2f and
Ita0t
V.   of o'wde a@t she Cewailz.a b5 1*  .240 (U.040o 11y cer a  29,140
L.2Jw.op



147                     Annex 13
Page 4 of 5
Sendary Lvel Activities. At the secondary level the program will
concentrate on improving cytopathology laboratories. Zn order to avoid a high
incidence of false negative tests, those cytopathology laboratories which will
process at leant 30.000 samples per year will be strengthened.  It has been
determined that the Hoalth Services not processing this volume, will send the Pap
smars  to the  improved laboratories.   A  total  of sixteen  cytopathology
laboratories will be improved (See Box 1).
EQI L DOAORR m mGtR -,-,--iia -
WE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The Atacama Health Service will continue to send samples (12,000) to
the Hospital J.J. Aguirre in Santiago while samples from Llanchipal (22,000) and
Magallanes (9,000) will be processed At laboratories belonging to other health
services.
Bach improved laboratory will have the following equipment and
personnel per every 30,000 to 35,000 samples: 3 binocular microscopes; 22 hours
of work per week by, the had of the laboratory (cytopathologiet); 3 full-time
techniciano 170 Pap smars/day); 1 secretary; 1 auxiliary worker; and 120 sq0are
meters of facilities.
in addition, support will be provided for the creation of a national
rference lTboratory,a and  for quality control at the cytopsthology laboratories
at Hospital. Salvador in Santiago     w



148                        Annex 13
Page 5 of 5
Tertiary Level Actiyitiem. At the tertiary level the Cervial Cancer
Program will focus on outpatient clinics for cervical pathology, AnatomoPathology
laboratories, and hospitalisations for surgery.   In order to confirm the
diagnosis of patients with positive Pap smars and to provide outpatient services
for some incipient lesions, the cervical pathology consultation rooms at the
Health Services will be strengthened so that they may adequately perform
colposcopies, cryocauterisation and biopsies. For every 110.000 women of the
target population, the following supplies will be required at the cervical
pathology units: 1 gynecology table, 1 colposcope, 1 cryocautery, 20 vaginal
specula, 3 sets for cervical biopsy samples, 13 hours/week of the colposcopist
(4 controls/hour), 1 "matrona-, 1 auxiliazy, and 2 consultation rooms.
It will also be necessary to complete outfitting and staffing of the
AnatomoPathology laboratories at the different Health Services to process and
read the biopsies and cones. Towards this end, the following will be required
per 110.000 women: 1 microtome, 1 tincture battery, and pot histology, 1 part-
time AnatomoPathology physician (2 exams/hour), 1 full-time technologist, 1
secretary, 1 auxiliary nurse, 1 service auxiliary and 120 square meters of
facilities.
Lastly, the gynecological and oncology services at the project's
Health Service hospitals, will be reinforced (conization, simple and radical
hysterectomy). Others will receive support through the IDB project and bilateral
cooperation. The following equipoent will be required for 110.000 women: 3
conisation kits, 1 part-time gynecologist, 340 operating room hours (1 hour for
conization, 2 for simple hysterectomy), 1. 500 days/bed (5 days/bed per conization
and 7 days/bed per hysterectomu'). The improvement of radiotherapy services are
not contemplated under the project, as the current availability would suffice to
cover the demand generated by the CCP.



Annex 14, Table 1: DETAILED COST TABLE BY COMPONENT AND
YEAR OF IMPLEMENTATION
(US$000)
CO    ION5                           YEAR1            YEAR2               ARS            YEAR4             YEARS            VEARO             TarAL
LOCAL FORErGN   LOCAL FOFEIGN  LOCAL FO1EG    LOCAL FOFEKGN  LOCAL FOFEJ06   LOCAL FOFEG    LOCAL FOFGN                    TOTAL
I.  Osc.*WIon&Imd&bO  6umIe
D_my
A.  MCHR  Ruau,bf                               230        0     240        0      143        0     148        0      151       0      15         0    1.0s        0      1.0
IL  Owd&Voy FacIy  bui.                         377        0     720        0      590        0     609        0      631       0      G2         0    3579        0      39
C   PIJhiSH.hihIFUS1ng                        123        0      161     931       65      967      67        0       69       0       71        0      556    1,89     2.454
0.  UpdWua uo6a*rsv on8,.kn_                     52     912      296    2.667    1.103   5474    356        5036    4.847    1.020    500         0   14.4   15J123    2%
E.  Tra*f  urunm                                 14       S    1.471        0    1,522       0    1.571        0    1.627       0    1.661        0    7.807       3     780
F. F*a     hidISkg &E%Wu                          0        0       0        0      193       0        0        0      207       0        0        0      40        0       400
Sdhom                                      798      915    2.890    3.618    3.618    8.441   5$          38    752    1.0    7.56           0   28        17.0     4
A.  Swiqo M*qX&AnAm                             754        0   14.648   19,483   28."    26,184   97J8   19.792   26.630   15.007  23L710  22100  132SVt  96705   228P8
E.L   I'um*"                                    143        0    2O527    1.218    2.172    3.010    999      338      151        0     15S        0    SMa    4.565    10.212   ,
C.  A6minobg                                     66    1.149      173    1309      214   2683      333        0      344        0     358        0    1JS05    5.142     6.647  so
SbbdoS                                    M9es    1.149   16.48   161010   31.016   31A67   38935   21006    29.124   15.007   23.22   22300  1401423  10.412   248195
IL- 8pmWP,ogm
A. Cw%4om Cos                                     0      292       0      749       20        0     235        0      3S8        0     so         0    1.2       .04      2.20
Il  EhBhonn*Haft                                  0        0     203        0        a        0       0        0        0        0       0        0      203        0      203
8mMaw                                        0      292      209      749      20        0      235        0     338        0      so         0    1.405    1A00    2.445
ft. Fjmc1WM*WiWlon&Adbng                        571       52     704       S9      728       15     739        a      765        8,   797        13    490t       135     4.437
'TOTAL                                    2.349    2.405   20444   20.415   35.39    38S33   45AM0   26.113   37.75   16.035   32.19S   22.313  174.180  124.67   298.77
- K
I-



Ann 14, Table 2: DETAILED COST TABLE BY COMPONENT AND
YEAR OF IMPLEMENTATION. - BANK FINANCING
(USW$000)
COM,CNW                          YEAR1           YEAR2          YEAR3           YEAR4           YEARS          YER69           tOTAL
DCCAOR     L                   WOAL FOR5AM EK  WML  tE WM FOREI  WMLFCF    LOCLAL  1a TOL
L Oscu,IdmlanulHafti 8m
"My
A MsOHAckvI,U                              145       0      92      0       0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0     237       0      287
BILO*dS4W pyFmftft*uo.                      e1       0     135      00                                                     0       0     216       0      216
C. P      zih a WbM 6us8WI                  79       0      85    49        0     517       0       0      0       0       0       0     164   1,015    1.178
D. UpgrahV d h     nion 8sln m               0       0      0       0       a       0       0       °      0       0       0       0       0       0       0
E. Tm*q Ftaron.                             11      2      41       0      43       0      44      0      45       0      47       0     281      2      238
F. Rc1bM mkqE & Evon                         0      0       0       0     174       0       0       0     18e      0       0       0  960         0       360
8ul                                    Ste916   2      954    486    217    517        44       0     231      0      47       0   1,201   1.016    2,225
A    mwfoMWqxdbnArm                          0       0   2.297   5.881    .76  12.173  12.06065   7.712   70             .79   8.443  34.104  42.158   78.4
IL  Umhcpd                                   0       0     766    w58     829   1.507   397       139       0      0       0       0   13    2U2N4    4.136
Ga                                           0     614       0     700      0   1.434       0       0       0      0       0       0       0   2.74     2.746
81hIo~                                   0     014 9.008   6688   9.404  15.114  12.417   9.024   7.712   707    37    8.443  36116  47.110 o3M
III-
A  Cmladol C                                 0     1S6       0     400      0       0       0       0       a      0       0       0       0     56B      5
EL  EaunWmrwdH=MU                            a       0      0       0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0
81yk*d                                   0     156      0     400       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0     a5       -
N. PrmdAdn**InVon&AdIft                    514      46    68       35    655       14    s65        7    6a        7     717      11   87        121    8.9
TOTA.L   ($tIus)                        mSO    818   3.990   772  10*76  15.645  13.128   9.081   82   7            4.4    8454  41.11W  438        MAW
;00



Annex 14, Table 3: DETAILED COST TABLE BY COMPONENT AND
YEAR OF IMPLEMENTATION - GOVERNMENT FINANCING
(US$000)
COCtW                          YEAR 1         EAR2          WEARS         YEAR4          WmAS           wAe            TOIA.
LOAL FOREI  UWL FOFE         WMC^ fOE       WM^ 3GII  LWA:  FOE    LOCL  -CEi LO    13FEN    1WS
L  Dsou*admcIWhi uIc
D*w
A  MOHRuctabf                           a6       0    148       0    142      0    14U       0    151       0    15S      0    as        0     U
e. Cwe*dqpIyFacIVR.s                    295      0    585       0    50W      0    6S9       0    631       0    on       0 a33          0    3M
C. pd*coI*.hIbUIkcHihh                   44      0      76433         65    450      67      0     a        0     71      0    3S2  *         t7
0. LIJ)r  db*r,9an S&uim                 52    912    298   2P667   1.106   5.474  3.     5.035   4*847  1*0   506        0  14A6   15.129  29M
E  TrditAclW.                            3       1   1.430      0   1.479     0   1,527      0   1562     0   1,6        0   7.65       1    7.6
F. Po    ModIwt  &Eom                     0      0      0       0     le      0      0       0     21      0       0      0      40      0      40
Siam                                46      913  2,5SB   S,120  3.4QS  SS54   5.962  SM06   7901  120 M   7.21      0  27.12  16D4   4315
IL  Femfalty hWsbu MNawHual
<
A  8W fotpo_n A                        754      0  12.411   7.9=2  20405  14.011  25518  10.4   20*16  7tl  19.131  1S6    97    5470  1SS3
a   W,Ji                                143      0   1.21   660   1.343   1,50S    662    199    151       0    15       0 a  .715   235     s06
a A**mS                                  as    535    173    610    214   1.249    333       0    344       0    365      0   1,50 2.6    SAS  En
8Lbw                                9S3   565  13.64   9.171  21412  16,765  2.13  1105  21.412   791  19.6   13W  104.07  MA&   1O&=
KI- spcWdpc_
A C* Cmar                                 0    136      0    384      20      0    235       0    336       0    an       0 tAM        4t4    1M
L. Eraoiun H_h                            0      0    203       0      0      0       a      0      0       0      0      0    205       0     au
9shbk                                 0    136    203    346      20       0    255      0    36        0    U        0   1.40    4t4    1*1
W. ftoWk%1M alc.8,A&uSu                  57      6      70      4     18      1      74      1     76       1     le      2    40       14     444
TOTAL   #M#muou)                   10 151.M5  12420  25.162  22.65  6Z724  16=2  29.13    U2  27.R5   13.1651326   751   2W7
00
w P
m-



Annex 14, Table 4: DETAILED COST TABLE BY CATEGORY AND
YEAR OF IMPLEMENTATION
(US$ Million)
CATEGORY              TOTAL           YEAR 1          YEAR 2          YEAR 3          YEAR 4          YEAR S          YEARS
LOCAL FOREION TOAL  LOA   POREIGN  LOCAL  FOREIGN  LOCAL  FoREION  LOCAL  POREIGN  LOCAL   ORIEON  LOCAL  FORIGN
CONSULTANTSERVICES      lS        0.0    1S     04       0      0.4     0D      03      09      0.1     0.0     03      0e s1           0
DETAL DESION             U      0s      U       1.0    0.0      24      *.0    1.8      OA      0.9    0A      0       OA      e       S3
EQUIPMENTINFO-SYSTEN     0.0    15D0   t5.0     0.0     09      0.0     2.7    .o       5.4     OA      Ss     UO       ID      S 
GOODS                   OA      70.5   70.5    0O      IA       0.0    13.4    0.0     29       0       73      0D      73      09     15.
CIVIL WORKS             80      339   122.9    0.0      0.0     73      14    22.       .2    30.1    12.4     1        72     10.1     4.2
CIVIL WORKS FOR CRS     12.2     .0   17.1      0A 0.           7.1     2.9    4.2      1.7     0       03      0       *9      0       0
TRAININO                7.7     01    7.8    0.1       0.0     1.7      0.0    1iS      0.1    IA      0.1      L5     *       1. S
PROJECTADMINISTRAON    4.1      0.1    4.3    OS       0.1     0.7      .      0.7    0.0    0.7       00       .7     OA tU   t
OPERATINOCOST           S2       0.0   52.8     04              1.1     0.0    4.1    0.       II      eD    1I. "0           19A4 
_____ ______ __-__--------- -------- -V
TOTAL                  1741    124A   29U       2.3     24     20A     204     35A   #3        45.9    25.1    37.     I"      322     223 to
000"
I N4
o *



153
Annex 14
Page 5 of 7
Annex 14, Table 5: SUMMARY ACCOUNTS
(UJS$ MILUON)
CATEGORY                        TOTAL                  FOREIGN    % TOTAL
LOCAL   FORliGN   TOTAL    EXCHANG.  BASE
CONSULTANT SERVICES                   15          0.0       15            0.0        05
DETAIL DESIGN                         6.9        0.0        6.9          0.0         2.3
EQUIPMENTINFO-SYSlEM                  0.0        IS.0      15.0         100.0        S.0
GOODS                                 0.0        705       7(PS         100.0       23.6
CIVILWORKS                           89.0        33.9     122.9          27.6       41.1
CIVIL WORKS FOR CRS                  122         S.0       17.1         29.0         S.7
TRAINING                              7.7        0.1        7.8           1.8        2.6
PROJECFADMIISTRATION                  4.1        0.1        43            32         14
OPERATING COST                       52.8        0.0       S2.8          0.0        17.7
TOTAL                               1742        124.6     298.8                    100.0



154                                   Annex 14
Page 6 of 7
Annex 14, Table 6: PROCUREMENT TIMETABLE
(US$ Million)
To41
Proloe EBement              FY93     FY94      FYS         M96    FY97     1997 Pyment  Remark.
LOAN TIMING                    X       X                                      Y
SIgn/EfcWtClo..
CN1L WORKS                 XXX       XXXX     XKXX      XXXX     XKXX      XXX
2.2     15.9      41.5     29.9      0.0       0.0      69.2 ICS
2.9     14.0      10.7      .0       0.8       0.4      S1.7 LCB
0.0      0.3      0.5       0.5      0.5       0.3      2.0 Other
CIVIL WORKS FOR CR8         XXX)    XXXX      XKXX      XKXX
a3       9.6 e6             0.6      0.0       0.0      17.1 Not Bank Fnanc
GOODS                       XXX X              XXX XXX   XXX     XKOX      XXXX
0.7      3.0       2.2      1.1      1.9       1.3      10.1 ICe
4.5     14.2      10.6      5.1      6.9       6.3      49.4 LCB
0.7      8.2       2.4      1.2      2.1       1.5      11.0 Othr
EQUIPMENT INFO-SYSTEM      XXXX    XKXX       XXXX      XXXX     XKXX      XKXX
1.8      4.5      5.2       S.0      0.5       0.0     15.0 Not Bank Fanced
CONSULTANCIES              XXXX      X)XX     XXXX      XXXX     XXXX      XXXX
0.       0.3       0.2      0.2      0.2       0.0       1.5 Othr
DETAIL DESIGN              XKXX      XKXX      XXXX     XXKX     X)0X      X)0X
2.2      2.1       1.4      0.7      0.4       0.2      6.9 Not Bank Fnanc
TRAINING                   XXXX      XXXX      XXXX     XXXX    X)XX       X)XX
07       1.9       1.5      1.5      1.5       0.6      7.9 Not Bank Rnanod
OPERATING COST             XX(X    XXXX    X)XX         XKXX     XKXX    X)KX
0.6      2.0      8.0      13.9      17.7      9.7     52.8 Not Bank Finnced
PROJECT ADMINISTRAT1ON     XKXX      XXXX     XXXX      XX)X     XX;XX     X)XX
1.1      0.9      0.8       0.7      0.7       0.3      4.3 Othw
TOTALS      21.4      72.5     68.0      61.3     35.0      20.6    298.6
(Banks Financd)     (7.6)    (25.)    (29.0)    (17.0)    (6.7)    (4.3)    (90.0)



Annex 14, Table 7: QUARTERLY DISBURSEMENT PROFILE
Disbursement Schedule a/
Cumulative Disbursements
Quarter Ending           Appraisal Estimate         Cumulative
_USS million]           {Percents
FY93:   June                            5.6 b/                 6.2
PY94s    September                      9.5                   10.5
December                      13.4                   14.9
March                         19.9                   22.1
|  vre -1026.4                                      29.3
|2Y95    September                      32.8                  36.5
December                      39.3                   43.7
March                         44.9                   49.9
June                          50.4                   56.0                                    >
t.n
FY96:    September                      56.0                  62.2
December                      61.5                   68.3
March                         65.4                   72.7
June                          69.3                   77.1
FY97:    September                      74.4                  82.7
December                      77.2                   85.8
March                         80.4                   89.3
June                          83.6                   92.9
EY-98:    September                     86.4                  96.0
December                      87.8                   97.6
March                         89.9                   99.9
June                          90.0                  100.0
_J   Credit assumed to become effective on March 1993.
b/   Includes retroactive financing.                                                                o >
_,h



Ann-&1: -156
Amnnex15. HEALTH POLICY LETTER
REPUBLICA DE CHILE                                                       Annex 15
NMNISTERIO DE SALUD                                                      Page 1 of 10
Santiago de Chile, 17 de Septiembre de 1992
Sefnor
Lewis Preston
Presidente
The World Bank
1818 H. Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
USA
Estimado Sefior Presidente:
En relaci6n al " Health Sector Reform Project " que el Gobiemo de Chile esta en proceso
de convenir con el Banco Mundial, me es muy grato poner en su conocimiento los fundamentos,
objetivos y estrategia de las reformas polfticas e institucionales del Gobierno para el sector salud.
1. LA POLITICA SOCIAL DEL SUPREMO GOBIERNO
El Gobierno se propone establecer las bases de un nuevo consenso nacional que haga
posible un avance simultAneo del desarrollo estable de su economfa y la mejorfa significativa de
las condiciones de vida de los sectores mas postergados. Lo anterior se estA haciendo en el
marco de polfticas responsables y justas que, procurando dar cumplimiento al doble objetivo de
crecimiento y equidad, garanticen la estabilidad y el funcionamiento fluido de la economia.
La concepci6n que orienta el programa es la de un Estado activo que configura una
economfa mixta en que sector pdblico y privado se complementan adecuadamente. Se propicia
una economfa en que el Estado y la empresa privada en sus diversas formas cumplan sus
funciones propias, con criterio de eficiencia y complementaci6n, a fin de responder tanto al
interes pdblico como a la necesidad de preservar y dinamizar la iniciativa privada.
En este contexto, la polftica social enfrenta el desaffo de contribuir a la integraci6n de
la sociedad chilena para que los ciudadanos disfruten en forma mas equitativa del desarrollo.
La integraci6n supone esfuerzos serios en tomo a reducir la pobreza, asf como polfticas que
mejoren la calidad de vida de los sectores medios y en general de toda la poblaci6n. Esto
significa realizar una polftica social que comprenda, en un esfuerzo integral, el mejomamiento
en el acceso, de los grupos objetivos, a los servicios de salud, de educaci6n, vivienda, justicia,
seguridad personal, medio ambiente y recreaci6n.
1



157                          Annex 15
Page 2 of 10
El gobierno se encuentra empeflado, en el marco de las restricciones macroecon6micas,
en incrementar los recursos financieros al sector salud. El aumento de dichos recursos se hara
respetando el principio de equidad en el financiamiento, lo que implica que el mayor gasto en
salud sera financiado por medio de los recursos provenientes del sistema general de impuestos.
El gobierno se ha propuesto resolver las grandes inequidades existentes en la poblaci6n
mejorando el acceso a la salud de los grupos de mas bajos ingresos, asf como tambidn a la de
aquellos ubicados en zonas geograficas alejadas de los centros de atenci6n. El gobierno pondra
especial enfasis en que a los pacientes se les otorgue una atencion digna y humanizada.
I.   POLMICAS GENERALES EN SALUD
Las principales poifticas generales que orientaran las acciones del Gobierno en salud son:
I.          El sistema de salud Chileno es mixto, con participaci6n del sector privado y
pdblico. Al sector pu.blico le corresponde la definici6n de polfticas, normas, planes y
programas, y la supervisi6n de su cumplimiento, la fiscalizaci6n del desarrollo del
sistema privado de salud, como asimismo la contribuci6n en forma parcial al
financiamiento y ejecuci6n de las prestaciones de salud de quienes han sido definidos
como los beneficiarios del sistema.
Al sector privado le corresponde participar en el disefio de sistemas de salud
privados, que se integren coordinadamente a los del sector publico en el cumplimiento
de los objetivos nacionales en el Ambito de la salud de la poblaci6n. Asimismo,
participar en el otorgamiento de prestaciones de salud y, en la administracidn de los
recursos financieros provenientes de sus usuarios o de sus empleadores.
2.          La polftica de salud impulsara el fortalecimiento y ampliaci6n de la
descentralizacidn. Un proceso de descentralizaci6n constituye un elemento consustancial
al logro de los objetivos de mayor participaci6n y de incremento de la eficiencia. La
descentralizaci6n permitira una gestidn flexible y aut6noma, manteniendo una estrecha
coordinacion que asegure la integralidad del sistema de salud chileno. Ademas, debera
considerar las necesidades y los derechos de la poblacion en lo relativo a disponibilidad,
acceso, calidad de la asistencia, participaci6n de la comunidad en el sistema de prestaci6n
de asistencia de salud en las regiones, en el empleo racional de los recursos y en la
coordinaci6n entre subsistemas de prestaci6n de atenci6n de salud.
La ampliaci6n del proceso de descentralizaci6n se expresara en el campo de la
toma de decisiones respecto de los recursos financieros, a traves de un incremento en las
atribuciones de los Servicios de Salud.
2



158                           Annex 15
Page 3 of 10
3.          De manera complementaria a las poifticas resenadas en el punto anterior, se
reforzardn las tareas de supervisi6n y coordinaci6n, mediante el fortalecimiento
institucional del Ministerio, tanto a nivel central como regional.
4.          Se busca elevar la eficiencia productiva y la eficacia del sector ptiblico frente al
nuevo perfil epidemiol6gico del pais, asignando recursos en forma prioritaria a las
soluciones de mayor costo-efectividad. La poiftica de mejorar la eficiencia debera
considerar las acciones necesarias en lo que se refiere a modernizar los sistemas
administrativos, implementar sistemas de informaci6n para la gesti6n, e incorporar los
incentivos adecuados. La excelencia institucional que se espera del sistema de salud para
que concurra efectivamente al proceso de desarrollo, debera manifestarse en la calidad
de los servicios que se prestan a la comunidad.
5.    La reorganizacion de los sistemas y el consecuente cambio en las estructuras
administrativas se realizara en un marco de participaci6n de los agentes involucrados en
el proceso. Las reformas buscaran conciliar la urgencia de realizar modificaciones con
la necesaria prudencia que requieren estos procesos.
m. PROBLEMAS Y DESAFIOS DEL SISTEMA DE SALUD CHILENO
El sistema de salud chileno se enfreita hoy a una diversidad de problemas y
desaffos como consecuencia de cuatro problemas generales:
(i)   El cambio epidemiol6gico emergente que pone al pats en una situaci6n de transici6n
epidemiol6gica, expresada en la creciente incidencia y prevalencia de patologfas cr6nicas
no transmisibles y sus complicaciones, coexistiendo con patologlas de primer nivel.
(ii)   La insuficiencia en la capacidad de gesti6n del sector pu'blico de salud. El Gobierno se
encontr6 con un sistema publico que, en todos sus niveles ha visto deteriorarse
significativamente su capacidad y recursos para la gesti6n.
(iii)  La prolongada restricci6n financiera del sector publico que ha generado un fuerte deficit
de inversi6n (infraestructura y equipamiento), asi como tambidn ha afectado en forma
significativa la capacidad operacional del sector (escasez de insumos, recursos humanos,
falta de mantenci6n).
(iv)   El Desarrollo inorganico y descoordinado de los subsectores pdblico y privado de salud.
3



159                           Annes: 15
Page 4 of 10
IV. PLAN DE REFORMA DEL SISTEMA DE SALUD CHILENO
El sistema de salud chileno, ha evolucionado en forma manifiestamente desigual, en los
diltimos ahios. Por una parte el subsector privado se ha desarrollado con evidente rapidez
mientras que por otra el subsector publico se ha visto sometido a significativas restricciones,
resultando de esto, una gran brecha en la calidad y cobertura de los servicios privados y
publcos. Esta brecha mirada desde el punto de vista del principio de equidad, impulsa al
Gobierno a convertir al sector salud en su primera prioridad dentro del campo social.
En el Chile de hoy, las consideraciones de urgencia y viabilidad implican, necesariamen-
te, un gran esfuerzo por iniciar una soluci6n definitiva y en un horizonte de largo plazo de la
crisis del subsector publico de salud y perfeccionar el funcionamiento del subsector privado.
Aunque el enfasis del Gobierno estA puesto, a partir de lo antes dicho, en la solucion de
la crisis del sector publico de salud, los esfuerzos globales estdn orientados a la mejorfa del
sistema de salud chileno como un todo, esto es, a mejorar el funcionamiento de los subsectores
prblicos y privados como complementarios y necesarios para el desarrollo de un sistema de
salud equitativo, eficiente, e integrado.
El desarrollo de ambos subsectores, consecuencia de los esfuerzos de este Gobierno,
necesariamente debe ser ejecutado de forma tal. que puedan ser orientados en el futuro, en
cualquiera de las direcciones que la evaliaci6n de los resultados de la evoluci6n de ambos
indiquen.
Esto es, los cambios de hoy, deben ser aplicados con la mayor flexibilidad posible, de
manera que la experiencia ganada en ellos permita corregir la orientaci6n de cualesquiera de los
subsectores hacia un funcionamiento mds costo-efectivo. Desde una perspectiva de visi6n global
del sistema de salud chileno, Ia integraci6n publico privado serf el resultado de la evoluci6n y
el perfeccionamiento de la complementariedad de ambos subsectores.
Para cada uno de los subsectores la mejorfa tiene su significaci6n especffica.
La mejorfa para el sector privado significa: (i) orientar a este sector en una perspectiva
de largo plazo en el cual asuma a plenitud los riesgos de la poblaci6n durante toda la vida de
los trabajadores; (ii) lograr un sistema de salud privado mas transparente, en el cual la demanda
pueda expresarse con la mayor simetrfa posible, respecto de la oferta; (iii) lograr el compromiso
del subsector privado en un enfrentamiento en forma integral de la atenci6n de salud, es decir,
con acciones de fomento, proteccidn , recuperacidn y rehabilitaci6n de directo beneficio para
sus afiliados. En otras palabras, debe, el sector privado, disehlar productos que resuelvan en su
totalidad los riesgos de salud de la poblaci6n a la cual sirven; (iv) finalmente, el desaffo que el
sector privado debe enfrentar es, disefiar mecanismos que permitan controlar la evoluci6n de los
costos, para que pueda, en lo sucesivo, ofrecer productos a los niveles de precio que el pats estl
en condiciones de pagar.
I.



160                          Annex 15
Page 5 of 10
A su vez el esfuerzo de mejorfa para el subsector pdblico estA basado en tres pilares
fundamentales: (i) Readecuar el sistema de atenci6n de salud con el objetivo de dar respuesta
efectiva a las necesidades que surgen del actual perfil epidemiol6gico chileno; (ii) Perfeccionar
el modelo de gesti6n del sector pdblico, con fin de fortalecer su capacidad de gesti6n en todas
las tareas que hoy ejerce: Normar, supervisar, financiar y ejecutar; (iii) Reformar el sistema de
financiamiento al interior del sistema publico de salud con el fin de adecuar los incentivos a las
metas de salud y gesti6n sectorial. Para la operacionalizaci6n de estos tres pilares de mejorfa
del subsector pdblico, el Ministerio de Salud, con la inestimable colaboraci6n de un sinndmero
de profesionales, ha preparado el Proyecto de Reforma del Sector Salud (Proyecto HSRP).
La ejecuci6n de este proyecto permitira invertir en la gente, al mismo tiewn '0 que mejorar
significativamente la eficiencia social en la gesti6n de salud en Chile. Esto, - travds de un
profundo esfuerzo de modernizaci6n de la gesti6n, basado en una descentralizaci6n que potencia
la integralidad del sistema pliblico de atenci6n de salud, imposible de implementar sin las
inversiones consideradas en el presente proyecto.
El proyecto HSRP contiene dos grandes areas: Desarrollo Institucional y Plan de
Inversi6n.
El componente de desarrollo institucional del proyecto HSRP tiene como objetivo
modernizar la gesti6n del sector en el ejercicio de todos los roles que le cabe desempefnar, esto
en un ambiente de creciente descentralizacion. Las acciones contempladas en el son:
1.-   La Reestructuraci6n del Ministerio de Salud.
La reestructuraci6n comprende: (i) La revisi6n de la estructura organizacional para
concentrar al Ministerio en sus tareas normativas y supervisoras. Se creara para elo la Divisi6n
de Operaciones, asf como los Comit6s de Desarrollo, de Operaciones y Ejecutivo; (ii) Disefno
e implementaci6n de un mecanismo denominado compromisos de gesti6n, que permitan observar
las acciones de salud ejecutadas por los Servicios de Salud en la direcci6n del uso de recursos
y en la de su relaci6n con las metas que se pretende alcanzar, asf como acordar, entre Ministerio
y Servicios, la entrega de los recursos y oportunidad a que se obliga el Ministerio para el
cumplimiento de las metas acordadas; (iii) Adicionalmente se considera el diseflo de un
instrumento t6cnico adecuado que permita dimensionar las necesidades y disponibilidades de
recursos humanos en los Servicios de Salud.
Las acciones anteriores se complementargn con la ejecucion de acciones de mejommiento
de la capacidad gerencial y de gesti6n de los niveles de direccion intermedia y administrativa,
tanto del Ministerio de Salud, como Servicios de Salud y otras instituciones dependientes, a
trav6s de la capacitaci6n, la que se efectuard vfa un mecanismo de fondo concursable, "El
Programa de Apoyo a la Gesti6n", el que se sehalz mas adelante.
5



161                           Annex 15
Page 6 of 10
2.-   Reforma al Sistema de Abastecimiento dej Sector Publico de Salud
La reforma al sistema de abastecimiento del sector pdblico de salud tiene por objetivo
mejorar tanto la operaci6n como la gesti6n del sistema. Para ello se ha estimado necesario
implantar, a nivel de la Central de Abastecimientos (CENABAS), las siguientes acciones: (i)
eliminar las presentes restricciones administrativas y financieras a traves de la transforrnaci6n
del actual servicio en una empresa aut6noma del estado; (ii) Mejorar la eficiencia y
productividad a traves de una mejor administraci6n de sus bodegas, sistema de transporte y
poiftica de precios.
3.-   Mejoramiento de la Capacidad de Gesti6n del I.S.P.
El mejoramiento de la capacidad de gestion del Instituto de Salud Pu'blica (ISP), dene
como objetivo fortalecer el rol de apoyo cientffico-tdcnico que cumple el ISP al interior del
sistema de salud del pafs a la vez que elevar el nivel de su capacidad operativa y de gesti6n. Las
principales acciones a ejecutar son: (i) realizaci6n de un estudio de factibilidad de un eventual
"Joint venture" con firmas privadas para mejorar el desarrollo de la funci6n de producci6n del
ISP; (ii) realizar un estudio de costos de prestaciones y disenlo de fijaci6n y actualizaci6n de
aranceles, y metodos modemos de cobranzas; (iii) realizar un estudio del area de abastecimiento
del ISP que apunte a mejorar las modalidades de adquisici6n de productos y manejo de
inventarios; (iv) ejecutar un programa de modemizaci6n de equipos de laboratorio.
4.    Reforma de los Sistenlias de Financiamiento
La reforma a los sistemas de financiamniento intrasector, tiene por objetivo abordar tres
aspectos fundamentales para los Servicios de Salud en relaci6n con esta materia: (i) la asignaci6n
de recursos financieros desde el nivel central; (ii) la recuperaci6n de costos y (iii) la
determinaci6n de costos de prestaciones.
La reforma de la asignaci6n de recursos financieros al interior del sistema publico de
salud, tiene como objetivo implantar un inecanismno de financiamiento de las prestaciones de
salud que sea eficiente en la asignaci6n de recursos. Para ello se ha optado por una estrategia
de avanzar rapidamente corrigiendo las deficiencias de los actuales (FAP y FAPEM) a traves
de su reemplazo progresivo por nuevas modalidades de pago. Con este fin se piensa introducir
un sistema di pago prospectivo por atenci6n de un grupo de patologfas, denominado Pago
Asociado a Diagn6stico (PAD) que reemplace progresivamente al FAP. El objetivo del PAD
es incentivar una administraci6n mds eficiente de los recursos pagando por patologfa resuelta y
no por prestaci6n realizada. De igual forma, en lo que se refiere a establecimientos de atenci6n
primaria municipalizados, se irmplementara una modalidad de financiamiento "per capita" que
reemplazara al actual FAPEM.
6



162                          Annex 15
Page 7 of 10
En lo referente a recuperaci6n de costos, esta tiene como objetivo implantar un Sistema
de Recuperacion de Costos (SRC) en los establecimientos del sector pdblico de salud. Con este
prop6sito se realizaran reformas que moditiquen las condicionantes institucionales que afectan
al SRC. En este sentido, se hace necesario mejorar los sistemas de clasificaci6n de beneficiarios
y controlar su cumplimiento por parte del SNSS, proveer a los Servicios de Salud de tecnicas
e instrumentos que permitan incrementar la venta de servicios a no beneficiarios, diseflar
mecanismos que permitan resolver problemas econ6micos y financieros generados por
enfermedades cr6nicas o catastr6ficas de los beneficiarios.
Se realizara, ademas, un estudio de costos que tiene por objetivo determinar los costos
de las prestaciones, de manera tal que permita readecuar los actuales aranceles para que reflejen
los costos efectivos de las prestaciones.
5.-   Programa de Apoyo a la Gesti6n
El programa de apoyo a la gesti6n tiene como objetivo actualizar las habilidades y
destrezas del personal del sector pdblico de salud, para la realizaci6n de una mas efectiva y
eficiente atenci6n a la poblaci6n beneficiaria, a traves de la creaci6n de un fondo concursable
de capacitaci6n a ser administrado por el Ministerio de Salud.
6.-   Sistema de Informaci6n
La implementaci6n del sisteina nacional de informatica en salud tiene como objetivo la
formulaci6n y el desarrollo de sistemas de informaci6n que cumplan con los siguientes objetivos:
resolver los problemas basicos de la administraci6n y operaci6n del Ministerio, Servicios de
Salud, Instituto de Salud Piblica y Central de Abastecimiento; apoyar fuertemente al control de
la gesti6n y reorganizaci6n estructural que se Ilevard a efecto en el sector pdblico de salud,
elevandolo a un nivel de operaci6n moderno acorde con el actual estado informatico del pafs.
7.    Programas Especfficos
En programas especfficos, podemos distinguir dos programas; Programa de Cdncer
C6rvico Uterino y Programa de Educaci6n en Medio Ambiente, los que se sefialan a conti-
nuaci6n: (i) El Programa de Cancer Cervico Uterino, tiene como objetivo la reposici6n y
normalizaci6n de equipos en los laboratorios de citopatologfa y anatomfa patol6gica, y unidad
de patologfa cervical a nivel nacional de modo de mejorar el funcionamiento y calidad de los
componentes del programa de detecci6n y control de cancer cervico uterino; (ii) El Programa
de Educaci6n en Prevenci6n, Manejo y Control del Medio Ambiente en Comunas Piloto de la
Regi6n Metropolitana, tiene como objetivo general crear conciencia acerca de los problemas
derivados del medio ambiente y los factores condicionantes, asf como los estados de salud
asociados.
7



163                            Annex 15
Page 8 of 10
El plan de inver i,nes contenido en el HSRP tiene el objetivo de lograr la readecuaci6n
del modelo de atenci6n de salud de acuerdo a las riecesidades que surgen de nuestro actual perfil
epidemiol6gico y, al mismo tiempo, cubrir vacfos de atenci6n en zonas de poblaci6n pobre.
Esta readewuaci6n se orienta hacia la redefinici6n y operacionalizacidn de los niveles de
complejidad de todos los establecimientos del sistema publico de atenci6n de salud, asf como una
normalizacion de la red de sistemas de referencia, tanto para pacientes electivos como para
pacientes de urgencia. En ella el Ministerio ha decidido lo siguiente:
i.    La creaci6n de Centros de Especialidades BAsicas, de referencia intercomunales (CRS),
a los cuales podran referir los consultorios de Atenci6n Primaria Municipalizados para
atenci6n de especialistas y que estarAn a cargo del Servicio de Salud.
ii.    El reforzamiento de toda la Atenci6n Ambulatoria, a traves de la creaci6n de Centros de
Diagn6stico y Tratamiento Amnbulatorio los que tendrAn autonomfa administrativa y de
recursos, respecto al hospital al cual estAn adj untos.
iii.   La modernizaci6n y reparaci6n de la red asistencial de tres regiones del pafs, pan
resolver los mas importantes "cuellos de botella" detectados en ellas y aumentar la
productividad y calidad de la atenci6n de salud en establecimientos ya existentes.
Este conjunto de medidas permitira ordenar el s;tema de atenci6n de salud y, por lo
tanto, dar mayor racionalidad a la planiticaci6n de inversiones y 41 desarrollo de cada uno de
los Servicios del sistema publico de atenci6n constituyendose, asf, en la estrategia mas costo
efectiva para enfrentar el emergente presente y fituro de nuestro perfil epidemiol6gico.
El Plan de Inversi6n en Salud corresponde a las inversiones en infraestructura y equipa-
miento, para satisfacer las necesidades de salud mas prioritarias, detectadas en las Areas geogrAfi-
cas incluidas en este componente, las que cubren a rnds del 50% de la poblaci6n.
Las Areas geogrAficas en que se iniciara, incluyen las regiones de El Loa, Metropolitana
y parte de la regi6n de Los Lagos Sur.
Este plan contempla, entre otras acciones extensamente descritas en el proyecto
presentado al Banco para su financiamniento, la construcci6n de 5 centros de Referencia de Salud,
5 Centros Diagn6stico Terapeuticos, 4 hospitales (El Pino, Santiago Oriente, San Jose y San
Ram6n). El Plan de inversiones se complementa con un vasto plan de reacondicionamiento y
reparaciones hospitalarias que encuentran en distintas etapas de ejecuci6n en el Proyecto Tecnical
Assistance and Hospital Rehabilitation Project firmado con el Banco en Diciembre de 1991.
8



164                           Annex 15
Page 9 of 10
V. Financiandento del plan de reformas del Sector Salud
El Gobierno tiene la capacidad financiera para sostener el esfuerzo de ejecuci6n tanto de
las reformas polfticas e institucionales como del plan de inversiones en el sector salud en los
pr6ximos seis ailos. Una reforma tributaria aprobada en forma consensual en 1990 ha implicado
un crecimiento significativo de los ingresos fiscales los que permiten, en 1991 y 1992, un
incremento de 12 % y 13% respectivamente, en el gasto social. Especfficamente, el gasto publico
en salud ha crecido significativamente en los dos ultimos anios, lo que refleja 'a alta prioridad
dada por el Gobierno al aumento de la inversi6n en salud. Al mismo tiempo para el gobierno,
es un principio de su manejo macroecon6mico el que el crecimiento se enmarcard estrictamente
dentro de los lfmites que define el crecimiento del producto y consecuentemente, de sus ingresos.
La reforma del sector y el programa de inversiones implicarl un significativo
compromiso financiero del Gobierno tanto para cubrir los gastos de inversi6n como los gastos
recurrentes. Para cubrir los mencionlados requerimientos tinancieros, el Gobierno proyecta un
gasto Fiscal en Salud mfnimo situado entre el 1.0 a. 1.2% del PGB para el resto de la ddcada.
Al mismo tiempo, se espera que las ganancias de eficiencia dadas en la implementaci6n de las
reformas sectoriales moderen el aumento de los costos recurrentes provenientes de las
inversiones Se esperan ahorros netos o rectursos adicionales, entre otros de: (i) aumento de
ingresos por el mayor numero de camas de pensionado en los hospitales publicos, (ii) mejorfa
en los sistemas de recuperaci6n de costos; (iii) administraci6n eficiente de los recursos humanos
y suministros, (iv) reduccion de la demanda por atenci6n intrahospitalaria de pacientes dada la
nueva disponibilidad de centros ambulatorios bien equipados, y reducci6n de los promedios de
estadfa intrahospitalaria. El Gobierno esta, al mismo tiempo, probando en un proyecto piloto,
las recomendaciones sobre reformas a los sistemnas de asignaci6n de recursos financieros al
interior del sector. Se encuentra eoi tramite legislativo el cambio de sistema de financiamiento
del nivel de atenci6n primaria. Se espera que estas acciones llevarin a mecanismos de pago
realistas para la atenci6n de salud e implicaran una atenci6n de salud mas eficiente y de mejor
calidad para todos los chilenos.
Estimado Sr. Presidente, las politicas enunciadas constituyen un esfuerzo sin precedentes
del Estado chileno en las dIltimas dos decadas por mejorar en forma sustantiva las condiciones
de vida de la gente de forma tal de posibilitar el desarrollo nioderno y democratico de nuestro
pafs. La reforma del sector salud es el fruto de un extenso y complejo proceso donde se funden
las aspiraciones de profesionales y pacientes, las necesidades de modernizaci6n del sector y los
9



165                            Annex 15
Page 10 of 10
imperativos sociales del proceso de recuperaci6n democratica del pafs. Tras su formulaci6n hay
un amplio consenso, que es la mejor garantfa de que podrin ser Ilevadas a cabo en forma
consistente.
Sin otro particular, le saluda muy atentamente,
DR. JORGE JIMENEZ DE LA JARA
MINISTRO DE SALUD
10



166                            Annex 16
Page 1 of 4
Annex 16: PCU FUNCTIONS AND
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
IUNCTIONS OF TIE  PCU:
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been established to assist in
the oversight of project implementation. The PCU reports to the Chief of the
Budget and Planning Division of the Ministry of Health.
The functions of the PCU are to:
(a) Coordinate all activities needed for the execution of the
project;
(b) Provide all of the teci-nical and administrative
assistance that project execution would require;
(c) Prepare the norms and procedures for the planning,
submission, administration, bidding, and execution of the
project activities in accordance with the rules agreed
upon by the Bank and the Government;
(d) Prepare the terms of reference, hire under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and supervise
consultants who will assist in implementing the project
components, oarrying out the technical assistance studies
and pilot-testing selected reconm.endations;
(e) Assist and supervise the MOH institutions in the
formulation of bidding contracts for approved
subprojects; supervise the drafting of contracts between
the suppliers and the MOH institutions for the execution
of the subprojects;
(f) Ensure that the bidding competitions for works, equipment
and/or studies are carried out in accordance with the
rules and procedures agreed on by the Bank and the
Governmrent;
(g) Approve on a preliminary basis the documents produced by
the consultants and request final approval of these
documents by the MOH;
(h) Advise the MOH institutions on the formulation and
management of the health sector reform subprojects,
providing training and support for resolving any problems
that may arise in the various phases of preparation and
implementation;



167                           Annex 16
Page 2 of 4
(i) Ensure that the works, equipment and/or studies under
execution are in line with the requirements of the work
programs for each project;
(j) Coordinate and control the flow of funds for subprojects
under execution, reporting on the needs and progress of
disbursement to the Office of the Under-Secretary for
health and to DIPLAP;
(k) Require from the NOH Institutions periodic reports on the
physical and financial status of the subprojects;
(1) Maintain a record of the status of approved subprojects,
the amount approved and disbursed, and progress
indicators for each subproject under execution;
(m) Verify that the progress reports from the MOH
institutions are reliable;
(n)  Act as MOH counterpart for the World Bank missions with
respect to the preparation, coordination, submission,
negotiation, execution and other activities related to
the project;
(o) Advise the MOH on matters concerning the project,
reporting periodically on their physical and financial
progress, and proposing corrective measures;
(p) Assemble the necessary information to request from the
bank reimbursement of the funds utilized to axecute the
subprojects;
(q) Prepare progress reports and any special reports
requested by the World Bank.
INTERNAL ORGANIZATION OF THE PCUt
The PCU will be headed by a Project Coordinator who will be
assisted by four subunit heads: the operation coordinator; the coordinator for
technical design and procurement; the coordinator for institutional
develcpment; and the administrative coordinator. The PCU organizational set-
up is shown in Attachment 1. The PCU staff will be comprised of up to six
senior level professionals and thirty professional support staff. The
functions of these PCU members are described below.
Office of the Prolect Coordinator General. The Project Coordinator
will be responsible for the technical and administrative management
of the NOH-World Bank projects. The following four units will
report to the Project Coordinator:
Onarations Unit. This unit will coordinate all
operations with regard to the health service areas.



168                           Annex 16
Page 3 of 4
Institutional Develooment Unit.  This unit will overoee
the implementation of the Training Program, Information
Development Program, and other aspects of the
decentralization of health services delivery. This unit
will also be responsible for the execution of all the
studies specified in the HSRP component for the
decentralization of health services delivery.
Technical Supervision Unit. This unit will provide
advice and supervision to NOH institutions or external
consultants with regard to the architectural design of
facilities and the procurement of equipment for the
project.
Administration and Finance Unit.  This unit will be
responsible for the administrative mancagement and
financial control of the MOH-World Bank projects
STA773MG BY WORK AR:A,
I    Project Coordinator General
1    Operations Coordinator
- 8 professional support staff
1    Coordinator for Institutional Development
- 3 protessional support staff
1    Coordini nr for Technical Supervision
- 7 pro. sional support staff
1    Administration and Finances Coordinator
- B professional support staff
vp5l\pcufunct
2.o/l6/y92



Ann 1Figur 1: PCU
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
GENERAL COORDINATION|
OPERATIONS      INSTITUTIONAL        TECHNICAL       ADMINISTRATION
UNIT         DEVELOPMENT        SUPERVISION        AND FINANCE
UNIT               UNIT              UNIT
HEALTH            TECHNICAL          ARCHITECT.            ADMIN. 
SERVICE           ASSISTANCE           DESIGN  |
AREAS             STUDIES AND
EVALUATIONS
-ANIOFAQASlA_
-I.LANCHIPAL
-OCCIDENTE                                                    ;
-ORIENTE          INFORMATION EIUIPMENT                    FINANCE
-SUR                  SYSTEM                                 AND
-NORTE            _________
-CENTRAL                                                    ACCT.
-8UR-ORIENTE                                                          oX
O _%



ANNEX 17: FACILITY INVESTMENT
Implementaton Schedule
0  IRDAD ELMERGENCIA IL S RAMiON
*                                   10t10t.D.T.S0TERO DE RNO
~0 PLACA 0UIRWGIC HS.DEL MiO
1X"sm SC.D.T HSAIUAN DE 0101
EM&ERGENOLIt K ONJAN DE0DIM
2!            w       C.O. HOSPfTAL SN. JOSEf
~. NORODLIA(-ON H. EL SWALVOR
c.Ro: I                   IRBC  11OR IA. 
[4    &IRIUDIt Pu_    1i1 1                           11                          1113          tt1    il
mi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~PAIos 
.  ~



Annex 18, Chart 1: PROCUREMENT AND
DISBURSEMENT CYCLE
ACTIVITIES                      SUPPLIERS         PARTICIPATING|   P.C.U             CONTROLLER
INSTITUTIONS
SEND STANDARD BID DOCS.                                              F
PREPARE INDIVIDUAL BIDS
INVITE SUPPLIERS                     r
SUPPLIERS REC. BID DOCS.
PRESENT OFFER8
ANALYZE AND IHRD
VERIFY RMlRDS
SIGN CONTRACTS
ISSUE RESOLUTION AND
SEND FOR REVIEW                                                    _
APPROVE RESOLUTION
BEGIN EXECUTION
REQUEST PAYMENT
FOR ORDER
REVIEW PAYMIENT REQUEST__
AND ORDER PAYMENT                                                                               o w
PROGRESS REPORT                                                         [±]



Annex 18, Chad 2: BUDGLT CYCLE
ACTIVITIES        PARTICIPATING   P.C.U  UNDERSECRETARY  MINISTRY OF  MINISTRy OF  CONTROLLER  DAYS
INSTITUTION           OF HEALTH      PLANNING      FINANCE
PRESENT PROJECT
ACTION (811BPROJECT)
PCU REVIEWS                       {
MOP E%%LUATES                        L                                                            0oia0
SUBPROJE4T APFRO^AL
ASK FOR TRANSFER
DRAFT DECREE                                                                                      SI?
REVIEW BUDGET                                                                                     21/80
APPROVE DECREE                                                             I
RETURN DECREE
REGISTER DECREE
MINISTER SIGNS
NOTARIZE                                                                                L J
(TOMA DE RAZON)                                                                                14/21
RECEiVE APPROVAL
ORDER TO BEGIN
00
BEGIN EXECUTION
TOTAL DAYS                                                                                       71/96



173                            Annex 19
Page I of 4
ANNEX 12: MONITORING AND EVALUATION
OF THE HSRP PROJECT
PRELDIINARY DESIGN
1.    Two types of indicators will be used to monitor and evaluate the HSRP
project:
(a) Progress indicators which would monitor the rate of implementation
of the project's activities; and
(b) Outcome indicators which would monitor progress towards the
attainment of the project's objectives.
2.    The above indicators would be related to the performance indicators that
would be incorporated in the Service Provision Agreements between the MDH and
the HSAB.
3.    The following sections presents a preliminary list of indicators that
will be analyzed and developed for HSRP monitoring and evaluation. The
benchmark reference data for each of the indicators would also be established.
It may be noteid that, as appropriate, the indicators would be used to measure
progress of: (1) an entire project component, (2) an HMA, (3) a facility,
and/or (4) a clinical service unit. The proposed coverage of the specific
indicators presented below is indicated by the corresponding numbers in the
parentheses.  The 2oLrss indicators would be monitored every six months and
the outcome indicators once every year.
4.    Pronosed Indicators:
A. INSTITUINLmW D      R EOPM
(1) Financino Reforms
a imnleme1tation indicators:
- Number of PAD implemented/ Number of F-AD implemented according to the
timetable (1)
- Numbar of individual accounts implemented/ Number of individual
accounts according to the timetable (1;3)
- Number of hospitals with the PAD system/ Number of hospitals with the
PAD system according to the timetable (1)
b. OutcoM indicators:
- Average days of hospital stay (1;2)
- NM=ber of ambulatory consultations/ Number of hospital discharges
(1;2)
- Occupancy index for the private beds (1;2;3)
- Number of private beds in working condition/ Number of total beds in
working condition (1;2;3)



174                          Annex 19
Page 2 of 4
- Median costs (costo unitario) per hospital service provided
- Amount (in pesos) committed by PAD/ Amount (in peso.) committed by PPP
(1;2)
- Own resources/ Total resources or funds (2;3)
- Number of people attending a primary care facility/ Number of people
assigned to a primary care facility (ADSCRITA VERSUS ASIGNADA)
- Number of primary care services provided
(2) Information Systems
a. Proaress Indicators:
- Completed activities / activities programmed for completion, per
annual timetable. (1;2;3;4)
- Number of trained persons / number of trained persons according to set
timetable (1;2;3;4).
- Number of completed information systems / Number of information
systems programmed for completion. (2;3;4).
b. Outcome Indicators:
Outcome indicators for the Information Program have been defined
in detail at the level of each institution:
- For MOH:
i-    Financial reports by cost center available to management
through on-line query of a computerized, up-to-date data
base. (1;2;4)
ii.   Health statistics available on-line, country-wide, 15 days
after each monthly closing. (1;2;4)
- For H9As:
i-    Availability of aggregated data on resource usage and
service levels for on-line consultation by managers. Data
should be two weeks old at a maximum. (2;4)
ii-   Ability to decide on the spot, through on-line access to
appropriate databases, whether patient records are
available, when and where patient will be given an
appointment with a health service provider, %.- whether
patient can be hospitalized. (2;4)
- For Central Supply Facility:
i-    Up-to-date, on-line information on warehouse stock levels
available to authorized users throughout the institution.
(3)



175                           Annex 19
Page 3 of 4
ii-   Sales decisions will be supported by an on-line data bano
with up-to-date information on orders, acocunts receivable,
inventories, and clients. (3)
- For Institute of Public Health:
i-    On-line recording and query of the status and progress of
every laboratory exam processed by the ISP. monthly
production of related statistics. (3)
(3)   Central SUnDlv Faciliy
a. Prooress Indicators:
- Progress reports of approved studies vs. programed implementation
schedule (1)
- Installed computer equipment according to timetable (1)
b. Outcome -dicators:
- Average time between purchase order and request delivery from the
warehouse (1)
- Response time by the warehouse (between request and reply as to
whether or not product in on stock) (1)
- Index of inventory movement of CSF supplies (1)
- Average time of transportation from the central warehouse to the place
of delivery (1)
- Price index for selected items (1)
(4) Institute of Public Health
a. Prooress Indicators:
- Progress reports of approved studies vs. prograumed ieplementation
schedule (1)
- Installed computer equipment vs. timetable (1)
b. Outcome indicators:
- ISP own revenues/ Total ISP revenues (1)
- Number of services provided by type of service (4)
- Number of services provided/ Number of staff members (1;4)
- Number of services provides/ Number of selected toee (1)
- Rotation index for the inventory (1)
- Price index of selected itms (1)
3. Cervical Cancer Proaram
a. Proaress Indicators:
- Number of installed equipment vs. implementation schedule (1;2)



176                           Annex 19
Page 4 of 4
b. gutcome indicators:
* PAP teet coverage among women 25 to 65 years of age who benefit from
the Public Health Care System (1;2)
B  xNIRAS3RUCTj RN AND IOU!PMINT
a. Proor&ss Indicators:
- Project phases completed/project phases according to timetable
(1;2;3)
- Civil works started vs. timetable (l;2)
- Civil works completed vs. timetable (1;2)
- Square meters built vs. timetacble (1)
- Installed equipment vs. timetable (.) (3)
b. Ouscome Indicators:
- Number of ambulatory secondary level consultations/number of
discharges 41;2)
- Number of consultations per resident per year (1;2)
- t of service gap covered (1;2)
- Average number of days for huspital stay (1;2;3)
- occupancy index (3;4)
- No.of emergency consultations/no.of primary care consultations (1;2)
C.       T D
- Ratio of NOZ Treasury Allocation to GNP (past year and program for
succeeding year)
- Past year MOH budget (recurrent and investment expenditure) compared
to programmed MOH budget for the following year
- Actual budget expenditure for the HSRP versus committed amount, by
source of financing (i.e. loan vs. local counterpart)
- Progranmed budget for the HSRP for the following year, by component,
compared to SAR estimated expenditure
up/monitor
10/15/92



177                           Annex 20
Page 1 of 3
ANNEX 20: ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
MEASURES
The project will have an overall positive impact on environment.
Most of the investments could be considered as environmentally neutral, none
of them has been identified as potentially damaging and several will have a
definite pesitive impact, especially on the metropolitan environment.
A. Safety
The project implementation poses no particular safety problem,
either to the surrounding population or to the construction workers.
Construction sites are located in medium or low density areas or are
adequately isolated from surrounding houses. Hospitals and centers included
in the project are low or medium rise buildings and construction hazards will
remain below average. Chilean safety regulations on constructions are rather
strict and well enforced. Law 16,744 that makes precise provisions for
individual and collective protective measures to be tiken in all construction
tasks, will apply to all project civil works.
No radioactive materials will be handled under the project besides
standard radiological equipment and short-life radioisotopes.
S. labestos
Use of asbestos materials, in particular cement-asbestos, is common
practice in Chile. However, in response to Bank's concern, no asbestos
materials will be used in the project. To this effect the PCr will:
(a) specify in the terms of reference for detailed designs that no
asbestos materials will be utilized in the construction of
facilities, and
(b) control the compliance when reviewing bidding documents-
technical specifications and construction plans.
C. Wacte Disposal
This is usually the major environmental risk of health facilities.
In this case, the hospital and centers to be constructed will replace run-down
facilities equipped with obsolete machinery. The large additional capacity of
the new facilities - and therefore, the additional quantity of waste - will bfs
largely offset by the technical improvements in the design, equipment and
procedures of modern hospitals.
(1) Solid Wast*
The problem has been re-assessed recently for the preparation of
Bank and IDB investments projects. The PCU, in consultation with HSA, has
prepared norms for the collection, handling, storage and disposal of hospital
solid waste in specially designed Solid Waste Treatment Centers.
Implementation of these criteria and procedures in the project facilities will



178                          Annex 20
Page 2 of 3
serve as a model for other 3DH facilities which will be brought up to
standards progressively.
In general the expectod benefits - reduction in volume, absence of
hazards and nuisance - will be obtained from the separate collection,
processing and final disposal of different hospital solid wastes:
(a)  medical/surgical mcterials - contaminated bandages, linen,
syringes, disposable materials, etc... to be sterilized before
disposal;
(b) biological materials - blood and blood derivates, organs,
surgical and obstetrical wastes, etc... to be incinerated;
(c) inorganic inert waste - metal, glass, ceramics, packages,
etc... to be duMped to regular landfills, together with;
(d) camxm domestic refuise - papers, plastics, ashes, leaves,
etc...and finally;
(e) food refuse to be collected by the regular municipal
collection service.
In order to nenure the proper treatment of solid waste a Solid
Wast Treatment Center (C.T.R.8.) will be constructed in each new hospital
with ore than three hundred beds. Bach center will have two entrances: one
for coamo  domestic refuse and  nother for contaminated waste. There will
ales be two exits. One exit will be used exclusively for sterilized garbage
containers and 'trucks, while the other will be for removal. of trash to
landfills. 2te movemnt of waste to and from the center will be undertaken by
appropriately trained personnel.
At miniun each C.T.R.8. will include:
(i) a trash compactor;
(ii) receptacles for storage of domestic waste, which are
washable, inpermable to insects and rodents, and have
natural ventilation and drainage;
(ILI) equipment to sterilise contaminated waste;
(iv) an incinerator;
(v) an area to wash waste removal trucks and containers;
(vi) restrioom and changinv. rooms for tha personnel;
(vli) a supply room; and
(viii) electricity, steam, water and a sewage system.
Hospitals with less than 300 beds will not have compactors nor
incinerators because the type of equipment needed for hospital waste is



179                          Annex 20
Page 3 of 3
excessively expensive. Instead, these snaller hospitals will store the waste
in hermetically sealed receptacles.  There will be separate areas for domestic
waste (0.175 m2 per nospital bed) and for contaminated waste (0.050 m2 per
hospital bed).
(IL) Liquid Xffluent
With the exception of biological fluids discussed in (b) above and
a few laboratory chemicals and reagents, liquiC efflu-nt from hospitals and,
even more so, ambulatory facilities do not require speaial treatment before
sewage. All subprojects have received feasibility approval from the water
supply, oewage and power authorities.
(iii) Fuses and Air Pollution
In this area, major benefits are to be obtained from the project.
Obsolete and disrepaired heating systems, kitchen, laundry systems, do not
have exhaust filters and at present release large amounts of fumes. While
this has little importance in semi-rural areas or in well ventilated cities as
Puerto Montt, it contributes to the air pollution in the Santiaqo Metropolitan
Area. Modern, more efficient systems, provided with filters '-r..Ld
considerably decrease the release of fumes and air pollution.
D. Water Resources Protection and Management
Due to its peculiar hydrography and geology, Chile has long been
conscious of water protection and management. Health facilities do not
present special risks for ground water contamination as discussed above.
Preservation of surface waters has prompted the authorities to adopt strict
regulations on canalization, ditching, deviation, and evacuatior- of running
waters affected by constructions.  These regulations will be especially
relevant in the case of project sites in wet climate locations such as Puerto
Montt or Castro.
S. Urban Planning, Transportation and Housing
Studies carried out during preparation have shown that the
implantation of new facilities and the expansion of others follow the lInes of
urban growth in the Santiago Metropolitan Area. Communications,
transportation and other public services will be available without distortion
of the urban development plan. The PCU maintains consultation with the urban
planning authority on Project facilitiea and their possible impact on future
urban expansion. Finally, additional staff required by the project is minimal
and redeployment of staff is not expected to pose any significant housing
problem.
wp5s\envirconn.anx
10/16/92



180                           Annex 21
Page 1 of 2
Annex 21: LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILES
Miniuterio de Salud, Oficina del Proyecto Minmal-Banco Mundial. Proveacto HBRP
(Provecto de Rfoznma del seotL salud.): Main Doaugent - Tomo 1 y 2.
snero 1992. Santiago, Chile.
Mininterio de Salud, Oficina del Proyvcto Minaal-Banco MNndial. Pxyct
HBLP - Marco Economigo (&nexo I). Bnero 1992. Santiago, Chile.
Ministerio do Salud, Oficina del Proyecto Minsal-Banco Mundial. Provecto
BSRP - Readecuacion del Sintema Publico de Atepgion de Salud (&Uexo II).
Enero 1992. Santiago, Chile.
Mininterio do Salud, Oficina del Proyecto Minsal-Banco Mundial. PXygto
HSRP - Anovo al Desarollo Inatitucional Del Ministerio do Salud v
Servicios do Salud (Anexo IIO). Bnero 1992. Santiago, Chile.
Miniuterio de Salud, Oficina del Proyecto Min3al-Banco Mundial. Progecto
HSRP - Sintemas de Abastecimiento (Anexo IV). Enero 1992. Santiago,
Chile.
Ministerio do Salud, Oficina del Proyecto Minsal-Banco Mundial. Provecto
HARP - Mbloramiento de la Geation del Instituto de 8alud Publica (Anexo
ML. Fuero 1992. Santiago, Chile
Ministerio de Salud, OfiJina del Proyecto Minsal-Banco Mundial. Pr=cto
HSaRP - Necanismo. de Aianacion do ReMursos Pinancieros al Interior del
Sistema Publico de Salud (Anexo VIW. Bnero 1992. Santiago, Chile.
Ministerio de Salud, Oficina del Proyecto Minsal-Banco Mundial. EXMcto
HSRP - Proram dan Salud Ambiental (Anexo MVII). 8nero 1992.  Santiago,
Chile.
Ministerio de Salud, Oficina del Proyecto Minsal-Banco Mundial. Prov2cto
HARP - Sistema do Informacign Ministerio de Salud (Anexo VIII. Canitulo
fl. Enero 1992. Santiago, Chile.
Mininterio de Salud, Oficmna del Proyocto Minsal-Banco Mundial. Provecto HSRP
- Sistema do Informacion del Instituto de Salud Publica (Anexo VIII.
Catulo 4L. Inero 1992. Santiago, Chile.
Ministerio de Salud, Oficinm* del Proyecto Minsal-Banco M4ndial. PL=cto
H8RP - Proarama de Anorvo a la Gsation (Anexo IX). Enero 1992. Santiago,
Chile.
Min4sterio do Salud, Oficina del Proyecto Minsal-Banco Mundial. PEgecto
H8RP - Mbtodoloaia Provecto Dmsarollo Intearado Servicios do Salud
(Anoxo X. Canitulos I al VM). Enero 1992.    Santiago, Chile.
Ministerio de Salud, Oficina del Proyecto Minsal-Banco Mundial. PM=cto
HSRP - Mmtodoloaia do Detminacion de Estandares Obietivo dAtncion
(An xoEX.). Dnero 1992. Santiago, Chile.



181                          Annex 21
Page 2 of 2
Ministerio de Salud, Oficina del Proyecto Minsal-Banco Mundial. Provecto
HSRP - Catastros de Eauipamiento (Anexo XlIl. Enero 1992. Santiago,
Chile.
Ministerio de Salud, Oficina del Proyecto Minsal-Banco Mundial. Proyecto
HSRP - Desarollo Intearado de Servicios de Salud: Servicios de Salud de
Antofaaasta (Anexo XIII). Enero 1992. Santiago, Chile.
Ministerio de Salud, Oficina del Proyecto Minsal-Banco Mundial. Provecto
HSRP - Desarollo Intearado de Servicios de Salud: Servicios de Salud de
Reaion Metrcnlolitana (Anexo XIV. Canitulo I v II). Enero 1992. Santiago,
Chile.
Ministerio de Salud, Oficina del Proyecto Minsal-Banco Mundial. Provecto
HSRP - Desarollo Intearado de Servicios de Salud: Servicios de Salud de
Llanchival (Anexo XV). Enero 1992. Santiago, Chile.
Ministerio de Salud, Oficina del Proyecto Minsal-Banco Mundial. Provecto HSRP
- Proarama de Cancer Cervico Uterino (Anexo XVI). Enero 1992. Santipo30,
Chile.
iinisterio de Salud, Oficina del Proyecto Minsal-Banco Mundial. Provecto HSRP
- Proarama de Salud Ambiental (Anexo XVII). Enero 1992. SAntiago, Chile.
Ministerio de Salud, Oficina del Proyecto Minsal-Banco Mundial. Provecto
HSRP - Proagramas Medicos Arouitectonicos: Provecto Desarollo Intearado
de Servicios de Salud (Anexo XVIII). Enero 1992. Santiago, Chile.
Ministerio de Salud, Oficina del 9royecto Minsal-Banco Mundial. Provecto
HSRP - Esauemas Preliminares de Soluciones Desarollo Intecrado de
Servicios de Salud (Anexo XIX). Enero 1992. Santiago, Chile.
Ministerio de Salud, Oficina del L-,oyecto Minsal-Banco Mundial. Provecto
HSRP - Fichas v Subfichas: Desarollo Intecrado de Servicios de Salud
(Anexo XX). Enero 1992. Santiago, Chile.
Ministerio de Salud, Oficina del Proyecto Minsal-Banco Mundial. Provecto
HSRP - Sistema de Telecomunicaciones del Ministerio de Salud (Anexo
XXI). Enero 1992. Santiagp, Chile.
Ministerio de Salud, Oficina del Proyecto Minsal-Banco Mundial. Provecto
HSRP - Evaluacion Provecto HSRP. Abril 1992. Santiago, Chile.
Ministerio de Salud, Oficina del Proyecto Minsal-Banco Mundial.  Meioramiento
de la Gestion del Instituto de Salud Publica. Abril 1992. Santiago,
Chile.
Ministerio de Salud, Oficina del Proyecto Minsal-Banco Mundial. Secuimiento
Provecto HSRP. Junio 1992. Santiago, Chile.
Ministerio de Salud, Oficina del Proyecto Minsal-Banco Mundial. Documento de
Trabajo Estudio "Compromisos de Gestion". Septiembre 1992. Santiago,
Chile.



Yr  A                                                        vail.*                       ___________                                                  ISE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8D 23752
P  ER  U                                             haaorca      *                EGON l1ma,     
~~      4(       I~~~~~~~~O4           Sa~ V r olip
rice       ~~~>                           DoPII2 LIu    Aconcagua  I.  COQUIMB*)   Sva. 
(.UllIota  0 Los And.,    SE             oapa
'~  '0  ~ -.~Los Andes
co       'VALPARAISO  Chcau                                                                                  ___
alparalso                                          ~/~IlJ
Iquique~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~)~'~
REGION ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IpREGION AISFN rFlL P < 
DE                                                                                                                         GENERL CAcO           j 
SV TARAPACA                                               MIBANEZ DEt (fAP,
V                                                            (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
R N L L  A                                                               HEALTH SE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CTORI REFR
op aGENERAL BERNARDO O'HIQGINS                                                                                                                                 PROJH ECTORRF R
22'         ~      ~~~~ /                                                                                                                                                  L     I PROJETAEA     T
REGION ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~RGO
DE                              Ls0-1                              MUEMAIN ROADS
ANTOPAGASTA                                                                                      Liaes     4w*99IlOD
~RIVERS
f  ~ ~ ~ ~    .z-9S~~~,Ior ~EGION DEL                                    1xi                                                                          SINLJE
ANTOPAA1A  ~ ~ ~ ~  Afoc.mr,                  810910                     i~~~j,IJgn                                                 (                  C=   ICa FIELDs
24~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s 2*'                                                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL            3
Anto  a              o                                                                                                                                    EIN CAPITSAI
uitim2LA~~~~iZ~             PROVINCE BOMDIE
REGION Sot1~IPARIANE   NMBR
INTERNATIONj~MPN
26- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~I
tj    z~~~~~~~
LU                                                                                             nes~~~~~~~~~~L
DE                                                o
U.                                                                                                                5d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  REGION DE MAGALLANES& Y- jK'~
LOS LAGM                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~DE LA ANTARTICA CHIIE~~
/1'         ~~~~ThIs map has been prepared
by The World Bskls staff
'a'swl fo  b  onrlnc.
llsnmal use of The World Sank/ 
GaLThe dwomn omtione used
boundaries shown  0
on tibs map dono mp~l on lb 30. p-n
REGI                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~part of Th. Wwrld Bank Group,
sboundor. s.m.Io selne
APRL119`92



PERU
BOLIVIA
>91                                                                                             -' 2o                                       1
C  H I L                              *  * |                   S
HEALTH SECTOR
0           CRS
;g1.¢,¢9 J   t 30    REFORM PROJECT                                                AM
SANTIAGO AREA                                               e    H
e  -tj:    f   °                     (SCHEMATIC, NOT TO  SCALE)
-40n'  '~                                                                                                 REEE I    ROR  P RIMP A Y CARE
- HEATH SERVICa AREA BOUM)ARE
C                                                                            L4 LOS ANDES
>   |                 (  roCALE~~~~~~~~~U      MONTENEGRO   |
0.. l  ArRUNGE                                                       CHACABUC0-.)
4 AREA
~TBlTIL.
NOR TE OLINA
POLPAICO_ \&         .EROSF  /
.1 LOS
4INGLESES                      A     E
BATUCQILO(                                          A REA
LAMPAD                     L CNTERAS 
CAC. COL;ti /
ORIFNTE    |
CAUACA^i  CERRO  ^   \   \        //CALVO MACKENNA
|   VALPARA150-  -___ ___P                                                                            _ ARC
l  PEN>AFLORJ  -C  /   \       \    0          s, S AMDOR
|          )       '   ~~~~~MEtrLIPIL  IALAGANIET/E    PARt)UIA    f f ff f f         sOTR              EL PERA
|   tL,  d  o ORIF~~~~~~~A(MNTE-L 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
.    U                                       S.  E
AV!  Cf(s             m                               PE~~~~~~~~~~~~~DRO MA.P CED
AREA                      tuco. T~REA.
(CCIDENTE~ORINT
km.  WmfdI~~~~&satoffPE.F.ORRAMr
8m& Geo.p. lkdmoudewiioe. .ied mid ~~a.bPARR   AIN        a o                  SOTE.
-~ d wo   I~ n i pw o# ke  b* MEI GoPILLA/'  TAAGNT/ 7puEvlt
inch bom,duin.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L EA
-    ~~~   oImiy~~~~.~~biyo~~~ins7..~~~~.mi.nioi.mimpiooce                     MENTOfH SP.
_171~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
BUIN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
s u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
S. JOSE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-(



IBRD 237
REGION I).                                                                                                                                               BCHL
OLREGUION                                                                               0                                                          HEALTH SECTOR
FRE  ( ) FRUTILLAR    -                                    REFORM  PROJECT
-i. _Li  I  I I 0  4    ,           t                          REGION 11 AND X
BOLIVIA \  /L\ 'AN U \                                                                                         C             (SCHEMATIC, NOT TO SCALE)
_.                      i-u                  B O  L I V I A                                   \                       <o   - 'L     / L>NQUOLIVIA                                     EXISTING HOSPITAL
|               3T CO  IOCONCf j '>           l |                        \                       '          <       GUoEONTTT          ! |              *     PROJECT INTERVENTION W.B.G
TOCOPILLA   ~ ~ ~ ~~   ~ ~~~LSAA0                                                                                                                                                        PROJECT INTERVENTION I.D.B.
0TocoTOOC'00                                                                                                                                  PEO                                        EXISTING, PRIMARY HEALTH CARE POST
I                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MONTT
|iN z     CHUQUICAMAT6             CHIU CHIU     j                                                            MAULLI\       0  -A-   ,"                              0|  SETTLEMENTS
REFERRAL FROM SECONDARY CARE
CALA    K                   CAS=ANAI                                                                           7                                                             REFERRAL FROM PRIMARY CARE
0P. DE VALDI VIA                                   I                                                                             CAB-        >SALINE LAKES
PEDROIONeE  SIE'RA DoRDA   \   :t=    \  \*   l |     /     /      1             7                t      S      t        L                     REGION BOUNDARIES
SIERRA GORDA                                                                                                      C2i1~2> .)~S. PEDRO........~N/                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
SIERRA GORDA                    TOCONAO                                                                                                       (-,
MIJILLONES                                                     U/I                                                        ANCUD                           ~,                                                                    
BAGUEDANO               PuFo de  ' '                                                                                            4sa , ,                                                                      ' I  b TO,.     asff
A'accomo                                                                                                                                                                            M I -  i  /  '  e IorZd.lman
REGION    11    \=====5=V9 t\socAtwe i | | ; , / X \ fw-\o > '^'-t |~~~~~~~~EGI                                  N                                                           7111.11m i 16 th
-7                                                                                                                                                                    MmmaI read. an   Wrd i s ar  k
o-2                                                                                                                                                                        Granp. TI99,. S$na;snatinT  az d
REG IO N              I                               I                                                                                _                                                                      Pa ibis  : ap, Sn |t is6 en
na  ags natanth.I.
ANTOFAGASTA                                                  PEINE/I                                                                                                                                                  ntat,n-ay ertryo n
/  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                 I                                                      sack~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w banadaris.
0 A. VICTORIA                                            /                                                     Hzr                                                                               E ~BOLIVIA
QAGUAS BLANCAS            0IMILAC                                    dJ00                                   CASTR           i 0                                                         
~~~r'N/--'.  0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20                                    )n2
0AGUA BUENA                                       L..Are o
SOCOMPA0                                                            \0                             :*                                                                      rop A
0oLS VIENTOS/                                                                                                                                     L\I{
PAPOSO  0BAI.MACEDA                    C          ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ARGENTINA                                                          UEILEN                          CHAITtN                                  3~3
0                                                                                                                                                                                                               w~~;1  N~.
QUEILLO    ~ 040-                                                                                                 40-
TAL TAL                                                                                                                                                                                         ,e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' (\an of
ALTAMIRA                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UTALUFU!
I   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5,50t
REGION III                                                                                                                                                                         PALEN
AUGUST199M



