Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:    19806
1IPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
(LOAN 3527-CH)
March 3, 2000
Country Managing Unit for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit -- Chilean Peso (Ch$)
1992 US$1 = Ch$362.58 (average of the year)
1998 US$1 = Ch$460.29 (average of the year)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31.
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ALOS           Average Length of Stay
CENABAS:    Health Procurement Center (Central de Abastecimiento)
CDT:           Diagnosis and Therapeutic Center (Centro de Diagnosico y Terapeutico)
CRS:           Health Referral Center (Centro de Referencia de Salud)
DRG:           Diagnosis-Related Group (Pago Asociado a Diagnostico)
FONASA:        National Health Fund (Fondo Nacional de Salud)
HSA:           Health Service Area (Servicios de Salud)
HSRP:          Health Sector Reform Project (Loan No. 3527-CH)
ICR:           Implementation Completion Report
ISAPRE:        Prepaid Health Insurance Institutions (Instituciones de Salud Previsional)
ISP:           Public Health Institute (Instituto de Salud Publica)
LA:            Loan Agreement
MOH:           The Ministry of Health
MS:            Metropolitan Santiago
MTR:           Mid-Term Review
PAD:           Diagnostic-Related Payment (Pago Asociado a Diagn6stico)
PCU:           Project Coordination Unit
PPF:           Project Preparation Facility
PPP:           Prospective Fee Payment Schedule (Pago Prospectivo de Prestaciones)
SAMU           Emergency Service in MS (Servicio de Atenci6n Pre-hospitalaria
Metropolitana de Urgencia)
SBD:           Standard Bidding Document
TAHRP:         Technical Assistance and Hospital Rehabilitation Project (Loan No. 3427-CH)
WB:            The World Bank
Vice-President:         David de Ferranti
CMU Director:           Myrna Alexander
SMU Director:           Xavier Coll
Task Manager:           Sandra Rosenhouse
ICR Task Manager         Kye Woo Lee



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Contents
Preface .................................................                                      ii
Evaluation Summary ................................................                           iii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ........................................             1
A. PROJECT BACKGROUND .................................................1
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES .................................................2
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .................................................         2
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .                             ............................................... 10
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATIONS ............................... 13
F. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE ................................................              15
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME  .................................................                   17
H. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .................................................                      18
PART II: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR .                              .................................... 22
PART III: STATISTICAL ANNEXES                         ............................................ 31
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .32
Table 2: Related Bank Loans .33
Table 3: Project Timetable .34
Table 4:   Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements .35
Table 5: Key Monitoring Actions .36
Table 6: Studies Included in the Project .39
Table 7a: Project Costs ...............................                               42
Table 7b: Project Financing ...............................                          43
Table 8:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...............................               44
Table 9:  Bank Resources: Missions ...............................                    45
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ...............................                   46
Table 11: Assessment of Project Outcomes ...............................              49
Appendixes:    A:            Mission's Aide Memoir
B:        Government's Comments on the ICR
C:        Maps
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
(Loan 3527-CEI)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Chile Health Sector Reform
Project (HSRP), for which Loan 3527-CH in the amount of US$90.0 million was approved onNovember
17, 1992, and which became effective on February 8, 1993. The Loan was closed on June 30, 1999, one
year beyond the original schedule. The latest disbursement was made on August 9, 1999.
This ICR was prepared by Kye Woo Lee, in collaboration with Sandra Rosenhouse, Jesus Maria
Fernandez (Consultant), and Patricia Bernedo of the Human Development Sector Management Unit
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and by the Borrower (Part II and Appendix B, and
contribution to Part III). It was reviewed by Charles Griffin and Evangeline Javier of the same Unit, and
by Myrna Alexander and Alexandre Abrantes of the Country Management Unit for Argentina, Chile and
Uruguay of Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office.
Preparation of the ICR was done during the Bank's final supervision mission of the project in
July 1999 and is based, inter alia, on the Sectoral Analysis Report prepared by a consultant (Mr. Jesus
Maria Fernandez), the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, Supervision Reports, the Mid-Term
Review, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.



iii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
(Loan 3527-Cu)
Evaluation Summary
1.     Project Background. By 1990, Chile achieved significant advances in the health sector and
moved from the first to the second stage of the epidemiological transition. Average life expectancy is
among the highest; and infant, child and maternal mortality rates among the lowest in the developing
world. Adult health problems, chronic diseases, and non-child infectious diseases represented an
increasing share of health care demand. And the third stage of epidemiological transition was already
evident in the increasing environment-related illnesses and social pathologies.
2.      However, the health sector had problems with the quality and efficiency of services at all levels
of the system. The most critical problems were the lack of complementarity among different levels of
care and low internal efficiency in service delivery. These problems were caused partly by the
epidemiological changes, but also partly by the government policies favoring the primary health care and
the private sector, neglecting the modernization and maintenance of public hospitals. Public hospitals,
which account for 75% of the national hospital bed capacity, faced a serious situation in particular in the
Metropolitan Santiago (MS) area. Other problems causing inefficiency were, among others: (i)
distortions in the pricing and the pattern of utilization of health services, resulting from the existing of
health services financing mechanisms; (ii) limitations in the institutional capacity of the Ministry of
Health (MOH) and its decentralized autonomous entities; and (iii) imbalances and the lack of
harmonization of services and financing between the public and private sectors.
3.      With the advent of a civilian government in early 1990, improving the efficiency and quality of
the social sector programs, especially health sector reform, was high on its agenda to assure the new
Government's platform of "economic growth with equity." For this purpose, the Government sought
World Bank (WB) assistance, and the WB responded by providing the Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
of US$0.75 million in October 1990 for the preparation of the Health Sector Reform Project (HSRP).
However, the preparation activities needed additional financing, time, and studies to accelerate the project
preparation and form a national consensus. Moreover, the MOH was in dire need of responding to the
public pressure to rehabilitate/upgrade the public hospitals in MS. Therefore, in February 1991, the
Government and the WB agreed to proceed with a Technical Assistance and Hospital Rehabilitation
Project (TAHRP) to rehabilitate critical hospital facilities in the MS and carry out urgent studies for
policy and institutional reforms and future investments, while the preparation of the HSRP continued.
The TAHRP became effective in April 1992 and closed in December 1997 and the HSRP became
effective in February 1993.
4.      Project Objectives.  The project aims to improve efficiency of public health care services
through: (i) decentralization of the health service delivery by redefining the missions and organization of
the MOH and its decentralized agencies, adopting modern management instruments and developing
human resource and management information systems (MIS); (ii) integration of the health service
delivery by constructing/rehabilitating ambulatory service facilities and hospitals to launch a new health
care model and fill identified health service gaps in health areas serving the poor; and (iii) special
programs to address cervical cancer and environmental health problems.



iv
Achievement of Project Objectives.
(L.)Decentralization of Health Services.
5.     This objective has been substantially achieved.
(a) Redefinition of Missions and Organizations. The central MOH and two of its decentralized
agencies at the central level (FONASA and Central Supply Facility (CENABAS)), underwent substantial
changes in their missions, organization, and staffing. The service delivery function has been further
delegated to the Health Service Areas (HSAs), and the central MOH has been focusing on the normative,
supervisory, and regulatory functions. The National Health Fund (FONASA) made substantial progress
towards assuming the role of public health insurer and financier, assigning financial resources to health
service providers, public and private.
6.     The central MOH underwent major organizational changes in 1994 and 1996, reinforcing the
delegation of the health service delivery function to the decentralized agencies and increasing their
professional and managerial staff. It also developed sector-wide norms on health facilities and investment
project implementation. Through the Superintendent of ISAPRE (reforms regarding the Superintendent
of ISAPRE were not part of the project), it also tightened the regulatory rules on the operation of the
private sector insurance agencies.
7.     The ISP made significant progress in its regulatory functions on the quality of pharmaceuticals,
food products, and laboratories by modernizing its equipment, MIS, fee-fixing procedures, and financial
mechanisms. It reduced time required for approval of new medical products from 281 days in 1997 to
180 days in 1998. It also increased its dependence on its own operational income from 41% in 1993 to
60% in 1998. However, little progress was made in implementing the recommendation of the feasibility
study to separate its production functions from the regulatory functions. Consequently, theISP continues
with the problems of inefficiency in its production of pharmaceuticals and the potential conflict between
its regulatory and productive functions.
8.     The CENABAS was perhaps the most successful component of the project in achieving the
project objective of improving efficiency of the public health system through reform measures. It
changed its role from a budget-supported government supply facility to a self-financed purchasing
intermediary between HSAs and private suppliers like a business venture. During 1995-98, it
substantially streamlined its warehouse, transportation system, stock margins, and staff to reduce its costs.
It also developed a computerized auction-style bidding process to prevent collusion and enhance
competition among bidders to lower purchasing prices. Moreover, it has developed a team of roving
advisers for HSAs and hospitals to improve purchasing, stockpiling, and finances, and developed an
information and communication network with all HSAs and major hospitals. Consequently, CENABAS
expanded its market share from 23% to 28% of all purchases of the public health system. It reduced the
response time by half and the average unit purchasing price by 19%.
9.     In 1994, FONASA was given the mandate to administer the health sector budget excepting
funding for public health programs. A law to provide FONASA with the necessary legal elements to
fulfill this role was just passed with some amendments (the law was not part of the project). Although the
law does give FONASA the mandate to administer health services resources, it falls short of instituting a
true separation of financial and policy functions because any purchase of services from outside the Public
Health Network requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Health. FONASA modernized its
administrative and financial control systems, including an information system to identify public and
private health users and thus reducing subsidies to the private sector, improving their fee collection, both
by adjusting prices to reflect actual costs and by reducing evasion, and improved revenue generation
through the sale of hospital services to the private sector. However, the Ministry of Finance limits the



v
amount of resources derived from the sale of services to the private sector to a maximum of 10 percent of
the facilities' beds, generating disincentives to further increase cost recovery efforts.
10.    FONASA also made important advances in its role as insurer by defining a bill of rights for its
beneficiaries and instituting mechanisms for patients to file complaints and demand to have their rights
respected. The FONASA law gave legal support to these efforts. What the FONASA law did not address
was the definition of a basic health plan for its beneficiaries, and it limits the purchase of private services
to 10 percent of the resources allocated to cover beneficiaries in the Institutional Delivery Modality (i.e.
resources destined to cover lower income beneficiaries who only have access to public services). It does,
however, specify care to be provided in emergency situations. The absence of an explicit health plan
means that the budget will continue to be assigned on the basis of resource availability rather than needs.
(b) New Management Instruments. Delegation of health service delivery functions to HSAs has
taken place through annual service provision agreements between FONASA/MOH and all HSAs, linking
allocation of resources to the performance of the HSAs. During 1995-97, the compliance rate improved
from 63% to 79% of the agreements, and the number of HSAs which have complied with less than 60%
of the agreements declined from 13 to only one HAS. Although the full transition has not been made, the
agreement system enabled the FONASA to allocate budgets to HSAs increasingly based on productivity
rather than on historical, supply-based budgets. The result was a more transparent budget allocation
process with HSA managers more conscious of the efficiency of the service delivery system. However,
the mode of negotiation and the content of the agreements leave plenty of room for improvement.
Moreover, neither incentives for compliance nor disincentives for non-compliance with the agreement
have been established yet.
11.    FONASA also introduced two mechanisms for allocating resources to HSAs and municipalities.
HSAs receive transfers in advance on the basis of a Diagnostic Related Group (DRG)-type payment
system (PAD), which associates payments to health care results, replacing the conventional fee-for-
service payment system for secondary and tertiary care. In those cases, for which a PAD has not yet been
developed, a prospective fee-for-service (PPP) system is applied. The construction of the PADs implied
the development of a realistic cost accounting system. Municipalities receive transfers on the basis of a
fixed amount (capitation) for primary care of each person enrolled, adjusted by the level of poverty and
rurality of the municipality.
12.    However, since 1997 only 61% of total HSA have used the PAD system, and for those HSAs, it
accounted for only 30% of health insurance related transfers since personnel expenditures are fixed and
tied to the respective facility. Moreover, resource allocations to hospitals and other health establishments
within a HSA continue to be allocated on a historical basis. Expansion of the PAD system is constrained
by delays in the MIS and by the fact that a PAD-based allocations are higher than those based on
conventionai fee-for-service based payments, reducing government incentives to switch given budget
constraints imposed by the economic crisis.
13.    The MOH also prepared proposals for modernizing human resources management by increasing
the flexibility with which managers could allocate human resources and improve job satisfaction. The
proposal is based on a detailed analysis of the problems in staffing patterns, a methodology to estimate
human resources requirements, performance evaluation, and incentives for outstanding performance of
both individuals and groups. These proposals paved way to design two laws governing labor relations in
the public health sector. However, passing these laws in Congress has met with stiff opposition from the
medical profession. The current version under discussion has lost many of the original statutes that would
give managers necessary flexibility.
(c) Human Resource Development. The Govermnent established the Human Resource
Departmnent, which would serve as a training secretariat and implemented both management and clinical



vi
training for about 34,000 persons annually. This number is equivalent to 16 hours of training per year for
everyone working in the public health sector during 1993-98. The majority of trainees were professionals
accounting for 41% of total trainees, followed by technical staff of 26%. The remainder was equally
divided among managers, administrative staff, and assistants. The training program took off the ground
much later than anticipated in the appraisal schedule, but after 1996, the number of trainees doubled the
level attained during 1993-95. The training program emphasized MOH's new mission, improvement of
public health system efficiency, especially administrative and financial efficiency through information
and health care technologies, and human relations. Training courses were carried out efficiently with an
average cost of US$0.82 per participant hour.
14.    However, the impact of the training program on staff performance was never assessed.
Moreover, allocation of training funds among HSAs varied sharply from one year to another, raising
questions on the allocation criteria and the effectiveness of planning by each HSA. In retrospect, the
training program could have taken off the ground much earlier, if the MOH had used the competitive
allocation of training funds among HSAs, as it did successfully for health facility investment under the
TAHRP.
(d) The Management Information System. Establishment and operation of the MIS and
telecommunication system were the most delayed among all project components, and the quality of
implementation has also been poor. Of the targeted base hospitals of 24 HSAs only 10 have completed
the MIS. The remaining HSAs and other hospitals do not yet have a system.
15.    The central MOH, FONASA, ISP, and CENABAS have also completed their own system, but
with an incredible delay. The central system, which is common to all implementing agencies so as to
enable them to set up an information and communication network, has not yet been developed.
16.    There may be many reasons for the delay and poor quality of implementation. But the most
important one seems to be the decentralized approach for the development of the system. At least, the
development of the central system should have been assigned to a unit at the central MOH so as to ensure
harmonization anong decentralized agencies. From the beginning, each decentralized agency lacked an
adequate capacity to define the needs and priorities of the MIS by itself, and the PCU did not provide it.
Therefore, hardware was purchased in large quantities first, but it became obsolete or inefficient by the
time a system design and software were developed much later. Also, the domestic software suppliers did
not have knowledge or experience in the health sector and could not cope with the large demand. A better
a!ternative could have been a twinning arrangement with an overseas entity.
(2) Integration of Health Services.
17.    Although this facility investment component of the project was substantially completed,
achievement of its objective still remains to be seen. Due to changes in investment priorities and delays
in project implementation, a total of 7 facilities were deleted from the project (construction of 1 Centro
de Didgnostico y Terapezitico (CDT), I emergency ward, 1 hospital, and rehabilitation of 4 hospitals).
The Government constructed 4 CDTs, 5 Centros de Referencia de Salud (CRSs), 3 emergency wards, 3
hospitals, rehabilitation of 4 hospitals, a total of 19 facilities. One CDT and two hospitals are still under
construction or rehabilitation with a schedule to be completed by the end ofthis year. Construction of
one CDT, an emergency ward and one hospital, which were deleted from the project in 1998, are also
being constructed/rehabilitated with local funds and would be completed in the next two to three years.
The completed facilities have been in operation for less than eight months, except one CRS, which has
been under operation since two years ago. Therefore, it is too early to make an assessment of their
outcomes. However, it is observed that both outpatient care (and diagnostic procedures) and hospital
visits have been on the rise since the early 1 990s. At the same time, the average length of stay (ALOS) in
hospital has been declining (from 8.9 days in 1989 to 5.8 days in 1997), and the number of discharges per



vii
hospital bed has been increasing steadily (from 28 in 1990 to 45 in 1997). Nevertheless, one can hardly
attribute these trends to the project yet. The trends began even before the start of the project. And the
increases in both outpatient/diagnostic procedures and hospital visits in recent years are indicative of the
satisfaction of the total unmet demand, rather than a substitution between the two.
(3) Special Programs
18.    To support the cervical cancer program, the Government (i) expanded the coverage of
screenings (pap smears) on women aged 25-64, focussing on those aged 35 and over; (ii) increased the
quality of screenings; and (iii) ensured timely treatment of detected cancer cases. Equipment was
procured in 1993. Although the expansion of screenings did not reach the target set for year 2,000 (80%),
the coverage was expanded from 20% of the target population to 66%. However, the screening does not
seem to have given special emphasis to those aged 35 and over. For quality improvement, the
Government established a national reference laboratory, which conducted quality control of all
laboratories. It also provided equipment, training and operational expenses for major laboratories and
hospitals to strengthen their capacity for diagnosis, and treatment. Although the quality and reliability of
diagnostic tests have not improved much, timeliness of the lab reporting improved substantially, and a
greater proportion of women whose cancer had been detected received timely treatment. Consequently,
this program must have partially contributed to the decline in the incidence of cervical cancer by four
percent per year between 1990-95.
19.    The Government also implemented a pilot environmental education program to raise public
awareness of the adverse health effects of environmental hazards during 1994-95 in five communities,
one more than the appraisal target. It trained a total of 32 instructors and 1139 monitors, reaching 97% of
the appraisal target. As a result, an inter-municipal workshop was held, an environmental network
established, and micro-projects on waste management were implemented across the MS. While very
limited in scope and investment, this program demonstrated the feasibility of implementing community-
based environmental prograns to raise awareness on environmental issues.
Major Factors Affecting the Project.
20.     The project was completed in six years, instead of four years estimated at appraisal, and total
project costs decreased by 3.7% from US$298.8 million at appraisal to US$287.6 million at project
closing. Therefore, the Bank loan of US$90.0 million, which was fully disbursed, accounts for 32% of
the actual project costs, compared with appraisal estimate of 30%. However, this decline in total project
costs masks the cost increases in all project components, except the special program component, which
incurred a reduction of 50%. The decentralization component incurred a cost increase of 27%, theservice
integration component 16%, and the project administration 59%. The largest increase in absolute
amounts occurred in the construction/rehabilitation of hospitals by US$38 million. The decline in the
actual total project cost was due to the deletion from the original project of several facility investments
under the service integration component. If some of those components, which will continue with local
funding through year 2002, had been included, total costs would increase over the appraisal estimate by
25% to about US$373 million.
21.     Delays in project implementation and cost increases occurred due to various factors. Most
important are: (i) decentralized implementation, (ii) optimistic assessment of Borrower's implementation
capacity and processes, (iii) changes in facility designs and blue prints, (iv) opposition by stakeholders,
(v) mishandling by the Project Coordination Unit, and (vi) inadequate budget and staff allocated to some
components.                                      X
22.     By design, the project was to be implemented by numerous implementing agencies in a
decentralized manner. Altogether there were as many as 33 implementing agencies. Therefore, it was



viii
natural to experience difficulty in coordination, and delays and variations in the pace of implementation
among implementing agencies. The design of the project should have taken into account this effect in
estimating the implementation period or should have provided for an adequate amount of technical
assistance for the decentralized implementing agencies. Moreover, some project components were
inappropriate for decentralized implementation. A good example isthe execution of the MIS, especially
the common system for all decentralized agencies. Delays in this component adversely affected
implementation of many other project components, which depend on a well developed MIS.
23.    The most important factor explaining the gap between the appraisal estimate and the actual
implementation record seems to be the appraisal mission's optimistic assessment of the borrower's
implementation processes and capacity. Just as in the TAHRP implementation, the decentralized
agencies, especially HSAs, experienced difficulty in planning, budgeting, and contracting investments. In
particular, a new civilian Government's budgeting, fund releasing, and transferring processes required
much more time than what was estimated at appraisal. Also, Bank's procurement procedures were too
alien to them, especially at the start-up period, until the standard bidding documents became available. If
the estimated disbursement schedule is shifted by two years in the future, it approximates the actual
disbursement record. This implies that a longer implementation period should have been allowed or the
scope of the project should have been reduced at appraisal.
24.    Delays in the implementation of the health facility investments, which accounted for a large part
of the project cost, were caused by changes in designs and architectural plans, which were developed
without adequate consultation with prospective users.
25.    Serious implementation problems took place in 1995 when there was a drastic change in the
location and functions of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU). The PCU functions were distributed to
different line departments, and new mechanisms for transferring funds to decentralized agencies were
tried without success. Although the situation was rectified, the weakened PCU was not able to guide and
coordinate implementation activities of many of the implementing agencies. Also, toward the end of
project implementation, there was a significant change in staffing, which tended to affect project
implementation negatively.
26.    Although the Government and the appraisal team took note of the risk of the proposed changes
m government policies, they did not explicitly take any counter measures against the risk of opposition to
the reform by stakeholders and interest groups. Once the opposition gathered strength, the political
support for the legislative actions has weakened, and the implementation of important project components
were diluted, as shown in the implementation of service provision agreements, budget allocation
mechanisms, and a modern human resources management system.
27.    Alihough the project as a whole did not suffer from many budget constraints, some project
components, in particular the new ambulatory centers, suffer from inadequate staffing and budgets.
However, these problems stem, to a large extent, from the lack of a new management model for them to
integrate into a health network and the delays in the legislative action on the new human resources
management system.
Project Sustainability and Outcomes. It is too early for the reform measures to produce any concrete
and quantifiable results. Moreover, the reform program in general has focused on the improvement of
efficiency on a system-wide basis, rather than on a specific health service establishment, such as the ISP,
FONASA and CENABAS. However, the outcome of those establishments and many system-wide
performance indicators point out that the project has been going in the right direction. Therefore, it is
important for the MOH to monitor and assess the outcome of the project, using the indicators developed
during project implementation.



ix
28.     The basic thrust of the health sector reform program should not be affected by future changes in
Government or pressures of interest groups since key elements of the reform are fundamentally based on
an agreement among political parties. Moreover, the financial sustainability of the reforrn program is not
likely to be affected either since it is based on macroeconomic assumptions, which are more conservative
than the actual perfornance of the economy to date. The Government has been demonstrating its
commitment to the project by providing more than adequate budgets in recent years. The MOH budgets
have been increased by about 10% per year in real terms.
29.     However, the project objectives would be better sustained if Government took up a few
measures regarding critical parts of the project. In general, the Government should step up its public
relations efforts to disseminate the rationale of the reform program, train sectoral staff, and monitor the
project's impact on the efficiency and quality of public hospital services. Efficiency will only be attained
if hospitals are given the necessary management tools, and decision-making regarding resource allocation
within HSAs is effectively decentralized to the HSAs. The sustainability of FONASA will depend on the
extent to which the Government addresses the imbalance between the two segmented public and private
health insurance systems and make them complementary and equitable. The sustainability of the service
provision agreement will depend on the extension of the agreements between the MOH/FONASA and
HSAs to those between HSAs and their hospitals and municipalities, incorporating the PAD system
within the HSAs and on the increased flexibility in the management of Human Resources. Moreover, the
content of the agreement should be using indicators that are within the control of the HSA, such as
hospital infection rates, or output indicators (rather than budget or input indicators), leaving room for
HSA managers to exercise their discretion in attaining targets. The sustainability of the ISP depends on
the Government's decision on the separation of ISP's production function from its regulatory function.
The sustainability of the ambulatory centers depends critically on the adoption of a new management and
operational model, and the provision of an adequate budget, staffing, and incentives as envisioned in the
original human resources policy. The sustainability of other components depends on the successful
completion of the MIS and harmonization of MISs among all sectoral agencies for an effective
information network.
30.    In the future, the Bank should continue supporting the reform in Chile to harmonize the
segmented public and private health insurance systems, improve the internal efficiency of hospitals, and
integrate all levels of services, especially the primary health care service.
Key Lessons Learned.
Health Sector Reform
*  Given that reforms take a long time, the preparation and implementation of complex health sector
reform should be phased through sequential loans or an APL to enhance the success of reforms and
facilitate their implementation.
*  A strong public relations and education campaign is essential to reduce resistance to a sectoral reform
programr.
*  Projects should analyze at preparation the feasibility of introducing reform measures through
executive decrees or regulations rather than legislative actions.
*  Performance or service provision agreements should use health indicators that are directly under the
control of the HSA or output indicators giving managers discretion on how to reach those targets.
*  A PAD-based budget allocation system requires a long transitional time due not only to the technical
difficulties, but also because of the resulting higher costs implied by the more realistic costing of
services.



x
*  For an innovative component of a reform program, such as the new ambulatory care centers and the
MIS, a twinning arrangement with an overseas organization experienced in a similar program could
be a useful way of providing technical assistance.
* An innovative model, like CDTs and CRSs, could have been introduced more economically through a
pilot testing of a fewer institutions.
* Decentralization should be applied with care so as not to lose efficiency on a national scale, as shown
in the establishment of an MIS and communications network.
*  A decentralized manner of project implementation is a useful tool to promote decentralization itself
since it provided a useful on-the-job training opportunity to strengthen the institutional capacity of
decentralized entities.
* To be fully effective in generating more efficient behavior from hospitals, resource allocation within
HSAs has to be based on productivity.
* HSA directors and hospital managers need to be able to flexibly manage their human resources in
order to maximize efficiency.
* Service provision agreements will t4e more credibility if lack of compliance is accompanied by
some disincentives and compliance is iAwarded.
Project Specific-Issues
X For an MIS, temptation to purchase hardware in a large quantity ahead of developing a system and
software should be resisted.
- For a decentralized project implementation, it is useful to introduce competition among decentralized
entities compensating institutionally weak entities with technical assistance.
*  More time should be allowed for a decentralized project implementation with numerous
implementing agencies.
X Executing agency staff should be given adequate training before a project implementation starts, and
the costs should be incorporated in the project.
* The Bank should reinforce its capacity to provide policy and technical advice backed up by cutting
edge knowledge.
* The key components of a project, such as the MIS, should not be left with the cofinancier alone.
* The Bank should make an in-depth study of the budgeting and transferring processes as well as
procuring procedures of a new borrower, and the study results should be disseminated among project
staff.
*  The responsibility and authorities of a PCU and its location in a sectoral context is important for a
successful project implementation, especially for a new borrower whose institutional capacity is not
fully developed to undertake a large and innovative investment project.
*  Standard bidding documents proved to be useful to accelerate project implementation, especially at
the decentralized level. Further preparation of standard procurement documents will be great help to
borrowers, particularly with regards to medical equipment.



PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Background
1.     This project constitutes the second phase of the Bank's operations in the health sector for Chile.
It supported the pilot tests and nation-wide implementation of many policy or institutional reform
initiatives and pre-investment study results carried out during 1992- 97 under the first phase operation,
the Technical Assistance and Hospital Rehabilitation Project (TAHRP). Both projects arose from the
public sector reform efforts of the civilian government, which took office in 1990.
2.     In the last two decades, the health sector in Chile underwent dramatic changes in line with
macroeconomic adjustments. In the mid 1970s the military govermment introduced a set of reforms that
radically transformed the Chilean economy. It opened the economy to external trade, deregulated
domestic markets, and reduced the role of the state. At the beginning of the 1980s, there was a second
round of structural reforms transforming the allocation of resources in the social sectors (education,
health, housing, and social security), introducing mechanisms of competition, promoting participation of
the private sector, and targeting public subsidies to lower income groups.
3.     In the health sector during the 1970s, the government placed priorities on primary health care
and programs for vulnerable groups, especially mothers and children. In the 1980s, the government,
firstly, introduced the prepaid private health insurance scheme (ISAPRE), which caters to the needs of the
relatively higher income groups, as an altemative to public health insurance system. Secondly, it
decentralized primary health care responsibilities to municipalities. Thirdly, it retained sectoral policy
management functions, and delegated the financing of the public health insurance system to the newly
created National Health Fund (FONASA), and the health service provision to the newly established 27
semi-autonomous health service areas (HSA). The public hospitals were to be gradually privatized.
4.      By 1990, Chile achieved significant advances in the health sector, particularly in terms of health
indicators. Average life expectancy was among the highest in the developing world; and infant, child and
maternal mortality rates among the lowest. Chile moved from the first to the second stage of the
epidemiological transition. Rapid expansion of access to primary care played a key role in this transition,
effecting major improvements in matemal and child health outcomes. Adult health problems, chronic
diseases, and non-child infectious diseases represented an increasing share of health care demand. And
the third stage of epidemiological transition was already evident in the increasing prevalence of
environment-related illnesses and social pathologies.
5.     However, the health sector had problems with the quality and efficiency of services at all levels
of the system. The most critical problems were the lack of coordination and complementarity between
the different levels of care and low internal efficiency in service delivery, particularly within the public
hospital network. There was no clear referral or counter-referral system among the different levels of
health care facilities, and they often competed for the same kinds of service. Public hospitals were
congested, and their service required long waiting periods, and their average length of stay (ALOS) was
8 days, compared with 4-5 days in private hospitals. Public hospitals could not carry out pre-admission
tests on a less expensive ambulatory basis. These problems were caused partly by changes in the
epidemiological profile of the population and partly by the government's policy placing emphasis on the
rapid expansion of primary heath care in the 1970s. The government neglected the public hospital
network. New construction as well as modernization and maintenance of existing public hospitals, which
account for 75% of national hospital bed capacity, were virtually abandoned. The situation was
particularly serious in the Metropolitan Santiago (MS) area, where 40% of the Chilean population is



2
concentrated. Other areas or levels of health facilities were assisted with external financing, especially by
the Interamerican Development Bank (IDB), which provided consecutive loans to the National Fund for
Regional Development for rural and primary health services. In the 1980s, public health expenditures
declined sharply as a result of the government policies favoring the private sector and the economic crisis
in the early part of the decade. Other problems causing public hospital services to be ineffective and
inefficient were: (i) distortions in the pricing and the utilization patterns of health services due to the
inefficient mode of health services financing; (ii) limitations in the institutional capacity of the MOH and
its autonomous agencies; and (iii) the lack of harmonization of services and financing between the public
and private sectors.
6.      With the advent of a civilian govermment (President Aylwin) in early 1990, the public sector
started to make efforts to improve the quality and efficiency of key social sector programs as a means of
assuring economic growth with equity. A high priority on the new government agenda was to improve
the quality and efficiency of health services by addressing the identified issues and problems within the
existing fiscal constraints. The Government intended to launch a comprehensive health sector reformn
program. For this purpose, the Govermnent asked for the World Bank (WB) assistance, and the WB
responded by providing an advance of the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$0.75 million in
October 1990 for the preparation of the Health Sector Reform Project (HSRP). However, the preparation
activities were delayed, additional financing was needed for a longer "learning period" to acquaint
themselves with WB procedures, and a national consensus was still needed on some aspects of the reform
program through the preparation of additional studies. Moreover, the MOH was in dire need of
emergency assistance to respond to the increasing public pressure to rehabilitate/upgrade the basic
support service facilities of several overcrowded public hospitals in the MS. Therefore, in February 1991,
the Government and the WB agreed to advance Bank's assistance in rehabilitating critical hospital
facilities in the MS and carrying out urgent studies for policy and institutional reforms and future
investments through the TAHRP while the preparation of the HSRP continued. The TAHRP became
effective in April 1992 and closed in December 1997 (Table 2). And the HSRP became effective in
February 1993.
B. Project Objectives
7.      The project's fundamental objective of improving efficiency of public health care services had
three sub-objectives. The first objective was to decentralize health service delivery through the
redefinition of the mission of the Ministry of Health (MOH), restructuring of the MOH's organization,
adoption of modern management instruments for allocating resources and delegating health service
delivery responsibilities, and development of human resources and information technologies. The second
objective was to integrate the health service delivery by constructing and rehabilitating ambulatory
(outpatient) health service facilities at the secondary and tertiary levels and public hospital facilities to
launch a new model of health care and fill the identified health service gaps in the MS, Antofagasta and
Llanchipal HSAs. The third objective was to address cervical cancers and environmental health
problems by initiating or strengthening special programs.
C. Achievement of Project Objectives
1.     Decentralization of Health Services
8.     This objective has been substantially achieved through (a) redefinition of the functions and
organization of MOH and its decentralized agencies; (b) adoption of new management instruments, such
as service provision agreements, new resource allocation mechanisms, and human resource management
systems; and (c) development of human resources and information technologies.



3
(a) Redefinition of Functions and Organizations
9.     Under the project the central MOH and three decentralized agencies at the central level
(FONASA, Central Supply Facility (CENABAS), and Institute of Public Health (ISP)) all underwent
substantial changes in their mission, organization, and staffing. Since 1994, the health service delivery
function has been further delegated to the HSAs, and to a lesser extent the central MOH has been
focusing on the normative, supervisory and regulatory functions. The National Health Fund (FONASA),
as a decentralized public health insurer tfmancier, has assumed the role of assigning financial resources to
public health service providers. In line with the changes in mission, the central MOH also underwent
several organizational restructurings with the major ones being 1994 and 1996, increased its staff,
particularly professional and managerial staff at the decentralized level, which increased by 42 % during
1991-1996. With these changes in mission and organizational structure, the central MOH has developed
sector-wide norms, such as (i) accreditation criteria for health facilities and (ii) standards for health
facility planning, architecture, and equipment, which helped HSAs to carry out investment projects
including the Bank-financed projects in a decentralized manner. Regarding the regulatory functions, the
Superintendent of ISAPRE modified the law (No.18933) to make the private health plans more
transparent, movement of policy holders between insurance institutions easier, and contractual treatments
of pre-existing diseases regulated. The latter was not part of the project. Through the second amendment
to the loan agreement in 1997, the Bank supported further development of the regulatory functions of the
MOH. However, harmonization between the public and private health services still needs to go a long
way. Some issues involved are the determination of the minimnum insurance coverage, discrimination
against the elderly, and insurance against natural disasters and catastrophic diseases.
10.    The ISP, another important regulatory agency of the MOH, was also to strengthen its capacity to
carry out regulatory functions regarding the legislation and quality control of pharmaceuticals and food
products, and laboratory efficiency and effectiveness. It was also to study the feasibility of entering into a
joint venture with a private firm so that ISP could separate its loss-making vaccines and other biological
products manufacturing functions from its regulatory function, thus avoiding the conflict of interest and
improving its finances. The ISP made significant improvement in its quality control functions by
modernizing its equipment, management information systems, administrative, and fee-fixing procedures
and strengthened its finances. It reduced the time required for approval of new pharmaceutical products
from 281 days in 1997 to 180 days in 1998. Although its overall budget has increased steadily, its
dependence on its own income has also increased continuously from 41% in 1993 to 60% in 1998 (Table
1 IB). However, little headway was made in separating the production function from the quality control
function. Although the study conducted under the project showed a positive conclusion on the feasibility
of separating the production function by making a joint venture with the private sector, the
recommendation has not been implemented due mainly to the staff's opposition. Therefore, the ISP still
operates with the problems of inefficiency in its production activities and potential conflicts between its
regulatory and production functions. The Government needs to take a decisive non-political action on
this matter. Even in the field of management efficiency, the ISP needs to push yet harder to improve the
supply and management information systems, and renew the technology to monitor epidemiological
changes and occupational hazards.
11.    The project sought to improve the efficiency in the supply of pharmaceuticals, supplies, and
food supplements for public health facilities and the national food supplementary program. Although the
Government allowed all public health facilities to purchase drugs and supplies from any source as well as
CENABAS since 1985, costs incurred by the purchase of drugs rose even more without sufficient gains in
efficiency, while CENABAS continued absorbing substantial public resources.  Therefore, the
Government agreed under the project to transform CENABAS into an autonomous public enterprise to
minimize administrative and financial constraints. However, in the course of developing a strategic plan
for the reform, after project approval the Government came up with an alternative of changing the role of
CENABAS within the existing legal framework, and the Bank readily accepted it through the first



4
amendment to the loan agreement in early 1995. The Government noticed that the domestic private
sector had developed dynamically, and it therefore limited the functions of the CENABAS to the most
essential needs of HSAs, especially those in distant areas and with small volume purchases, while
working in competition with the private sector. It was mandated to finance itself with its own operations.
12.    CENABAS' management worked strenuously and imaginatively. It defined its role as a
purchasing intermediary between HSAs and private suppliers, and behaved like a business venture.
During 1995-98, CENABAS streamlined its warehouse by 50%, the transportation costs by 11%, stock
margins by 10%, and downsized its staff by 12% to reduce its intermediation costs. But its personnel
expenses increased because it underwent an occupational restructuring of its staff, shedding
administrative and unskilled workers and hiring more professionals, including lawyers, accountants and
procurement specialists for greater productivity. In addition, it developed a computerized auction-style
bidding process to prevent collusion and enhance competition among bidders, thus lowering the
purchasing price. Moreover, it has developed a team of roving advisers for HSAs and hospitals to
improve planning, ordering, stockpiling, and financing drugs and medical supplies. Still further, it has
developed an information and communication network with HSAs and 8 major hospitals and enabled
itself to respond quickly to clients' demand and take advantage of economies of scale in packing,
purchasing, and delivery service. Consequently, CENABAS has expanded its market share from 23% of
all purchases of the public health system in 1994 to 28% of in 1997. It currently covers all HSAs, the
totality of 180 public hospitals, and 18% of municipalities. It reduced its response time by half and the
average unit purchasing price by 19%, compared with traditional operations. In conclusion, CENABAS
was the most successful component of the project in achieving the main project objective of improving
efficiency of the public health system through reform measures.
13.    The need to introduce reforms in the mission of FONASA was not considered during project
preparation. By the end of 1994, it became evident that FONASA would also have to redefine its mission
and structure to be able to play a more proactive role in the sector (this change is reflected in a TABRP
amendment of January, 12 1995 and a similar amendment within the HSRP on April 18, 1997).
FONASA was to become a public health insurer, defining policy, playing a major role in resource
generation and allocation, and overseeing the efficiency of resource utilization. Thus, in 1994, FONASA
was given the mandate to administer the health sector budget (excepting only national public health
program funding). And, as the "manager of the public health insurance system", FONASA was to be able
to buy services to cover its beneficiaries from both public and private providers and to guarantee a given
level of care in terms of services provided and their quality to its beneficiaries. A law to provide
FONASA with the necessary legal elements to fulfill this role was under discussion in Congress for more
than two years. The law has recently passed, with some amendments (not part of the project). Although
the law gives FONASA the mandate to administer health services resources, it falls short of instituting a
true separation of financial and policy functions because any purchase of services from outside the Public
Health Network requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Health.
14.    FONASA made great advances on a number of additional fronts all of which have resulted in
increased resource generation. It modernized its administrative and financial control systems, including
an information system to identify public and private health users (up to 95 percent of public sector users
and 70 percent of ISAPRE users) and thus reducing subsidies to the private sector, improving their fee
collection, both by adjusting prices to reflect actual costs and by reducing evasion, and improved revenue
generation through the sale of hospital services to the private sector. However, the Ministry of Finance
limits the amount of resources derived from the sale of services to the private sector to a maximum of 10
percent of the facilities' beds, generating disincentives to further increase cost recovery efforts.
15.    FONASA also made important advances in its role as insurer by defining a bill of rights for its
beneficiaries and instituting mechanisms for patients to file complaints and demand to have their rights
respected. FONASA signed individual contracts with as many as 300,000 beneficiaries. This earned



5
FONASA an award as one of the most responsive public sector institutions in Chile and was very
effective in buttressing its corporate image. The FONASA law gave legal support to these efforts. What
the FONASA law did not address was the definition of a basic health plan for its beneficiaries. Moreover,
it limits the purchase of private services to 10 percent of the resources allocated to cover beneficiaries in
the Institutional Delivery Modality (i.e. resources destined to cover lower income beneficiaries who only
have access to public services). It does, however, specify care to be provided in emergency situations.
The absence of an explicit health plan means that the budget will continue to be assigned on the basis of
resource availability rather than needs.
(b) New Management Instruments.
16.    The delegation of MOH service delivery functions to HSAs was to take place through annual
service provision agreements between MOHIFONASA and the HSAs on targets based on the health
status and service coverage to be met and type of services to be delivered. The objective was to link the
performance of the HSAs with allocation of resources and ease the transition from the historical service-
based system to the results-based resource allocation system. This system was experimented with a small
number of HSAs since 1993, but gradually further developed and applied to all HSAs and replicated
between some HSAs and their hospitals and municipalities to date. The progress and results are
monitored and evaluated by a small unit in FONASA. From 1995 to 1997, the compliance rate increased
from 63% to 79% of the agreements, and the number of HSAs which have complied less than 60%
declined from 13 to only one HSA. The system has made the budget allocation process more transparent,
and HSA managers more conscious of the relations between resources allocated and results attained, and
consequently the efficiency of the public health system in general.
17.    The service provision agreement, however, gradually changed its objective and nature. Initially,
the MOH and FONASA used it as a tool to allocate budget for decentralization, gradually incorporating
targets for production and operational results to be attained by HSAs. Today, it is used as a mechanism to
control the implementation and evaluation of public health sector policies with very disaggregated
objectives and targets. The targets are not negotiated, but more or less centrally imposed. HSA directors
have limited discretion as to how they can spend their budget since endowment of human resources are
fixed, and MOH defines how much is to be spent on detailed activities.  Moreover, there are no
incentives for compliance or disincentives for non-compliance. Therefore, transfer of authorities and
responsibilities for decentralization has not yet taken place in a real sense.
18.    FONASA made pioneering contributions to the improvement of the efficiency in the public
health service by introducing two mechanisms for allocating resources to HSAs and municipalities.
HSAs receive transfers in advance on the basis of a Diagnostic Related Group (DRG)-type payment
system (PAD), which associates the payments to care results, replacing the conventional fee-for-service
payment system for secondary and tertiary care. In those cases, for which a PAD has not yet been
developed, a Prospective Fee-for-Service (PPP) system is applied. Municipalities receive transfers on the
basis of a fixed amount (capitation) for primary care of each person enrolled at municipal health facilities,
adjusted by the level of poverty and rurality.
19.    Implementation of the mechanisms, however, has been limited. Since 1997 only 61% of total
HSAs have used the PAD, and in those HSAs, it accounted for only 30% of health insurance related
transfers. This limited application of the PAD system was caused by two main reasons. First, delays in
the implementation of the information system have constrained further expansion of the PAD system.
Second, personnel expenses, which make up as much as 70% of the transfers, are fixed irrespective of the
kind of health care and are not included in the PAD. PAD-based resource allocations are substantially
higher than those based on the conventional fee-for-service payments since the current fees do not reflect
the actual costs, and a further expansion of the PAD mechanism will require the health sector budget to
increase substantially. The PAD system has provided HSAs incentives for improving efficiency and



6
made budget allocations more transparent. The gap between the amount of budget advances to HSAs and
the documented actual expenditures declined from 2.5% in 1996 to-0.2% in 1997. However, the impact
of the PAD system on operational efficiency at the hospital level (e.g., shorter stay in hospitals and
shorter waiting lists) is substantially limited. This is because within HSAs resource allocations to
hospitals and other health establishments have not yet employed the PAD system and still have followed
the historical budget allocation system. The capitation system faced stiff resistance mainly because
municipalities had to "earn" their resources by enrolling beneficiaries (i.e. a demand based approach
instead of receiving a historical budget. While the capitated payment resulted in increased resources, they
are still considered low in comparison to other countries with the same GDP (about $30 per year/per
person).
20.    To improve the efficiency of the public health system, the project sought to improve human
resource management by increasing the flexibility with which managers could allocate human resources
and improve job satisfaction.  The MOH carried out a detailed analysis of the problems in staffing
patterns, developed a methodology to estimate human resource requirements, assessed the performance of
public health sector staff, and made a set of sound recommendations. This paved way to design two new
draft laws governing labor relations in the public health sector, one for medical staff (Law 15076, Ley
Medica) and the other for non-medical staff (Law 18834). The latter was not part of the project. The
new medical law was designed to provide greater flexibility for hiring, assigning, and firing staff, and
offer incentives for outstanding performance of both individuals and groups of staff. Human resource
requirements would be defined in terrns of staff-hours instead of posts. Contractual forms would vary
depending on the nature of the job. Remuneration would be based not only on seniority but also on
qualification and performance. Accreditation and career development systems were designed to reward
good and reprimand poor performance. Added incentives would be provided to physicians working in the
new mode of facilities.
21.    The draft law 18834 was passed but the Ley Medica has met with stiff opposition from the
medical profession. The current version under discussion has lost many of the statutes that would give
managers the needed flexibility. Moreover, the legislative schedule has been delayed substantially, and
with the coming presidential election, the prospects for passing the law soon are not bright.
(c) Human Resource and Information Systems Development
22.    For the efficiency improvement and decentralization of the public health system, the
Government thought it essential to train and motivate the people who will guide and implement the policy
at central, regional, and local levels, and design a computer-based management information systems
(MIS).
23.    Before the LA became effective, the Government established the Human Resource Department,
which served as a training secretariat, and implemented two kinds of training: one, management training
for senior and middle managers, and the other, clinical and technical training for all medical professionals
and technical staff. The training programn emphasized the MOH's new mission and decentralization,
improvement of public health system efficiency, especially administrative and financial efficiency
through information and health care technologies, and human relations. The clinical training, which
accounted for 57% of all training person-hours offered, responded to the need for improving the quality
and efficiency of service delivery, particularly newly incorporated technologies.
24.    Although the training program took off the ground much later than planned in the project, about
34,000 persons participated annually in training courses lasting more than 16 hours per person during
1993-1998. This implies that everyone working in the public health sector took a training course at least
once a year during the period. Staff felt that access to training was more transparent than before, and
training management decisions were made with greater involvement of staff at local level. Since 1996,



7
training participants have doubled the level during 1993-95. The majority of trainees were professionals
accounting for about 41% of total trainees, followed by the technical staff of 26%. The remainder was
divided equally among managers, administrative staff, and assistants. Training costs were financed by the
MOH as part of annual budget. About 5% of the training budget were allocated to four decentralized
agencies at the central level, and the remaining 95% to 29 HSAs. However, allocations among HSAs
varied sharply from one year to another, raising questions on the allocation criteria and the difficulty in
planning by each HSA. Training courses were carried out efficiently with an average training cost of
U.S.$0.82 per participant-hour.
25.     The project provided for the central MOH, all HSA base-hospitals and other decentralized
implementing agencies with the computer hardware, software, technical assistance and training in order to
establish an MIS for each agency and the sector as a whole. At the same time, the project provided for
modernization of the telecommunication system with radio, telephone, computer and electrical power
equipment to promote efficient communications between the center and the decentralized implementing
agencies and among themselves. The central system for each HSA and complementary systems for each
decentralized agency were to be designed not by the MOH but by a sample of HSAs. Upon successful
testing, the designs were to be replicated to the remainder.
26.    Implementation of this information system was the most delayed among all project components,
and the quality of implementation has been poor. Of the targeted 24 HSAs only 10 HSAs' base hospitals
have completed the installation of the information system; the remaining HSAs and CDTs and CRSs and
other hospitals do not have the system. ISP, and the central MOH have also completed their own system,
but with an excessively large delay. CENABAS and FONASA installed their system as part of their own
program. A central system linking all implementing agencies has never been developed, and hence there
is difficulty in networking. The telecommunication system has not been developed either, mainly because
the ownership and execution responsibility of the system could not be agreed upon, and consequently no
scheme for cost-sharing either.
27.     There may be many reasons for the less than successful implementation of this MIS component.
The decentralized approach for the development of the complementary systems seems to be justified, but
development of the central system should have been assigned to a unit at the central MOH so as to
develop it in consultation with the HSAs. Each HSA did not have adequate capacity to develop the MIS
or define the needs and priorities by itself. They needed outside help. Before the system design and
software were developed, each executing agency purchased hardware in large quantities, and by the time
the system design was made and software developed, the hardware became obsolete. Moreover, the
domestic software suppliers did not have knowledge or experience in the health sector and could not cope
with the large demand in such a short period. Ultimately, each HSA contracted a software company to
design its own system. Given the limited market of suppliers, they were insufficient for the demand
generated and thus resulted in some delays. A better alternative could have been a twinning arrangement
with an experienced health sector entity in a more advanced developing country, a project component to
assist local software suppliers to develop its capacity, or opening the supply to international firms so as to
make a joint effort with local firms.
2.     Integration of Health Services
28.     This second component of the project aimed to integrate all levels of services in a more
articulate manner by (i) introducing a new model of ambulatory care centers (CDTs and CRSs) at
secondary and tertiary levels; and (ii) filling the identified gap in the health service delivery network in
eight HSAs in MS, Antofagasta, and Llanchipal regions. Facility investments originally included (i)
construction of 5 CDTs, 5 CRSs, 4 emergency wards, and 4 hospitals, and rehabilitation of 8 hospitals, a
total of 26 facilities.  However, due to changes in investment priorities and delays in project
implementation, construction of I CDT, I emergency ward, and 1 hospital, and rehabilitation of 4



8
hospitals, a total of 7 facilities, were deleted from the project. Therefore, as of project closing, the project
constructed 4 CDTs (one is still under construction), 5 CRSs, 3 emergency wards, 3 hospitals (one is still
under construction), and rehabilitated 4 hospitals (one is still under rehabilitation), a total of 19 facilities
(Table 1 IC). Those facilities under construction are being completed with local funds, and most
equipment was already procured. Construction of one CDT, one emergency ward and one hospital, which
were deleted from the project in 1998 are being constructed with local funds now.
29.     Project investments have led to increased productivity in terms of specialized outpatient care
and diagnostic procedures and reduced average length stay (ALOS) in hospital. ALOS has declined from
8.9 days in 1989 to 5.8 days in 1997, and the number of discharges per hospital bed has been increasing
steadily from 28 in 1990 to 45 in 1997. Nevertheless, one can hardly attribute these trends to the project
yet. Actually, the number of outpatient visits has been increasing since the early 1990s, first because of
the elimination of copayments in the Institutional Modality in 1991, then because of the introduction of
SAMUs (Servicio de Atenci6n Pre-hospitalaria Metropolitana de Urgencia) in 1992. However, a higher
rate of increase is evident after 1996, due to increased access generated by the project. Increased quality
of care, at least insofar as the technical quality, timeliness, and general atmosphere, was also evident in
new facilities. Also, internal referrals decreased, suggesting the ability to resolve cases has improved.
Users noted that staff were more helpful in the new facilities. And employees indicated that there was
more team work probably because of the more pleasant surroundings
30.    None of the new establishments were completed and functioning before 1996, and most were
not in operation until very recently, and thus the impact of the new structures on changes in utilization
patterns is not visible yet. The data to date, however, show an increase in utilization in both
hospitalization and ambulatory care. Estimates of unmet demand for ambulatory care these years have
decreased over time, suggesting hospitalization may eventually decrease, (except due to aging of the
population). Moreover, average length of stay (ALOS) has also decreased, as has the number of hospital
beds available.
31.     While the infrastructure and equipment needed to change utilization patterns are in place, the
needed human resources are not fully deployed. In one CDT which opened two years ago, only 110
doctors have been assigned, compared with the 200 planned at appraisal. Because of the current laws
governing medical workers and the budgetary constraints, the new facilities are functioning only in the
morning, and have shortages of specialists of 30 to 40 percent in some specialities. Physicians are not
given the necessary incentives to work in CRS and CDTs.
32.    Nor have the protocols for the management (clinical and administrative) of these centers been
adequately developed. As a result, patient referral patterns have changed little. Patients from the primary
level (under municipal administration) are often sent directly to the hospitals, bypassing the new
ambulatory tacilities. Patient referral does integrate the new facilities in one HSA in the MS where the
HSA also manages the primary level of care. Thus, changes in the health care model are incipient and
will require political support to ensure human resource issues are addressed. The new facilities need to be
integrated into the health care network. However, no proposals for management modalities have yet been
developed and tested on a pilot basis although this test in consultation with the Bank was to be complied
with by March 1998 under the LA. In retrospect, it would have been more economical to experiment with
the innovative ambulatory service model with a fewer than five CDTs and five CRSs, and then replicate
an adopted model with a larger number. The recently passed FONASA law legitimizes the pilot testing of
new management module in three health facilities.



9
3.      Special Health Programs
33.     The project supported Government's efforts to address two of Chile's major health concerns:
cervical cancer and environmental pollution.
(a) Cervical Cancer Program.
34.     To reduce the high incidence of cervical cancer, which was an important cause of women's
mortality, the project supported Government's Cervical Cancer Program. This program aimed to (i)
expand the coverage of screenings (pap smears) on women aged 25-64, focussing on those aged 35 and
over; (ii) increase the quality of screenings; and (iii) ensure timely treatment of detected cancer cases.
The project provided for equipment and operational costs.
35.     The Government expanded the coverage of screenings from 20% of the target group to 564,000
persons based on one screening every three years per person among the target group, or 76% of the target
population, which is close to 80%, the national target set for year 2,000. However, if the number of
screenings which were performed on women who were not in the target group, is excluded, the
achievement rate was really 66%. Moreover, the program's focus on women aged over 35 years was not
translated into action since the proportion of screenings at each 5-year group from age 25-29 to 40-44 was
the same, implying that the use of resources was not efficient. The Government needs to focus on the
target group (35 years of age and over) and increase the frequency of screening in the future.
36.     The Government established a national reference laboratory, which conducted an annual
evaluation of all laboratories supplemented by workshops, random spot checks, and on-site visits on a
semiannual basis. It also provided equipment, training, and operational expenses for 16 laboratories to
increase their capacity for the analysis of pap smear tests, for 26 HSAs to strengthen their capacity for
diagnosis of women with positive pap smears, for major hospitals to provide gynecology services for
treatment of detected cancers. All equipment was purchased in 1993. However, the reliability and
quality of diagnosis has not improved much. Part of the reason for unchanged diagnostic reliability has to
do with the lack of specificity of the diagnostic test itself. But another might be associated with the
capacity of doctors to read and interpret this results. Although the proportion of samples containing
insufficient material for analyses declined from 22% in 1993 to 11% in 1996, the correlation between
cytological and historical test results, which is a good indicator of the reliability and quality of diagnosis,
remained unchanged between 70-74% during the same period.
37.     A greater proportion of women, whose cancer had been detected, received timely treatment.
Among women who received positive test results, about 88% were referred for treatment between 1990-
93, but this proportion increased to 98% in 1996. The interval between referral and a clinical visit was
also reduced to less than one month in 73% of the referral cases in 1990 to 86% in 1996. The greatest
improvement was in the timeliness of the lab reporting; the proportion receiving lab report in less than
three weeks increased from 50% to 67% during the same period.
38.    In sum, although the quality of lab tests may not have improved much, it is evident that the
coverage of screening has increased over time. This, together with the timely and better treatment, must
have contributed significantly to the decline in the incidence of cervical cancer by four percent annually
between 1990 and 1995.
(b) The Environmental Health Education Pilot.
39.     A two-year pilot was designed to raise public awareness about the adverse health effects of air,
water, and food contamination through trained community monitors and to find solutions at the
community level. The pilot was implemented during 1994-95 in 5 communities, one more than the



10
appraisal target, which were selected on the basis of the degree of environmental pollution, community
organization, and an agreement already made with the Environmental MetropolitanHAS. A total of 32
instructors and 1139 monitors were trained, reaching 97% of the appraisal goal.
40.    An inter-municipal workshop was held at the end of the pilot to obtain their assessment of the
accomplishment and disseminate the experience to other communities of MS. Satisfaction was confirmed
with the training materials. But the training sessions were not well advertised, limiting the number of
trainees, who were mainly college students. As a result of the pilot, an Environmental Network was
established at community and inter-municipal levels, and micro-projects on waste management were
implemented across the MS. While very limited in scope and investment, this program demonstrated the
feasibility of implementing community-based enviromnental programs to raise awareness.
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project
1.     Overview of Project Implementation.
41.    The project was completed in six years, instead of four years estimated at appraisal (Table 3),
and total project costs decreased by 3.7% from US$298.8 million at appraisal to US$287.6 million at
project closing (Table 7A). Therefore, the Bank loan of US$ 90.0 million, which was fully disbursed,
accounts for 32% of the actual project costs including taxes and duties, compared with the appraisal
estimate of 30%. A Japanese government grant of US$0.75 million, which was not considered at
appraisal, also financed project costs. The decline in the total project cost actually masks the cost
increases in all project components, except the special programs component, which incurred a reduction
of 50%. The decentralization component incurred a cost increase of 27%, the integration component also
16%, and the project administration 59%. But the largest increase in terms of absolute amounts occurred
on the construction/reconstruction of hospitals by US$38 million. The decline in the actual total cost was
due mainly to the deletion from the project scope of several facility investments originally included in the
project under the service integration component. If some of those investments, which will continue with
local costs through year 2002, are included, the total cost would increase over the appraisal estimate by
25% to about US$373 million.
2.     Factors Not Subject to Government Control
42.    The agreed thresholds and ceilings for Bank's prior review of Borrower's procurement
proposals were too low initially, and Bank's approval process delayed project execution. All the
thresholds and ceilings were eventually adjusted upward, and a greater latitude was given to the Borrower
through the first amendment to the LA in January 1995. However, the LA amendment process was too
long to rectify the causes of the delayed implementation. The new procurement criteria were agreed in
principle under the mid-term review of TAHRP in October 1993, but the amendment for the TAHRP was
made only in February 1994, and the same amendment process had to be reinitiated for the HSRP later.
For the HSRP, the amendment process should have started at least at the same time as for the TAHRP,
and the procurement criteria should have been more liberal since the Borrower has accumulated
experience through the TAHRP.
3.      Factors Subject to Government and Executing Agency Control
(a) Decentralized Implementation.
43.     The mode of implementation affected the pace of project implementation. By design, the
project was to be implemented by numerous implementing agencies in a decentralized manner. Altogether
there were as many as 33 implementing agencies: besides the central MOH, three decentralized agencies



11
at the central level, and 29 HSAs at the regional level. Therefore, it was natural to experience difficulties
in coordination and variations in the pace of implementation among implementing agencies. The project
design should have taken into account this effect in estimating the implementation period or should have
provided for an adequate amount of technical assistance for the decentralized implementing agencies.
Moreover, some project components were inappropriate for decentralized implementation. A good
example is execution of the management information system, in particular the common system for all
decentralized agencies. Delays in this component adversely affected implementation of many other
components which depend on a well developed management information system. The central MOH
should have played a more active role in laying down the common system or design, and coordinate the
efforts of decentralized implementing agencies.
44.     The decentralized manner of project implementation was in general conducive to the attainment
of one of the major project objectives, i.e., decentralization and institutional capacity strengthening at the
local level. The implementation of this project itself offered a good on-the-job training opportunity for all
managers of the implementing agencies to operate in a decentralized manner. In this sense, the
decentralized implementation mode was not necessarily a negative factor affecting the project.
(b) Implementation Capacity and Processes
45.     Many factors affected the implementation and achievement of the project objectives, but the
most important factor that explains the implementation delays may be the overestimation of the
borrower's implementation capacity and Government's process efficiency, especially at the start-up
period. Just as in the implementation of the TAHRP, the implementing agencies could not implement the
project as expected at appraisal. The decentralized agencies, especially HSAs, experienced difficulty in
planning, budgeting, and contracting investments. In particular, Government's budgeting and fund
releasing processes took more time than what is estimated at appraisal. Bank's procurement procedures
were too alien to them, especially at the start-up period. Bank's standard bidding documents, which were
much praised by the HSAs later, were not available at the beginning of the project implementation. The
MOH had never implemented any projects financed by the Bank before, and the health sector had not
implemented major investment projects since the 1980s. Moreover, the first civilian government after a
hiatus of two decades needed to assimilate itself to new governance.
46.     Therefore, the implementation period estimated at appraisal should have taken into account
these unusual factors. Should the disbursement schedule estimated at appraisal be shifted forward for two
more years, it more or less overlaps with the actual disbursement record (Table 4). This implies that
implementation period should have been allowed by about two more years, especially at the start-up
stage. Alternatively, the scope of the project should have been reduced. For those countries where the
Bank has not operated for some time, the Bank should have documented Government's budgeting and
transferring procedures and made them available for projects appraisal staff. Likewise, the executing
agency staff in borrowing countries should have been given an adequate opportunity to get familiarwith
the Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures. One way of ensuring such opportunities may be to
include project executing staff training expenses in the proposed project explicitly.
(c) Opposition by Stakeholders
47.     Although the appraisal team and the Government took note of the risk of changes in government
policy, they did not explicitly take any counter measures against the risk of opposition to the reform by
stakeholders and interest groups. However, as in many other reforms, this risk turned out to be true in
Chile, and implementation of important project components, such as human resources management and
health financing reforms, were delayed or diluted. Once the opposition movement gathered strength, the
political support for legislative actions started waning after 1997, and many of the important reform
measures, which started with executive decrees, watered down, as shown in the implementation of the



12
service delivery agreements and budgetary resource allocations. This risk could have been alleviated had
the Borrower taken adequate measures early enough-such as training courses and workshops to explain
the rationale of reform measures to MOH staff and other health sector employees.
(d) Changes in Designs and Plans
48.     Delays in the implementation of the health facility investments, which accounted for 66% of the
total project cost at appraisal but actually 80% at project closing, were caused, to an important extent, by
changes in designs and architectural plans. The changes were attributed, among others, to defects in the
original designs and plans, which were developed without adequate consultation with prospective users at
the local level, nor in accordance with the MOH norms and standards for different specialties of the
hospitals. However, those facilities whose designs and plans were developed under the TAHIRP studies
proceeded more efficiently, showing the usefulness of a pre-investment study.
(e)Project Coordination Unit
49.     For the project with a decentralized mode of implementation and numerous implementing
agencies, the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) played an important role of coordinating activities,
disseminating information needed for efficient project implementation, monitoring progress in policy
reform and facility investment, and solving problems encountered by implementing agencies. However,
serious implementation problems recurred in 1995 when the PCU's functions were distributed to different
line departments of the MOH, and new mechanisms for transferring resources to HSAs were tried
unsuccessfully. The intention of the MOH to mainstream the PCU functions into its regular line units
was commendable, but the reorganization was not consulted with the Bank in advance as required by the
LA. Moreover, the new structure had no track record, and there was no central locus to guide and
monitor the reform program with a direct access to policy makers of the MOH. A year later, a large part
of the PCU's original functions were restored, but has suffered throughout implementation from the weak
coordination with the unit which was attached to the Minister with responsibilities for monitoring and
studying the reform program implementation. Towards the end of the project implementation, there was
a major change in staffing which tended to affect negatively the project implementation again. It proved
essential for a successful implementation of a sectoral reform program to have an independent unit
responsible for guiding and monitoring the reform program implementation, reporting directly to the top
manager of the MOH. The unit should also have staff with technical and professional leadership so that it
can liaise with the Bank and provide guidance and technical assistance to the decentralized implementing
agencies, especially those inexperienced and institutionally weak HSAs. For staff of such a unit, there
should be an adequate arrangement for them to transfer to a regular unit of the MOH at the end of the
project implementation.
(f) Budget, Staff and Management Modality for New Facilities
50.     Failure to provide adequate and timely budgets and staff for those health service facilities newly
constructed and furnished under the project (CDTs and CRSs) has seriously affected an efficient
operation of the institutions, their sustainability, and ultimately the return to the project investment.
Facilities are under or inefficiently utilized due to inadequate provision of budgets, specialists, andthe
lack of a new management model to integrate them into a health network. Details on how these new
facilities are to link up with the municipally-administered primary level and secondary and tertiary
facilities, who risk loosing patients to them, within the same HSA need to be outlined.



13
(g) MIS
51.    Implementation of the MIS has been the most delayed in all project components, and this delay
had a grave impact on the progress of many other reform measures, such as the service provision
agreements, PAD/PPP based budget allocation systems, and new human resources management systems.
E. Project Sustainability and Future Operations
52.    The scope and pace of the health reform program may be marginally modified, but its basic
thrust would not be affected by future changes of Government or the pressures of interest groups since the
reform is fundamentally based on an agreement among political parties. Moreover, the financial
sustainability of the reform program would not be affected either since it is based on macroeconomic
assumptions, which are more conservative than the actual performance of the economy to date. The
Government has been demonstrating its commitment to the project by providing more than adequate
budgets in recent years. Since 1994, MOH budgets have been increased at about 10% per year in real
terms. However, it would be better if the Government were to take measures to enhance the sustainability
of the reform program.
53.    In general, the project objectives would be better sustained if Government steps up its public
relations efforts to disseminate the rationale of the reform program, train sectoral staff, and monitor
project impact on the efficiency and quality of public hospital services. Opposition caused serious delay
in the passing of the FONASA law and is hampering the passage of the Medical Law. Both of these were
watered down due to pressure from the medical lobby.
54.     More specifically, sustainability of FONASA will depend on the extent to which Government
addresses the imbalance between the two segmented public and private health insurance systems and
makes them complementary and equitable. FONASA's financial base and its credibility will be eroding
unless it defines the limits of insurance benefits through a range of defined insurance policies including
those against catastrophic diseases. Alternatively, the risks of the two systems should be pooled, and the
beneficiaries of the private system should make a basic contribution to the FONASA system for a
package of minimum insurance benefits. Or Government should transfer an ever increasing amount of
funds to FONASA every year (Table 1 ID). Otherwise, individual beneficiaries would resist bearing
increasing insurance premiums or accepting poorer qualities of the public services, and would find it
better to join the private insurance scheme. Currently, the private system focuses on high irncome group
with low health risks, and the public system covers all the rest including most ofthe elderly, chronically
ill, and indigents. However, the private system members do not make contributions to the public system,
but receive public health system services at nominal prices without paying the real operating and capital
costs of the system. In addition, private system members continue receiving public subsidies in various
forms and amounts.
55.     The sustainability of the service provision agreement depends on the extension of the
agreements between MOH/FONASA and HSAs to those between each HSA and its hospitals and
municipalities, incorporating the PAD system, so as to have an impact on the operational efficiency of
health service establishments. Otherwise, hospitals and primary health care centers will be likely to pass
on patients to each other to reduce costs. Moreover, the content of the agreement should be incorporating
not the operational input indicators but health status variables that are within the control of the HSA or
output indicators, so as to give room for the decentralized entities to exercise their discretion and
management skills in attaining the targets. Furthermore, public health priorities, which would be pursued
through the service provision agreements, should be determined within a sound framework, for example,
on the basis of the burden of diseases and cost effectiveness of interventions, which were already studied



14
during implementation. Without such a framework, it would be difficult to justify the efficiency of the
selected policy instruments and measure their operational outcome targets. For example, in 1997 the
agreements placed emphasis on those indicators which will promote the arterial hypertension program;
however, its priorities and impact are debatable when the opportunity cost of the expenses is considered.
Although the public insurance system has an open-ended benefit amount for individual members, the
service provision agreement, in fact, rations the public health expenditures in accordance with the policy
priorities incorporated in the agreements. Therefore, the service provision agreements can have a far
reaching effect on the de facto amount of individual's health benefits and the national health status.
Potentially, this practice can have a conflict with FONASA' s new financing mechanisms (PAD/PPP) and
its new strategy to develop a range of individualized public health insurance plans backed up by a
guarantee of the beneficiaries' right.
56.    In the future, CENABAS faces two challenges. First, it will have to decide on the scope of the
items to be purchased. Currently, CENABAS' purchase covers about one thousand items of a total of
some 4,000 items demanded by HSAs, hospitals, and clinics. The remaining items are diverse, and each
item has a relatively small demand. Consequently, they are likely to cause higher intermediation costs,
thus lowering the level of efficiency. Second, the CENABAS will have to decide on the scope of primary
health care facilities to be covered. These facilities are currently managed by some 400 municipalities,
and each municipality's requests for purchase would be in a relatively small amount, and their locations
are scattered, depriving CENABAS of its economies of scale. CENABAS will have to continue
improving its efficiency and meeting the demand of its expanding clients by completing its information
technology network beyond the current eight hospitals and devising new measures.
57.    The sustainability of other project components depends critically on the successful completion
of the management information system and the harnonization of information systems among all sectoral
agencies for the establishment of an information network. The information system plays an important
role in attaining both decentralization and integration objectives of the project through human resources
development and management systems, quality control functions of ISP, procurement services of
CENABAS, integrated health services of CDTs and CRS, and maintenance of all newly invested facilities
in the sector. The Govermment needs to accelerate completion of the MIS in the rest of the intended
institutions. Moreover, the MOH should assign adequate funds for maintenance and updating of the
system and training of health sector personnel in an intensive use of the system for health insurance
members.
58.    The sustainability of the new ambulatory care centers (CDTs/CRSs) will depend on the
provision of a new management model, adequate budget, and human resources. While negotiations are
under way on the design of the management models, and legislative actions pending in Congress will
address the human resources management system, no concrete plans are contemplated to solve the
shortage of medical professionals in certain fields, such as ophthalmology, otorhinolaryngology,
traumatology, and infant surgery.  The MOH, in consultation with medical associations and higher
education institutions, should give serious thought on this matter urgently.
59.    In the future, the Bank should continue supporting the reform in Chile. There is much work to
be done to redress the imbalance between the segmented two health insurance systems. First, FONASA
should be able to ensure adequate coverage and quality of health services for all its members in
comparison with those of the private health insurance members and should be able to put its financial
position on a sustainable basis. Second, the hospitals themselves should be improving their management
capacities and operational efficiency. The HSRP focussed more on the system-wide efficiency
improvement, but did not focus on the internal efficiency of hospitals. Although the TAHRP and HSRP
provided for a comparative study on the management modalities of public health providers, the Borrower
did not come up with a model and pilot tested it. The recently passed FONASA law establishes a hospital
and 2 CRS as pilots to test new human resources management and hospital management models.



15
Although HSRP's human resources development component must have contributed to the enhancement
of hospital managers' capacity, the training program have not been actually implemented to the extent as
planned at appraisal. Action plans should be prepared to solve the shortage of medical professionals in
critical areas. Finally, integration of the public health network should not only focus on the CDTs and
CRS at secondary and tertiary levels, but should also include the primary health care system, so that it can
extend preventive health services, such as a family health care program. The primary care service at
municipality level has suffered from the meager transfers made on the basis of capitation and has not been
fully integrated into the public health care net work.
F. Bank and Borrower Performance
(a) Bank Performance
60.     Bank performance over the whole project cycle was in general satisfactory, except for
occasionally slack supervision due to inadequate supervision budgets beginning in 1996. The Bank
allocated disproportionately more resources for the early stages of the project cycle, and economized on
supervision budgets. However, for a pioneering project like this one, the Bank should have strategically
allocated more generous supervision budgets, so that policy dialogues can continue during the
implementation stage, and both the Bank and the Borrower can draw lessons from such project for other
member countries aspiring to launch a similar sectoral reform project.
61.     The Bank's performance at the early stages can be summarized as "responsiveness with the
ample flexibility." The proposed project was consistent with Government's development strategies and
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy at a time when a civilian government was taking overafter a long
period of the military government on the platformn of "growth with equity." In response to the
Government's priority on the social sectors, the Bank quickly undertook a comprehensive analysis of
social development progress to review the issues and problems in all social sectors in 1990. Tnis study
enabled the Government and the Bank to engage in policy dialogue about social sectors, especially on the
health sector reform program that the Government was embarking on, and to help provide a framework
for the identification of the project.
62.     The project preparation and appraisal efforts were satisfactory. The Bank provided preparation
assistance with the Project Preparation Facility of US$0.75 million. Further, the Bank responded
positively to the Borrower's request that a small and separate project (TAHRP) be prepared to address
the urgent rehabilitation needs of the public hospitals in MS and finance further preparatoly activities for
the sectoral reform program. In less than six months the TAHRP was prepared, and the Bank continued
helping the Borrower, arranging a Japanese Government Grant of US$0.75 million, for the preparation of
the HSRP.
63.     More important than the financial assistance was the policy dialogue that Bank staff brought to
the Borrower. Equipped with the sectoral knowledge and cutting-edge expertise on health sector
development world-wide, the Bank staff served as a good sounding board and advisors for the policy
makers in Chile. High level Government officials lately confessed that the Bank was chosen as the main
interlocutor for the sectoral reform program because of the Bank team's knowledge and commitment to
sectoral reform. At appraisal other bilateral and multilateral aid agencies, which had been operating in the
Chilean health sector for more than a decade before the Bank was invited, showed keen interest in
collaboration within the framework of the health sector reform program that was agreed between
Governent and the WB. Both TAHRP and HSRP represented the Bank's first sector-wide reform
operations in the Latin American Region and one of the few operations Bank-wide that invested in
tertiary level hospitals at a time when the Bank discouraged lending for tertiary health services.



16
64.    The TAHRP contained many feasibility studies and pre-investment activities, which proved to
be useful for the implementation of the HSRP. Many of the reform measures implemented under the
HSRP -- such as delegation of responsibility for service delivery, reorganization of the MOH, the new
health care model at secondary and tertiary levels, new financing and resource allocation methods, and
MIS -- were all studied or tested under the TAHRP. The idea of separating a reform project itself from a
preparatory technical assistance project was innovative and efficient.
65.    Despite the innovative and commendable performance of the Bank staff during the preparation
and appraisal stages, there were at least three shortcomings. First, the Bank staff were too optimistic
about the Borrower's capacity and processes for implementation. Second, no adequate action was taken
to review the segmented private and public health insurance systems critically and to redress the
imbalance between them. The reform efforts, which focussed on the efficiency of the public health
system, neglecting equity aspects, encountered strong criticism and opposition, and the sustainability of
the public insurance system itself was sometimes cast in doubt, inviting a host of different reform
proposals recently. Third, no analysis was made on the experience of other countries in some of the
innovative project components, such as the new ambulatory care model and the MIS. Consequently,
Govermment had to learn on a trial and error basis, and the actual implementation took a much longer time
than the appraisal estimate. This could have been avoided if it had entered a twinning arrangement with
an overseas organization which had gone through a similar experience.
66.    The Bank supervision of the project was in general satisfactory, but could have been better.
Bank had maintained a good balance in terms of the frequency and composition of supervision missions.
However, when the project faced difficulty in terms of budgets, procurement, and PCU functions in 1995,
the Bank could have stepped up its supervision efforts rather than taking a business-as-usual attitude. In
fact, supervision efforts weakened and project implementation slipped during this period. The
procurement and budget problems were resolved during this period, but the process for amending the loan
agreement took unnecessarily a long time. Another serious lesson to be learned was that the Bank
focussed more on those project components financed by Bank loan funds and neglected supervision of the
project component which was not financed by the loan, but was critically instrumental for the
implementation of the whole reform program. The MIS was a pertinent example. Since the Bank
allowed the Govemment to finance this component, the Bank neither included it in the Key Monitoring
Actions (Table 7), nor followed its implementation closely. Consequently, the pace and quality of the
implementation of this component was extremely poor, and it has had a grave impact on the overall
progress of the reform program. Finally, the Bank should have allocated some loan funds for a formative
evaluation of the project outcome during the project implementation. The LA requires the Borrower to
prepare an evaluation system by the end of project implementation. However, such a summative
evaluation is too late to accumulate a useful data base and the feedback from the evaluation study is too
late for leaming lessons from the project implementation. There is no strong evaluation culture and
practice in many of the Bank's member countries, and budgetary constraints usually prevent formative
evaluation practices.
(b) Borrower's Performance
67.    Borrower's performance during preparation was satisfactory.  The Borrower made good
progress in a short period. As such, the appraisal team was able to present the project to the Board ahead
of the planned schedule, and the LA became effective about six months earlier (Table 3).
68.    Like TAHRP, the HSRP took off the ground two years later. However, in 1995, the MOH took
an action which undermined the effectiveness of the PCU and project implementation. The PCU
functions for budgeting and accounting was transferred out, and its staff were split between the
Infrastructure and the Institutional Development Divisions, disrupting PCU's effective role and depriving
the advisory and coordinating service for numerous implementing agencies. The new Divisions were



17
unfamiliar with the Bank procedures, and a revolving fund established with each HSA to replace the
monthly budget transfer system was tried out, but failed to speed up the pace of implementation.
Although the situation was rectified, the weakened PCU could no longer monitor project costs and lead
progress in reform implementation as effectively as before.
69.     Despite some delays, the Borrower has complied with all special covenants of the LA, except
the one related to improving the management capacities of public health providers (Table 10). The MOH
was to carry out a comparative study and pilot testing of various management modalities including
self-managed hospitals (trusts). However, only a guideline on operational procedures for new ambulatory
facilities was made without a new managerial and legal framework. Despite the repeated urgingof Bank
supervision missions, the required study had not been made by the project closing. Negotiations between
Ministries of Planning and Health greatly delayed a decision on the scope and methods of the study, let
alone the actual analysis and test. The delay of this study has adversely affected, in particular, the
management and resource allocation systems for the new facilities (CDTs and CRSs), and ultimately,
their efficient integration into the public health service network.
70.     During the last stage of project implementation, the PCU showed an exemplary performance in
monitoring, compiling, and analyzing the project implementation data and prepared a very informative
and timely completion report. This was a stark contrast with the case of the TAHRP a year earlier.
Through a constructive discussion with Bank supervision missions, the PCU established a good database
to serve an evaluative analysis of project outcomes in the near future.
71.    Despite the numerous changes in the management of the MOH (three ministers) and the PCU
(five coordinators), project implementation was not seriously affected. This is partly because the same
political party, bound by the "Concertacion" Agreement with other parties, ruled two consecutive
Governments which implemented the project, and partly because all PCU Coordinators, except one, were
promoted among the career professionals on PCU staff. However, change of some ministers did affect
the pace and direction of the reform.
G. Assessment of Outcome
72.    It is too early for the reform measures to produce any concrete and quantifiable results.
Therefore, it is important for the MOH to monitor and assess the outcome of the project, using the
indicators developed during the project implementation. A continued assessment of project outcomes
would be useful not only for feedback to the operation of the project institutions, but also for persuading
stakeholders in favor of reform program implementation on a continuing basis. Likewise, the Bank may
also want to launch an evaluation mission a couple of years later. Many countries in Latin America and
other regions took great interest in this project, and a few of them have already replicated some features
of the project in their countries. As such, dissemination ofthe outcomes of this project would serve them
well.
73.     Although concrete results are not yet available, the performance indicators point out that the
project has been going in the right direction (Table 11A). Regarding decentralization, all HSAs have
already signed annual service provision agreements, and their compliance with the agreements has
increased over time. Although the new method of allocating resources (PAD/PPP) made HSA managers
more efficiency-conscious, and the budget basis increasingly transparent, the actual yearly allocation of
budgets still follows more historical budget allocation methods, adjusted by equity and efficiency criteria.
However, these adjustment criteria are debatable. The equity adjustment means compensating those
HSAs whose average per capita health service costs are lower than national average, irrespective of the
health status and epidemiological profile of an HSA. And the efficiency adjustment means compensating
those HSAs whose documented expenditures in the previous year was greater than the transfers made in
the same year, again irrespective of the epidemiological profile and the service priorities. Moreover, such



18
adjustments were not actually made consistently in terns of the direction and degree in recent years.
Perhaps, it may be too much to expect that budget should not at all be allocated on the basis of political
negotiations, but entirely on the basis of transparent technical criteria. The ISP improved its
administrative and financial efficiency as well as operational efficiency by as much as 30%. However, it
needs to take a decisive action on its production function. The CENABAS has markedly improved its
operational efficiency as evidenced by the reduction in processing time by half and the average unit
purchasing price by 19%.
74.     Although a half of all trainees evaluated the effectiveness of the training program positively, its
impact on staff perforTnance has never been measured. In retrospect, the training courses could have
given more emphasis on the needs for reform so as to get MOH staff on board early in project
implementation, and this could have alleviated the strong opposition or resistance to the legislative
actions for health sector reform. Also, the training program could have taken off the ground much earlier
if the MOH had used the competitive allocation of training funds among HSAs, as it did successfully for
health facility investment under the TAHRP. Moreover, the current level of training expenditures, which
stands at only one-tenth of one percent of total staff remuneration, needs to be stepped up for human
resources development. Under the project only half of the training expenditures expected at appraisal
were defrayed.
75.     Despite the late start, confusion, and consequent delays in implementation, some MIS which
were already installed demonstrated the powerful impact of the system. First of all, health service
delivery institutions could generate epidemiological and statistical information immediately for analysis.
Second, both hospitals and HSAs could handle administrative and financial matters in a timely and
accurate manner. Finally, health service institutions could procure and control factors of service
production and other supplies more efficiently than to date so as to serve their clients in a more efficient
manner, and could sharply shorten the waiting time for service delivery by introducing a computer-based
appointment systems.
76.     Given that only two of the four CDTs and three of five CRSs have been in operation (for less
than eight months on average), a full assessment of their operation, let alone their impact, cannot be made
at this stage. However, the facility investments have led to increased productivity in terms of specialized
outpatient care and diagnostic procedures. The number of outpatient visits has been increasing since the
early 1990s. However, the provision of CDTs and CRSs under the project must also have contributed
since a higher rate of increase in hospital visits is evident after 1996. There does not yet appear to be a
shift in the number of hospital visits to ambulatory care visits since the number of users increased in both.
Nevertheless, the public hospital bed capacity is on the decline as the ALOS and occupancy rates decline,
and the private sector bed capacity is on the rise.
77.     One of the major outcomes of this project is development of public health leaders at both
technical and policy-making levels. A group of new public health elite was developed through the
preparation and implementation experience with the sectoral reform program of the HSRP and technical
assistance financed by the Bank and other multilateral and bilateral aid agencies. Today this new elite is
actively providing technical assistance in Chile and other parts of the world as well as in Latin America.
H. Key Lessons Learned
1.      Health Sector Reform
78.     The HSRP usefully benefited from the preceding preparatory technical assistance and pre-
investment project. A sector-wide reform program usually involves a complex set of issues carrying high
risks, and the preparatory project helped solve the issues, preparing a solid ground for launching the
reform program itself later. The TAHRP helped the Borrower to set the stage for public debate on the



19
reform program, leading to a national commitment to the reform. And it pilot-tested several reform
measures and prepared for a heavy infrastructure investment. The borrower could have avoided several
implementation issues if it had used the pilot testing mechanism more extensively, as shown in the
preparation of the design and plans for the new hospitals and ambulatory centers.
79.     A reform program takes a much longer time than usually expected, and the implementation of
the program should be well phased. And the Bank should finance it with follow-up projects through an
Adaptable Program Lending Instrument (rather than financing with a single, long-lasting project), taking
into account of lessons learned in the preceding phases. As such, sector-wide efficiency improvement
measures at central level should be followed by measures to ensure efficiency improvement at the
decentralized service delivery level like hospitals.
80.     For a sectoral reform program, it is essential to include a strong public relation program to
educate the public in general, and interest groups in particular, regarding the rationale and impact of the
reform program, so that they can weight the benefits against the possible disadvantages. Even when a
reform program is based on a national consensus as in Chile, it is likely to face opposition during its
implementation. Better understanding of the reform is likely to reduce opposition and resistance.
81.     Where legally feasible, it is practical to start most reform measures with Executive Branch
decrees and regulations rather than starting with nation-wide legislative actions.  With the executive
actions, it is possible to do Pilot testing or small scale demonstration, and showing the progress and
results of the reforn program is a powerful tool for convincing the stakeholders. When reform starts with
legislative actions, it is more likely to bog down with political fights and interest group opposition.
82.    It was shown that indicators to be employed in service provision or performance agreements
should be carefully selected so as to ensure they will reflect primarily the efforts made by theHSA rather
than other factors, giving discretion to decentralized entities in attaining their targets.
83.     To be fully effective in generating more efficient behavior from hospitals, resource allocation
within HSAs has to be based on productivity.
84.     HSA directors and hospital managers need to be able to flexibly manage their human resources
in order to maximize efficiency.
85.     A PAD-based budget allocation proved to require a long transition time due not only to the
technical difficulties, but also to the costly results.
86.     Service provision agreements will have more credibility if lack of compliance is accompanied
by some disincentives and compliance is rewarded.
87.     For the introduction of an innovative model, such the CDTs and CRSs, pilot testing with a fewer
number of facilities could have achieved its objective in a more economical manner.
88.     For an MIS, the temptation to purchase hardware in a large quantity ahead of developing a
system and software should be resisted.
89.     For an innovative component of a reform program, such as the new ambulatory care centers and
the MIS, it would be useful to make a twinning arrangement with an overseas organization which has
implemented a similar project. This would be more effective than technical assistance provided by Bank
staff. Moreover, those component should not be made on a large scale, and a pilot testing on a small scale
would averse the risk involved and provide a useful learning opportunity.



20
2.     Decentralization
90.    Decentralization should be applied with care so that efficiency is not lost on a national scale as
shown in the establishment and operation of a sector-wide information network. The central government
should play an active role in laying down national norms and standards for harmonization purpose.
91.    A decentralized manner of implementing a project is a useful tool to promote decentralization
since it provides decentralized entities with useful on-the-job training opportunities to strengthen
institutional capacity.
92.    For decentralized project implementation, it is useful to introduce competition among
decentralized entities compensating the institutionally weak entities with technical assistance. The
training component of the HSRP could have used a competitive training fund just as the TAHRP used a
competitive hospital rehabilitation fund concept. Then, the training program could have been carried out
as planned at appraisal.
93.    More time should be allowed for decentralized project implementation with numerous executing
entities, and implementation processes including budgeting, transferring, accounting and procuring
procedures should be more carefully studied. Implementing agencies' staff should be given adequate
training in Bank's loan administration procedures, and the training costs would be included in the project
cost. Also, the Bank should make an in-depth study of a new borrower's budgeting, fund releasing, and
transferring processes as well as the procurement processes and disseminate the resulting document to
projects staff.
3.     Bank Operational Efficiency
94.    The Bank should maintain and reinforce its capacity to provide policy and technical advice
backed up by cutting-edge knowledge. This capacity, in addition to the financial assistance, was the
major factor which led the Borrower to ask the WB to become the main interlocutor for the sectoral
reform program in Chile and which was most appreciated by the Borrower.
95.    The Bank should have allocated more resources for supervision for an innovative project like
this one so that more resources could be used to maintain policy dialogue on the implementation of the
reform and drawing lessons for other countries pursuing a similar reform programs.
96.    The Bank should allocate some loan amounts for a formative evaluation of the project outcome
so that it can be done during the implementation of the project.
97.    The Bank should make an in-depth study of the budgeting and transferring processes as well as
procuring procedures of a new borrower, and the study results should be disseminated among project
staff.
98.    Definition of the responsibilities and authority of a PCU and its location in a sectoral
organization is important for a successful implementation of Bank-financedprojects. This is especially so
when the borrower is inexperienced with Bank operational rules and its sectoral institutional capacity is
not yet fully developed to implement a large investment and sectoral reform project, using its existing
organizational structure.
99.    The Bank loan should share the financing of the key components of a project even if a
cofmancing source is available. Although the MIS was an instrumental component of the reform
program, the Bank loan did not finance it, and the delay and poor quality of the MIS implementation
adversely affected many reform measures. Its adequate implementation (such as prior consultation or



21
review by the Bank) should have been conditioned on the loan disbursements for other components
financed by the Bank.
100.    Standard bidding documents prepared by the Bank served as a useful tool to accelerate project
implementation, especially at the decentralized level of the Borrower. Likewise, the Bank may usefully
prepare guidelines for designing and constructing health facilities for different levels and specialties of
service.



22
PART II: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR*
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY'
(Translation from Spanish)
I.   BACKGROUND
A.      Status of the Health Sector in 1990
1.      A diagnostic assessment of the health sector in the early 90s showed that Chile had a mixed
health system characterized by disorganized, uneven, and almost completely separate development of the
public and private sectors. These two segments of the system were operating on different bases as far as
insurance, financing, and health care delivery were concerned. The private sector focused on high-
income groups with low health risks and per capita financial resources more than double those of the
groups served by the public sector; at the same time, it showed a sustained and increasing level of
investment in new institutions and technology. The public sector, in contrast, covered most of the elderly,
chronically ill, and low-income population, meaning that it was responsible for meeting the health needs
of about 70% of the entire population; at the same time, its hospital facilities, equipment, and technology
were steadily deteriorating.
2.      The assessment also showed that the health care model was not consistent with the country's
epidemiological profile and was incapable of responding in an efficient and timely manner to the diseases
that were the major causes of death in Chile.2 In addition, it identified a crisis in the secondary and
tertiary public health care system, stemming mainly from its poor response performance, reflected in
unmet demand, waiting lists, and bottlenecks.
3.      Finally, the assessment indicated that the greatest problems within the public sector were: lack
of coordination among the various levels of the system; inefficiency in the delivery of services, because
of inadequate management capacity; outdated resource allocation and administration arrangements;
distortions in pricing and in allocation of financial resources within the sector; and weak capacity of the
human and institutional resources of the Ministry of Health and its independent agencies.
H.    STRATEGY  AND  OBJECTIVES  OF  MINISTRY  OF  ]HEALTH-WORLD  BANK
PROJECT
4.      With the advent of democracy, the Ministry of Health (MOH) built an agenda around the
following key items: decentralization policies and improved system management; redesign of health care
delivery arrangements; and targeting of the poorest strata of the population and the most medically
vulnerable groups. It accordingly developed a series of programs financed through various initiatives,
among them the Loan Agreements signed between the World Bank and the Chilean Government.
5.     In the prevailing circumstances, and given the need for rapid action and for certain studies to
ensure the feasibility of the main project, the Health Sector Reform Project (HSRP), it was decided to
* This paper was submitted by the Borrower as its contribution to the ICR on September 27, 1999, and was translated from
Spanish into English by the Bank.
This paper is a sumunary of the "HSRP Project Evaluation Report" (in Spanish) sent to the Bank on August 5, 1999.
2The structure of causes of death showed that Chile was in an epidemiological transition stage marked by the coexistence of
pathologies typical of a developed country and the pathologies of an underdeveloped country.



23
launch the Technical Assistance Health Reform Project (TAHRP), focused on improving conditions in the
most sophisticated hospitals in the Metropolitan Area.
A.      Objectives of the Health Sector Reform Project (HSRP)
6.      The general goal of this project was to contribute to a wide range of policy and institutional
changes designed to ensure more efficient and effective use of resources and to improve the quality of
health care in selected areas, in a context of greater equity.
7.      These changes would be introduced in conjunction with specific measures focused on sector
productivity, in the interests of bringing a new health care model into place. This model would develop
specialized out-patient services at the secondary and tertiary levels, upgrade the infrastructure of selected
hospitals, and close health care delivery gaps.
8.     In keeping with this plan, the activities grouped under the HSRP were divided into two
components: Integrated Development of Health Services; and Institutional Development.
B.      Project Components
1. Integrated Development Component
9.      The integrated development component called for: creation of two new types of secondary level
health care establishments, namely the Health Reference Centers (CRSs) and the Therapeutic Diagnosis
Centers (CDTs), both of which would be out-patient care facilities; rehabilitation of hospital infrastructure
at the tertiary level; and assignment of different levels of complexity or sophistication to the different
types of establishment making up the network.
10.    In so doing, the project sought to support a new health care model which would be consistent
with the prevailing epidemiological profile and be capable both of strengthening out-patient care and
increasing the production and quality of health services, in order to narrow the health care gaps that had
been detected.
11.    In the overall design of the model, importance was attached to the following: bringing health
care delivery closer to the user to ensure cost effectiveness; providing services at the least sophisticated
level needed, while maintaining adequate quality; ensuring timely availability of health care services;
making the regions as independent as possible, in the interests of greater decentralization; and promoting
social participation and inter-sectoral work. At the same time, a range of alternative solutions was to be
used as the basis for an attempt to organize health care facilities and referral systems according to
increasing levels of complexity or sophistication.
2. Institutional Development Component
12.     The Institutional Development Component was designed to help modify the mission and
organizational structure of the Ministry of Health by applying the concept of separation of functions.
According to this plan, executive, policy, and regulatory functions would be assigned to the Ministry,
whose key role would be to serve as the health authority of a mixed public and private health care system.
13.    In addition, other regulatory entities would operate in support of the Health Ministry. The
financial and insurance function would be vested in FONASA, in order to improve resource generation
and transfer. The Public Health Institute would improve its capacity to implement quality control of
medicines and food products and to monitor the network of public laboratories.



24
14.    Health care delivery and supply functions were to be concentrated mainly in the Health Service
Areas (HSAs). In a context of greater decentralization and improved local management, the HSAs would
be in charge of planning and implementing health care for the population. CENABAST would be
supported by the project so as to ensure optimization of the supply and distribution of food supplements
and medicines.
15.    Actual delegation of the responsibility for health care delivery activities to the HSAs required
instruments that would ensure the effective coordination of these activities, strengthen decision-making at
local levels, and promote operational efficiency. To this end, performance contracts (Service Provision
Agreement) between the HSAs and the Ministry were to be introduced; they would link prioritized goals
and activities with financing and the proposed new payment mechanisms.
III.    ACHIEVEMENTS, CHALLENGES, AND LESSONS LEARNED
16.    Health reform in Chile during the 90s has been a gradual process sustained by transformations
that have been reflected in a new trend to strengthen and develop the public sector. This sector has taken
on a greater role in developing policies whose content and impact have made it possible to reverse the
situation of deterioration that prevailed in the previous decade and establish new rules for the operation of
the health system as a whole, in the interests of greater health care equity for the population as a whole.
17.    In this context, the project made it possible on the one hand to identify the themes used as a
basis for promoting changes in existing standards in the various areas analyzed in this report. On the
other hand, on the basis of the conceptual advances observed and the experience gained through a variety
of projects, the HSRP has led to the development of a significant volume of instruments and tools that
affect models, institutional development, management, and financing. In addition, the largest flow of
resources went to implementing a series of infrastructure projects that have paved the way for an increase
in the volume, types, and quality of health care services, and to construction of CRSs and CDTs,
establishments to be used primarily as out-patient facilities. US$270 million in resources have been
earmarked for this plan.3
1. Investment to Change the Health Care Model
18.    Implementation of the project has helped modernize the infrastructure and equipment in the
sector, by a process of sustained return on investment. This made it possible to increase the supply of
services by incorporating new technologies that supplemented rather than replaced the current supply of
medical services, and thus helped reduce the projected widening of the gap between the amount of
services demanded and the capacity of the public sector to respond to that demand. Similarly, it also
made it possible to improve the quality of services, because of the increased efficiency in managing
certain productive factors, and especially the human resources at the new care facilities, and because of
the nature and the integrality of the investment, which improved the quality of health care in the
perception of the user.
19.    The introduction of the new model, supported by the design of new centers, made it possible to
initiate a process still in its early stages, that is aimed at giving priority to increasing out-patient health
care services by making a radical change from the traditional, hospital-based approach to one based on
the natural progression of health care. The key feature of the public sector's policy has been to strengthen
secondary care by improving the quantity, type, and quality of health care services provided at that level.
MOH-World Bank investments accounted for 43% of the total investments in the sector during the decade.



25
in this way, it can supplement the efforts to improve primary health care with a view to developing a
system which will be coordinated in a network to achieve a substantial effect on the access, resolutivity,
and quality of the care delivered.
20.    It is appropriate, however, to point out a series of problems in introducing the new model, as
foillws:
(i)     Shortcomings in coordination of the medical care network, attributed both to the delay in
putting the new establishments in operation and to the gradual adjustment of the primary to tertiary levels
tc the new health care model;
(ii)    Failure to adequately adjust the new financing mechanisms to the nature and type of services
required by the new centers and the need to coordinate them with other levels of health care;
$ii)    Shortage of specialists, with a direct impact on the new, high technology investments, which
require the supply of human resources to be adapted to meet the needs of the system as a whole and the
new centers specifically;
(iv)    Failure to foster a change in attitudes within the system, namely to change the concept of a
'hospital-centered" health care system to another system in which the solution of medical problems is
geared to the relevant level of complexity.
21.     The challenges facing the changes introduced towards the ambulatorization of care patients are
as follows:
(i3     Developing and strengthening the secondary health care level, by optimizing referral and
mnechanisms as components for coordinating integrated care networks on a territorial and functional basis;
(ii)    To accomplish this, not only is it necessary to work on financial arrangements, but it is also
essentlal to standardize service norms among the levels, to avoid distortions in the overall operation of the
network;
(iii)    Create an institutionality that will make it possible to adapt the supply of human resources to the
requirements of the new health care model, for the purpose of optimizing the use of technology and
installed capacit;
('V)    Improve the management, administrative, and financial mechanisms and tools currently in use,
so that full use is made of the investments.
2. Institutional Change in a Scenario of Modernization of Public Management
22.     The strategy of separation of functions made it possible to decide on an initial order of
respon sibilities for the Ministry, independent agencies, and Health Services.
23.    rn this context, by specifying the regulatory role of the Ministry of Health, with the consequent
specialization of tasks and professionalization of its internal management, together with the
modernization of FONASA and CENALBAST and the development of quality control functions of inputs
assigned to ISP, a framework conducive to changes in the existing institutional structure was provided,
without any need to wait for legal reforms. At the same time by modemizing the information systems and



26
introducing the management agreement as a public policy instrument with wide coverage, it was possible
to produce satisfactory results in the modernization of public health management.
24.     However, a series of difficulties that limit institutional change persist, including the following
ones:
(i)     Problems in managing the needs and interests of the different sectors and actors that have
influence and power in defining health policies, such as professional colleges, parliamentarians, the
media, and the like. The design did not give consideration to the internal coordination needed to gain
efficiency in managing the change, thereby jeopardizing from the outset the success in applying the
incentives required for the change. This is what makes the 1994 conceptual break so relevant, as from
that time on, the inclusion of FONASA gave greater clarity to the operational work following the
separation of functions.
(ii)    Finally, the public-private regulatory policies did not include dynamic issues such as
determination of the minimum insurance coverage and discrimination against the elderly due to risk,
chronic diseases, and natural disasters. Because of the inherent nature of the entities and products
involved in the health insurance system, it is not easy to come up with a quick solution to these issues.
25.     Bearing these factors in mind, the challenges of institutional change include the following:
(i)     Updating the legal instruments and concepts to consolidate the process of separation of
functions, both at central level and in the other institutions in the public health sector. When applying the
concept to the entire country, according to the experience in Chile, pressure is put on the following two
elements: first, the territorial institutionality of health, defined traditionally on the basis of the sector's
requirements and the availability of government resources for the different regions; and, second, the
expectations of governability that the law and the regions themselves have.
(ii)    Generating the technical, political, and institutional conditions to modernize the Chilean health
system, including reforms of the insurance market in addition to the reforms proposed by the Government
in the FONASA legislation. Special attention should be paid to policies designed to facilitate the process
of public-private integration in areas such as regulation, institutional development, and organization of
health care systems for the general public.
(iii)    Developing policies and instruments that encourage the continued improvement in the quality of
health care from two perspectives: technical aspects, from the standpoint of the quality of the supply of
health services offered; and, user satisfaction, from the standpoint of the quality perceived by the
population. This will require the development of new standards and protocols for health care and support
for initiatives such as the Patient's Bill of Rights.
(iv)    More specifically, further work must be done in the area of institutional and regulatory changes
that have a direct impact, both in areas that will strengthen decentralized management of health care
establishments and in development of human resources through greater supply of training and improving
the work environment.
3. Gradual Modification of the Management Model
26.     The gradual but steady change in administration and management practices has followed the
speed of institutional changes, by adopting both the strengths and limitations of a process that is still
under way. In a sector which has traditionally been centralized with low levels of participation by
internal and external users, it is not easy to modernize the practices and procedures that have been learned



27
and practiced for decades. However, it has been possible to make progress towards change on the basis of
two central themes.
27.    In the first place, from the standpoint of principles, the key element in this has been the need to
achieve increasing degrees of decentralization in the management of the sector, on the understanding that
decentralization and centralization in the health sector are not mutually exclusive processes or goals in
and of themselves. What is sought here is different levels in the decision-making process, and what is
needed is an appropriate combination of the two to improve management of the health system as a whole.
In this way, a maximum level of centralization can be identified in general decisions involving long-term,
national objectives of health policies, and a maximum level of decentralization is needed where decisions
with a greater bearing on the local situation are made. In this way, the different actors can participate in
the various stages of the design, implementation, and evaluation of social policies that are specifically
related to health.
28.    In the second place, modernization instruments were established. The primary one is the
performance contract, which was designed to guide health policy and its priorities at national level, in a
continuous learning process involving the different agents involved in the negotiation. Its use as a
management tool within the system made it possible to move towards a results-oriented management
system based on specific goals, and not just on practices and procedures. Moreover, both the negotiating
capacity of all the participants and transparency in allocation of resources were enhanced and criteria of
equity and efficiency were introduced in the sector.
29.     The major difficulties encountered reflect the tasks still pending under the management model,
which have to do with the following:
(i)     The gap still existing between the specific policies, objectives, and goals of the Ministry of
Health and the indicators included in the agreement protocols; this issue has undermined the rules of the
game established among the various participants in the negotiation process.
(ii)    Problems in coordination and flows of information among the various components at central
level and between them and the Health Service Areas, which has undermined the credibility of that
management instrument in decision-making.
30.     The challenges to continued improvement of public sector management results are as follows:
(i)     Making further progress in modernizing sectoral management, in line with advances achieved in
public institutionality in other social and economic areas, which is a prerequisite for defining the
responsibilities and goals of the various levels of the health organization;
(ii)    Making improvements in defining policies, plans, and priorities in the health sector, by
establishing clear, credible signals for all the participants involved in managing the sector. In the case of
the performance contract, this will require setting up mechanisms that make it possible to improve the
link between policy definition and the relevant budget allocations. In the area of public management, the
systems for tracking, monitoring, and evaluation need to be strengthened, along the lines described in the
Strategic Management System.
(iii)    Developing a better system of incentives and disincentives to ensure fulfillment of institutional
goals and tasks in the sector. As far as positive incentives are concerned, policies for in-service training
of human resources will have to be developed and strengthened, both in the area of clinical care and in
aspects related to health and public health management.



28
4. Strengthening Financial Management
31.     Of the policies supported by the project, in this area, the key issue was the possibility of
designing and establishing a wide range of instruments for modernizing financial management throughout
the sector.
32.     Although only partial progress has been observed in some areas, it is true that FONASA's
image has changed and today it has increased credibility vis-a-vis both the general public in defending
users, and the economic authorities in matters related to the budget negotiation process.
33.    In addition, the financial policy in the public sector has operated on the basis of the separation
of functions defined for the central level, and efforts have been made to develop and apply the necessary
instruments to support the specialization of relevant agents in producing services for the population.
Likewise, appropriate macroeconomic incentives have been designed and implemented to ensure
optimum distribution and use of available resources.
34.     However, there are still limitations in implementing the changes analyzed in the financing
model, such as the following:
(i)     Limitations attributed to the difficulties inherent in a system that has operated traditionally on
the basis of supply criteria, little flexibility in managing its accounts, and structural limits in management
methods. These issues go beyond the scope of the project and efforts are being made to correct them
through legal reforms.
(ii)    The new payment arrangements for secondary and tertiary medical care were partially
introduced, but they are still mixed with traditional systems, which undermines the credibility of the
sector's financial policy.
(iii)    Macro incentives and indicators contained in the new allocation procedures do not take
adequate account of organizational aspects which limit their use in the case of service providers. Critical
points here have to do with clinical management, medical establishments, and integration into the
network.
35.    In view of the foregoing, the challenges to moving ahead with the change in the financing
model are as follows:
(i)     Completing the design of the new regulatory and institutional framework of FONASA, a
process currently being debated in Parliament. To implement it, practices and procedures to strengthen
public health management would have to be developed.
(ii)    Determining the optimum mixture in procedures for allocating resources on the basis of
territorial and functional medical care networks, with a view to achieving a balance in criteria such as the
ratio between coverage and quality of services and between efficiency and equity in the health system.
(iii)    Expand coverage of the new resource allocation procedures at secondary and tertiary levels.
IV.    FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMEENTATION
36.    In observing the implementation and development of the project, it is clear that the Ministry of
Health and the World Bank agreed on a minimum set of measures to strengthen the Chilean health sector,



29
limited to measures that would be necessary and sufficient to trigger a series of institutional processes and
development of instruments.
37.     From the benefit of hindsight, we can see that the problems encountered in the processes of
change and institutional development could have been anticipated. It is true that the problems that were
predicted had a more significant impact than expected, and the force of movements was greater than
foreseen as well. In addition, traditional participants which now had new interests, such as the Medical
School and the Ministry of Finance, and a series of problems not initially anticipated, such as the
capability of suppliers in the information sector, prevented things from developing according to the
expected guidelines and adversely affected coordination among the components and within them, and the
speed of their progress.
38.     Among the factors that were not initially considered, other than the ones referred to in the
preceding paragraphs, two are worth mentioning: the complexity of the budget process in the Chilean
public sector; and, the lack of experience of the implementing agencies within the health sector.
39.     As regards the complexity of the budget process, it is important to point out that the project
design underestimated that complexity, by failing to consider all the implications of the processes and
requirements of both the National Investment System and the budget execution process, which all
institutions in the Chilean public sector must comply with. Likewise, the project design did not make
adequate provision for the limited capacity of existing management in each of the implementing agencies
at the start of the project, a situation attributed to the fact that there were virtually no investment or
institutional development projects developed during the eighties.
40.     Therefore, the speed of the changes that affected different entities and processes in each of the
areas described, i.e., care, institutional aspects, management, and financing, varied. In some areas, such
as performance contracts, there was very rapid development, and in others, such as human resources,
development was slower. Even today, it is possible to observe well-developed processes alongside
processes that have not been completed.
41.     Finally, the  Project Coordination  Unit played  an  outstanding  role  during  project
implementation, given the various situations that it had to sort out to ensure that project objectives were
met. The existence of that Unit allowed for adequate technical and professional leadership, which led to a
high level of compliance, both with the requirements of the agreement itself and with the country's
requirements. The critical variables have to do with the level of independence and links with the regular
structure of the ministry, the nature of the supervision and control to be performed by that structure, and
the process of institutionalization that was supposed to take place, especially during the final
implementation stage.
V.      SUGGESTIONS FOR FUTURE OPERATIONS
*  Facilitate participation by the World Bank in project design, primarily in connection with the
technical aspects of studies and introduction of selected study recommendations, as well as in training
in the use of project financial, administrative, procurement, and auditing systems.
*  Streamline or modify administrative and financial procedures to adapt them to the legal and
administrative characteristics of borrowing countries, especially those which, like Chile, have a
validated and socially acceptable system. Obviously, it is necessary to define the roles and functions
of participating entities clearly, in the context of the particular project: for one thing, public sector
regulatory agencies should not be given roles that would conflict with any responsibility they might
have for auditing loan agreements.



30
* Prescribe ex post, but not ex ante, "no objection" procedures, especially when there is both an
integrated investment system in the public sector and participation by other govermmental monitoring
agencies in the various stages of development of a project of this sort.
* Include provision in loan agreements for an ongoing evaluation process and the necessary associated
requirements and conditions. Through application of this process, implementation of a project can be
improved by correcting its shortcomings promptly and emphasizing and promoting its successes. The
best time to consider these factors and criteria is the project design stage, since in this way the need
for a more strenuous evaluation effort towards the end of the implementation process can be
precluded.



31
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
(LOAN 3527-CH)
PART m: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursement
Table 5:     Key Monitoring Indicators
Table 6:      Studies included in Project
Table 7A:    Project Costs
Table 7B:    Project Financing
Table 8:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 9:     Bank Resources: Missions
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 1 1A    Assessment of Project Outcomes: Key Performance
Indicators: Actual versus Target
Table 11 B    Institute of Public Health: Comparison of Own Income
and Government Transfer: 1993-1998
Table 11 C    Facility Investments
Table 1 ID    Evolution of Public Health Expenditures and Finances



32
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A; Achie4vementofobectives          Substantialw -   00 07 Partial j00  Negligible    No t aplicablet
Macro policies                                                                     4
Sector policies                       i
Financial objectives                  4
Institutional development             4
Physical objectives                                 4
Poverty reduction                                   i
Gender issues                         4
Other social objectives                                                            4
Environmental objectives              4
Public sector management              4
Private sector development            4
Other (specify)
&_               r Pr_ject S_stain  iity  LnlikelyUncer
Sustainability                        4
Identification                        4
Preparation assistance                4
Appraisal                                           4
Supervision                                         4
Preparation                           4
Implementation                                      4
Covenant compliance                   4
Operation                                           4
Satisfactory                         Unsatisfactory
Assessment of Overall Outcome4



33
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan                                                                   Year of
Name/Number                            Purpose                            Approval           Status                   Comments
Technical                 .                        .            .                           Closing date    The project was completed in six
Assistance and     The project represents the first stage m planned assistance  1991         12/31/97      years, instead of four years estimated
Hospital          to the health sector. It comprises the preparation stage for                             at appraisal. Total project costs
Rehabilitation    a possible sector operation (the proposed Health Sector                                  increased by 15% from US$45.3
3427-CH           Reform Project). It will finance the following components:                               million to US$52.2 million. Therefore
(a) technical assistance (14 percent of total project cost)                              the Bank loan of US$27.0 million,
which will consist of (i) about 12 policy/institutional                                  which was fully disbursed, accounted
reformn and infrastructure investment studies, and (ii) pilot-                          for 52%   futhe actualsprojeccosts,
testing of key reforms, as well as the startup phase of the                              for 52% of the actual project costs,
information system, and training and information                                         ofp70%. Dite the tw-yar elay,
workshops; (b) a hospital rehabilitation program (80                                     of 70% Despite the two-year delay,
percent of total project cost) which will finance urgent                                 efficiently and satisfactorily.
rehabilitation needs of 17 hospitals in six health service
areas in the poor urban and semi-rural areas of
Metropolitan Santiago; and (c) project administration (6
percent of total project cost) which will support the
operation of a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) which
coordinates project implementation, provides assistance to
the health service areas, and continues preparation of a
possible follow-up operation.



34
Table 3. Project Timetable
1. Identification                                  6/90                            6/1/90
2. Preparation                                      9/90                        10/90-8/91
3. Pre-appraisal                                   10/91                          1/27/92
4. Appraisal                                        6/92                          6/22/92
5. Negotiations                                     9/92                          10/5/92
6. Board Presentation                               3/93                          11/17/92
7. Signing                                          4/93                          12/15/92
8. Effectiveness                                    6/93                           2/8/93
9. Midterm Review                                   6/95                           6/4/96
10. Project Completion                             12/97                          6/30/99
11. Loan Closing                                    6/98                          6/30/99
Project Timetable
4119101
7/24/98  - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - -
10128195   -- - - - -    -- - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - -
C'  1/31193 -
*  5/7190                                           --
fi 8/11187  - ----   -- -- -- ------ - - --- - - - -- -- -- - 7- -- -- -- -- --- -- -
11/14/84    |  ,  ,   ,       ,    ,  ,    , _ _ _ _ _
1   2   3   4   5   6   7  8   9  10  11
Dates
F+R anned   a   Actual



35
Table 4: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(Millions of US$)
FY93     FY94      FY95      FY96    FY97   FY98    FY99
Appraisal Estimate    5.60    26.40     50.40    69.30    83.60    90.00
Revised Estimates    5.03     6.98      13.73    32.48    63.31    90.00
Actual               5.03      6.98     13.74    24.81    51.41    67.94    90.00
Actual as % of      89.82     26.44     27.26     35.80    61.50   75.49    100.00
Appraisal Estimate
Actual as % of      100.00    100.00    100.07    76.39    81.20    75.49    100.00
Revised Estimate
Disbursements
190
800  
.2  60
2=2         
40
30
FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99
Bank Fiscal Year
+ Appraisal Estinmte  R Pevised Estinrstes  Actual



36
Table 5: Key Monitoring Actions
O   00000070SUf 00 f; ;0Acfts                TiknbletASAR)   Status/Remarks
1. POLICY
INSTITUTIONAL
REFORMS
A. Health Financing         A. 1 Furnish the Bank information on the  No later than    Completed
progress of implementation of the new    December 15,      December 1992
financing schemes at the secondary and   1992
tertiary care levels in the five pilot HSAs.
A.2 Review with the Bank the results of the    No later than  Completed
above pilot test and agree on appropriate,  June 30, 1993  between 1993-
carry out recommended options.                             1994
A.3 Review status of adoption of the new  No later than    Completed March
primary care financing scheme and, as    June 30, 1993     1994
appropriate, carry out recommended options.
B. MOH Strengthening        B. I Complete MOH restructuring and carry    No later than Juiy  Completed in two-
out revised MOH functions.               1, 1993           stages: 1994-1997.
B.2 Commence initial implementation phase   No later than  Completed in
of the Service Provision Agreement in at least May 15, 1993  1993.
five HSAs.
B.3 Review with the Bank the results of the    No later than  Started in 1993
above phase.                             December 31,      and was reviewed
1993             annually.
B.4 Set up the Training Program Secretariat   No later than  Completed
in the MOH.                              January 15, 1993   February 1993
B.5 Adoption by the Government of the PCU   No later than  Completed
Operations Manual, HSRP Implementation    January 15, 1993   February 1993
Manual, Environmental Health
Implementation Manual, and Training
Instructions Manual.
B.6 Furnish the Bank the results of the  No later than     Completed May,
Manpower Planning Methodology Study and   June 15, 1993    1993
an action program for the implementation of
its recommendations.
B.7 Implement the foregoing action program    No later than  Completed June,
according to agreed schedules.           January 15, 1993   1994
B.8 Carry out a program of staff recruitment   No later than  Completed
and reassigmnent based on schedules and  March 1, 1993     March, 1993
targets agreed with the Bank.
B.9 Review with the Bank semi-annually the   No later than  Reviewed semi-
progress of the above staff recruitment and    June 15 and  annually
reassignment program.                    December 15
each year starting
on June 15, 1993.



37
Objectives                         Actions                  Timetable (SAR)   Status/Remarks
C. Health Sector Supply     C. I Furnish the Bank for its review the draft   No later than  Completed March
System (Central Supply      CSF strategic plan.                     June 30, 1993     1993. In 1995,
Facility)                                                                             Loan agreement
was amended due
to Government
request to
transformn the CSF
into a commercial
intermediary
between the HSAs
and the private
suppliers of health
sector inputs.
C.2 Furnish the Bank for its review an action   No later than  Loan agreement
program detailing the steps to be taken for the  June 30, 1993  was amended
conversion of the CSF into an autonomous                  (January 1995)
public enterprise.
C.3 Review with the Govermment the status    No later than  Loan agreement
of the action program implementation    September 15,    was amended.
including the legal framework converting the   1993      (January 1995)
CSF into an autonomous enterprise.
D. Streamlining of the Public  D. 1 Furnish the Bank for its review a draft of  No later than  Completed March
Health Institute           the feasibility study on ISP's potential to  April 30, 1993  1993. Its
enter into joint venture with a private firm.             implementation
was a futile effort.
Therefore, in 1995
the loan agreement
was amended to
include the
preparation of a
strategic plan to
identify and
clarify ISP
mission.
D.2 Furish the Bank for its review a draft  No later than  A draft was
program for modernization of ISP's tariff  October 15, 1993  prepared but was
structure, administrative procedures and                  not submitted to
supply functions.                                        the Bank due to
amnendment.
D.3 Implement, as appropriate, the      No later than     Loan agreement
recommendations of the above program    January 15, 1994  was amended to
according to a timetable satisfactory to the              prepare a new
Bank.                                                     strategy (January
1995)
E. Monitoring and           E. 1 Furnish the Bank reference benchmark  No later than  Completed July
Evaluation                  data for the monitoring and evaluation   April 30, 1993   20, 1993
indicators, and as appropriate, quality of care
and efficiency of health services indicators.
E.2 Start Government and Bank Mid-Term  No later than     Completed in June
Review of the HSRP.                      June 15, 1995    1996



38
F. Policy Letter            F. 1 Furnish the Bank a letter incorporating  No later than  September 1992
Government's commitment to provide the   October 15, 1992
required financing for the direct and
incremental recurrent costs implied by the
implementation of the agreed sector reforms
and infrastructure works.



39
Table 6: Studies Included in the Project
Studly                 Purpose as defJed at apperaisalArerdefined                   Status                       pact Com tents of study
I. Mn'isity of Iealth Studies
Ministry of Health           Carry out a revision of the MOII's organizational structure to   Completed in 1993  These studies provided the necessary background
Reorganization               focus it on its nornative and supervisory tasks.                                    for the optimization of the MOH's supervisory role
and for its reorganization. They also provided
proposals on the organizational structure. They
proposed a new operational coordination between
the central level and the health services based on
the "service provision agreements"
Public Health Sector Diagnosis  To strengthen the operational and organizational     Completed in 1998           These studies contributed to the transference of
(DlPA)                       administrative area of the 'Direcci6n de Presupuesto y                               administrative and financial functions from the
Administraci6n" by providing the necessary human, technical                         PCU to the MOH. They also contributed to the
and financial resources.                                                            transference of competent personnel to carry out
these functions. In addition, they helped to
optimize the administrative procedures and the
reorganization of the "Direcci6n de Presupuesto y
Administraci6n"
Human Resources Studies (2)    To investigate the best way to achieve higher efficiency and  Completed in 1994    These studies provided the necessary background
productivity in the delivery of services, at high complexity                        information to negotiate with the Ministry of
hospitals in the public health sector, through the identification                   Finance an increase in the number of positions in
of problems.                                                                        the clinical areas of health service establishments.
The positions were specifically related to the
number of doctors, dentists, chemist and
pharmacists. The studies also provided guidelines
for making Human Resources more flexible within
the sector, serving as the basis for the Law 15.076
being discusses in Congress.
Regulatory Role of MINSAL    To design and identify future activities aimed at the   Completed in May 1997        This study contributed to the optimization of
optimization of public health institutions and an overall                           MOH's regulatory role within the health sector.
improvement in population's health.
Productivity Pilot Plan:     To strengthen the decentralization processes and the separation  Completed December 1998  These studies contributed to the design, development
Management Agreements        of functions.                                                                        and implementation of the Service Provision
Agreements within the sector. They helped improve
these agreements within the context of the Strategic
Management System. Currently, the Management
Agreements are being used by the Subsecretary of
Health to manage the SNSS.
- System for Control and                                                            Completed December 1999.    This study formed the basis for the development of
Evaluation of Management                                                                                          an MIS to monitor the application of the Service
Provision Agreements.



40
Study                  Puirpose its defined at appraisal/redefine      jstatus                             Impact! Commnents of study
II   Ce tr l  up l   Fa ility   Studlies                              _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _
Credit/Billing Study        To review credit policies, billing, and collection procedures,    Completed in 1992  This study was financed under TAHRP and
profit margins, and cost and pricing policies to improve                          provided relevant information for the preparation of
profitability.                                                                    other CENABAS studies.
Strategic Plan to Transforrn  To establish the necessary actions to convert the CENABAS    This study was interrupted  The information compiled for this study provided
CENABAS into an             into an autonomous public enterprise.                 due to the new "intermediary"  the necessary background for the definition of a law
autonomous state enterprise                                                       role assumed by CENABAS.  to transform CENABAS into an autonomous public
enterprise. However, upon further preparation of
the strategic plan, the study found out that a real
modernization of CENABAS could be achieved
without changing the law and that an autonomous
public enterprise was not an ideal model for
CENABAS. Consequently, a new role was
proposed for CENABAS as an intermediary. The
government requested an amendment to the loan
agreement to establish the new commnercial
intermediary role of CENABAS.
Transformation of CENABAS   To modernize the supply system through the "intermediary"    Completed between 1996-  The findings of these studies provided higher
into an intermediary of     modality.                                              1998                       stability to the supply system as a consequence of
products                                                                                                      the programming of procurement activities by
health service establishments, the saving of
resources for the users, the competitive supply of
products by the suppliers and the increase in the
quality and quantity of information relative to the
pharmaceutical market.
- Final Stage: Transformation   To disseminate and consolidate the intermediary system within  Completed June 1999
of CENABAS                  the sector.
Joint Venture               To determine the economic and financial feasibility in order to  Completed in October 1993    The results of these studies were not taken into
separate the production function from the ISP and enable it to                    consideration since the proposed measures were not
make a profitable joint venture with a third party as an                          consistent with ISP mission within the sector.
alternative.                                                                      Therefore, the joint venture was cancelled and the
Government decided that the ISP production function
be eliminated instead. The preparation of an strategi
plan to identify the real ISP mission was proposed
and the Government requested an amendment to the
loan agreement to reflect these changes.
Strategic Plan              To improve ISP managerial capability and to strengthen its  Completed in 1995     This study allowed the modification of institutional
quality control function.                                                         regulations and a process of institutional change to
modernize its operations through policies and
programs without modifying its legal framework.



41
.ady                   PIurpose as defined at appraisal/redefi ed                                              m Stats  ia lct! Con ttentts of study
W. FONASA
Resource Ailocation          To allocate resources to HSAs and municipalities at the  Financed under TAHRP and    These studies allowed the institutionalization and
Mechanisms                   secondary and tertiary level of the health public system  HSRP. Completed in 1998.    implementation of the PAD and PPP mechanisms
through the prospective mechanisms PPP and PAD.                                     into the current system. In addition, they permitted
development of new programs using the PAD
modality.
Public Health Insurance      To design new information modules to support FONASA's   Financed under TAHRP and    Contributed to the design of public insurance
Modules                      operational tasks:                                      HSRP. Completed in 1998.    modules focused on the affiliation and
intermediation, collection and procurement control.
In addition, the study contributed to the
development and implementation of these modules
by FONASA.
Health Insurance Plans and   To define and implement a series of commitments with    Financed under TAHRP and    These studies provided a premium value per
contract with the beneficiary  patients in order to improve information and beneficiaries  HSRP. Completed in 1998.    beneficiary type. This allowed the creation of the
satisfaction regarding provision of health services.                                FONASA Insurance Plan in response to
beneficiaries needs. In addition, it contributed to
the design and implementation of a commitment
with the beneficiary and to the preparation of a
"patient's rights letter."
Financial Reform: Study and  To evaluate the results of the Financial Reform which was  Financed under TAHRP and    Provided proposals to improve financial reforms
Evaluation                   implemented since 1992.                                 HSRP. A draft completed in    developed under the project.
July 1999.



42
Table 7A: Project Costs (US$000)
I. DECENTRALIZATION OF HEALTH SERVICES DELIVERY
A. MOH Restructuring                  940.00      0.00    940.00    4,419.20   603.80   5,023.10
B. Central Supply Facility (CFS)     3093.00      0.00   3,093.00    7,501.50    274.70   7,776.20
Restructuring
C. Public Health Institute (ISP)      491.00   1,692.00   2,183.00    1,618.20  1,185.70   2,803.90
Strengthening
D. Project Evaluation and Monitoring  323.00       0.00    323.00      97.10      0.00     97.10
E. Upgrading of Information Systems  12,253.00  13,208.00  25,461.00   26,467.70  0.00  26,467.70
(MOH, HSAs, CSF, ISP)                                                     I
F. Training Program (MOH, HSASs,     6,387.00     4.00  11,988.00    5,735.70     0.00   5,735.70
CSF, ISP)
G. FONASA (Fondo Nacional de Salud)     0.00      0.00       0.00     407.50    261.20    668.70
HI. NEW HEALTH CARE MODEL INFRASTRUCTURE
A. CRS                              26,721.00  11,879.00  38,600.00   39,009.40  3,143.70 42,153.20
B. CDT                              27,293.00  26,516.00  53,809.00   26,869.80 21,516.30  48,386.20
jC. Hospital Rehabilitation         14,473.00  14,739.00  29,212.00   25,241.20  8,528.50  33,769.70
ID. Hospital Const/Reconst.         35,146.00  32,449.00  67,595.00   54,922.70 50,628.80 105,551.40
E. Emergency Units                   4,593.00   2,994.00   7,587.00   546.90      0.00    546.00
F. HAS Project Management Support    2,526.00     0.00   2,526.00    1,501.20     0.00   1,501.20
1III. SPECIAL PROGRAMS
A. Cervical Cancer Program            978.00    972.00   1,950.00     532.20    530.70   1,062.90
|B. Environmental Health               175.00      0.00     175.00       0.00     0.00      0.00
IV. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
A. PCU                               3,543.00    124.00   3,667.00    2,909.70  3,195.80   6,105.60
B. Auditing                           162.00      0.00     162.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
SUBTOTAL                             3;705.00    124.00   3 8290      ,0      3,195,80   6,105.60
lBaseline Costs                  l139,097.00 104,576.00 243,673.00]  197,780.00 89,869.40 287,649.40
A. Physical Contingencies           8,481.00   6,675.00  15,156.00   -
B. Price Contingencies             26,602.00  13,366.00  39,968.00   -
fTQTAL PJT COSTS                   1 80  E                    0         000      60 287: 4940a
Note: Local costs include Japanese Grant of US$0.75.



43
Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)    Actualatest estimate (US$M)
Local   Foreign t             Local   Foreign
Source           Costs                ToCosts  Total  Costs  Costs   Total
IBRD/IDA                 41.2      48.8      90.00      0.00     90.00      90.00
Government              208.8*     0.00      208.8    197.03      0.00     197.03
Japanese Grant           0.00      0.00      0.00       0.75      0.00      0.75
Facility
TOTAL                 250.0      48.8      298.8    197.78    90.00      287.78
*Government financing includes local taxes and duties (US$55.2 million)



44
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
000;:0Stag  of Pr';l007R;7 s g oject Cycl                                Wek '-US$(OO'O)70   7:      %
Preparation to Appraisal                                                      159.2         387,843
Appraisal                                                                      13.6          42,414
Negotiations through Board Approval                                             7.2          21,735
Supervision                                                                   100.9         315,038
Completion                                                                                       672
Total0000000fi:0ff:0                                                          280000;00000t;t00 fi;;:0:0t00000000::'7l70000\0000 t;if:::t0.9w  :!76'=7,7



45
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
Rating4
Days per Specialized Staff
Stage of Project Cycle   Montbl   Na. of   person!           Skills        Impl   Devt.        Types Of
Year   Persons    Field        Represented5    Status   Objs.    Proiemn
Identification/Research     6/90       4         12        E/HS(2)/PHS        n/a     n/a          n/a
Preparation                10/90       9          13      E/F/HE/HS(2)/                            n/a
PHE/OA/P
Preparation                 2/91       3          10         E/HS/PHS         n/a      n/a         n/a
Preparation                 4/91       1          5             HE            n/a      n/a         n/a
Preparation                 8/91       1          5             HE            n/a     n/a          n/a
Pre-Appraisal               1/92       8         10       E/HS/PHS(2)/P/    n/a        n/a         n/a
IS/M
Pre-Appraisal               4/92       1          5             HE            n/a      n/a         ni/a
Pre-Appraisal               6/92       1          9              A            n/a     n/a          n/a
Appraisal                  6-7/92      7         12       E/HS/PHS(2)/P/    n/a       n/a          n/a
IS/OA
Supervision                 3/93       7          4      E/HS/IS/A/PHS/        1       1           n/a
P(2)
Supervision*               10/93       3                      E/HS/D          n/a     n/a          n/a
Supervision                 5/94       6          3       E/HE/HS/PHS/         S       S           n/a
A/P
Supervision                4/95        3          4          E/HE/OA           S       S           n/a
Supervision                 6/95       1          6              A            n/a     n/a          n/a
Supervision*               10/95       5                   E/OA/P/AU/          S       S           n/a
POHS
Supervision                 3/96       1         11           POHS             S       S           n/a
Mid-Term Review*            6/96       6                 POHS/HE(2)/IS/                            n/a
E
Supervision                 3/97       2          5           POHS/P          HS       S           PM
Supervision                 6/97       2          3          POHS/HE          HS      HS           n/a
Supervision                 1/98       1          5           POHS             S       S           PM
Supervision                 6/98       2          7          POHS/HiE          S       S           PM
Supervision                 1/99       2         10          POHS/HE           S       S           n/a
Supervision*                6/99       2                     POHS/HE           S       S           n/a
Completion                  7/99       4          7       POHS/E/HS/PA                             n/a
* These missions took place in Washington.
4  Ratings: IH/S=no problem; 2/s=moderate problems.
A= Architect; AU= Auditor; D=Disbursement; E= Economist; F= Financial Analyst; HS= Health Specialist; HE= Health
Economist; IS= Information Specialist; M= Management Specialist; OA= Operations Analyst; P= Procurement; PHS=
Public Health Specialist; PA= Project Assistant, POHS= Pop. Health Specialist.
Types of Problems: A = Accounting; CF = Counterpart funds; DIS= disbursement; IP= Implementation Progress; L = legal;
PM = Project Management Specialist; P = Political situation in country; PR = Procurement; T = Technical.



46
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
LA. Section    Covenant  Stas           fOriinal      RevWied
Type               F                5i4lmen t Fufietscriptinf Covenant
3.01 (b)         5         C                                   MOH shall enter into a master   Complied with
agreement with each Executing
Agency.
3.01(b)          5         C                                   MOH shall enter into an         Complied with
implementation agreement with
each Implementation Agency.
3.03            5         C        07/01/93                   New Structure of the MOH shall    Complied with (April
have been put into effect.      1994)
3.04(a)          5         C        05/15/93                   MOH shall enter into Service    Complied with
Provision Agreements with at least  (January, 1995)
five HSAs.
3.04(b)          5         C        12/31/93       03/30/96    MOH shall exchange views with   Complied with
the Bank on the results of the  (March, 1996)
implementation of the Service
Provision Agreements.
3.05           10         C                                   MOH's Training Secretariat shall   Complied with
carry out Part A-4 of the project
according to the Training
Instructions Manual.
3.06(a)          5         C        06/15/93                   MOH shall exchange views with    Complied with (May
the Bank on a study to develop a  1993)
manpower planning methodology
to determine the personnel
structure to be adopted by HSAs,
and an action program for the
implementation of such study's
recommendations.
3.06(b)         10         C        01/15/94                   MOH shall carry out the action  Complied with (June
program mentioned in Section    1994)
3.06(a)
3.07(a)          5         C        03/01/93                    MOH shall start a program to   Complied with (March
recruit and reassign staff in the  1993)
MOH and Implementing agencies.
3.07(b)          5         C                                   Review with the Bank the progress  Complied with.(Semi-
of carrying out above program.  annually)
3.08(a)         10         C        06/30/93       12/31/95    The Borrower, through MOH, in    Complied with (loan
coordination with the CSF, shall    amendment January
not later than December 31, 1995,   1995)
furnish to the Bank a report on the
actions carried out, as well as a
future action program, satisfactory
to the Bank, for the transformation
of the CSF into a commercial
intermediary between the HSAs
and the private suppliers of health
sector inputs.
3.08(b)         10         C        09/15/93       06/30/96    The Borrower, through MOH, in    Complied with (loan
coordination with CSF, shall not    amendment January
later than June 30, 1996, review  1995)
with the Bank the progress in the
implementation of such action
program mentioned in 3.08(a)
above.



47
L.A. Section    Covenant   Status       Original       Revised
Type               Fulfillment   FuflJlment         Description of Covenant
Date          Date                                             Comments
3.09(a)(i)        10         C        06/30/93                    MOH shall furnish the Bank a draft  Complied with
feasibility study on ISP's potential  (March 1993)
to enter into a joint venture with a
private firm.
3.09(a)(ii)       10         C         10/15/93      03/15/95     The Borrower, through MOH, shall  Complied with. Loan
cause ISP to furnish to the Bank  amendment May 1995.
for its review a strategic plan
which will allow ISP to carry out
its mission including a
modernization of its administrative,
procurement and distribution
procedures.
3.09(b)          10         C        01/15/94                   ISP shall implement the           Complied with
recommendations of the plan      (September 1995)
referred to in 3.09(a)(ii) above.
3.10            9          C        04/30/93                   MOH shall furnish the Bank
reference benchmark data for     Complied with
indicators to monitor and evaluate   (July 1993)
the Project.
3.11(a)          I          C        08/31/94       06/30/95     MOH shall exchange views with    Complied with (Semi-
the Bank on the availability of staff  annually)
and the amounts required for
carrying out project activities the
next succeeding year.
3.11(b)           I         C        10/30/94       10/20/95     MOH shall furnish the Bank for   Complied with
comments the proposed public    (annually)
sector health budget for the next
succeeding year.
3.110            9          C        09/15/93       04/01/96    MOH shall review with the Bank:   Complied with
(i) Project implementation
progress; (ii) adequacy of the
health sector financing and budget;
and (iii) the Project's estimated
benefits.
3.12(a)          9          C                                    MOH shall furnish the Bank a semi  Complied with
-annual report on the physical and   (annually)
financial implementation of parts B
and C of the Project.
3.12(b)          9          C        01/31/94                    MOH shall furnish the Bank an    Complied with
annual implementation progress
report for the previous year and a
work plan for the succeeding
calendar year.
3.13            5          C        01/31/94                    MOH shall: (a) maintain the PCU  Complied with
with adequate staff, functions and
funds; (b) cause the PCU to carry
out Part D of the project in
accordance with the PCU
Operation Manual.
4.01(b)           1         C                       06/30/95     Borrower shall furnish the Bank  Complied with
not later than six months after the    (annually)
end of each year an audit report
satisfactory to the Bank. ,



48
L.A. Section    Covenant  StatUs    Or iginal        A"vtit: 
TypeFiflmn                        iJlnet          DsrpinfCoeaz
Date   i        ate                                           Comments
3.15           9         CP                      03/31/98    The Borrower, through the MOH,   Model contract
shall furnish to the Bank not later   (complied with in
than March 31, 1998: (a) a copy of  January 1998). Report
the model contract to be signed  Outlining indicators
between FONASA and a           (complied with in
beneficiary of the public health  December 1998).
system, and a report outlining the    Report on
indicators of improved service  Implementation (not
delivery that will be employed to    complied with)
measure compliance with said   Part (b) was not
contract; and (b) a report on the  complied because
implementation of provider     PAD/PPPs were not
payment mechanisms in the context developed for
of public specialized care     procedures conducted
ambulatory facilities and public    in new ambulatory
hospitals.                     care facilities.
3.16           5         NC                      3/31/98     The Borrower, through the MOH,   Negotiation with the
shall, not later than March 31, 1998, Ministry of Planning
furnish to the Bank a document  greatly delayed the
containing a description of the  definition of this
proposed management modalities to  study. It will no longer
be analyzed or tested under Part A.7  be financed by the
of the Project.                project.
They will be tested in
three pilot facilities.
3.17           10         C        12/31/97      12/31/97    The Borrower, through the MOH,   Complied with
shall not later than December 31,    Although an
1997 establish an evaluation   evaluation system was
system for Project implemented  not implemented, a
reforms as set forth under Part A.8  comprehensive
of the Project.                evaluation of the
project was conducted.
Moreover, as part of
the monitoring of
compliance with
management contracts,
an information system
has been set up which
contains many reform
variables.
Covenant Types:
I = Account/audits                                        10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
2 = Financial perforrnance/revenue generation from beneficiaries    11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
3.=Flow and utilization of project funds                  12= Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
4.= Counterpart funding                                   13 = Other
5 = Management aspects of the project or executing agency  Covenant Status: C = Covenant complied with
6.= Environmental covenants                               CD = complied with after delay
7 = Involuntary resettlement                              CP = complied with partially
8 = Indigenous people                                     NC = not complied with
9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting



49
Table 11: Assessment of Project Outcome
A. Key Performance Indicators: Actual versus Target
Key Performance Indicators          Baseline   Target      Actual
(12/31/98)
* Number of Health Service Areas                  0       27          27
(HSAs) that signed Management Agreements.    (1992)
* Proportion of HSAs that had satisfactory     63%         -         79%
compliance on Management Agreements.        (1995)
* No. of HSAs receiving budget transfers         0       27           22
based on PAD/PPP.
* Savings from eliminating subsidy to private  US$0        -   US$2.6m
Sector by charging for care to private patients.    (1/97)
* No. of hospitals purchasing pharmaceutical     0      181          181
via intermediation.
* Savings to hospitals from using                0         -         19%
CENWBAST intermediation.                    (1993)
* HSAs with MIS installed                        0       27           10
* NO. of CDTs/CRS constructed                    0       10            9
* Persons trained annually                       0         -      34,000
* Cervical cancer screening (of target groups)  20%     80%          66%
* Environmental Education (persons trained)      0    2,000        1,171



50
B. Institute of Public Health
Comparison of Own Income and Government Transfer: 1993 - 1998
(Unit: 000' pesos and %)
1993                1994               1995                 1996                 1997                 1998
Amount      %       Amount      %      Amount       %      Amount        %       Amount       %       Amount        %
Own Income    1,167,383   41.41%  1,762,850   51.93%  1,931,275   49.35%   2,757,992    58.11%  3,504,474   65.78%    3,321,603   60.16%
Gov'nt Transfe   1,651,714   58.59%  1,632,000   48.07%  1,982,253   50.65%   1,988,500  41.89%  1,823,006   34.22%    2,199,862   39.84%
Total       2,819,097  100.00%  3,394,850  100.00%  3,913,528  100.00%  4,746,492    100.00%  5,327,480  100.00%    5,521,465  100.00%
4,000,000
3,000,000
2,000,000
1,000,000
1993      1994      1995      1996      1997      1998
. Own Income            _   Gont Transer



51
C. Facility Investments
Rehabilitationl   ReconstructionlE
ACTIVITY                  Construction/Equipment                  Equipment          quipment
HAS
CDT             CRS        HOSPITAL          HOSPITAL          HOSPITAL
Norte                San Jose                                                          San Jose 3/
Central              San Borja        Maipfi
Santiago del    Santiago del
Oriente       Oriente       Del Salvador 3/ X
East                               (Peflalolen)*   (Peffalolen)*  Calvo Makena X
West             San Juan de Dios *    Pudahuel
South              Barros Luco        El Pino                       Barros Luco         El Pino *
Southeast         Sotero del Rio X  San Ramon    San Ramon 3/    Sotero del Rio X
Antofagasta                                                      Antofagasta Calama
Llanchipal                                                         Puerto Montt X
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ___________   ~~~Castro
X: Deleted from the project scope
*: Deleted from the project but are bing implemented with government funds alone.
():New names
D. Evolution of Public Health Expenditures and Finances
Sources of Financing (%)
Public Health                                Copayments
Expenditures as % of  Insurance   Government   and Sales of    Other
Year          GDP           Premiums   Contributions    Vouchers    Income
1991           2.1            N.A.          N.A.           N.A.         N.A.
1992           2.2            28.90         31.50          30.20        9.40
1993           2.4             27.2          32.2          29.7         10.9
1994           2.4             25.6          33.0          28.1         13.3
1995           2.3             24.9          34.0           28.2        12.9
1996           2.5             25.1          35.0          28.5         11.4
1997           2.5             25.1          35.5           28.9        10.5
1998           2.7            N.A.          N.A.           N.A.         N.A.



Appendix A
CHILE
MISION DE CIERRE
PROYECTO HSRP: HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT, PRESTAMO 3527-CH
AYUDA MEMORIA
15 al 23 de julio de 1999
Una Misi6n del Banco Mundial integrada por Sandra Rosenhouse (Encargada del
Proyecto), Kye Woo Lee (Encargado del Cierre del Proyecto), Jesiis Maria Fernandez (Consultor-
Especialista en Sistemas de Salud) y Patricia Bernedo (Asistente de Proyecto), visit6 Santiago de
Chile del 15 al 23 de julio de 1999, para Ilevar a cabo la misi6n de cierre del Proyecto. Los
objetivos especificos de la misi6n fueron: (a) revisar, con el equipo de la UCP y representantes
de los distintos entes ejecutores, los resultados finales de la evaluaci6n del Provecto preparada por
el equipo de ejecuci6n del Proyecto; y, (b) recopilar la informaci6n adicional necesaria para
preparar el informe de cierre del HSRP. Para efectos del cumplimiento de sus objetivos, la
Misi6n sostuvo reuniones con el Subsecretario de Salud, Sr. Alvaro Erazo, y con directivos de
CENABAST, FONASA, ISP, Superintendencia de ISAPRES, Servicios de Salud Metropolitanos
Central y Sur. Tambien se mantuvieron reuniones con la Divisi6n de Recursos Humanos, la
Divisi6n de Atenci6n Primaria, y la Unidad de Gesti6n de Servicios del MINSAL, y directivos de
los CRSs Maipu, Pefialolen, y Pudahuel, CDT San Borja Arriaran, y con directivos de salud de
las municipalidades de Macul y La Florida. La misi6n trabaj6 estrechamente con personal del
Departanento de Estudios del Gabinete del Sr. Ministro, y el equipo de la UCP. Al final de su
estadIa, la misi6n sostuvo reuniones con autoridades de la Direcci6n de Presupuesto del
Ministerio de Hacienda para infoimarle sobre los resultados de la misi6n.
La presente Ayuda Memoria resume las principales conclusiones y recomendaciones de la
misi6n. Las opiniones vertidas en la presente Ayuda Memoria son de la Misi6n. Todas sus
conclusiones y recomendaciones deben ser ratificadas por las autoridades del BIRF en
Washington, DC. Una vez sean revisadas, su ratificaci6n sera transmitida al Gobierno.
La Misi6n desea agradecer a las autoridades del MINSAL y al equipo de trabajo, las
facilidades otorgadas para el cumplimiento de sus objetivos, y la fina atenci6n brindada durante
su visita. Asimismo, la Misi6n desea agradecer a todas aquellas personas que aum, sin formar
parte del proyecto, fueron generosos con las entrevistas que otorgaron a la misi6n.



ESTADO DE AVANCE DEL PROYECTO:
COMPONENTE DESARROLLO INTEGRADO
A la fecha de cierre del Proyecto (Junio 30, 1999) se finalizaron 11.5 (la obra del Hospital
El Pino se licit6 en dos partes y se finaliz6 la primera) de los 29 subproyectos originalmente
programados. Quedan s6lo dos subproyectos (la norrnalizaci6n del Hospital Trudeau y la
construcci6n del CDT Barros Luco) en construcci6n y 7 en proceso de adquisici6n de
equipamiento (el CRS Maipu', y los complejos San Ram6n y San Jose los cuales incluyen 3
subproyectos cada uno). Se estima que los dos subproyectos en construcci6n se finalizaran
durante el primer trimestre del afio 2000. De aquellos parcialmente equipados, todos han iniciado
la etapa de marcha blanca en los servicios ya equipados. El complejo San Jose entrara a la puesta
en marcha completa en julio de 1999. Se eliminaron un total de 8.5 subproyectos, 3 por cambio
de prioridades del sector. Los 3.5 uiltimos se excluyeron del proyecto por atrasos en las
licitaciones de estos pero se estdn Ilevando a cabo con recursos propios. El gasto total en
equipamiento ajunio 30, 1999 es de aproximadamente USS45.0 millones. El gasto en obras
civiles a esa fecha es de US$ 93.9 millones.
Se acord6 que el MINSAL informara al Banco en diciembre de 1999 y junio del 2000
sobre el avance de la obra del Hospital Trudeau y CDT Barros Luco, y sobre la adquisici6n de
equipamiento para el resto de las obras en ejecucion.
COMPONENTE DESARROLLO INSTITUCIONAL
Desde la uiltima misi6n, quedaron algunas actividades pendientes, incluyendo la puesta en
marcha del sistema de informaci6n elaborado para el monitoreo de los Compromisos Gestion.
Este Sistema de Control y Evaluaci6n de la Gesti6n Estrategica del Sector (SICEGE) esta siendo
preparado para ser aplicado como piloto en tres servicios.
El Estudio de Sensibilizaci6n a la Propuesta de Estudio T&enico de la Reforma de la
Seguridad Social el cual recibi6 no objeci6n en septiembre de 1998 y sera financiado totalmente
con aporte local, se adjudic6 en enero y se estima finalice en septiembre. A la fecha se han
entregado 2 de 3 informes parciales. El equipo enviara un resumen de los resultados del estudio
antes de finales de octubre.
La Ley Medica (Proyecto de Ley 15.076), aprobada por los Colegios Medicos en junio cie
1997, ingres6 al Congreso en noviembre del mismo ano, y se encuentra en la Comisi6n de
Hacienda de la Camara del Senado.
2



Informitica. A la fecha se han finalizado los subproyectos de informatica de 8 de los 23
Servicios de Salud. S6lo el del Servicio de Salud de Aysen no formul6 un subproyecto. En junio
de 1998 se habia estimado que a la fecha habrian un total de 12 Servicios con un proyecto
informatico terminado, indicando que los subproyectos siguen sufriendo algunos atrasos. Segiin
el informe de mayo de 1999, 8 de ellos se encuentran en situaci6n de atraso, y 4 con ejecuci6n al
dia. El iiltimo de estos finalizara en diciembre de 2000. A estos se les suman los 4 proyectos
informaticos instalados en el MINSAL, el ISP, la CENABAST y el Servicio de Salud del Medio
Ambiente (SESMA). De estos, s6lo el sistema de CENABAST falta por terminar. La misi6n fue
informada que en el caso del subproyecto del ISP s6lo uno de los m6dulos funciona. Esto se
debi6 a que los otros m6dulos implicaban cambios administrativos intemos que no se Ilevaron a
cabo. Las razones por los atrasos han sido detalladas en ayudas memoria anteriores. El gasto en
este subcomponente asciende a US$18.3 millones, estimando un monto un gasto final mayor a
US$24.0 millones.
ESTADO FINANCIERO DEL PROYECTO
El Proyecto ocup6 la totalidad del prestamo, quedando por someter una ultima rendici6n
de cuentas de US$893,319.00, la cual sera enviada al Banco antes de finales de julio. La cuenta
especial se cerr6 el 16 c '. pasado. Segiin los datos disponibles a la fecha, el gasto total del
proyecto asciende a aproximadamente US$232.4 millones, de los cuales US$204.7 corresponden
a gastos en bienes y obras. Esto incluye el monto incluido en la ultima rendici6n de cuentas. El
30 por ciento del prestamo fue destinado a la compra de bienes y 65 por ciento a obras civiles. El
gasto en administraci6n del Proyecto fue de un 3.3 por ciento. (El gasto parajunio 1999 es una
estimaci6n).
INFORME DE CIERRE DEL PROYECTO
Informe de Evaluaci6n
La misi6n desea reconocer el excelente trabajo realizado en la preparaci6n de la versi6n
final del informe de evaluaci6n del proyecto HSRP preparado por los varios departamentos e
instituciones del MINSAL y coordinado con la UCP. Este informe proporcion6 informaciones
muy uitiles y sirvi6 de base para las actividades y analisis de la misi6n. La Misi6n agradece
tambien la preparaci6n oportuna de las tablas de costos y datos adicionales proporcionados.
3



Se acord6 que la UCP coordinaria algunos ajustes al informe en base a las discusiones
sostenidas con la misi6n y enviaria el informe final de evaluaci6n al Banco a mas tardar el dia 30
de julio de 1999. Asimismo, se acord6 que este informe final seria acompafiado de un resumen
de aproximadamente cinco paginas para que pueda ser incluido en el inforrne final del Banco.
Informes de Estudios y datos Pendientes
Se acord6 que la UCP enviaria una copia de los siguientes.estudios que se encuentran en
etapa de finalizaci6n al Banco, a mas tardar el 31 de agosto de 1999: a) "Reforma del Seguro
Social para Salud" realizado por MINSAL, b) "Evaluaci6n de Mecanismos Financieros en el
Sector Salud".
La misi6n solicit6 a las autoridades del FONASA le hagan Ilegar una tabla resumen
conteniendo los indicadores financieros mas importantes para mostrar el logro de sus esfuerzos.
Procesos del Informe de Cierre
El Banco acord6 enviar al Gobierno de Chile, para comentarios de las autoridades
pertinentes, el primer borrador del informe de cierre del proyecto tan pronto como este se finalice.
Posteriormente el informe se revisara e incluira los comentarios del Gobiemo de Chile para que
finalmente pueda someterse al Directorio del Banco para aprobaci6n a mas tardar el 31 de
diciembre de 1999.
Por el Ministerio de Salud de Chile
iing Escuder
ordin7 or UCP
Por el Banco Mundial
Sandra Rosenhouse                                   Kye Woo Lee
Encargada del Proyecto                          Encargado de Cierre del Proyecto
4



ANEXO I
PERSONAS CONTACTADAS
MINIS TERIO DE HACIENDA
*     Gabriel Guerrero           Jefe de Inversiones y Credito Piblico Direcci6n de
Presupuesto
*     Clelia Beltran             Jefe Sector Social Direcci6n de Presupuesto
*     Hector Arellano            Analista de Credito
MINIS TERIO DE SAL UD
DIVISION DE ATENCION PRIMARIA
*     Dr. Ricardo Fabrega        Jefe Division de Atenci6n Primaria
*     Dr. Dagoberto Duarte        Sub-jefe de Atencion Primaria
DIVISION DE RECURSOS HUMANOS
*     Dra. Maria Soledad Barria   Jefe Divisi6n de Recursos Humanos
*     Daniel del Rio             Divisi6n de Recursos Humanos
*     Mario Hinostroza            Divisi6n de Recursos Humanos
DEPARTAMENTO DE ESTUDIOS
*      Jose Pablo Gomez           Jefe Depto. de Estudio
Alberto Munioz            Asesor Depto. De Estudios
*     Jose Concha                Asesor Evaluaci6n Estudios HSRP
*     Richard Saez                Asesor Depto. Estudios
UNIDAD DE GESTION DE SERVICIOS
*     Rolando Zufiiga             Director Unidad de Gesti6n de Servicios
DIRECCIONES DE SALUD
*     Dr. Sergio Infante          Director del Servicio de Salud Met. Central
*     Dr. Mario Salcedo           Director del Servicio de Salud Met. Sur
FONASA
*      Rony Lenz                  Director FONASA
*      Carmen Postius             Jefe Unidad Estudios y Control de Gestion.
5



CENABAST
*     Emilio Jaque               Director CENABAST
*      Jorge Carikeo             Jefe Operaciones CENABAST
*     David L6pez               Jefe de Depto. de Administracion y Finanzas
CDT SAN BORJA ARRIARAN
*      Mario Ramirez             Director del CDT San Borja Arriaran
CRSs
*     Dr. Cabrera                Director CRS Pudahuel
*     Maximo Olavarria           CRS Pudahuel
*     Irma Pavez                 CRS Pudahuel
*     Elba Salinas               Director CRS Maipui
*     Elena Buroto               Subdirectora CRS Maipui
*     Pedro Garcia               Director CRS Pefialolen
SUPERINTENDENCIA DE ISAPRES
*     Alejandro Ferreiro         Director Superintendencia de ISAPRES
ISP
*      iGonzalo Navarrete       Director ISP
*      .Luis Carrasco            Jefe de Depto. de Planificaci6n y Auditoria Tecnica
*     Francisco Marquez         Jefe de Adminstraci6n y Finanzas
*     Julio Garcia               Jefe de Laboratorio
MUNICIPALIDADES
*     Jorge Figueroa             Comuna Macul
*     Victoria Paredes           Comuna Macul
*     Estrella Arancibia         Comuna Florida
UNDAD COORDINADORA DE PROYECTOS
*      Rogelio Zufiiga           Coordinador General UCP
*      Camnilo Cid               Coordinador Area Operaciones
*     Claudio Grinspun           Coordinador Area de Inversiones HSRP
*     Mirtha Oyarzun             Coordinador Area Finanzas
*     Beatriz Heyermann          Asesor Evaluaci6n HSRP
*     Luis Valencia              Asesor Informatica
$     Claudio del Canto         Asesor Area Administraci6n y Finanzas
6



Appendix B
REPUBLIC OF ClIILE
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
(LOAN 3527-CH)
Comentarios al ICR - HSRP del Banco Mundial2
El Informe asume que todas las propuestas generadas al interior de los proyectos, con o sin
discusi6n con los representantes del Banco, deben ser implementadas (Tabla 1). Modificaciones, retrasos
o cambios de orientaci6n, representan falencias en la conducci6n del proyecto y, con este supuesto, las
recomendaciones y comentarios van casi todas en la orientaci6n de realizar seminarios, viajes de estudio o
acciones de comunicaci6n a la poblaci6n y a los tomadores de decisi6n con el fin de "convencerlos" de
las bondades de tales propuestas. Visto lo anterior, creemos importante considerar que, siendo necesarias
tales acciones, estas pueden derivar en cambios a los proyectos iniciales, cambios que finalmente
determinen mayor compromiso de apoyo.
Para el Gobiemo resulta natural y hasta necesario que se produzcan modificaciones en el
proceso de implementaci6n de los proyectos, en particular del Componente Desarrollo Institucional, sea o
no a prop6sito de negociaciones como las generadas durante la tramitaci6n de las reformas en salud,
especialmente en lo referido a cambios legales en FONASA y la ley Medica, ambas materias finalmente
aprobadas en el Congreso. Desde esta perspectiva, creemos justo evaluar los proyectos y sus avances en
relaci6n con lo que existia al inicio del periodo y no s6lo sobre la base de las recomendaciones de la
literatura, las propuestas iniciales o las recomendaciones de los representantes del Banco Mundial.
Comentarios Especificos
Parrafo 10, Tabla 5 punto d y Tabla 6 punto III: ISP
En relaci6n con el presupuesto global, es necesario senfalar que uno de los objetivos del proceso
de modemizaci6n del Instituto era reducir su dependencia de los recursos transferidos desde el MINSAL,
mejorando su eficiencia en la asignaci6n de recursos entre las diferentes areas de trabajo e incrementando
los recursos provenientes de la venta de servicios a terceros. Esto se cumpli6 y resulta una de las
principales fortalezas de la actual gesti6n financiera de la entidad: entre 1993 y 1998, prActicamente se
duplic6 el presupuesto global del ISP, sin embargo, mientras el aporte fiscal aument6 en alrededor de un
33%, los ingresos propios lo hicieron en un 180%.
En relaci6n con la separaci6n de la funci6n de producci6n del ISP, si bien los estudios
realizados a comienzos de la decada de los '90 demostraron que era posible desde un punto financiero y
tecnico, no demostraron a cabalidad que existian las condiciones institucionales que hicieran viable el
proceso. En este contexto, la decisi6n de las autoridades del ISP y del Ministerio fue avanzar hacia el
fortalecimiento de la funci6n de control sin renunciar al area de producci6n. El futuro de la producci6n de
biol6gicos en el Instituto, estara determinado por los resultados y conclusiones del "Estudio de
Normalizaci6n del Instituto de Salud Publica", iniciado a partir de diciembre de 1999.
Parrafo 13 - 14: FONASA
FONASA no requiere autorizaci6n para cada compra que realice al sector privado, sino s6lo
enmarcar sus operaciones en los dictamenes de polftica que indique el Ministerio. Respecto de esta
7Los comentarios estan referidos a los parrafos de la Parte I, que sustenta el Resumen (Evaluation Summary).



atribuci6n, la autorizaci6n de compra corresponde al FONASA, en tanto que las prioridades de salud al
MINSAL, de modo que existe separaci6n de funciones junto con la intenci6n de avanzar en compras de
servicios mas costo-efectivas.
En relaci6n con la capacidad de identificaci6n de los beneficiarios de ISAPRE por parte de los
sistemas de informaci6n implantados en FONASA, debemos aclarar que tienen lacapacidad de identificar
a la totalidad de los beneficiarios de dichas Instituciones.
Parrafo 17 - 55: Compromisos de Gesti6n
En relaci6n con los Compromisos de Gesti6n, es efectivo que experimentan cambios. Entre
1993 y 1994 tuvieron un marcado enfasis de variables e indicadores financieros, asumiendo el caracter de
contratos entre la dupla Ministerio de Salud y el FONASA con los Servicios de Salud. En los afios
siguientes se incorporaron variables de politica y gesti6n sectorial, lo que les confiere un caracter de
planificaci6n. Sin embargo, no significa que han perdido la calidad de herramienta que define las
obligaciones de las partes, sobre la base de objetivos negociados y acordados anualmente. Las
restricciones del proceso negociador no corresponden a deficiencias de los Compromisos de Gesti6n, ni
son cuestiones superables por la via de estos instrumentos sino mas bien corresponde a problemas
estructurales del sector puiblico de salud.
En la experiencia desarrollada en los Compromisos de Gesti6n y su vinculaci6n con las
prioridades programaticas, se concluye que no resulta posible condicionar la relaci6n entre MINSAL-
FONASA y los Servicios de Salud a un instrumento, por importante que este sea, mientras no se
resuelvan problemas en los ambitos de recursos humanos y financiamiento del sector. La posibilidad de
negociaci6n real entre los distintos niveles del sistema depende no s6lo de las bondades macro de los
mecanismos de asignaci6n de recursos fmancieros como el PAD, sino de la adecuaci6n de ellos a
modalidades de financiaci6n "capitados" como es el caso en APS y la necesidad de determinar la mezela
adecuada de recursos en el nivel secundario, cuesti6n no resuelta a la fecha. Del mismo modo, los
incentivos vigentes en los mecanismos de financiamiento no han operado en su totalidad por lo que
resulta prematuro adelantar conclusiones sobre su efectividad real en el conjunto del sistema, tanto para
mejorar la eficiencia del sector como para alcanzar los objetivos sanitarios buscados a traves de los
Compromisos de Gesti6n.
Por otro lado, a los analisis de costo efectividad tradicionales debera incorporarse criterios
provenientes de la epidemiologia clinica y de las ciencias sociales: por ejemplo en la prioridad establecida
durante 1997 para el programa de hipertensi6n arterial, su mejor defensa es que resulta mas costo efectivo
actuar preventivamente sobre el 18% de poblaci6n adulta que tiene hoy el problema, que esperar a que
desarrollen cardiopatias y/o enfermedades vasculares encefalicas de alto impacto social y econ6mico para
la poblaci6n y para el sistema de salud.
P.arrafo 19: PAD - PPP
El proceso de implantaci6n del mecanismo de pago para la atenci6n secundaria y terciaria,
conocido como PAD-PPP, no abarcaba toda la red de establecimientos que administran los Servicios de
Salud ni consideraba una cobertura de cien por ciento8 de las transferencias. Por otro lado, las canastas
PAD incorporan el gasto en recursos humanos.
En el caso de la Atenci6n Primaria, en 1999 todas las comunas que administran establecimientos
de nivel primario cuentan con la modalidad de financiamiento percapita y con instrumentos de
Las estimaciones de FONASA indican, sobre la base de un analisis costo-beneficio, que las transferencias a traves del
mecanismo PAD deberian representar aproximadamente un 40% de las transferencias a los Servicios de Salud y el porcentaje
restante deberia ser a traves del mecanismo PPP.



negociaci6n denominados Compromisos de Gesti6n, los que estan adaptados a la realidad de cada
localidad pero mantienen las direccionalidad establecida por las politicas de caracter nacional. Desde
1996 existe un item financiero para incentivos al cumplimiento de los objetivos y que fluctua entre el 2 y
el 3% del presupuesto global del Plan de Salud Familiar. Adicionalmente, se ha mejorado el aporte
presupuestario a las comunas bajo criterios de equidad y eficiencia que, incentivando la gesti6n
descentralizada de los establecimientos, mejore sustancialmente el nivel de salud y la calidad de atenci6n
a la poblaci6n. En los ultimos dos afios esto se traduce en incrementar hasta un 25%  los recursos
financieros de aquellos establecimientos que se acreditan como Centros de Salud Familiar.
Parrafo 21- 58: Ley Medica
Algunas precisiones: primero, la Ley fue aprobada. Segundo, las caracteristicas de la ley
otorgan nuevas facultades y flexibilidades a los gestores hospitalarios. Tercero, no perdi6 aspectos
centrales en la discusi6n sino que fueron precisados ciertos procedimientos y aspectos financieros, entre
ellos el de los estimulos parajjubilaciones.
Parrafos 23- 24- 74- 92: PAG
El Programa de Apoyo a la Gesti6n (PAG) se ejecut6 entre 1993 y 1997, tal como se habia
disefiado en el SAR: un proyecto con fondos concursables, dirigidos por una secretaria independiente que
desapareci6 una vez terminado el proyecto9. El PAG se operacionaliz6 a traves de un fondo de recursos
concursables por los Servicios de Salud e Instituciones Aut6nomas, al cual se postulaba anualmente a
traves de la presentaci6n de proyectos de capacitaci6n'0. Estos se evaluaban con criterios estAndar
buscando privilegiar proyectos que impactaran en cambios en la gesti6n de los centros de atenci6n de alta
y mediana complejidad y en los directivos y que, por lo tanto, apoyaran la gesti6n que se estaba
implementando con los otros componentes del proyecto. En este periodo se realizaron 1.365 proyectos
descentralizados, con un costo total de $ 2.373,7 millones (en moneda de 1997). El promedio anual de
personas capacitadas fue de 31.393 personas con un aumento de un 57.7% con relaci6n al periodo
anterior? .
Cabe destacar que el PAG no es la unica fuente de capacitaci6n disponible por los Servicios de
Salud y, anualmente, disponen de un presupuesto que es manejado por las unidades de capacitaci6n. Para
medir los resultados de la capacitaci6n realizada en el sector se hizo el "Estudio Evaluativo de la
Capacitacion del SNSS"''2, concluyendo que se ha mejorado la oferta de capacitaci6n, aumentando la
participaci6n de los trabajadores en las definiciones de 6stas y que se ha producido, a juicio de los
funcionarios, un impacto real en el desempenio evidenciado en una mayor eficiencia, mejor toma de
decisiones, mejor trato funcionario y hacia los usuarios.
Parrafos 26 y 27: Proyecto Informitica
Hacia fines de 1992 el MINSAL decidi6 implementar la modalidad descentralizada para la
ejecuci6n del Proyecto de Informatica, cambiando la estrategia inicial propuesta en el SAR que
combinaba la centralizaci6n de algunos aspectos con la descentralizacion de otros. Esta situaci6n y los
factores que influyeron en la decisi6n respecto de la modalidad descentralizada de ejecuci6n fueron
discutidos con el Banco durante el MTR del HSRP.
9 El diagn6stico y evaluaci6n emanados de la realizaci6n del proyecto fueron tomados por la Divisi6n de Recursos Humanos
sirviendo de insumos para la politica de capacitacion del MINSAL a partir del aflo 1998
10 La norma del PAG defini6 que un 90% de los recursos disponibles debia ser destinado anualmente al financiamiento de
proyectos descentralizados de los servicios de salud e instituciones dependientes del MINSAL.
" El numero de funcionarios en sector salud es aproximadamente de 66.000 personas.
12 La evaluaci6n consider6 toda la capacitaci6n independientemente de la fuente de financiamiento



En raz6n de lo expuesto la cobertura del proyecto fue redefinida. El ambito de ejecuci6n serian
las Direcciones y los Hospitales Base de 23 Servicios de Salud del pais, el Servicio de Salud
Metropolitano del Ambiente, la Central Nacional de Abastecimiento, el Instituto de Salud Puiblica y el
Ministerio de Salud. Posteriormente se incluyeron cuatro hospitales mas, de Servicios ya incorporados al
proyecto y la replica de sistemas en tres CRS y tres CDT. Esta cobertura que es la cobertura actual, es
bastante mas amplia que lo estipulado en el SAR y signific6 que la cantidad de establecimientos o
unidades a informatizar aument6 de 38 a 60. Este aumento de la magnitud del proyecto en mas de un
50%, acrecent6 los plazos y costos respecto del SAR, lo que se dio a conocer en el MTR.
Con relaci6n al parrafo 27 y la limitada capacidad de la oferta local de proveedores, cabe
destacar que entre las empresas proveedoras se encuentran mayoritariamente compafiias intemacionales
como IBM, NCR, XEROX y otras.
Durante la ejecuci6n del proyecto el MINSAL siempre mantuvo sistemas de supervision y
control del proyecto, a traves de la UCP y otras unidades de su dependencia, asignando las labores apoyo
tecnico, de manejo financiero y administrativo y la supervisi6n general de las actividades.
El 48% de la cartera ha finalizado durante los ultimos dos afios y un tercio de ella en 1999. A
diciembre de 1999 han finalizado 15 proyectos los que significa haber informatizado 15 direcciones de
Servicios de Salud, 19 hospitales, 3 CDT, 3 CRS, SESMA, ISP y MINSAL. Se espera concluir los
proyectos restantes durante el presente afno.
Por otra parte respecto a los atrasos en las Instituciones, cabe sefialar que el ISP ejecut6 en el
tiempo acordado. El proyecto del MINSAL termin6 en los tiempos previstos pero debido a los cambios
legales se debi6 realizar adecuaciones al modulo de Recursos Humanos y de Finanzas, en acuerdo con la
empresa IBM. Por uiltimo el FONASA no tuvo proyecto informatico en la cartera MINSAL-BIRF.
Los proyectos de informatica han hecho un aporte importante al fortalecimiento institucional del
sector salud, a traves de su apoyo a los procesos operativos y administrativos de los niveles productivos y
directivos. Las evaluaciones parciales acerca de los impactos y calidad de los proyectos finalizados,
muestran un aumento de la capacidad informatica instalada, mejoramiento de la gesti6n clinica y
financiera, disminuci6n de los tiempos de espera y un aumento en los ingresos por prestaciones en
servicios de urgencia, contribuyendo a la mejora de la calidad y oportunidad de los servicios entregados a
los usuarios en los establecimientos impactados. Tambidn ha sido importante, el aporte del proyecto en
las mejoras del clima laboral y culturaorganizacional lo que redunda finalmente en el fortalecimiento de
los equipos de trabajo.'3
Parrafo29: Aumento oferta ambulatoria
El aumento de la atenci6n ambulatoria de nivel primario, producido durante los afios 1990 y
1992, se relaciona principalmente con dos sucesos: i) ampliaci6n en los horarios de atenci6n de los
consultorios (terceros tumos) y la gratuidad de la atencion para todos los consultantes,
independientemente de su previsi6n. Esto uiltimo se mantuvo s6lo los dos primeros afnos, y ya a partir de
1993 se diferenci6 la atenci6n de beneficiarios y no beneficiarios. ii) los Servicios de Atenci6n Primaria
de Urgencia (SAPU), ubicados en algunos consultorios, reciben durante las 24 horas consultas de
urgencia de baja complejidad. El proyecto MINSAL Banco Mundial, no financi6 ninguna de estas
iniciativas.
13 Para mas detalle ver informe de evaluaci6n del prestatario



Parrafo 31- 50 - 55: Recurso Humano en centros de Especialidad
El problema de insuficiente cantidad de horas medicas de especialistas afectaprioritariamente a
los CAEs del pais. Los especialistas trabajan, preferentemente, media jomada en los centros puiblicos y la
otra media jornada en servicios privados ambulatorios o en atenci6n cerrada. Esto hace dificil completar
el equipo de profesionales de los centros de especialidad, sobre todo si estos no se encuentran adosados a
un hospital, lugar donde realizan sus actividades. Estos problemas se han producido tambien en los
establecimientos nuevos, a pesar de lo cual tienen altos niveles de producci6n y rendimientos mejores que
el promedio nacional. Por ejemplo en los CRS el Pino, Cordillera y Salvador Allende, la producci6n de
consultas casi se triplic6 a partir de su puesta en marcha. Las cirugias y los examenes radiol6gicos se han
incrementado en 4 veces y los examenes de laboratorio se duplicaron.
En algunos centros nuevos, se desarrollan formas diferentes de trabajo con contratos a jornadas
parciales, arriendo de espacio y equipamiento en forma posterior al cumplimiento de su horario,
estrategias que permiten aumentar las horas de atenci6n. Esto ain es incipiente ya que todas estas
modalidades de gesti6n deben atenerse a las normas administrativas del sector publico y de los
establecimientos de salud. Actualmente y tras haberse aprobado en el Congreso la ley Medica se podra
desarrollar nuevas estrategias para atraer a los profesionales especialistas hacia los centros de atenci6n
ambulatorios.
En relaci6n con lo planteado en el parrafo 55, en la practica no se produce el traspaso de
pacientes desde el nivel primario hacia los niveles secundarios y terciarios, con el objetivo de reducir
costos. Esto se debe a que el sistema de derivaci6n es dirigido por las unidades tecnicas que han definido
normas entre los niveles, las que especifican lo que debe resolverse y en qu6 nivel de atenci6n. Por otra
parte el cuello de botella corresponde al nivel secundario, lo que dificulta ain mas que se deriven
pacientes desde el nivel primario. Estos uiltimos afios incluso se ha puesto en practica un sistema de
compra de especialidades, en el cual el nivel primario compra servicios ya sea en los centros puiblicos
como privados de las especialidades que requiera y a las cuales tenga menos acceso.
Parrafo 34 - 35 - 36- 37: Programa de Cancer Cervico - Uterino
La principal estrategia del programa fue aumentar la cobertura y confiabilidad del examen
preventivo (PAP) en mujeres entre 25 y 64 aflos de edad, hasta alcanzar -el anio 2000-, un 80% de
cobertura a nivel nacional. Entre 1990 y 1996 se produjo un incremento de 15,5 puntos, pasando de
50,3% de cobertura en 1990 a 65.8% en 1996. Se ha mejorado tambien la focalizaci6n del examen
preventivo en la poblaci6n de riesgo: mientras en 1987 el 78% del PAP se tomaba en poblacion entre 25 y
64 afios, en .1996 su cobertura habia aumentado a un 85% con una frecuencia de un PAP cada tres anos.
Esta estrategia se apoya en los estudios de costo efectividad realizados que muestran que en situaciones
de alta incidencia de cancer invasor, como ocurre en Chile, la maxima protecci6n al menor costo se
obtiene al realizar un PAP cada tres afios comenzando a la edad de 25 afios.
En relaci6n con los laboratorios de diagn6stico, a fines de 1993 con apoyo del Proyecto
MINSAL - Banco Mundial y mediante un convenio entre el Instituto de Salud Puiblica y la Universidad
de Chile, se organiz6 el Laboratorio de Referencia Nacional de Citopatologia para controlar la calidad de
los laboratorios del sistema puiblico y de aquellos privados que se adscribieran a la red. Una medida de la
efectividad alcanzada por este laboratorio de referencia nacional, es la correlaci6n entre el diagn6stico
histol6gico y el informe citol6gico: comparando los valores predictivos positivos, en 1996 estos se
mantienen del orden del 79% para informes citol6gicos LIE de Alto Grado y del 95% para el Cancer
Invasor, cifras que resultan comparables a los buenos laboratorios de la literatura internacional.
En relaci6n con la derivaci6n y el tratamiento de los casos detectados, es necesario
complementar a la informacion entregada en el informe, lo siguiente: mientras en 1990, el 64% de las



mujeres con PAP(+) resolvian totalmente su problema en menos de 90 dias, este porcentaje se increment6
al 81% en 1996.
Parrafo 41: Ejecuci6n financiera del HSRP
A nuestro entender la comparaci6n que hace el Banco entre costos reales y costos estimados por
componente es incorrecta ya que no considera las contingencias fisicas y de precios establecidas en la
Tabla 6.1 y en el Anexo 7 del SAR. De este modo, el costo estimado por el SAR para la ejecuci6n era de
298,8 millones de d6lares, con lo que efectivamente el costo de ejecuci6n del proyecto disminuy6 en un
3,7%. Sin embargo, esta disminuci6n afect6 en um 5,93% al componente infraestructura (este no aument6
en un 16% como sefiala el documento), y en un 56,52% el componente programas especiales y no en un
50% como dice el informe. Los otros componentes aumentaron pero en porcentajes bastante menores a
los indicados. Por ejemplo, el componente descentralizaci6n de los Servicios lo hizo en 7,03%, y los
gastos en administraci6n, aun con la extensi6n del proyecto, representaron un 2,1% del total, lo que
coincide con la estimaci6n inicial calculada a partir del Anexo 7 del SAR donde estan distribuidas las
contingencias de precios y fisicas. Por filtimo, el proyecto se complet6 con un anio de atraso respecto a lo
comprometido en el convenio de prestamo, lo cual fue reconocido mediante enmienda. Pero cabe sefialar
que nunca se proyect6 en cuatro afios de duraci6n como dice el informe.
Parrafo 49 - 68: UCP
El fondo rotatorio surgi6 como una estrategia, consensuada con el Banco, para solucionar el
problema de bajos desembolsos. Sin embargo, la UCP constat6 que el monto de las cuentas especiales era
suficiente para tener holguras en el credito disponible, que nunca se dej6 de realizar un gasto por falta de
financiamiento y que la verdadera restricci6n era el presupuesto anual. Nuevamente en acuerdo con el
Banco, se volvio al sistema original logrando utilizar todo el credito TAHRP y HSRP, a pesar de las
dificultades en los procedimientos de desembolso del Banco como los descuentos a los desembolsos
calculados como porcentaje para el anticipo.
A partir de marzo de 1994 la gesti6n del Proyecto se ubic6 en la Divisi6n de Planificaci6n
Estrat6gica (DIPLAE) y se estableci6 la separaci6n de roles, delegAndose en el Departamento de
Desarrollo Institucional de la responsabilidad de los contenidos y de la coherencia tecnica con los
objetivos del acuerdo, del componente de Descentralizaci6n. La UCP por su parte realizaria una
verificaci6n del cumplimiento integral de los procedimientos de contrataci6n establecidos en ambos
acuerdos y del cumplimiento de los objetivos generales del proyecto. Tambidn se cre6 la Direcci6n de
Presupuesto y Administraci6n dentro de la Subsecretaria de Salud que extrajo las areas de administraci6n
y finanzas de las unidades de proyectos.
De acuerdo a la evaluaci6n del MTR del TAHRP esta situaci6n gener6 problemas de
coordinaci6n y gesti6n lo que implic6 que hacia fines de 1994 las funciones financiero-presupuestarias
volvieran a la UCP. Pero esto nunca signific6 perdida de control de los costos, ya que las instancias
normativas nacionales permiten operar en un marco financiero adecuado y conocido por las partes
involucradas.
Hacia fines de 1997 se plante6 la necesidad de una reestructuraci6n de las unidades de
proyectos, bajo la responsabilidad de la Divisi6n de Inversiones y Desarrollo de Red Asistencial
(DINRED, heredera de la DIPLAE). Sin embargo, dado que en esa fecha se asistia al pleno auge de la
inversi6n del proyecto MINSAL-Banco Mundial, al que le quedaban prActicamente dos afios de



ejecuci6n, las autoridades ministeriales decidieron ubicar la UCP bajo la dependencia directa del
14
Ministro
Parrafo 54: FONASA
Es conveniente hacer algunas precisiones. En primer lugar, con la implementaci6n de los
sistemas de informaci6n es posible determinar la totalidad de los beneficiarios de ISAPRE que reciben
prestaciones en los establecimientos del Sistema Nacional de Servicios de Salud, a los cuales dichos
establecimientos les cobran una tarifa superior a la establecida para los beneficiarios de FONASA, tarifa
que en promedio incorpora tanto los costos reales de operaci6n como los costos de capital. Segundo, si
bien es cierto que en la actualidad los beneficiarios de ISAPRE   presentan deudas con los
establecimientos del Sistema, originadas principalmente por atenciones de emergencia en dichos
establecimientos, to que en el caso de que tales deudas se transformen en incobrables se convertirian en
un subsidio hacia los beneficiarios de ISAPRE, la reciente aprobaci6n de la ley 19.650, conocida como la
ley FONASA, al incorporar la obligaci6n para las ISAPRE de pagar todas las atenciones de emergencia
que reciban sus beneficiarios eliminara este potencial subsidio de los establecimientos del SNSS hacia
estas personas. En tercer lugar, la ley 19.650 define un periodo de cuatro aflos para eliminar el subsidio
del dos por ciento recibido por las ISAPRE por todos aquellos trabajadores dependientes que coticen en
esas instituciones. Finalmente, el resto de los subsidios que tendrian acceso los beneficiarios de ISAPRE
son aquellos que cualquier chileno recibiria, independiente de su calidad previsional.
Parrafo 69: Estudio sobre modalidades de gesti6n en Hospitales
En relaci6n con los comentarios sobre el incumplimiento al acuerdo de prestamo en lo
concerniente a mejoras en la capacidad de administraci6n de los proveedores del sistema pubTlico,
debemos plantear las siguientes precisiones: En primer lugar, este Ministerio decidi6 formular un
proyecto, financiado con aporte local, que correspondia a lo establecido en el punto A.7 de la enmienda al
Convenio de Prestamo de fecha 18 de Abril de 1997, pero que por materias institucionales superaban el
plazo de ejecuci6n del Convenio de Prestamo, lo que por cierto fue acordado con el Banco; En segundo
lugar, el sistema nacional de inversiones siempre Ileva a negociaciones entre este Ministerio y las
instituciones que participan de dicho sistema, lo relevante es que este proceso no conduce a
incumplimientos de terceros sino que a plantear proyectos que incorporen todas las variables relevantes,
de modo de obtener los mayores beneficios posibles de la inversi6n que el pais realice; En tercer lugar, el
proyecto en cuesti6n no se posterg6 sino que por el contrario se encuentra en ejecuci6n y, por cierto, no
ha afectado el desarrollo de los CDT y CRS; En cuarto lugar, el proyecto aprobado permiti6 obtener los
insumos para incorporar en la ley FONASA la creaci6n de tres establecimientos de salud, de caracter
experimental, como servicios publicos funcionalmente descentralizados, dotados de personalidad juridica
y patrimonio propio; En quinto lugar, el proyecto aprobado entregara los insumos, entre otras materias
respecto at modelo de gesti6n de dichos establecimiento; Finalmente, la incorporaci6n de los CDT y CRS
al modelo de atenci6n se desarroll6 en una linea de trabajo distinta, la que se ejecut6 de acuerdo a lo
convenido con el Banco, que ha permitido, entre otros t6picos, la definici6n de cronogramas de
implantaci6n, definici6n de areas de trabajo, estimaci6n de costos de operaci6n, la negociaci6n de su
financiamiento -esto ultimo en funci6n de la disponibilidad de recursos en el erario nacional-, el
desarrollo de modelos de administraci6n y de integraci6n a la red asistencial, temas que por el tiempo de
operaci6n de estos centros se encuentran en una permanente mejoria.
14 Entre 1995 y 1999 el sector invirti6 aproximadamente un promedio de 100 millones de d6lares anuales. Fue el periodo de auge
de la inversi6n del HSRP con un porcentaje cercano al 50% del total. Entre 1991 y 1995 de invirti6 s6lo 25 millones de d6lares
promedio anual.



Parrafo 70: Evaluaci6n incompleta del TAHRP
Cabe recordar que una parte de la evaluaci6n del TAHRP qued6 postergada en acuerdo con el
Banco y fue planificada y realizada en el contexto de la evaluaci6n del HSRP.
Parrafo 71: Efectos de los cambios de autoridad ministerial
Respecto de este parrafo es conveniente sefialar que, en nuestra opini6n, resultaria inapropiado
suponer que ello no es asi. Mas bien lo relevante es que debe haber predisposici6n y flexibilidad, para
que, manteniendo los objetivos generales y especificos, el proyecto se adapte a las prioridades e intereses
de las autoridades ministeriales.
Parrafo 76: Incremento producci6n en centros nuevos
La tasa de consulta de especialidad en la Regi6n Metropolitana ha crecido sostenidamente a
partir de 1990, desde 0,567 consultas por habitante afno (1990) a 0,725 consultas por habitante al anto en
1998. Con estas cifras y proyectando un incremento nulo de las consultas al aino 2000, se puede estimar
que la brecha de consultas de especialidad ha disminuido a la mitad."5
is  La brecha para el aflo 2000 sin proyecto era de 1.528.409 consultas. Con el incremento de las consultas medido al afio 1998,
la brecha pasa a ser de 732.847 consultas, un 52% menos de lo esperado. Esta brecha disminuira mas una vez que se entren
en funcionamiento todos los centros nuevos.



I



FEEi  -   BOLIVIA
U.                    ( >   tz 20'                                                                . _E\l _ _NTEZ_EN-ION EX_.INE XG
4  ff  C  H  I L E                          *f       mu ff  HOSPITALS
HEALTH SECTOR                                                 0    CRD
-31e                                     REFORM  PROJECT                                                  A             EMERGENCY UNITS
SANTIAGO  AREA                                                     *   PRIMARY HEALTH CARE POSTS
j ,    D V   t                  ((SCHEMATIC, NOT  TO  S CALE)                                                 REFERRAL FROM SECONDARY CARE
SCALE)                               - 8___ REFERRAL FROM PRIMARY CARE
HEALTH SERVICE AREA BOUNDARIES
-URBAN AREA
LOS ANDES
-    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
i50                  450                             s     .                          asd7       7
CAEUT           MONTENEGRO                  -
UNGE          CHACABUC            N
i              |                                                                                  SC   
AREA/
/                   OI O\Ll  /
NORTE                            /
POLPAICO          HUERTOS F.
INGLESES'                       AREA
LAMPF                          CANTERAS
~ US
CAC.CO s- 
OCCIDENTE/   - -; - ORIENTE
tk0~p  2 4X                   CAS     A  7    MACE-NNA
kGtSlREE.,7T ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ DR A- CERDA 
CURACAVi             CIRr                         NA             \     *..oD/PDOA  ED
VAILPAA0ALPAREtECR7
S~~, MELIF L           /                                                          EL FERAL~~~~~HYO, 
4,         A AA .     A P           -                                       (                      (MENTA BOSP E
O CCID9EFN T5         
g    P NAF OE|   4      ....................................   , i   t W   _ i, RAM ON
i_MELIPILL8Y      TLG                   PARR13CLH5A          .Pe>                  DERI
'~~~~~---, AREA 
/ \ i ef * _ t N 1 ~ORI'ENTE"
~~~~~~~~ N     GHA
Z..mprsbn  rpoa      h   ol  of   hlmdsd  o
8-k. -pn ;nee   aer  n  sfrIo,.a    zo  h   o






EBRD 23754
tTIuqe                                         ,F                                                                                                                                                   C    H  I L E
:, \            REGIONI                                                         A                                                                                                             HEALTH SECTOR
OEfAGUP \                                                                   0          FE          RTILLAR                                         REFORM  PROJECT
|~ ,.                                                                                                                            0 4   /  t  |     ,,,> taAS)  e  <REGION 11 AND X
1  I                                                                      ANOXABUR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(CEATC   NTT                         SAE
BOLIVIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LANU1U                                                                               EXISTING HOSPI1AL
A        II  '                                                                                                                    t\-UEA                                                        p
0 /@QOILAGU;   /9  B 0    I V IA  4+   t LLANQUHUE  PROJECT INTERVENTION W B G
TOCOPILLA                             / *LOSANA   i                                                                    0 O                                                                           PROJECT INTERVENTION  D B.
I X   oTOCO   V  /   TOCONCE                                                                                                                                      EXISTING  PRIMARY  HEALTH  CARE  POST
0                   1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                   " I
,f                                                                                   M |   {== P,   O  ////,   ;\  AULEIN CE>;' U CR3  'wg 0]                  0    SETTLEMENTS
I'  :.~~~~~~~~~~~~                    C-I                                                                                    'oREPERRAL PROM SECONDARY CARE
uA~~~~~~~u,uu    -  cuovANAs ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REFERRAL FROM PRIMARY CARE
t  ;  / /   P DF VALDIV A  \\N                   \                                                          ,-O          /         X           '1   .* .                            -~ -~ U  SALINE LAKES
'~~~~~'~~~~  S PRSRO  I                          A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~REGION BOUNDARIES
L  -                                                                                                                               -. - INTERNATONAL RO.SNOARIE-SIR J BU R
SIERRA GORDA          \\\\   q          TOCONAO                                                                                                                ______________________
m    NE5         X                                                                                                         B4GUEDANO  AN, C\ \\
REGION I I   s     -                                                                                                                      X
!X .il. I,.. . .  ..
AGUA~~~~~ ~ BUN  _                                                                                                                                        <"NPb        t > 0 _0iXiSS    <>3    
/~~~~~~~~~ 1*
/                                                                                                   '.LOS V ENT05  i__   /  \  Q    f o  .   h \ i  <  30.  PERJ  K
PAGUAS B ANCA   V ETNRT                                                                                                                                     I N                      \        Z                 '          RTAIA
0 I/                       .'        ji                                                                    QUEILLON|                                           '                      L\}Q                 -DDtIMILAC 
--)|~~~~           ~~~                                                                                                                                          o                                                 20' 1A '>\.t\.   XFTLUUi.t pB.
ORUEN   111                       |*           A       E       I                                                             QARILE                                                       i 0                , 
_  LOSVENS ;                                                                                                                                                                                                               AIU  19
PAPRA      /            BALMACEDA                       \*O                                                                                                                         CA(E                                              0. 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
II  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IGS   9



