Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3527 CH
Loan Agreement
(Health Sector Reform Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 15, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3527 CH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 15, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF CHILE (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Bank has received a letter dated September 17, 1992, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies for the Borrower's 
health sector, and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of such 
program, including the provision of the necessary funds therefor;
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's 
Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"CDT" means a diagnostic and treatment health center;
 
(b)
"CRS" means a health referral center;
 
(c)
"CSF" means the Borrower's Central Supply Facility (Central de 
Abastecimiento);
(d)
"Environmental Health Program Implementation Manual" means the manual, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to be adopted by the Borrower, through the MOH, containing 
instructions with respect to the mechanisms for the carrying out of Part C.2 of the 
Project;
(e)
"Executing Agency" means CSF, FONASA, ISAPREs' Superintendency, ISP or an 
HSA;
(f)
"FONASA" means the Borrower's National Health Fund (Fondo Nacional de 
Salud);
(g)
"HSA" means a Health Service Area, a legally autonomous health service of 
the Borrower created by Chapter II of the Borrower's Decree-law No. 2763 of 1979;
(h)
"Implementation Agreement" means any of the agreements to be entered into 
between the Borrower and an Executing Agency pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this 
Agreement;
(i)
"ISAPREs' Superintendency" means the Borrower's Superintendency of 
Prepaid Health Insurance Plans (Superintendencia de Instituciones de Salud 
Previsional);
(j)
"ISP" means the Borrower's Institute of Public Health (Instituto de Salud 
Publica);
(k)
"Llanchipal" means the HSA serving the provinces of Llanquihue, Chiloe 
and Palena, within the Borrower's Region X; 
(l)
"Master Agreement" means any of the agreements to be entered into between 
the Borrower and an Executing Agency pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(m)
"Metropolitan Santiago" means the area comprising the provinces of 
Santiago, Chacabuco, Cordillera, Talagante, Maipo and Melipilla;
(n)
"MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
 
(o)
"MOH's Training Secretariat" means the secretariat referred to in Section 
7.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(p)
"PCU" means the Project coordination unit referred to in Section 3.13 of 
Page  3
this Agreement;
(q)
"PCU Operation Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, to be 
adopted by the Borrower to regulate the activities of the PCU;
(r)
"Project Implementation Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank, to be adopted by the Borrower, through the MOH, containing instructions to the 
MOH and the Executing Agencies with respect to the mechanisms to carry out the Project 
(other than Part C.2 of the Project);
(s)
"Service Provision Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
(t)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(u)
"Training Instructions Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank, to be adopted by the Borrower, through the MOH, to regulate the training program 
under Part A.5 of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that shall 
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of ninety million Dollars 
($90,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank of Chile on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding 
each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest 
Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
Page  4
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank 
drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as 
the Bank has 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
 
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 
or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on June 
15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out and cause, through the Master Agreements and Implementation Agreements, the 
Executing Agencies to carry out the Project, as provided in the Annex to such Schedule 
2, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate economic, 
financial, engineering, administrative and health practices and the provisions of the 
Project Implementation Manual, the Environmental Health Program Implementation Manual, 
the PCU Operation Manual and the Training Instructions Manual, as applicable, and 
shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly  as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower, through the MOH, shall enter into an agreement (the Master 
Agreement), satisfactory to the Bank, with each Executing Agency for the purposes of: 
(i) governing the participation of such Executing Agency in the carrying out of the 
components of the Project under its responsibility; and (ii) the assumption by such 
Executing Agency of the obligations set forth or referred to in this Agreement to be 
undertaken by such Executing Agency.
(c)
The Borrower, through the MOH, shall enter into an agreement or 
agreements (the Implementation Agreement), satisfactory to the Bank, with each 
Executing Agency for the purposes of: (i)
transferring to such Executing Agency the amounts required for the carrying out of 
each component of the Project under such Agency's responsibility; (ii) describing the 
component of the Project to be financed under the Implementation Agreement; (iii) when 
applicable, establishing the obligation of such Executing Agency to provide funds for 
such component of the Project; and (iv) incorporating in the Implementation Agreement 
Page  5
the provisions of the corresponding Master Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower, though the MOH, shall exercise its rights and comply with 
its obligations under each Master Agreement and Implementation Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Master Agreement or Implementation 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a)
procurement of goods, works and consultants' services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(b)
standard bidding documents, satisfactory to the Bank, shall be utilized 
for the procurement of goods and works required by the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than July 1, 1993, put into effect 
the new organization structure for the MOH, under Part A.1 of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower, through the MOH, shall, not later than May 15, 
1993 or such later date as the Bank shall establish by notice to the Borrower, enter 
into agreements with at least five HSAs (the Service Provision Agreements) for the 
purposes of establishing targets to be attained by such HSAs with respect to the 
services to be provided by such HSAs and the annual budgetary allocations for the 
provision of such services, such agreements to be based on the guidelines agreed 
between the Borrower and the Bank.
(b)
The Borrower, through the MOH, shall, not later than December 31, 1993, 
exchange views with the Bank on the results of the implementation of the Service 
Provision Agreements.
Section 3.05. The Borrower, through the MOH's Training Secretariat, shall carry 
out or cause to be carried out Part A.4 of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Training Instructions Manual.
Section 3.06. The Borrower, through the MOH, shall: (a) not later than June 15, 
1993, prepare, and exchange views with the Bank on, a study to develop a manpower 
planning methodology to determine the personnel structure to be adopted by HSAs, and 
an action program for the implementation of such study's recommendations; and (b) not 
later than January 15, 1994, start to carry out such action program.
Section 3.07. The Borrower, through the MOH, shall: (a) not later than March 1, 
1993, start the carrying out of a program, satisfactory to the Bank, to recruit and 
reassign staff in the MOH and the Executing Agencies; and (b) review with the Bank, 
not later than June 15 and December 15 of each year during the execution of the 
Project, starting on June 15, 1993, the progress in the carrying out of such program.
Section 3.08. The Borrower, through the MOH, in coordination with CSF, shall: 
(a) not later than June 30, 1993, present to the Bank a strategic plan study 
clarifying CSF's organizational mission and values, assessing the opportunities and 
threats in CSF's external environment, identifying strategic issues facing CSF, and 
formulating strategies to manage the identified strategic issues, such study to 
include an action program, satisfactory to the Bank, detailing the steps to be taken 
for the conversion of CSF into an autonomous state enterprise; and (b) not later than 
September 15, 1993, review with the Bank the progress in the implementation of such 
action program, including the draft legislation required for the conversion of CSF 
into an autonomous state enterprise.
Section 3.09. The Borrower, through the MOH, shall cause ISP to: (a) furnish to 
the Bank, for its review: (i) not later than June 30, 1993, a draft of a feasibility 
study on ISP's potential to enter into a joint venture with a private firm, and (ii) 
not later than October 15, 1993, a draft program for modernization of ISP's tariff 
structure, administrative procedures and procurement and distribution procedures; and 
(b) not later than January 15, 1994, implement the recommendations of the program 
Page  6
referred to in paragraph (a) (ii) above, as reviewed with the Bank, in accordance with 
a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.10. The Borrower, through the MOH, shall furnish to the Bank, not 
later than April 30, 1993, reference benchmark data for indicators to monitor and 
evaluate the Project, including, as appropriate, quality of care and efficiency of 
health services indicators.
Section 3.11. The Borrower, through the MOH, shall:
(a)
not later than August 31 of each year during the execution of the 
Project, exchange views with the Bank on the availability of staff and the amounts 
required for the carrying out of the activities under the Project during the next 
succeeding year;
(b)
not later than October 1 of each year during the execution of the 
Project, furnish to the Bank, for comments, the proposed public sector health budget 
for the next succeeding year; and
(c)
not later than June 15, 1995, review with the Bank (i) the progress in 
the implementation of the Project; (ii) the adequacy of the health sector financing 
and budget; and (iii) the Project's
estimated benefits.
Section 3.12. The Borrower, through the MOH, shall prepare and present to the 
Bank:
(a)
not later than July 31 and January 31 of each year during the execution 
of the Project, a semi-annual report, satisfactory to the Bank, on the physical and 
financial implementation of Parts B and C of the Project during the previous 
January-June and July-December periods, respectively; and
(b)
not later than January 31 of each year, an annual implementation progress 
report, satisfactory to the Bank, on the implementation of the Project during the 
previous calendar year and a work plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the applicable 
calendar year.
Section 3.13. The Borrower, through the MOH, shall: (a) maintain the PCU with 
adequate staff, functions and funds, satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of the 
carrying out of Part D of the Project; and (b) cause the PCU to carry out such Part D, 
in accordance with the PCU Operation Manual.
Section 3.14. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by the 
Executing Agencies in respect of the respective components of the Project under their 
responsibility.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain and cause the Executing 
Agencies to maintain records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance 
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect 
of the respective components of the Project under the responsibility of the Borrower, 
through MOH, and the Executing Agencies.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
Page  7
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or payment out 
of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause each HSA:
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative, financial, engineering and health practices, under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers; and
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain its hospitals, machinery, 
equipment and other property and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and health practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the PCU Operation Manual, the Environmental Health Program Implementation 
Manual, the Project Implementation Manual or the Training Instructions Manual shall 
have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to materially and adversely affect, in the opinion 
of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower, through MOH, or any of the Executing 
Agencies to perform any of their obligations referred to in this Agreement; and
(b)
any of the Executing Agencies shall have failed to perform any of their 
Page  8
obligations under their respective Master Agreements or Implementation Agreements.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely that any event specified in 
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall 
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the 
Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has adopted, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
the PCU Operation Manual, the Environmental Health Program Implementation Manual, the 
Project Implementation Manual and the Training Instructions Manual; and
(b)
a secretariat in MOH to be responsible for the carrying out of Part A.4 
of the Project (MOH's Training Secretariat) has been established, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 7.02. The date March 16, 1993 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Teatinos 120-Piso 12
Santiago, Chile
Cable address:
Telex:
 
241 334 MHDA-CL
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  9
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
By /s/ Julio Montt
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edilberto Segura
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Countersigned on behalf
  of the Treasurer General
  of the Republic of Chile
By /s/ Jose Tomas Letelier
Authorized Representative
Countersigned on behalf
  of the Controller General
  of the Republic of Chile
By /s/ Jose Tomas Letelier
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Goods for HSAs            32,500,000             70%
      under Parts
      B and C.1 of
      the Project
(2)   Works under               43,900,000             50%
      Part B of the
      Project (except
      for CRS)
(3)   Consultants'               1,200,000            100%
      services under
Page  10
      Part A
      of the Project
(4)   Project                    3,400,000            100%
      administration
(5)   Unallocated                9,000,000
                                __________
      TOTAL                     90,000,000
                                ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, "Project administration" means: (i) the 
salaries of up to six senior level professionals and up to 30 professional support 
staff of the PCU; (ii) the cost of training (including travel), leasing the office 
space for the PCU, maintenance of the PCU equipment, and water, electricity, gas and 
communications services for the PCU; (iii) office supplies and one vehicle for the 
PCU; and (iv) audit services.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $5,600,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after February 15, 1992; and (b) payments for expenditures under 
any component of the Project to be carried out by an Executing Agency, unless: (i) the 
Master Agreement between the Borrower, through MOH, and such Executing Agency has been 
entered into; and (ii) the Implementation Agreement in respect of such component of 
the Project has been entered into between the Borrower, through MOH, and such 
Executing Agency. 
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower: (a) to strengthen the 
decentralization of health services delivery through: (i) reforms in MOH's mission and 
organizational structure, and enhancement of the system of generating and transferring 
financing resources in the health sector; (ii) upgrading of the institutional 
organization and management capacity for procuring and distributing drugs and food 
supplements by CSF, and for controlling the quality of drugs and food products by ISP; 
and (iii) improvement of the management and clinical skills of health personnel, and 
the health sector management and information system; and (b) to introduce a new health 
care model to develop specialized ambulatory services at the secondary and tertiary 
levels, improve the deteriorated conditions of selected hospitals, and fill the health 
services gaps in seven HSAs in Metropolitan Santiago and
Antofagasta, and in Llanchipal.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Decentralization of Health Services Delivery
 
1.
Revision of MOH's organizational structure to focus on normative and supervisory 
functions and to implement the delegation of MOH's health services delivery functions 
to the HSAs.
2.
Preparation of the measures to transform the CSF into an autonomous state 
enterprise and improvement of its administrative, financial and operational 
capabilities.
3.
Strengthening of the ISP's capability to control the quality of drugs and food 
products, supervise national laboratories and make bilogical products.
4.
A training program to develop human capital needed by the public health 
subsector in the short- and medium-term, benefitting senior and middle management 
staff, and clinical staff.
Page  11
5.
Strengthening of the public health information system through improvement of 
administrative procedures, where applicable, introduction of computer-based 
information systems, and staff training.
Part B:
Facility Investments for the New Health Care Model
 
1.
In the HSA for the north area of Metropolitan Santiago:
 
(a)
reconstruction and reequipping of the San Jose hospital;
 
(b)
construction of a CDT facility adjacent to such hospital; and
 
(c)
construction and equipping of an emergency unit.
 
2.
In the HSA for the central area of Metropolitan Santiago:
 
(a)
establishment of a CDT in the San Borja hospital; 
 
(b)
installation of an emergency service for adults in the San Borja 
hospital; and
(c)
construction and equipping of a CRS in the Maipu area.
 
3.
In the HSA for the west area of Metropolitan Santiago:
 
(a)
establishment of a CDT in the San Juan de Dios hospital;
 
(b)
installation of an emergency service in the San Juan de Dios hospital; 
and
(c)
construction and equipping of a CRS in the Pudahuel area.
 
4.
In the HSA for the east area of Metropolitan Santiago:
 
(a)
construction and equipping of a 200 bed hospital in the Santiago Oriente 
area, including an emergency unit and an annexed CRS;
(b)
refurbishing and reequipping of the Del Salvador hospital; and
 
(c)
refurbishing and reequipping of the Calvo Makenna hospital's surgical 
wards and outpatient clinics.
5.
In the HSA for the south area of Metropolitan Santiago:
 
(a)
construction and equipping of a CDT in the Barros Luco Trudeau hospital;
 
(b)
refurbishing of the Barros Luco Trudeau hospital;
 
(c)
construction and equipping of a CRS in El Pino hospital; and
 
(d)
reconstruction and equipping of El Pino hospital.
 
6.
In the HSA for the southeast area of Metropolitan Santiago:
 
(a)
establishment of a CDT in the Sotero del Rio hospital;
 
(b)
replacement of the surgical ward in the Sotero del Rio hospital;
 
(c)
remodelling of the wards for private patients in the Sotero del Rio 
hospital; and
(d)
construction and equipping of a hospital of approximately 400 beds in the 
San Ramon area, including an emergency unit and a CRS.
7.
In the HSA for Antofagasta: equipping of the ambulatory service and inpatient 
sections of the Antofagasta and Calama hospitals.
Page  12
8.
In Llanchipal:
 
(a)
construction and equipping of an additional surgical block in the Puerto 
Montt hospital;
(b)
replacement of the heating and laundry systems in the Puerto Montt 
hospital; and
(c)
refurbishing of critical sections of the Castro hospital.
 
Part C:
Special Programs
 
1.
Strengthening of the program for the diagnosis and treatment of cervical cancer 
through the reequipment of laboratories in HSAs (except the HSA for environmental 
health) and the establishment of
a national reference laboratory.
2.
An information and education pilot program on the prevention, management and 
control of environmental health hazards.
Part D:
Project Administration and Coordination
 
Acquisition and utilization of goods and consultants' services for the 
administration, coordination, evaluation and monitoring of the execution of Parts A, B 
and C of the Project, including audit services.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
The responsibilities for the carrying out of the several components of the 
Project shall be as follows:
Part of the Project                        Responsible Entity(ies)
A.1 and A.2                                MOH
A.3                                        ISP
A.4                                        MOH and Executing
                                           Agencies
A.5                                        MOH and Executing
                                           Agencies (except FONASA
                                           and ISAPREs'
                                           Superintendency)
B                                          The respective HSAs
                                           indicated therein
C.1                                        The HSAs (except the
                                           HSA for environmental
                                           health)
C.2                                        The HSA for environ-
                                           mental health
D                                          PCU
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Page  13
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning June 15, 1998
through December 15, 2009
3,750,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on
the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before
1.00
maturity
Page  14
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for hospital and information equipment and 
spare parts shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Chile may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $5,000,000 per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $31,700,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Bank.
2.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $250,000 and more than the 
equivalent of $35,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$49,400,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $35,000 or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $11,240,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract procured pursuant to the provisions of 
Part A hereof; (ii) each contract procured pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 
hereof and estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more; and (iii) the first 
contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more procured by an HSA 
pursuant to the provisions of Part C.2 hereof each year, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished
Page  15
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower 
shall employ, or cause to be employed, consultants whose qualifications, experience 
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such 
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
Page  16
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
