DOCUment of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
ICR12FICt6E 6MOE'T
Report                     T- h13/ TYpe   E1                 ReportNo. 10216
THIAS,   / XZ1472 /  -?'~0DD
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2559-ME)
DECEMBER 30, 1991
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offilcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wFithout World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY
CONALEP     National Agency for Vocational and Technical Education
(Colegio Nacional de Educaci6n Profesional T6cnica)
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
LCB.        Local CompetiLive Bidding
NAFIN       Nacional Financiera S.N.C.
(National Finance Co., Inc.)
PCR         Project Completion Report
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SEP         Ministry of Education
(Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica)
SPP         Ministry of Programming and Budgeting
(Secretaria de Programaci6n y Presupuesto)
STPS        Ministry of Labor and Social Security
(Secretaria de Trabajo y Previsi6n Social)



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Dwrectou-GenwaI
Optatinns Iv^aItknn
December 30, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Mexico Second
Technical Training Proiect (Loan 2559-ME)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Mexico Second Technical Training Project (Loan 2559-ME)"
prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office with Part II of
the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made
by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan 2559-ME)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface........ .......................  ...........   i
Evaluation Summary .............................................. iii
I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ..........              ...........   1
A.  Project Identity .....................................................   1
B.  Project Background ..........  ....................... ....* .....1..... 
C.  Project Objectives and Description ...................           ....   3
D.  Project Design and Organization .....            .....................   3
E.  Project Implementaticn .......           .....  . ......................    4
F.  Major Results of the Project ......           ....................       5
G.  Project Sustainability .......            ............................  10
H.1  Bank Performance ...........................................  11
I.  Borrower Performance ....... .................              .............  12
J.  Project Relationships ... .... .................... ........  14
K.  Technical Assistance          .        ......... so ........ ........  14
L.  Project Documentation and Data .....             ......................  14
II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .................  15
A.  Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part III..  15
B.  Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned .....  15
C. Evaluation of Borrower's Own performance and Lessons
Learned          .................. . ..........................   15
III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION .................................  16
A.  Related Bank Loans .           .................................   16
B.  Project Timetable ............................  .........  17
C.  Loan Disbursements ................... .... .............   18
D.  Project Implementation .....................  19
E.  Project Costs and Financing ...................eo..o.ai.....   20
F.  Project Results ................................ 00 ...   23
G.  Status of Loan Covenants    .................. .........  27
H.  Use of Bank Resources ..................... .0 .. ........  29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND TECHN,CAL TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan 2559-ME)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the- Second Technical
Training Project in Mexico, for which Loan 2559-ME in the amount of US$81.0
million was approved on May 28, 1985. The Loan was closed on June 30, 1991 and
the funds fully disbursed by July 26, 1991.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Human Resources Operations Division,
Country Department 2, of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
In order to incorporate lessons for the preparation of a Third Technical
Training Project, preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's
supervision mission of the project in June 1990, followed by PCR missions in
November 1990 and March 1991; it is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Report, the Loan Agreements, supervision reports and internal memoranda.



iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan 2559-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.     This was the second IBRD assisted technical training project in Mexico.
It was appraised in November 1984 and approved on May 28, 1985. Total project
cost was estimated at US$162.2 million, of which US$81.0 million was financed by
an IBRD Loan. The Project was completed in December 1990. The Loan was closed
on June 30, 1991. In scope, the project remained essentially as planned, except
for a decision made by the Government of Mexico in 1988 to increase the number
of centers targeted for construction from 97 to 130 (para. i2(b)). Because of
higher than expected price increases for civil works, and because of the
inclusion of 33 additional centers requiring additional furniture and equipment,
the actual total cost of the project at t',e time of completion amounted to
US$164.41 million, 1.3Z over appraisal estimate.
Project Obiectives and Content
2.     Consonant with the Government's efforts to increase the supply of skilled
workers and technicians in Mexico, this project supported phase II of CONALEP's
technical training program (para. 3). The project's objectives were to: improve
the  operational  efficiency  and  effectiveness  of  central  and  local
administrations; increase the supply of skilled workers and technicians; improve
the quality of training; develop an advanced maintenance system for buildings and
equipment and introduce cost reduction measures; and provide flexible support for
the program as a whole, eliminating undesirable distinctions between project and
non pro4ect centers, and facilitating the development of strategic training
options and institution building.   The project, at signing, included:   (a)
improvement of CONALEP'S operational efficiency and effectiveness through
specialist assistance, fellowship and management training; (b) upgrading and
expansion of instructor training and teaching materials; (c) development of a
maintenance system for buildings; (d) increasing the supply of skilled workers
and technicians through the construction, equipping and furnishing of about 97
new training centers; and (e) studies of other efficiency measures and
development of strategic training options.
Implementation.
3.    For full implementation of the project, six years were needed from the date
of Board approval until Loan closing.  The implementation delay of 24 months
resulted  from:    (a)  an initial confusion  as  to  the proper  routing  of
communications between the major participants of the project--i.e., the Bank,
NAFIN (the borrower), CONALEP (the executing agency), and the Government (the
guarantor)--and consequent delays in the effectiveness of the Loan (para. 12
(a)); (b) the Government decision in 1988 to expand the number of training
centers served from 97 to 130, and the consequent additional implementation time
required for both civil works and equipment (para. 12(b)); and (c) two complete
changes in the upper levels of CONALEP's administration, and consequent lack of
familiarity by new administrations with Bank processes and procedures (para.
12(c)).



iv
Project Reoults.
4.    Project objectives were met and in some aspects exceeded.  In particular,
the attainment of some quantitative goals was significantly in excess of planned
ones.
5.    Improvements in CONALEP's operational efficiency, as a result of the inputs
from specialist assistance, fellowships and management training, were: (a) an
increase in the completion rate of the new student body from 401 on the average
over the period 1979-86 to 522 at present; (b) more effective use of the advisory
committees and industrial associations in setting training program priorities and
in improving program effectiveness, as a result of establishing a more concise
set of regulations for the activities of the local and national committees in
about 902 of CONALEP's centers, which helped bring about a large flow of
donations that CONALEP received from industrialists and provided guidance for
graduate placement; (c) 654 staff-years of specialist assistance and 76 staff-
months of short study tours abroad, for improved administrative efficiency;
(d) the upgrading of the graduate placement program; and (e) extension of a
graduate tracer system to all centers that have been operational sufficiently
long to have produced graduates (para. 16).
6.      The implementation of the component for increasina the supply of skilled
workers and technicians through the construction, equipping, and furnishing of
training centers greatly exceeded the planned quantitative goals. Specifically,
as th'a result of additional local funding becoming available, CONALEP II was able
to establish 130 training centers (para. 12(b)), for a total of 252 centers for
CONALEP I and CONALEP II combined; thus, a substantial increase in the number of
trainees as proposed in the SAR was realized. In fact 129,000 students enrolled
in regular as well as in upgrading programs in phase II centers (including
enrollments made possible by the expanding mobile training system (Annex 11)),
surpassing the 90,000 expected at the time of appraisal, and resulting in a total
enrollment in phase I and II centers combined, of 239,000 (as opposed to an
appraisal estimate of 200,000). Outputs from the regular three-year program were
somewhat lower than expected (about 14,000 from phase II centers vs. an appraisal
estimate of 21,600; and 40,400 from phase I and II centers combined vs. the
appraisal estimate of 48,000) due to a Government/CONALEP decision to allocate
a large number of training places for the upgrading of trainees of the Manpower
Training Program, under Loan 2876-ME; as a result of the same decision, however,
the number of workers upgraded in CONALEP II centers was 31% over estimates
(21,100 actual vs. 16,200 estimated at appraisal; 41,000 workers received
upgrading training under both projects combined, as opposed to an appraisal
estimate of only 36,000). The total output from phase II centers was 35,100
trainees vs. the appraisal target of 37,800 (para. 19).
7.    Improvements in the guality of instruction were attained through: (a)
enhancements in instructional capabilities; a total of 17,6951 instructors
received pedagogical training during the implementation of the CONALEP II project
to finally reach a total of 27,965 instructors in both projects combined (the
appraisal target for total number of instructors receiving training under both
l This figure includes double counting of instructors taking more than one
course.



v
projects combined was 10,000, but corresionding numbers actually attained are not
available)i and (b) course syllabi improvements in about 40S of courses through
approximately 367 M/Y of specialist services; during the project's life, 1,111
publications were produced by CONALEP, totaling 6.8 million copies that included
textbooks, bulletins, syllabi, training materials, guidelines, handbooks,
leaflets, extension bulletins, journals and manuals (para. 20).
8.    In the context of improving quality of instruction, the project also
supported the introduction of pilot production trainina programs in 70 centers
(24 were targeted at appraisal), designed to enhance training (by making
furniture and equipment and by providing practical hands-on training
opportunities), to improve student motivation and to reduce training costs and
capital investment costs financed from the regular budget. This program produced
62,000 items of furniture, hand tools and equipment, and had a net savings of
about US$930,000 for CONALEP (para. 21).
9.     The project also supported further develovment of a maintenance system for
buildinRs. furniture and equi2ment, which, in addition to training enhancement,
also resulted during 1990 alone in:  (a) an estimated value of about US$1.05
million of maintenance activities being conducted by trainees and instructors;
and (b) the development and utilization of operational manuals for the repair and
preventive maintenance of 549 items of specialized equipment (para. 22).
10.   As a result of its strengthened efficiency and institutional capacity,
CONALEP's achievements in developing and implementing strategic training nrotrams
surpassed appraisal targets.  In fact, four innovative pilot programs, not
anticipated under the Loan, were carried out during the implementation of the
project, in support of the Government's 1989-94 development plan, without further
support from the Bank (using Government and private funding). The major thrust
of these programs was directed at assistance to marginal populations, micro-
industry, self-employment and the in-bond assembly industries (maquiladoras)
(para. 26).
Pro ect Sustainabilitv
11. The sustainability of project benefits is closely linked to the question
of the long-term technical relevance and financial sustainability of CONALEP as
a predominantly federally financed and operated training system.  Since its
inception in the late 1970s, CONALEP has established itself as the backbone of
the entire Mexican system of workforce training and upgrading, and has enjoyed
strong support from politicians, entrepreneurs and the labor sector, which has
essentially protected it from budget cuts even during recent severe austecIty
programs. Nevertheless, CONALEP is actively seeking to diversify its funding,
including updating its strategy for improving cost recovery/cost sharing of
operational costs of training from the private sector (espacially under a
proposed Third Technical Training Project); cost recovery in cash and in kind
(not including land) in 1990 amounted to US$12.9 million, or almost 141 of
CONALEP's total recurrent budget, up from US3.1 million in 1989 and US$2.3
million in 1988. CONALEP maintains close links and good standing with employers,
providing the best guarantee that it will remain relevant to the training needs
of enterprises.   These links include:   establishment and maintenance of
industrial advisory boards for each center and region to advise CONALEP in
determining training priorities and course content; contracting of courses with



vi
employers; production of industrial prototypes under contract with erterprises
and public agencies; development of learning aids (including simulator equipment
and video programs); and production of finished goods such as school furniture
(to the extent such production is consistent with efficient practical training).
Close to US$1.0 million was earned in 1990 through production-for-revenue
programs. CONALEP in also raising tuition fees for its regular cour-es (such
fees have always been charged but amounts have been eroded by inflation) to cover
about 101 of training costs. In addition, the project has enabled CONALEP to
save on recurrent expenditure, for instance through the maintenance system which
has produced annual savings of over US$1.0 million through systematic use of
instructors and students to do qualified maintenance work.  These and other
efficiency measures introduced by CONALEP, some as part of the project and some
on its own initiative, also serve to ensure the long term sustainability of
project benefits.
12.   Lessons Learned. The principal lessons learned with implication for future
projects, as a result of the experiences during project implementation and the
preparation of the PCR are summarized as follows.
(a)   In view of observed delays in project implementation, as a result of
the lack of familiarity by new CONALEP Administrators with Bank
process and procedures. a short seminar on project implementation
should be conducted by Bank Supervision Missions when such changes
occur; moreover, Bank missions should ensure that multiple copies of
all  project  related  documents  are  maintained  in  project
implementation unit archives (para. 12(a)).
(b)   In view of the fact that installation difficulties experienced in a
few institutions where large quantities and heavy or sophisticated
equipment was involved, such installation should be contracted to
the respective suppliers as part of the equipment supply contract
(para. 13).
(c)   In view of the fact that advisory committees were instrumental in
bringing about a large flow of donations that CONALEP received from
industrialists during the 1984-90 period (Annex 4) and in providing
guidance for graduate placement, and considering the potential for
greater private sector involvement in improving the placement record
of pre-service trainees through assistance in course design, such
linkages with private sector industries should continue to receive
high priority (paras. 16 and 24).
(d)   In view of the still acute problem of internal inefficiency (such as
low completion rates and high unit costs in some training centers),
CONALEP should investigate the causes of inefficiency and take
proper remedial actions (paras. 17-18).
(e)   In view of the surplus training capacity in a few agricultural
programs in some more remote areas of the country, where the demand
for training is not well defined, qualified personnel from
professional organizations must participate in the analysis of
demand and of development of programs (para. 19).



vii
(f)   In view of relatively rapid developments in technology in Mexico and
their implications on space planning criteria and requirements for
shop., laboratories and other support spaces, as well as for
equipment redistribution requirements, consideration must be given
not only to the expected immediate use of these spaces but their
possible m-. ium and longer term uses resulting from technology
chAnges (para. 19).
(g)   In view of the shortcomings of the design of the graduate follow-up
system (such as a short follow-up period and a lack of control
groups for comparison of the effectiveness of CONALEP training
programs) and of the method for evaluating effectiveness of CONALEP
programs, CONALEP should take proper remedial actions to improve
graduate tracer systems, and the Bank should at an early stage of
project preparation focus more attention on the design of an
economic evaluation of trainlng programs (para. 24).
(h)   In view of the sporadic  slowdowns  in project  implementation,
especially whan CONALEP's adm£nis.ration was changed, and of the two
year delay in project implementatior. due partly to the lack of
coordination among participating agencies, greater and more frequent
supervision efforts should be made in large and complex projects
such as this one (para. 31).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND TECHNICAL TP'   IG PROJECT
(Loan 255, _j
PART I.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identitv
- Project Name:   Second Technical Training Project
- Loan No.:       2559-ME
- RVP Unit:       Latin  America  and  Caribbean  Region  Country
Department II
- Country:        United Mexican States
- Sector:         Education
- Subsector:      Technical and Vocational Education
B.    Project Background
1.    Sector Development Obiectives.  At the time of appraisal (November 1984)
Mexico was slowly emerging from its worst economic and financial crisis of the
previous 50 years.   In the early 1980s, a trend toward structural economic
imbalance was evident, but the government outgoing in 1982 did not address some
of the essential economic and financial issues with the vigor that was required,
particularly in the fiscal area. The new Government's stabilization program,
which was introduced in 1983, had brought the situation under control, but
economic growth was suffering; unemployment rose from less than 2% in 1980 to
about 14% in 1984.  In 1983, the new Government identified the resumption of
economic growth and the expansion of gainful employment as two of its major
priorities.
2.    The Government's strategy combined special efforts to recover from the
prevailing economic crisis with a longer term perspective for regaining balanced
and stable growth to overcome structural problems. These structural problems
included: a high rate of population growth (2.5% annu'al average estimated for
the decade), and even higher labor force growth (about 3.1% per year) together
with low levels of human capital formation, slow growth in agriculture,
widespread poverty, highly skewed interpersonal and interregional income
distributions, and an economy too dependent on oil revenues. The medium term
strategy focused on the need for structural changes in the economy: a greater
export orientation for the industrial system; decentralization of the commercial
structure; poverty alleviation through policies designed to meet basic needs; and
increased productivity and absorption of individuals into the labor force,
brought about by proper training.   Consonant with these overall development
objectives, the Mexican Government made an effort to increase the number of
skilled workers and technicians who are vital to economic growth and development
by putting greater emphasis in the education sector on the improvement and
expansion of upper-middle terminal technical training.



2
3.    folicg  Context.  The focus of this emphasis was the National Agency for
Vocational and Technical Education (CONALEP). CONALEP had been created in 1978
as an independent agency responsible for upper-middle level terminal technical
training. Because of the difficulties involved in the creation of a new training
syatem, it was conceived as a two-phase effort. The first phase of the CONALEP
program (1979-84), which involved creating the program, testing its major
components and initiating its development, was supported by Bank Loan No. 2042-
ME, approved by the Board on July 21, 1981 and signed on July 31, 1981. By 1984,
with Bank assistance under the first project, CONALEP had already begun to have
significant impact on the proportion of graduates from terminal technical
training programs entering the labor force. The CONALEP system, which in 1980
had no schools in operation, in 1984 had 122 new and well-equipped schools
located throughout the country, with an enrollment capacity of about 110,000
students. CONALEP had initiated close ties with industry, which had been well
represented in advisory boards for each CONALEP center, and had initiated a job
placement and follow-up system. The CONALEP schools had gained in prestige and
were in strong demand because they were generally well staffed and with
industrially experienced instructors.  Phase II of the CONALEP program (1985-
88) consisted of further increasing the capacity of the CONALEP system and making
necessary adjustments in institutional, administrative and training aspects of
the program, and was supported by Bank Loan No. 2559-ME, approved by the Board
on May 28, 1985 and signed on July 16, 1985.
4.    CONALEP differs from other upper-middle technical traiaing programs in
that:   (a) its partial autonomy facilitates greater responsiveness to the
changing needs of the productive sectors, and encourages their participation; (b)
its administration is decentralized, which facilitates delegation of operational
decisions to local training authorities and industrial advisory boards; (c) its
curriculum has a practical orientation and strong emphasis upon evaluation,
"hands-on" experience, follow-up and feedback; (d) its training programs, both
regular and part-time, are strictly terminal and job market oriented; (e) its
unique student promotion activities enhance the program's public image and
encourage active support from the productive sectors; (fj students pay a tuition
relatively higher than that of other segments of the educational system; and
(g) its technical instructors are from industry, they teach part-time (typically
12-14 hours/week) and cannot belong to the teachers' union.
5.    The CONALEP training program objectives are:  (a) to expand the supply of
skilled workers and technicians through its network of upper-middle level
terminal training centers in close cooperation with the productive sectors and
in the quantities required by the economy; (b) to improve the quality of training
by emphasizing a practical curriculum that maintains its relevance to changing
regional and sectoral needs; (c) to increase the efficiency of such training by
keeping training cost down, achieving higher retention rates and improving
employability of trainees; and (d) to upgrade the quality of the existing
workforce by designing special programs and using CONALEP's facilities for the
2 For details on implementation experience and project results of Loan 2042-
ME, see the World Bank Operations Evaluation Department's (OED) Project
Performance Audit Report (No. 7136, March 1, 1988), which includes the Project
Completion Report (March 31, 1986).



3
training of both employed and unemployed adults.
6.    Linkages Between Proiect. Sector and Macro Policy Obiectives.  The CONALEP
training progrem's objectives (para. 5), were consistent with the sectoral
objectives (pAra. 1) and thus also helped advance the macro policy goals set by
the Government (para. 2).
C.    Proiect Oblectives and Descriptions
7.    Project Objectives. In support of phase II of CONALEP's technical training
program,  the project's objectives were:   (a) to improve  the operational
efficiency and effectiveness of central and local administrations; (b) to
increase the supply of skilled workers and technicians; (c) to improve the
quality of training instruction; (d) to develop advanced maintenance systems for
buildings and equipment on a pilot basis, and introduce significant cost
reduction measures; and (e) to facilitate the development of strategic training
options and institution building.
8.    Proiect Description.  To achieve its objectives, the project included:
(a)   improvement of CONALEP'S operational efficiency and effectiveness
through specialist assistance, fellowships and management training;
(b)   increasing the supply of skilled workers and technicians through the
construction, equipping and furnishing of about 97 new training
centers;
(c)   upgrading  and  expansion  of  instructor  training  and  teaching
materials;
(d)   development of a maintenance system for buildings; and
(e)   studies of other efficiency measurcs and development of strategic
training options.
D.    Proiect Design and Organization
9.    Based on experience with the first project and other information available
to the appraisal mission of November 1984, the conceptual foundation for the
project was clear. The project addressed the major policy objective of expanding
terminal education and the supply of qualified workers and technicians. Because
it was proposed and prepared by the CONALEP administration, with assistance from
the Bank, the project reflected CONALEP'S medium and longer-term planning
efforts.
10.   The project was well prepared.   Its design was clearly defined and
appropriately set forth so as to ensure that project objectives were attained by
the respective project components, which were feasible and economical. If there
was any shortcoming, it was that the project still placed too much emphasis on
physical expansion and less on the effectiveness of administration and efficiency



4
of training programs for the project objectives set forth.   The extensive
participation of key staff in the project institutions--i.e., CONALEP, NAFIN and
the Government--resulted in full agreement and a clear understanding by all
concerned parties.
11.   As for the scope of the project, certain modifications were made during the
process of appraisal in accordance with the evolving understanding of the
country's financial capacity--notably, a reduction in the number of centers
targeted for construction (from 130 to 97), as well as in the Loan amount (from
$115.0 million to $81.0 million), made during negotiations in April 1985 (para.
12(b)). (These changes also reflected: (a) the price changes from the time of
appraisal; and (b) price contingency adjustments in accordance with revised Bank
estimates of international inflation.)
E.    Proiect Implementation
12.   Critical Variances in Prolect Implementation.  Three factors contributed
to a delay of one and half years in project completion (Table 2).
a)    at the beginning of the project there was some confusion as to the
proper routing of communications between the major participants of
the project--i.e., the Bank, NAFIN (the borrower), CONALEP (the
executing agency),  and the Government  (the guarantor).   Thus,
although Loan 2559-ME was approved in May 1985, and was signed on
July 16, 1985, it did not become effective until December 18, 1985,
after the Bank, NAPIN and CONALEP, through appropriate dialogue,
agreed that all communications between CONALEP and the Bank would be
channeled through NAEIN.   This  lag between Loan signing and
effectiveness put equipment procurement and installation for 40
centers about eight months bphind schedule.
b)    The decision made by the Government in 1988 to increase the number
of centers targeted for construction from 97 to 130 centers resulted
in the need for additional implementation time for both civil works
and  equipment  procurement.    130 centers  had  originally been
appraised for construction, but as a part of the Government's
austerity measures, this number was reduced to 97, and the Loan
amount was reduced from US$115.0 million to US$81.0 million, during
negotiations in April 1985.  In 1988, however, additional local
funding became available, and the number was increased back to 130.
c)    Two  complete  changes  in  the  upper  levels  of  CONALEP's
administration, and consequent lack of familiarity by new CONALEP
administrations with Bank processes and procedures resulted in
delays that were compounded by unavailability to incoming
administrations of some critical project-related documents.
13.   One additional shortcoming worth mentioning is that during implementation,
some delays in the installation of large quantities and heavy or sophisticated
equipment were experienced when plans were made for instructors to carry out such
installation. This points out the need for installation of such equipment to be



5
contracted to the respective suppliers as part of the equipment supply contract.
14.   Proiect Risks.  The potential risks identified by the appraisal mission
were mitigated through careful and responsive planning. The ability of CONALEP
to pay competitive salaries diminished the problem of teacher recruitment;
favorable student/teacher ratios and well equipped facilities to aid in practical
application of course work improved student retention; and CONALEP'S proven
capacity for implementing innovations diminished the risks of non-materialization
of expected benefits from the production units.
F.    Ma1or Results of the Project
15.   Proiect Obiectives.   Project objectives were met and in some aspects
exceeded. In particular, and with few exceptions, the attainment of quantitative
goals was significantly in excess of planned ones.
16.   Improvements in CONALEP's operational efficiency, as a result of the inputs
from specialist assistance, fellowships and management training, were: (a) an
increase in the completion rate of the new student body from 40Z on the average
over the period 1979-86 to 52% at present (if the student dropouts in the first
semester are not counted, this rate is more than 90%) (paras. 17 and 18); the
completion rate is expected to continue to increase considerably as all training
centers reach their third full year of operation (although it is unlikely that
the overly optimistic appraisal target of 78% for regular programs will be
reached in the near future unless some extraordinary measures are taken by
CONALEP); (b) more effective use of the advisory committees and industrial
associations in setting training program priorities and in improving program
effectiveness, as a result of establishing a more concise set of guidelines for
the activities of the local and national committees in about 90% of CONALEP's
centers; Annex 3 shows CONALEP's present regulations and working procedures for
both levels of committees; it is worth mentioning that advisory committees were
instrumental in bringing about a large flow of donations that CONALEP received
from industrialists (Annex 4) and in providing guidance for graduate placement;
(c) 654 staff-years of specialist assistance and 76 staff-months of short study
tours abroad, for improved administrative efficiency; (d) the upgrading of the
graduate placement program; and (e) extension of a graduate tracer system to all
centers that have been operational sufficiently long to have produced graduates
(Annex 7); this system was in an incipient stage at the time of appraisal of
CONALEP II.
17.   The improvement of student-flow efficiency in the CONALEP system has proven
to be as difficult an issue as for the rest of the educational system.  The
completion rate for the student cohort ending in 1990 was 52%. This includes all
the students that were entitled to a training certificate--e.g., as "tecnicos
auxiliares", and those who completed the three year terminal technician program.
This percentage is about the same as the one for academic general secondary
schools.
18.   One main problem with the student flows has been clearly located at the end
of the first semester, when about 40Z of the initial enrollment drops out. (Both
the PCR and the Project Audit Report for CONALEP I have identified this problem



6
and advanced possible causes for it.) The reasons for this situation are not
clearly defined, although it has been a secular problem in Mexico.  Factors
seemingly associated with this problem are: (a) inadequate student selection and
orientation; (b) high academic/training standards; (c) relatively high tuition
charges of CONALEP (Mex$70,000 contrasted to Mex$1,000 paid by public university
students); and (d) the continuing strong preference for academic secondary
education as a means of university entrance. CONALEP authorities are aware of
this problem and took some corrective measures in September 1990, the results of
which will not be available until after the end of the school year (June 30,
1991). At any rate, CONALEP has also agreed to further analyze the problem and
has included an in-depth study and the development of a consequent action plan
as part of a proposed Third Technical Training Project.
19.     The implementation of the component for increasing the supply of skilled
workers and technicians through the construction, equipping, and furnishing of
training centers greatly exceeded the planned quantitative goals. Specifically,
as the result of additional local funding becoming available, CONALEP II was able
to establish 130 training centers, for a total of 252 centers for CONALEP I and
CONALEP II combined; thus, a substantial increase in the number of trainees as
proposed in the SAR was realized. In fact 129,000 students enrolled in regular
as well as in upgrading programs in phase II centers (including enrollments made
possible by the expanding mobile training system (Annex 11)), surpassing the
90,000 expected at the time of appraisal, and resulting in a total enrollment in
phase I and II centers combined, of 239,000 (as opposed to an appraisal estimate
of 200,000). Outputs from the regular three-year program were somewhat lower
than expected (about 14,000 from phase II centers vs. an appraisal estimate of
21,600; and 40,400 from phase I and II centers combined vs. the appraisal
estimate of 48,000) due to a Government/CONALEP decision to allocate a large
number of t-aining places for the upgrading of trainees of the Manpower Training
Program, under Loan 2876-HE; as a result of the same decision, however, the
number of workers upgraded in CONALEP II centers was 312 over estimates (21,100
actual vs. 16,200 estimated at appraisal; 41,000 workers received upgrading
training under both projects combined, as opposed to an appraisal estimate of
only 36,000). The total output from phase II centers was 35,100 trainees vs. the
appraisal target of 37,800 (Table 8b). The implementation of this component also
contributed to increases in enrollment in industrial, administration and health
training programs; those in agriculture and fisheries were somewhat less
successful than planned, which points to a need for review of ongoing programs
in agriculture and fisheries by qualified personnel, including professional
organizations and employers, to reevaluate its objectives and curriculum content.
It is worth noting that due to rapid developments in technology in Mexico,
changes in the needs for shops, laboratories and other support spaces, as well
as occasional needs for equipment redistribution, were noticed, emphasizing the
need for space planning criteria to take into account both expected immediate use
of these spaces and items, as well as possible medium and longer term uses
resulting from such technological changes.
20.   Improvements  in the  auality  of instruction were  attained  throught



7
(a) *nhancements in instructional capabilities; a total of 17,6953 instructors
received pedagogical training during the implementation of the CONALEP II project
to finally reach a total of 27,965 instructors in both projects combined (the
appraisal target for total number of instructors receiving training under both
projects combined was 10,000, but corresponding numbers actually attained are not
available) (Table 8b); and (b) course syllabi improvements in about 40Z of the
courses, through approximately 367 M/Y of specialist services (Annex 6); during
the project's life, 1,111 publications were produced by CONALEP, totaling 6.8
million copies that included textbooks, bulletins, syllabi, training materials,
guidelines, handbooks, leaflets, extension bulletins, journals and manuals.
21.   In the context of improving quality of instruction, the project also
supported the introduction of pilot production training programs in 70 centers
(24 were targeted at appraisal). This program was designed to enhance training
(by making furniture and equipment and by providing practical hands-on training
opportunities), to improve student motivation and to reduce training costs and
capital investment costs financed from the regular budget. The pilot production
program to enhance cost recovery in high capital and recurrent costs programs was
originally financed under the Loan with an input of US$600,000; this amount was
supplemented with additional local funding, which enabled expansion of the
program to 70 centers. Through this program, trainees produced 62,000 items of
furniture, hand tools and equipment. These items to be used by CONALEP centers
helped as well to furnish and equip the 33 additional centers reinstated in the
project (para. 12(b)). These items have an estimated commercial value of about
US$2.2 million and a production cost, not including the value of student labor,
of about US$1.27 million.   (Annex 7 shows a list of items produced and a
comparison of commercial cost with CONALEP's cost per item.) Thus, in addition
to enhancing quality of training, this program had a net savings of about
US$930,000 for CONALEP. This savings enabled more training places to be equipped
under the project. CONALEP intends to continue with this program and plans to
use items produced to furnish other Government training centers under the
proposed Third Technical Training Project.
22.    The project also supported further development of a maintenance system for
buildings. furniture and eguipment, which, in addition to training enhancement,
also resulted during 1990 alone in:  (a) an estimated value of about US$1.05
million of maintenance activities being conducted by trainees and instructors;
and (b) the development and utilization of operational manuals for the repair and
preventive maintenance of 549 items of specialized equipment. However, policies
for spare parts inventory control and procedures for replacing equipment have not
been  officially  established.    In  its modernization  program,  CONALEP  is
establishing in each of the 252 training centers a maintenance unit appropriately
equipped to handle general building and ground maintenance and furniture repair
at the local level; these activities will be carried out with the assistance of
instructors and advanced students.
23. Impact of Proiect. An analysis of the full impact of the project will have
to await a few more years until all CONALEP centers can have produced graduates,
3 This figure includes double counting of instructors taking more than one
course.



8
and such graduates can have obtained some work experience.  Nonetheless, the
graduate tracer studies incorporated as part of the project have already produced
some preliminary data on the economic and social impact of the project and
CONALEP training programs. Also, the development of strategic training options
and efficiency improvement measures taken by CONALEP on its own initiative can
be taken as evidence of the preliminary impact of the project on CONALEP'R
institutional capacity.
24.   Through the graduate tracer system (para. 16), it has been determined that
about 622 of the graduates of CONALEP's three-year program find paid employment
within three months after course work completion (it is worth noting that these
three months constitute a major vacation period, and thus hiring of graduates is
not completed); about 84% of these are employed in their area of training
specialization.   The follow-up program has also provided evidence that the
average income of graduates in 1991 is about Mex$6.7 million or about US$2,280
per year--170% of the minimum wage (currently at about Mex$4 million per year);
it has also shown that the labor market entry wage of CONALEP graduates rose to
this level from 150% of minimum wage in 1987; the graduates do not have any
previous earnings since most have never worked before. The follow-up studies,
however, do not provide information about stability in employment for CONALEP's
graduates; an assessment of employer satisfaction, though, can serve to a certain
extent as a proxy.   In the survey, 92% of the employers, representing nine
different economic sectors, who have hired CONALEP graduates expressed
consistently over the four year period that the training of these employees was
"good" or "excellent"; dissatisfied employers were less than 1%. Since employers
tend not to dismiss workers with whom they are satisfied, it is very probable
that those workers hired are retained beyond the initial three months. Moreover,
based on the fact that most employers were satisfied with the training of CONALEP
graduates, it is also quite likely that such employers hire additional graduates,
beyond the 622 mentioned above, after the first three months.  The follow-up
studies do not cover changes in employment status and salary levels or changes
resulting from the variety of shorter courses  (in-service and retraining
programs)  that CONALEP offers,  and thus do not allow a precise economic
evaluation of these training programs. However, there are separate studies and
estimates in terms of their levels of employment and earnings after training.'
CONALEP's overall placement performance,  including the retraining of those
unemployed before the course, is estimated at about 78% (weighted average for all
courses); these preliminary findings would have to be followed up, however, with
the amplification of the graduate tracer system (information and analysis of data
presented by CONALEP is included in Annex 5). Deeper analysis is needed about
placement and earnings, including comparison of earnings and employment histories
of those with training and those without training at several time intervals
following graduation, and with regard to direct and indirect costs of the various
programs.
4 The Mid-Term Evaluation Report (March 1991) prepared by the Secretary of
Labor under the Bank-financed Manpower Training Project (Loan 2889-ME, 1987), and
a special Bank study to evaluate the impact of the retraining program under the
project, carried out by Population and Human Resources Technical Division,
Country Department II, Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (LATPH)
(February 1991).



9
25.   As mentioned earlier, achievements with regard to CONALEP's institutional
capacity and efficiency were considerably greater than what was planned at
appraisal.   Indeed, in addition to the improvements already mentioned, the
following increases in efficiency were also realized:
(a)   The eligibility criteria for the creation of new centers developed
by CONALEP, its National Advisory Council and the Bank missions
during the first project were revised for the second project, and
were utilized in all cases for the creation of new centers. With
Bank assistance, CONALEP refined the eligibility criteria for the
creation of future training institutions, and developed guidelines
for the allocation of equipment funds.
(b)   Cost recovery from the student body is almost 101 (this rate is
close to CZ for the technical secondary schools) and from
enterprises more than lOZ, not counting contributions in kind, which
constitute the majority of contributions (Annex 8).  About US$36
million equivalent of cash or in-kind (furniture, equipment and land
sites) donations have been received between 1984-1990 (Annex 4).
During budget year 1990 CONALEP received from non-budget sources--
private and public enterprises and associations--other cash income
and donations in kind amounting to a value of about US$13 million,
and equal to about 14% of total 1990 recurrent expenditures (Annex
9).
(c)   Other efficiencies have been attained through:  increases in the
size of existing institutions where employment demand justifies it;
a continuous implementation of the certification system; and a more
intensive use of CONALEP facilities (Annexes 11 and 12).
26.   As a result of the strengthened efficiency and institutional capacity,
CONALEP's achievements in developing and implementing strateaic training Rrograms
surpassed appraisal targets.   In fact, four innovative pilot programs, not
anticipated under the Loan, were not only developed but also carried out during
the implementation of the project, in support of the Government's 1989-94
development plan, without further support from the Bank (using Government and
private funding). The major thrust of these programs was directed at assistance
to marginal populations, micro-industry, self-employment and the in-bond assembly
industries (maquiladoras).   The major outcomes of these programs were:   (a)
marftinal poDulations - 70 low income groups in the federal district were trained
in home maintenance, utilizing mobile training units constructed in CONALEP
training centers (Annex 11), and through the actual repair of 212 selected low
income homes; and 391 heads of families were trained in the 12 basic skills
required for the repair and maintenance of public school furniture and utilities;
(b) self employment - through a series of supplemental courses offered for the
better students in selected career programs, about 9,100 third year trainees
received special training, by qualified and experienced specialists, in the
various aspects of self employment development including planning, initiating,
operating and marketing of goods and services for which there is an unfulfilled
demand, and in the preparation of applications of credit; this program was
initiated in 42 training centers in 1987-90. So far, 103 small businesses have
been established, generating employment opportunities for 326 workers directly,



10
and 1,300 indirectly; National Finance Co., Inc. (NAFIN) has established a
limited line of credit to assist them; and (c) maguiladora industry - about 30
maquiladora enterprises benefited from CONALEP's pilot program in the training
of in-plant trainers, by whom a total of 2,536 workers received training in 834
companies; nearly all of the costs were recovered from the participating
enterprises. These strategic programs would be strengthened and expanded under
the proposed CONALEP III project, based upon thorough evaluation of their impact
on low income groups.
27.   Additionally,  CONALEP  explored under this  project  and  is presently
promoting the initiation of outreach training systems to develop flexible
alternatives to meet short and medium term local and regional needs, including:
(a) for the second semester 1991, flexible modular training programs in which
applicants who have not met the formal entrance requirements, or who cannot
attend on a full-time basis, can be admitted to study in the evening for the
technician certification; (b) beginning in 1991/92, a technological service
program which would provide support to other CONALEP centers as well as to micro,
small and medium enterprises, and contribute to the enhancement of teacher
training quality, advanced technology pre-service training, and high level in-
service training in eight selected centers; and (c) also beginning in 1991/92,
implementation of pilot mobile training programs linked with productive
activities designed to foster cost reduction and recovery for CONALEP.
28.   CONALEP has also benefited from administrative experiences gained in the
implementation of a project of this magnitude and complexity, and particularly
through the following activities: (a) the introduction of improved procurement
procedures--notably, the development and implementation of a computerized
procurement program, with complete specifications maintained on-line, and with
items/contracts packaged into highly homogeneous groups that facilitate
tendering; (b) the rationalization of classroom areas in school design; (c) the
management of technical assistance programs; and (d) the redistribution of
laboratory equipment and teaching aids between centers in accordance with
curricula and changes in the demand for training.
G.    Prolect Sustainabilitv
29.   The sustainability of project benefits is closely linked to the question
of the long-term technical relevance and financial sustainability of CONALEP as
a predominantly federally financed and operated training system.  Since its
inception in the late 1970., CONALEP has established itself as the backbone of
the entire Mexican system of workforce training and upgrading,5 and has enjoyed
strong support from politicians, entrepreneurs and the labor sector, which has
essentially protected it from budget cuts even during recent severe austerity
programs. Nevertheless, CONALEP is actively seeking to diversify its funding,
' It should be noted that CONALEP provides both training and upgrading at
the skilled worker level, and at the same time compensates to some extent for the
lack of a post-secondary system for training of technicians in Mexico; about 40Z
of CONALEP graduates are employed as technicians, including in high-tech
industries.



11
including updating its strategy for improving cost recovery/cost sharing of
operational costs of training from the private sector (especially under a
proposed Third Technical Traini-ng Project); cost recovery in cash and in kind
(not including land) in 1990 amounted to US$12.9 million, or almost 14% of
CONALEP's total recurrent budget, up from US3.1 million in 1989 and US$2.3
million in 1988. CONALEP maintains close links and good standing with employers,
providing the best guarantee that it will remain relevant to the training needs
of enterprises.    These links  include:   establishment and maintenance  of
industrial advisory boards for each center and region to advise CONALEP in
determining training priorities and course content; contracting of courses with
employers; production of industrial prototypes under contract with enterprises
and public agencies; development of learning aids (including simulator equipment
and video programs); and production of finished goods such as school furniture
(to the extent such production is consistent with efficient practical training).
Close to US$1.0 million was earned in 1990 through productior-for-revenue
programs. CONALEP is also raising tuition fees for its regular courses (such
fees have always been charged but amounts has been eroded by inflation) to cover
about 10% of training costs. In addition, the project has enabled CONALEP to
save on recurrent expenditure, for instance through the maintenance system which
has produced annual savings of over US$1.0 million through systematic use of
instructors and students to do qualified maintenance work.   These and other
efficiency measures introduced by CONALEP, some as part of the project and some
on its own initiative, also serve to assure the long term sustainability of
project benefits.   Under a proposed follow-up project, the Third Technical
Training Project, CONALEP intends to further develop, systematically, links with
employers, to diversify and introduce flexibility in the services it offers to
enterprises, and to strengthen its cost recovery systems so as to consolidate its
position and ensure future relevance and financial viability in an environment
of constant change.
H.    Bank Performance
30.   Maior strengths and weaknesses.  Bank assistance to the project allowed
acceleration of investment programs in technical education and training to
support the Government's efforts in expansion of and institution building in the
terminal technical training system. Bank staff contributed to the success of the
project through supportive working relationships and professional advice and
through constructive dialogue and rapport between Bank staff, NAFIN and CONALEP
staff.   Project implementation was closely monitored by the Bank, drawing
attention to potential difficulties, especially those in furniture and equipment
procurement.
31.   The Bank's supervision effort was adequate.   The Bank fielded twelve
supervision missions in the six year disbursement period, with an average of 6.17
staff-weeks per year. There was good staff continuity between missions; Table
11 shows levels of specialization, frequency and number of staff in charge of the
supervision work. The supervision staff weeks represent a smaller amount than
average for the country, which is partly due to the maturity of CONALEP;
nonetheless, a greater amount of staff weeks could have accelerated project
implementation and sporadic slowdowns of the implementation, especially when the
new administration of CONALEP took over the p-oject implementation.



12
32.   Lssogns Learned. The principal lessons learned with implication for future
projects, as a result of the experiences during project implementation and the
preparation of the PCR are summarized as follows:
(a)   in view of observed delays in project implementation as a result of
the lack of familiarity by new CONALEP Administrators with Bank
process and procedures, a short seminar on project implementation
ehould be conducted by Bank Supervision Missions when such changes
occur; moreover, Bank missions should ensure that multiple copies of
all  project  related  documents  are  maintained   in  project
implementation unit archives (para. 12(a));
(b)   in view of the fact that installation difficulties were experienced
in a few institutions where large quantities and heavy or
sophisticated equipment was involved, the Bank should ensure that
such installation is contracted to the respective suppliers as part
of the equipment supply contract (para. 13);
(c)   in view of the still acute problem of internal inefficiency (such as
low completion rates and high unit costs in some training centers),
the Bank should ensure that the causes of such inefficiency are
investigated and that proper remedial actions are taken (paras. 17-
18);
(d)   in view of the shortcomings of the design of the graduate follow-up
system and of the method for evaluating the effectiveness of CONALEP
programs, the Bank should at an early stage of project preparation
focus more attention on the design of an economic evaluation of
training programs (para. 24); and
(e)   in view  of the sporadic  slowdowns  in project  implementation,
especially when CONALEP's administration was changed, and of the two
year delay in project implementation due partly to the lack of
coordination among participating agencies, greater and more frequent
supervision efforts should be made in large and complex projects
such as this one (para. 31).
I.    Borrower Performance
33.   Major Strengths and Weaknesses.  As expected at appraisal, and except for
the initial delay in project implementation (para. 12), NAEIN'S performance in
coordinating the project, and CONALEP'S performance in executing it were of high
standards and very satisfactory, as was CONALEP's proficiency in project planning
and  implementation  and  its  competence  in  project  management.    Project
coordination, implementation, supervision and monitoring was the responsibility
of the administrative directorates of CONALEP, which performed creditably in
implementing Loan 2559-NE as they had previously done with Loan 2042-ME. All
components were implemented efficiently and effectively, and appropriate staff
were deployed as necessary. A major strength of the Borrower was the extensive
involvement of key staff in the implementation of the project.   It is worth
mentioning that, with regard to procurement, the project benefited from CONALEP's



13
well-designed, staffed and experienced procurement system, which includes the
utilization of an *dvanced computerized procurement program.
34.   Lessons Learned.    Major lessons learned by participating teams were the
following:.
(a)   multiple copies of all project related documents such as SAR working
papers, monitoring tables, Bank guidelines, etc., should be placed
in appropriate institution files and be available for daily use
(para. 12(c));
(b)   in view of the fact that installation difficulties were experienced
in a few institutions where large quantities and heavy or
sophisticated equipment was involved, such installation should be
contracted to the respective suppliers as part of the equipment
supply contract (para. 13);
(c)   in view of the fact that advisory committees were instrumental in
bringing about a large flow of donations that CONALEP received from
industrialists during the 1984-90 period (Annex 4) and in providing
guidance for graduate placement, and considering the potential for
greater private sector involvement in improving the placement record
of pre-service trainees through assistance in course design, such
linkages with private sector industries should continue to receive
high priority (paras. 16 and 24);
(d)   in view of the still acute problem of internal inefficiency (such as
low completion rates and high unit costs in some training centers),
CONALEP should investigate the causes of inefficiency and take
proper remedial actions (paras. 17-18);
(e)   in view of relatively rapid developments in technology in Mexico,
and their implications on space planning criteria and requirements
for shops, laboratories and other support spaces, as well as for
equipment redistribution, consideration should be given not only to
the expected immediate use of these spaces but their possible medium
and longer term uses resulting from technology changes (para. 19);
(f)   in view of the surplus training capacity in a few agricultural
programs in some more remote areas of the country, where the demand
for training is not well defined, qualified personnel from
professional organizations must participate in the analysis of
demand and of development of programs (para. 19); and
(8)   in view of the shortcomings of the design of the graduate follow-up
system (such as a short follow-up period and a lack of control
groups for comparison of the effectiveness of CONALEP training
programs), CONALEP should take proper remedial actions to improve
graduate tracer systems (para. 24).



14
J.    Project Relationships
35.   Imiact of Relationship on Project Implementation.  One of the contributing
factors to the successful implementation of the project was the result of the
good working relationships (once a short term problem between NAFIN and CONALEP
was resolved (para. 12(a)]) between the Bank, NAFIN, and CONALEP.
K.    Technical Assistance
36.   Role. Performance Level and Implications of Involvement.  For the Second
Technical Training Project, CONALEP'S administration requested support to finance
the costs of specialist assistance and short study tours/internships abroad for
staff to observe, study and participate in administrative and industrial advisory
activities which were applicable to the CONALEP system.   A total of only
US$780,000 was provided under the Loan.   However,  during  implementation,
expenditures under this category were substantially supplemented by about US$4.6
million of local funds to assist in:   (a) designing and constructing an
additional 33 project schools (para. 12(b)); (b) carrying out training programs
for professional staff; (c) improving the existing instructor recruitment and
training system, including the development and improvement of training materials;
(d) strengthening CONALEP'S capabilities to identify new training alternatives
as raquired to address local and regional needs; and (e) conducting study tours,
fellowship training, and observation tours.   In the implementation of the
project, 2,420 S/Y (compared with 352 S/Y originally planned; the cost of
technical assistance was increased by 6.87 times, mainly from non-Loan funds)
covered the above needs (Annex 6).
L.    Prolect Documentation and Data.
37.   Adequacv of Staff Appraisal Report and Maior Workint Papers. The Appraisal
Report, Loan, Project, and Guarantee Agreements, were quite adequate for project
implementation. The PCR mission was informed by CONALEP that the SAR working
papers, which were most necessary to project implementation had been misplaced
and were not available when the current CONALEP administration took office in
mid-1989 (para. 12(c)).



15
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE6
A.     Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual information in Part III
38.   The project implementation data (Table 4), proje^t costs and financing data
(Tables 5 and 6), direct benefits of the project (Table 8) and the status of Loan
Covenants (Table 10) defining the project profile at completion, were all
prepared by the Borrower.  They were discussed thoroughly while the Bank PCR
mission was in the field in March 1991.
B.    Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned
39.   The Bank made significant contributions in the evolution, preparation and
development, through appraisal, of the project. However, there were aspects of
the supervision of project implementation which should have been strengthened.
These included: supervision of the agriculture and fisheries programs by
qualified specialists; earlier assistance in developing methodologies for
technical assistance implementation; and finally, the services of project
implementation specialists when internal changes in CONALEP took place because
the arrival of a new CONALEP administration.
40.   The malor lessons learned were:  (a) a short seminar should be conducted
by the Bank missions on project implementation, particularly in Bank processes
and procedures in Bank supervision of project implementation; and (b) the overall
communication between the Bank and the Borrower should be sufficiently well
documented so that when the changes in government or mission personnel occur,
such changes will not adversely affect project implementation.
C.    Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and Lessons Learned
41.   The performance of the participating institutions, NAFIN and CONALEP, in
overall project planning was good. The implementation of Civil Works, Furniture,
Equipment and Materials, and Technical Assistance, were carried out with little
or no problems. However, equipment procurement temporarily suffered when some
changes in the administration of the Institution took place in mid 1989;
fortunately the new administration soon gained appropriate insight, and project
implementation proceeded with only about 2-3 months of delay.
42.   The maior lessons learned were:   (a) for future projects,  careful
consideration is required for establishing the space planning criteria and space
requirements for classrooms and shops, because of cost implicationsa (b) when
equipment redistribution is required because of shifting of programs from one
school to the other, it should be based mainly on weekly hours of use, size and
type of programs; and (c) regarding equipment procurement, when large numbers of
institutions and large quantities of heavy or sophisticated equipment are
involved, the installation should be contracted to the respective suppliers (as
the Bank has recommended since the beginning of the project).
6 This section was jointly prepared by CONALEP and NAFIN, with the
assistance of a Bank mission.



16
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A.    Related Bank Loans
Table 1 : IBRD LOANS RELEVANT TO THE PROJECT
Loan Number      Year of    Purpose of           Status            Comments
Project Title   Approval    Project
Ln 2042-ME       1981         A technical        Completed         Successfully
CONALEP I                     training project                     implemented
to support the
first phase of
CONALEP's
development
program.
Ln 2876-ME       1987         Support tot        Under             Proceeding
(a) training for  implementation  well.
unemployed youth                     CONALEP is a
and adults;                          major
(b) training for                     provider of
STPS staff in                        this short
labor market                         retraining
monitoring; and                      course.
(c) planning and
promotion of in-
service training
by enterprises.



17
B.    Proiect Timetable
Table 2: PLANNED, REVISED, AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                          Planned Date       Revised Date    Actual Date
Identification Mission        09/84                               08/84
Prep.Appraisal Mission        11/84              -----            11/84
Loan Negotiations             04/85              -----            04/85
Board Presentation            05/85              -----            05/85
Loan Signature                07/85              -----            07/85
Loan Effectiveness             10/85             01/86            12/85
Project Completion            06/89              06/90            12/90
Loan Closing                   12/89             12/90            06/91
Comments-on Timetable
The delay between Loan signing and Loan effectiveness put equipment
procurement and installation for 40 centers about eight months behind schedule.
The Bank supervision mission from June 12-17, 1989 was pleased to note that the
new administration of CONALEP had become, in a very short time, fully aware of
the current status of project implementation and of the remaining project
activities to be completed.



18
C.    Loan Disbursements
Table 3: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$million)
CY            1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991 La
Appraisal Est.           6.9      23.5    49.0    72.0    81.0
Actual                            11.5    30.7    54.0    65.4    75.2        79.3
Actual as % of Est.                49%     63%      75%     81%
La   Actual disbursements as of May 23, 1991; the Loan was fully disbursed by
July 26, 1991.
Comments on Timeline of Disbursements
The delay of about one year as shown in the timeline of the planned and actual
disbursements schedule (Table 3) is only four months longer than the delay in
implementation that resulted from the delay in Loan effectiveness referred to in para.
12(a). The inclusion of the 33 additional centers (para. 12(b)) also increased the
implementation time. The remaining balance of the Loan is expected to be disbursed by
early June to finance the procurement of the last package of equipment, which is
expected to arrive at CONALEP by the end of May.
TIME LINE OF DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
USs Cm} I1 lon)
10.0,
0.0
i9as    1966    1967    1968     16        90     19
* Appra lea  Estimte  -  ActtLa I
80 0 -11,111111-ll" Il "'l,l" Il" II ... ...........-* ..........  M-2........



19
D. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Table 4: PLANNED AND ACTUAL COMPLETION DATES OF COMPONENTS
Training Centers           Civil Works             Furniture and
Equipment
Planned      Actual        Planned      Actual
1              2             3              4          5
Existing    ( 8) 
Phase A  -  (40)      12/86 }     -----          03/87         12/90
Phase B  -  (24)      03/87 }     -----          06/87         12/90
}
Phase C  -  (20)      03/88 }     -----          06/88         12/90
Phase D  -   (5)      12/90 }     12/90          03/89         12/90
}
Phase E  -  (31)      06/89 }     -----          12/89          6/91
128
2 (Centers financed from bilateral assistance)
Total      130
Comments on Prolect Implementation
Civil works was not carried out on a phased basis; all civil works were completed
by December 1990.
Furniture and equipment installation was completed essentially in accordance with
column 4.  However, some supplementary equipment procured, was not delivered and
installed until the date shown in column 5. The remaining balance of the Loan is
expected to be disbursed by early June to finance the procurement of the last package
of equipment, which is expected to arrive at CONALEP by the end of May.
The increase in the number of centers from 97 to 133 (para. 12(b)) resulted in
additional implementation time for both civil works and furniture and equipment
procurement.



20
E.   Pro1ect Costs and Financing
Table 5: PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
Estimated Costs       Actual Costs
------------------------------------------
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total
Costs  Costs Costs Costs Costs Costs
-----------------------------------------------------------------
1     2      3      4     5      6
Existing Civil Works    7.42  1.86  9.28  10.36  5.20  15.56
New/Additional works    40.64  10.16 50.80  47.67        47.67
Furniture & Equipmt.    16.52 60.15  76.67  13.15  76.77  89.92
Production Supplies     0.30  0.30  0.60  5.13  0.62  5.75
Technical Assistance    0.39  0.39  0.78  4.88  0.62  5.50
--------------------------------------------
Total Base Costs       65.27  72.86 138.13
Physical Contingencies   2.89  3.55  6.44
Price Contingencies    11.29  6.36  17.65
----------------------------------------------
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS     79.45 82.77 162.22 81.20 83.21 164.41
Comments on Prolect Costs
Contingencies are not disaggregated in actual costs (Columns 4, 5 and 6) as they
naturally are included in the actual costs figures for each category of expenditure.
As the Loan did not disburse against construction costs and all construction was
procured locally, the percentage of foreign cost is not known; but was estimated at 20
% as was used in the SAR cost estimate.
The cost overrun for furniture & equipment was due entirely to the inclusion of
33 centers added to the project (Table 4).
Additional costs of the production supplies which were used in the highly
suc=essful pilot production program to enhance cost recovery and savings resulted from
the greatly expanded pilot production program as shown in Table 8 (c).



21
Table 6: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million)
Source of Funds          Planned  (Z)   Revised       Final      (2)
IBRD Loan                 81.00   (49.9)    -         81.00   (49.3)
Local Funds               81.20   (50,1)    -         83.41   (50.7)
Total Project Coats      162.20  (100.0)              164.41  (100.0)



22
Table 7 : ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
(US$ million)
Original            Actual
Category                        Allocation        Disbursements a/
(1) Equipment (including
installation), production
materials and supplies      70,800,000        78,813,000
(2) Technical assistance and
training materials for
strengthening management
capabilities                   780,000           474,000 b/
(3) Unallocated                  9,400,000               -
81,000,000        79,287,000
a/    As of May 23, 1991; the Loan was fully disbursed by July 26,
1991.
b/    Expenditures in this category were supplemented by about
US$4.6 million of local funds, thus reducing the need for Bank
disbursements in this category (para. 36).



23
F. Pro1ect Results
Table 8 (a): DIRECT BENEFITS OF PROJECT FOR TOTAL CONALEP SYSTEM
Actual Benefits
Estimated at ARDraisal               (June 30. 1991)
for           for                  for           for
CONALEP II   CONALEP I and II   CONALEP II   CONALEP I and II
combined                           combined
CIVIL WORKS
Training Centers         97           219                 130            252
Mobile Training Units                                        4             4
Units under construction                                   15             15
PURN..EQPT..& MATERIALS
Purchased (2)             100         100                 100            115
Installed Z              100          100                 100             96
Comments on Proiect Benefits
The increase in the number of training centers is a result of the return, in
1988, to the full number of centers originally appraised but which, because of
Government austerity measures, were removed from the project at the time of Loan
negotiations (para. 12(b)).
About 15% more furniture and equipment was purchased than was planned, as a
result of the increased number of centers.



24
F. Proiect Results.(Cont.)
Table 8 (b): DIRECT BENEFITS OF PROJECT FOR TOTAL CONALEP SYSTEM
Actual Benefits
Estimated at Appraisal             (June 30. 1991)
for          for                 for           for
CONALEP II   CONALEP I and II   CONALEP II   CONALEP I and II
combined                         combined
STUDENTS & INSTRUCTORS
Students Enrolled:
Regular Programs    72,000       160,000              85,682        173,682
Up-grading Prog.    18,000        40,000              43,466        65,466
-------------------------------------------------------
Totals           90,000       200,000             129,148        239,148
Instructors:
No. Employed         7,500        16,700               6,050         12,770
No. of Hours/Week                   (10)                             (12-14)
of Teaching
Receiving pedag. training         10,000                             27,695
EFFICIENCY & OUTPUTS
Completion Rate Z                       .3                                52
ANNUAL OUTPUTS
Technicians &
Skilled Workers
(3-year programs)    21,600       48,000              13,982        40,382
Workers Upgraded       16,200       36,000              21,140         40,950
-------------------------------------------------------
Totals           37,800        84,000              35,122         81,332
Comments on Proiect Benefits
The actual number of instructors who received pedagogical training (27,695)
includes double counting of instructors taking more than one course.
Outputs from regular three-year programs--technicians and skilled workers--are
down because of the Government/CONALEP decision to have CONALEP provide training for
participants in the Manpower Training Project as described below.
Outputs of workers upgraded, are up by 311 over estimates as a result of a
decision to provide a very large number of training places for the trainees of the
Manpower Training Program, under Loan 2876-ME.



25
F. Proi-ct Results.(Cont.)
Table 8 (c): DIRECT BENEFITS OF PROJECT FOR TOTAL CONALEP SYSTEM
Actual Benefits
Estimated at Appraisal        (June 30, 1991)
CONALEP II                 CONALEP II
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE (S/Y)      352                  2,420
PILOT PRODUCTION UNITS
No. Centers Participating        24                     70
MAINTENANCE SYSTEM
Z of Centers Participating      100                     100
FOLLOW-UP SYSTEM
Z of Centers Participating      100                    100
Comments of Proiect Benefits
During project implementation, expenditures for technical assistance were
supplemented by US$4.6 million of local funds, thus allowing an increase of 6.87 times
the amount of technical assistance originally planned at appraisal.
The maintenance system has been soundly initiated under the project, but will be
significantly strengthened in the proposed CONALEP III project, especially in respect
to regional maintenance centers for sophisticated and high precision equipment.
The follow-up system is operational in all centers which have been functioning
sufficiently long to have produced graduates.



26
F. Proiect Reaults.(Cont.)
Table 8 (d):DIRECT BENEFITS OF PROJECT FOR TOTAL CONALEP SYSTEM
Actual Benefits
(June 30, 1991)
End
CON.II
INNOVATIVE PROGRAMS        (Not anticipated in SAR or Loan Agreement)
Self-emDlovment, No. individuals who took coursess        9,118
Home maintenance usinR mobile units.
for Low Income Groups (marginal populations)
No. Groups Trained in home maintenance                      70
Repairing of low income homes                             212
Maintenance Public School Furniture and Utilities:
No. of workers trained:                                2,536
No. of Companies Benefitted:                             834
No. Maquiladora enterprises:                              31
Comments on Proiect Benefits
As a result of the fact that appraisal targets for efficiency and institutional
capacity were surpassed, CONALEP's ability to develop and implement strategic training
programs was also significantly improved. These four innovative pilot programs, not
anticipated under the Loan, were carried out during the implementation of the project,
in support of the Goveranent's 1989-94 development plan, without further support from
the Bank (using Government and private funding). The major thrust of these programs
was directed at assistance to marginal populations, micro-industry, self-employment and
the in-bond assembly industries (maquiladoras) (para. 26).



27
G. Status of Loan Covenants
Table 9 : COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS
Section/Covenant                                        Status of
Compliance
2.01      CONALEP shall carry out the Project with           Yes
due diligence and efficiency with appro-
priate policies and practices, and with
qualified and experienced personnel.
2.02     Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,         Yes
procurement of the goods and consultant
services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
2.03(a)  CONALEP shall:(i) use criteria acceptable         Yes
to the Bank for selecting the training
centers;and (ii),(a) furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, by December 31, 1985,
a transitional program to enable those
centers which do not comply with the
criteria referred to in (i) above, to
fulfill such criteria, and (b) implement
such   program   during  the  years  1986
through 1988.
2.03(b)  CONALEP shall: (i)  put into operation by         Yes
September 30, 1985, a provisional system
for the maintenance of its equipment and
buildings; (ii) by December 31, 1986,
furnish to the Bank for its comments, a
revised version of it; and (iii) by March
31, 1987, or such later date as may be
agreed between the Bank and CONALEP put
into operation such system.



28
Table 9: COMPLIANCE WITH COVENANTS (Cont.)
Section /Covenant                                        Status of
Compliance
2.04      CONALEP  shall  not  change  or  fail  to         Yes
enforce any provision of the contractual
arrangements with the Borrower without
Bank approval.
2.06 (a)  CONALEP  shall,  at  the  Bank's  request         Yes
provide information on progress of the
Project and other related matters.
2.06 (b)  CONALEP shall promptly inform the Bank of         Yes
any condition which interferes with the
progress of the Project.
4.01 (a)  CONALEP shall maintain records and acco-          Yes
unts adequate to reflect in accordance
with  sound  accounting   practices  its
operations and financial condition.
4.01 (b)  CONALEP shall: (i) have its accounts and          Yes
financial statements for each fiscal
year audited; (ii) furnish to the Bank
(a) certified copies of its financial
statements, (b) the report of auditors;
and(iii)any other information concerning
accounts and financial statements that
the Bank may reasonably request.
4.01 (c)  CONALEP shall, for all expenditures with           Yes
respect to which withdrawals are reques-
ted from the Loan account, maintain
separate records and accounts; retain
records; enable Bank's representatives
to examine such records; ensure that
such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in (b).



29
H. Use of Bank Resources
Table 10: STAFF INPUTS BY STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE
Stage of                            Actual
Project Cycle                       Staffweeks   a/
Through Appraisal                      48.5
Appraisal through
Board Approval                      52.9
Supervision                            84.2
a/ TRS data until 01/10/91.
Comments on Staff Inputs
Staff Inputs through appraisal were appropriate both in staff weeks and mission
composition (Table 11) to ensure a well prepared and appraised project. Data on staff
inputs at Headquarters was not available.



Table 11 : MISSION DATA BY STAGES Ot'' PX0OJ`CT
Staff
Month/  No. of     Area      Weeks     Performance
Mission          Year  Persons    '/    in field         b/ c/
Identification  10/84    3      EP,TE,A           5
Prep./appraisal 11/84    5      EP,FP,TE,E,EE,LO 8
TOTAL                     8                      13      G  P  M  1
Superv.  1      08/85    1      EP                1      1  1 2  1
Superv.  2      02/86    3      EP,2TE            4      1  1 2  1
Superv.  3      05/86    3      EP,2TE            3      1  1 2  1
Superv.  4      10/86    2      EP,TE             2      1  1  1  1
Superv.  5      10/87    1      TE                2      1  1  1  1
Superv.  6      05/88    2      2TE               3      1  1  2  1
Superv.  7      11/88    3      2TE,TM            6         n.a.
Superv.  8      01/89    2      2TE               6      1  1  1  1
O  D  C  M  F
Superv.  9      06/89    2      2TE               2   1  1  1  1  1
Superv. 10      11/89    3      2TE,E             3   1  1  1  1  1
Superv. 11      06/90    3      E,TE,IS           4   1  1  1  1  1
Superv. 12      11/90    1      TE                1   1  1  1  1  1
TOTAL                    26                      37
PCR             11/90    1      IS                I   1  1  1  1  1
TOTAL                     1                       1
it  E - Economist, EE   Education Economist,  A = Architect
EP - Education Planner, IS   Implementation Specialist,
TE - Technical Educator, LO - Loan Officer, TM - Training
Organization and Management Specialist.
b/ G - General Status, P = Procurement, M - Management, F = Financial
0 - Overall Status, D - Project Development Objectives,
C - Compliance with legal Covenants, M = Project Management
Performance, F = Availability of Funds.
1 - Problem Free or Minor Problems.
2 - Moderate Problems.
3 - Major Problems.



