Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFMFCIAL USE ONLY
-.                                                                                  Report No. P-4058-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$81 MILLION
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A SECOND TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
Ia
-                                            May 1, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and -y be used by recipients ondy in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizationm



Currency Unit - Peso (MexS)
On March 31, 1985, the exchange rate in the controlled market was
US$1 = Mex$208.79; the freemarket exchange rate stood at US$1 = Mex$226.85. Both
exchange rates are currently sliding at a rate of Mex$0.21 per day against the US
dollar.
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CAPFCE - Administrative Committee of Federal Programs for School Const:ruction
CETs - Centers for Technological Studies
CONALEP - National Agency for Professional Technical Education
NAFINSA - Nacional Financiera, S.A.
NDP - National Development Plan
SEP - Ministry of Education
SHCP - Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
SPP - Ministry of Programming and Budgeting
S



FoR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-i -
MEXICO
SECOND TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Guarantor:      United Mexican States
Beneficiary:   National Agency for Professional Technical Education (CONALEP)
Amount:         US$81.0 million equivalent.
Terms:          15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the
standard variable rate.
Project         The project would support CONALEP in implementing the second
Description:   phase (1985-88) of its technical training program for skilled
workers and technicians.
Objectives:    The project's objectives are (a) to improve CONALEP's
operational efficiency and effectiveness; (b) to increase the
supply of skilled workers and technicians; (c) to improve the
quality of training, instructor training, and materials
cost-recovery efforts; (d) to develop advanced maintenance
systems for buildings and equipment; and (e) to provide
flexible support for the program as a whole.
Components:    The project would provide technical assistance to achieve the
above objectives, support the creation of 24 cost-recovery,
pilot  production units and assist in the development of
about 97 technical training centers, with an additional
enrollment capacity of 90,000 students in training and
up-grading programs.
Benefits:       The project would greatly strengthen technical training at the
middle level by further contributing to the institutional
development of CONALEP and by enhancing the quality of
training. The project would increase CONALEP's annual output
v                         by 21,580 skilled workers and middle-level technicians and
1,500 technical teachers. It would also increase capacity to
upgrade specialized skills for about 16,180 employed workers
and technicians.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Risks:         The major risks are difficulties in recruiting part-time
instructors during peak production hours and retention of
students. The ability of CONAIEP to pay competitive salaries
should diminish the problem of teacher recruitment. A
favorable student-teacher ratio and well equipped facilities
to aid in practical application of course-work should improve
student retention.  The risk of expected benefits of the
production units not materializing is more than offset by                f
CONALEP's proven capacity for implementing innovations.
Further, the project would provide for the financing of
feasibility studies prior to establishing the production
units. Overall, considering CONALEP's capacity for monitoring
and implementing the program, the risks are acceptable.
Estimated
Costs: 1/                             Local           Foreign           Total
Category                            (US$ million)- -
Construction           48.0             12.0            60.0
Furniture               3.9              0.9             4.8
Equipment              12.6             59.3            71.9
Production Supplies    0.3               0.3             0.6
Technical Assistance   0.4               0.4             0.8
Project Base Cost      65.2             72.9           138.1
Physical Contingencies 2.9               3.5             6.4
Price Contingencies   11.3               6.4            17.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST    79.4              82.8            162.2
Financing
Plan:                                 Local           Foreign           Total
- =    (US$ million)         -
Government             79.4              1.8            81.2
Bank                    -               81.0            81.0
TOTAL                  79.4             82.8            162.2
1/ Figures do not add due to rounding. Costs exclude in-kind contributions
and identifiable taxes and duties, but include about US$9.3 million in
sunk costs.



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:
-           --(US$ million)-             -
Bank FY               86        87       88        89        90
Annual               14.0      22.5     24.5      18.0       2.0
Cumulative           14.0      36.5     61.0      79.0     81.0
Rate of
Return:         Not quantifiable
Staff Appraisal
Report:         Report No. 5499-ME, dated April 29, 1985.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A SECOND TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT 1/
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Nacional Financiera, S.A., (NAFINSA) with the Guarantee of United Mexican
States for the equivalent of US$81 million to help finance a Second Technical
Training Project to be carried out by the National Agency for Professional
Technical Education (CONALEP). The loan would be repaid over 15 years,
including 3 years grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report on Mexico (Mexico:  Recent Economic Developments
and Prospects, No. 4996-ME) was distributed to the Executive Directors on May
14, 1984. The report's main conclusions and recent economic developments are
summarized below.
3.        Following an import-substitution growth strategy, Mexico experienced
some two decades of high and stable growth after the early 1950s. By the late
1960s, however, Mexico had largely exhausted the easyf and efficient possibil-
ities for import substitution, and faced a choice between outward-oriented
growth or continued inward-directed growth led by expansion of public sector
expenditures and rising subsidies and protection of inefficient domestic
production. By 1972 the choice was made to pursue the latter course. Public
sector expenditures as a percent of CDP more than doubled between 1970 and
1982, from 18.8% to 42.5% (Report No. 4996-ME, p. 114). By 1976 Mexico
experienced a serious financial and economic crisis, followed by an even more
serious one six years later. The discovery of large oil reserves in the
*id-1970s led Mexico to a quick economic recovery, but it also removed the
urgency of policy reforms. Primary among these was the need to reduce protec-
tion and the anti-export bias of the trade regime to thereby move over time
toward greater efficiency and international competitiveness. Oil revenues also
temporarily helped finance the public sector deficit and reduced the need for
greater fiscal restraint.
Developments during 1977-1982
4.        The stabilization measures initiated in 1977 and the discovery and
exploitation of large oil resources in the mid-1970s allowed the Lopez Portillo
1/   Parts I and II are substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Chiapas Agricultural Development Project (Report No. P-4023-ME of
March 29, 1985).



- 2 -
Administration (Jan. 1977 - Dec. 1982) to overcome the serious financial crisis
of 1976 and to start working on structural, social and economic problems,
including poverty, income and wealth inequality, unemployment, regional
imbalances and relatively slow agricultural growth. In the early years of that
Administration (1978-80) GDP growth was high (8.5% a year), 2.5 million jobs
were created, domestic consumption recovered, and the share of investment and
savings in GDP surpassed historical levels, but the economy became increasingly
overheated.
5.         Rapidly rising public expenditures unmatched by revenues led to
increasing public deficits. While inflation rose, no significant pressure was
felt to adjust the exchange rate, thanks to the oil earnings and the relative
ease of obtaining foreign finance. By mid-1981, the economic situation began
to mirror the scene prevailing before the 1976 financial crisis. The current
account deficit of the balance of payments reached 5.2% of GDP, while the
deteriorating international oil market conditions caused large revenue
shortfalls with respect to budget expectations. The public sector deficit rose
to just under 15% of GDP. Non-oil exports dropped, and the trade deficit
reached record levels. External borrowing was used to finance part of the
domestic fiscal deficit and to defend the exchange rate. Mexico's foreign debt
increased rapidly, at a time of high and rising international interest rates.
A stabilization program initiated by the Government in mid-1981 was not
sufficient to redress the growing fiscal imbalance, the high cost of foreign
loans and the increasing private capital flight fueled by the public's anxiety
over Mexico's financial troubles.
6.        The crisis came to a head in 19B2.  In February, as capital flight
intensified, the Bank of Mexico had to stop supporting the peso, which then
experienced a 40% devaluation in dollar terms. A large wage adjustment granted
in March 1982, which tended to undo the effects of the devaluation, and
continuing slack in the oil market kept the balance of payments under strain.
Under the circumstances, the international banking community became reluctant
to commit new funds to Mexico, in the amounts required. These factors led to a
second devaluation of 35% in August 1982, while the acute shortage of foretgn
exchange forced the Government to suspend the amortization payments of most of
Mexico's external public debt pending a broader agreement on its refinancing.
Capital flight continued as private sector confidence was shaken by the
nationalization of the banks in September 1982, and the mandatory conversion of
US dollar deposits into pesos. Also put into effect were a generalized system
of exchange controls and quantitative trade restrictions covering an
unprecedented 100% of imports.
Recent Developments
7.        The Administration of President de la Madrid, that began its term in
December 1982, lost no time in taking steps to recover domestic and external
confidence, and stabilize the public sector and external finances. The
Government's stabilization program supported by an EFF agreement, approved by
the IMF in December 1982, laid the basis for restoring economic stability and
for the re-negotiation of that part of Mexico's public external debt on which
amortization payments had been discontinued in August 1982. Commercial banks
agreed to restructure some US$19 billion of public sector debt and provide US$5



-3-
billion in net new loans for 1983. All obligations falling due between August
23, 1982 and December 31, 1984 were restructured over an eight year period,
starting from January 1983, with a grace period of four years and at an
interest rate of 1-7/8 percentage points over LIBOR (or 1-3/4 over the New York
prime rate). The US$5 billion syndication had a 6-year maturity, with a 3-year
grace period, at a spread of 2-1/4 over LIBOR (2-1/8 over prime). The
restructuring exercise included an understanding that the international banks
would maintain their exposure to the Mexican banks that had been nationalized.
At the same time, it provided a mechanism that would eliminate 1982 private
sector interest arrears and facilitate payment of the rescheduled principal on
such debt.
8.        A new two-tier exchange rate system was introduced, with a controlled
market for imports, most proceeds from merchandise exports (except those of
in-bond industries) and debt related transactions, and a free market for all
other transactions including those relating to tourism. The controlled rate
was originally set at Mex$95 = US$1, a depreciation of some 35% in relation to
the previously prevailing ordinary rate of Mex$70 per US dollar. The free
market rate had remained at about Mex$150 per dollar until September 1983, when
the authorities decided to let it slide as much as the controlled rate. The
differential between the two rates, which in December 1982 stood close to 60%,
is now down to less than 10%. Over the past two years, the peso has gradually
appreciated in real terms as inflation in Mexico remained high. The Government
increased the rate of slide of the peso from 13 centavos a day to 17 centavos
in December 1984 and to 21 centavos early March 1985, in order to bring it
closer to the expected inflation differential between Mexico and its trading
partners. Domestic deposit interest rates were also raised in early March 1985
from an average of about 45% to nearly 50%.
9.        Under the IMF Agreement, the Administration committed itself to a
drastic reduction of the public sector deficit, from 18.0Z of GDP in 1982 to
8.5% in 1983, 5.5% in 1984 and 3.5% in 1985. Substantial progress has been
made during the past two years in meeting the program objectives although the
targets for 1984 were not fully met. The public finances were strengthened
considerably and the public sector deficit was reduced to 8.7% of GDP in 1983
and an estimated 7.4% in 1984. The main reason for the higher budget deficit
than the 1984 target was the much higher than expected interest payments on the
domestic debt. Curbs on expenditures were wide ranging. However, recent
estimates suggest that real public investment -- encompassing states and local
governments -- may have been well in excess of the targets for 1984. The
authorities have given priority to completing projects that were already far
advanced and to those that were important for employment, equity, or foreign
exchange earnings. Nonetheless, public investment expenditures are estimated
to have declined to about 7% of GDP in 1983-84, well below the 1982 level of
11.7%. The fiscal performance was also aided by significant price increases
for nearly all public goods and services, including petroleum nroducts,
electricity rates, food, etc. The Government has committed itself to a
stibstantial reduction and eventual elimination of most subsidies, including
Lhose provided in the form of low incerest rates.
10.       The balance of payments experienced a major turnaround in 1983 with
the current account moving from a deficit of almost US$5 billion in 1982 to a
surplus of US$5.5 billion. The strength of the current account and the



- 4 -
availability of external finance permitted Mexico to replenish its
international reserves while paying a large part of the arrears that had
accumulated in 1982. The net use of foreign financing by the public sector was
US$4.2 billion for the year-below the ceiling of US$5 billion under the
stabilization program. The errors and omissions account of the balance of
payments dropped from US$8 billion in 1982 to an estimated US$1.4 billion in
1983, largely reflecting the decline in unrecorded capital outflows. The swing
in the current account was mainly the result of a very sharp contraction of
merchandise imports, to US$7.7 billion representing a decline of about US$7
billion from their 1982 level.  The recession, the large devaluation of the
peso and the quantitative restrictions all contributed to this. The balance of
payments remained strong in 1984, with a current account surplus of US$3.7
billion, and a further US$2.5 billion were added to the nation's foreign
exchange reserves, which at the year's end are estimated at about 71 months of
imports. Although imports recovered considerably, a rapid rise in non-oil
exports, particularly in the first quarter of 1984, ensured that the trade
surplus remained at the same level as in 1983, i.e., about US$13 billion.
Growth in tourism and in-bond industry was also strong, and helped in
alleviating unemployment. These favorable external trends during late 1983 and
early 1984 weakened in mid-1984, owing to an appreciating real exchange rate.
1I.      Fighting inflation remains the pivot of the Government's stabilization
program. Although the Government's own inflationary targets have been missed
by wide margins, the rate of inflation continued to decline through mid-1984.
It declined from a rate of about 100% in 1982 to 80% and 59% in 1983 and 1984.
The main factors in this were restrained fiscal and monetary policies and
moderate wage adjustments. The flow of savings into the banking system
continued to rise, reflecting the beneficial influence of the exchange rate and
interest rate policies. The impact of the severe and sudden cuts in public
expenditure and imports on economic growth in 1983 was serious when GDP
declined by over 5%. However, the economic recovery in 1984 was stronger than
the Government's expectations: GDP is estimated to have risen by about 3.5%
compared to the earlier estimate of only 1%. Since the latter half of 1984,
fiscal, monetary, and external trends have signaled a possible resurgence of
inflationary pressures.
12.      The Government also took steps to regain the confidence of both
domestic and foreign private investors. These included efforts to deal with
the problems of private external debt, procedures to compensate owners of
nationalized banks, and a more flexible application of the foreign investment
law.   Negotiations with commercial banks and other private creditors have been
completed for the refinancing of nearly half of the total of US$11.6 billion of
private sector obligations at stretched out maturities varying between 6 and 12
years, with 3- to 4-year grace periods. Moreover, the Government undertook the
restructuring of Mexican private sector obligations guaranteed by official
credit agencies abroad.  The Government has also transferred back to private
ownership most of the 400 private firms that were controlled by the commercial
banks prior to their nationalization. These measures and announcements have
been beneficial, but more remains to be done to restore confidence of Mexican
entrepreneurs and foreign investors. The Government realizes that this is an
issue of the greatest importance as economic recovery beyond the current
stabilization period will depend critically on the resumption of vigorous
private investment.



- 5 -
13.      The general improvement in the Mexican economy has been widely noted,
particularly by the international banking community. Mainly for this reason,
the Government's 1984 borrowing of US$3.8 billion from commercial banks carrled
much more favorable terms than the borrowing in 1983 (10 year maturity, 5-3/4
year grace period, and a spread of 1lt over LIBOR or 1-1/8% over prime). The
negotiations between the Government and foreign commercial bankF on the
rescheduling of foreign debt have been virtually completed.  The draft
agreement, covering close to US$50 billion, has been submitted by the Banks'
Advisory Group (consisting of the 13 largest lenders) to some 500 smaller,
regional banks for their acceptance.  Under the proposed terms, the previously
not-rescheduled debt (amounting to about $20 billion), which is due for
repayment in 1985-90, will have its maturities stretched over fourteen years.
The maturities of the previously rescheduled debt coming due in 1987-90 will be
stretched over eleven years. The 1983 syndicate loan of $5 billion will be
restructured, after prepayment of $1 billion, to carry terms identical to the
1984 syndicate loan. In summary, the pending rescheduling agreement will
stretch maturities of US$50 billion public debt in such 3 way that the debt
service remains virtually constant between 1985-1998, in contrast to the
present situation where 75% of the debt service is due in 1986-89. The banks
will have the choice of LIBOR, a domestic reference rate, or a fixed rate.
These terms nre based on the understanding that the Government will continue to
adhere to prudent economic policies. The rescheduling agreement covering US$29
billion of Government debt was signed on March 29, 1985. Another US$19 billion
in loans to Mexican Government agencies will be refinanced between now and
June. This followed the approval on March 25 by the IMF of a third-year
Extended Fund Facility.
Medium-term Prospects
14.      The Government's strategy, as outlined in the National Development
Plan (NDP) for 1983-88, combines special efforts to recover from the present
crisis with a longer-term perspective on regaining balanced and stable growth
to overcome structural problems. The main problems facing Mexico in the years
ahead include the still very high rate of population growth (2.6% estimated for
1983) together with an even higher rate of labor force growth (a little under
4%), slow growth in agriculture, poverty, a highly skewed interpers.2aal and
interregional income distribution, and an overly oil-dependent economy with a
strong anti-export bias.
15.      The medium-term strategy presented in the NDP focuses on the need for
structural changes in the economy including a greater export orientation
through revision of external trade policies, poverty alleviation through _dsic
needs policies and improvement in labor absorption, and decentralization of
economic activity. The basic elements of policies to address structural
problems are mentioned in the ND? and further details on specific programs and
schedules for policy adjustments are provided in the sectoral plans which were
prepared subsequently.
16.      Mexico's medium-term prospects for recovery and stable economic growth
are reasonably good, provided economic management continues to be prudent,
private sector confidence is restored, and the international environment
remains favorable. Adequate domestic policies include inter alia continued



- 6 -
efforts to reduce the fiscal deficit, liberalize trade and minimize price
distortions. Restoration of private sector confidence is crucial since only a
strong and dynamic private sector will be able to raise investment from the
present depressed levels and to supply the increasing non-oil export surplus
required for the resumption of growth. As regards the external environment,
the commercial banks are expected to maintain their exposure in Mexico in real
terms, and foreign markets to be open to Mexico's non-oil exports. Mexico will
benefit directly from a continuing fall in interest rates in the world
financial markets (a one percentage point drop means a savings of about US$800
million in overall interest payments which compares to a loss of $550 million
in gross export revenues that would result from a one dollar drop in the export
price of oil).
17.       Under reasonably favorable external and domestic conditions, Mexico's
economic growth could reach a sustainable 6% a year--the post-War average for
Mexico --towards the late 1980s. This growth would materialize through a
sustained redirection of the economy toward a more outward-oriented growth
pattern. Fiscal discipline, in t.ie absence of improved domestic efficiency and
export development, is likely to entail a prolonged period of slow growth,
characterized by insufficient labo- absorption in internationally competitive
activities, by domestic price distortions, and by continued need for subsidies.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
18.       Mexico's external public debt increased by about US$4 billion during
1983 and by about a similar amount in 1984.  With an expected net new borrowing
of some US$3 to US$4 billion a year, the ratio of external debt to GDP would
decline steadily from 41% in 1984 to 33% by 1990. The debt service ratio,
after the proposed rescheduling, is projected to peak at 47Z in 1988,
thereafter it gradually declines to about 25% in 1995.
19.       At the end of 1983, the last year for which a comprehensive external
debt report is available at this time, the Bank's share in Mexico's debt was
4.3% (excluding undisbursed). The Bank share in Mexico's total public external
debt service payments during that year was 4%. In view of the good medium and
long term potential of its economy and the prospect of continued pursuit of
sound economic policies by the present Administration, Mexico is considered
creditworthy for IBRD borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
Bank Operations
20.       As of March 31, 1985, Mexico had received 85 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$6,831.3 million, net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 58 loans totalling US$3,495.2 million were fully disbursed. The Bank
held US$5,465.6 million, of which US$1,948.9 million had not yet been
disbursed. Some 42% of Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural
development, 23% for industry, 11% for power, and 13% for transportation; the
remaining 11% has been for water supply, tourism, urban development, vocational
training and pollution control projects. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans as of March 31, 1985.



21.       Of the US$6.83 billion total lending, about US$3.5 billion was for
establishing or strengthening institutions for channelling credit to areas
where credit supply was deficient or non-existent, and setting up in the com-
mercial banking system the ability to carry out project-related appraisal of
investments in agriculture, industry and tourism. These credit programs have
facilitated lending to low-income farmers and small- and medium-scale
industrial and tourism enterprises based on productive investment plans, rather
than credit granted on the basis of collateral.
22.       The Government arranged adequate budget financing in the years 1978
to 1981, which significantly improved project implementation. Government and
Bank officials met periodically to review project implementation, and greater
attention was focused in Mexico on project monitoring. As a result of these
measures, most of the Bank-assisted projects were being implemented
satisfactorily until mid-1982 and disbursements rose from US$91 million in FY78
to US$448 million in FY82. However, the present financial crisis is again
causing delays in the provision of counterpart funds, consequently, disburse-
ments in FY83 declined to US$389 million. A Special Action Program (SAP) was
established in early 1983 to help the Government by alleviating the counterpart
funding constraints on development projects, and 18 Bank financed projects are
receiving support under the Program. Partly as a result of the SAP, disburse-
ments during 1984 improved significantly at US$528.87 million or 35% over
disbursements in 1983.
IFC Operations
23.       As of March 31, 1985, IFC had made investment commitments in 27
companies in Mexico, for a total of US$753.9 million, of which US$562.5 million
had been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement of lFC investments is
presented in Annex II. IFC has been working together with the Bank in
preparing proposals to establish a facility for provision of foreign exchange
financing to private sector companies for the importation of machinery,
equipment and spare parts required for production of exportable products, for
efficient import substitution and for improvements in the utilization of their
existing productive capacity. IFC approved a US$100 million facility
(including funds mobilized from foreign commercial banks) in 1983, which is
providing finance for fixed investments of a larger size than those assisted
under the Bank loan for an Export Development Project.
Bank Strategy
24.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico in the past eight years
have been to: (a) suDport policies and programs leading to a wider distribu-
tion of the benefits of economic growth; (b) help finance projects that, di-
rectly or indirectly, contribute significantly to output and employment; (c)
help reduce Mexico's urban-regional imbalances; and (d) help free bottlenecks
which prevent rapid growth. More recently, however, in response to Mexico's
requirements following the 1982 economic crisis, the Bank, in close cooperation
with the IMF, also supported the Government's stabilization program through as-
sistance for export promotion and intensified and broadened economic and sector
work. As for medium term prospects, the volume and composition of Bank lending
to Mexico would be rel;ted to progress in the implementation of policy reforms



needed for structural economic adjustments, through broad policy conditionality
affecting the entire lending program ox important parts of it. Specific policy
reforms that are being pursued through a dialogue with the Government,
conducted in parallel with the processing of lending operations, cover priority
macro-economic and cross-sectoral issues, such as interest rate policy, energy
pricing, subsidy reduction and export development.
25.       Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture and the
sector's crucial importance for the one-third of the nation's population living
in the rural areas, the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its
lending. The Bank's agricultural lending program in Mexico has four goals:
first, to help increase productivity of presently cultivated lands in general;
second, to give emphasis to improving the productivity of small farmers; third,
to complement infrastructure investments with support services, such as
extension, marketing programs and credit; and fourth, to promote employment-
generating investments in rural areas. The Bank has made 14 loans in FYs78-83
totalling US$1,829.4 million for irrigation, rural development and agricul-
tural, agro-industrial and livestock credit programs. A US$175 million loan
for a rural development project and a US$180 million loan for an irrigation
rehabilitation project were approved by the Executive Directors in FY82, and a
US$138.4 million loan for San Fernando rainfed agricultural development was
approved in early FY83. A US$115 million loan for marketing perishables was
approved by the Executive Directors in April 1983 and a $300 million Eighth
Agricultural Credit Project in June 1984. A US$90 million loan for a Chiapas
Agricultural Development Project together with a Chiapas Rural Rcads Project
was approved by the Executive Directors on April 30, 1985. Projects for
tropical agriculture, irrigation rehabilitation, extension and research, seed
multiplication and agricultural credit are in various stages of preparation.
26.       Bank lending for industry has aimed at:  (a) reduction of the balance
of payments deficit; (b) decentralizing industrial activities away from the
major, increasingly congested, urban areas; and (c) promoting greater employ-
ment. A steel project which the Bank helped structure and finance is now
operating in a previously underdeveloped area on the west coast of Mexico, and
the city in which it is located, Lazaro Cardenas, is developing into a new
growth pole. Four loans for industrial projects to promote the development of
small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises, to finance expansion of small-
and medium-scale mining, and to support an industrial equipment fund (FONEI)
were approved by the Executive Directors in FYs78-80. A US$90.0 million loan
for a vocational training project, which is assisting a program to increase the
supply of skilled workers and technicians, a US$152.3 million loan for the
development of a capital goods industries project and a US$60 million loan for
pollution control were approved by the Executive Directors in FY82. A
modification in the capital goods project was approved by the Executive
Directors in early 1983 to set up a pilot export development fund to help
satisfy the foreign exchange needs of Mexican exporters. A US$350 million loan
for an Export Development Project and a US$175 million loan for a Third Small-
and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project were approved by the Executive
Directors in FY83. A follow-up project to support expansion of small and
medium scale mining enterprises is expected to be presented to the Board in
late May 1985.



-9-
27.       Bank lending for physical infrastructure has been focused on regional
development and strengthening of institutions and sector policies. Two high-
way sector projects (FY79 and FY84), the fourth railway project (FY81) and an
industrial ports project (FY84) support these goals. The first and second
medium-size cities water supply and sewerage projects (FY76 and 81) reinforce
the planning, management and finance of specialized water supnly and sewerage
institutions at the federal and municipal levels, and contribute to the
establishment of tariffs more closely related to costs; a third project was
approved by the Executive Directors on May 17, 1983. A fifth railway project
is expected to be presented to the Board this fiscal year.
28.       The Government has adopted a National Urban Development Plan that
spells out its regional development priorities in operational terms. A project
to assist in the development of the Lazaro Cardenas urban area was approved by
the Executive Directors in FY78, and a second urban project for oil-producing
southeastern Mexico was approved by the Executive Directors in FY81. A loan
for the preparation of a deconcentration program for the Mexico City Region was
approved by the Executive Directors in August 1982.
29.       The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting CECADE (Centro
de Capacitacion de Desarrollo Economico under the Secretariat of Programming
and Budgeting) in training Government staff in project preparation, monitoring
and evaluation. EDI assistance is directed at courses on urban and regional
development, agriculture, rural development and agro-industries. The Bank has
also assisted the Mexican authorities in training personnel for managing water
supply and industrial credit projects.
30.       The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans to Mexico
totalling US$3.4 billion as of March 31, 1985. Over 50% of the total has gone
to agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance to
transportation, industry, water supply and sewerage, tourism infrastructure,
education, municipal development, and pre-investment. The IDB and the Bank
have coordinated their sssistance on several projects. Each has made loans for
the national integrated rural development program (PIDER), agricultural and
livestock credtt, small- and medium-scale industries development, and hotel
development projects. The International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD) has approved a loan of US$22 million for a rural development project in
the state of Oaxaca which was appraised by the Bank's staff and for which the
Bank is acting as cooperating institution for administering the loan.
31.       Bank-supported power, steel, fertilizer and tourism projects in
Mexico have been co-financed by several bilateral export credit agencies and
commercial banks. In January 1982, Mexico borrowed US$500 million from
commercial banks to provide complementary financing for Bank-assisted projects
where project specific co-financing would have been difficult.



- 10 -
PART III - THE TECHNICAL TRAINING SECTOR
32.       Although unemployment has been officially estimated at about 14Z
for 1984, the high unemployment rate coexists with manpower shortages of
skilled workers and technicians (para. 39).
33.       The implementation of policies to address structural problems
identified in the NDP (paras. 14 and 15) would create an accelerated demand
for skilled workers and technicians that far exceeds current outputs from the
training system. The magnitude and momentum of this demand far exceeds
overall employment target rates because of shifting sectoral labor require-
ments and the great differences in the proportions of skilled workers and
technicians required by each sector.
The Education and Training System
34.       The general education and training system in Mexico is well
developed. It consists of primary, middle and higher levels, and has good
coverage, fairly good efficiency and generally achieves its goals. At the
primary level (grades 1-6), the net enrollment rate was 97% in 1980 and
reached about 100% in 1984. Total enrollment was 15.4 million students in
1984. Internal efficiency, the ratio of current output to maximum possible
output, has improved from less than 60% in 1971 to almost 81% in 1984. A
free textbook program is well developed. About 83.4 million textbooks and
844,000 guides for teachers were distributed during 1983. Virtually all
teachers are properly trained. Middle level education comprises a lower- and
an upper-middle level. At the lower-middle level (grades 7-9), first year
entrants in 1984 constituted 87.8% of all graduates from the primary level in
19B3. Enrollments at this level were 4.1 million in 1984, an increase of
about 2.5 million students since 1974. Internal efficiency has remained
high, reaching 95% in 1984. The upper-middle level (grades 10-12) provides
the link between lower-middle and higher education, as well as between
lower-middle and the labor force; as such it is responsible for supplying the
training necessary to produce future qualified workers and middle level
technicians. This latter function has traditionally been difficult to
achieve, despite several attempts at reform during the past 20 years.
Higher education (grades 13-17) received more than 308,000 first year
students in 1984, or 91% of those who completed non-technical upper secondary
education the previous term. Higher education includes several public and
private universities of high quality. Enrollment in science and
technological subjects accounts for 62% of all students at this level,
including those enrolled in medical sciences. This proportion represents a
reasonable balance.
35.       The sector is reasonably financed.  In 1983, federal expenditures
on education and training amounted Lo Mex$488 billion (US$4.06 billion).
State governments and the private sector also spent significant amounts on
education, bringing total education expenditures to about 4.2% of GDP in
1983. Although rather low compared to other middle income countries, and
representing a decrease since 1979, this figure is deemed adequate consider-
ing current fiscal circumstances. Funding for terminal technical training



- 11 -
(para. 37) has almost doubled in real terms in four years, from about US$43
million in 1980 to about US$79.9 million in 1983, indicating the high
priority assigned by the Government to this area.
Upper-Middle Level Technical Training
36.       Upper-middle level technical training enrolls 1.8 million students
in more than 3,800 schools in the following four major categories of
education or training: academic, teacher training, dual-purpose technical
and terminal technical. Each category includes several types of schools. At
this level, there are serious problems of training sufficient numbers of high
quality skilled workers and technicians. The dual-purpose technical schools
were a first attempt to train skilled workers by providing a practical outlet
to the labor force. They have not, however, been effective in this respect;
out of a total of 83,300 graduates from dual-purpose technical programs in
1984, only about 6,700, or 8%, entered the labor force. The Centers for
Technological Studies (CETs) constituted another attempt to direct sufficient
numbers of trained students into the labor force but have been similarly
unsuccessful. A large majority of graduates continued their education.
37.       Terminal Technical Training.  The terminal technical training
program of the upper-middle level consists of: the CETs; the National Agency
for Professional Technical Education (CONALEP); and three other minor
programs. Current enrollments in terminal training are 316,000 students.
The effectiveness of these terminal technical training programs has improved
substantially with the creation of the CONALEP system in 1978.  However, the
annual contribution of these programs to the labor force is still not as
effective as it should be. Out of a total of 50,700 graduates in 1984, only
22,100, or 44%, entered the labor force. While approximately 97% of
CONALEP's graduates entered the work force during this period, only about 15%
of graduates from other -terminal" programs entered the labor force in 1984.
Nevertheless, this represents an improvement over 1978 when only 5% of the
graduates entered the labor force.
Subsector Issues
38.       The technical training subsector still has serious problems,
including insufficient quantity of skilled workers and technicians and
inadequate quality of training.
39.       Insufficient Quantity of Skilled Workers and Technicians.  The
total need for additional skilled workers and technicians is estimated at
1,050,000 for the period 1980-90 plus replacement needs in excess of 200,000;
total estimated output during the same period based on current trends is a
maximum of 400,000 graduates, resulting in a shortfall of about 850,000
graduates. The major factors contributing to this shortfall are:
insufficient training opportunities in general, exacerbated by serious



- 12 -
regional imbalances; low efficiency and completion rates in terminal training
programs (about 40% for non-CONALEP programs in 1983) due primarily to the
poor quality and consequent lack of prestige of such programs; and, low
proportion of graduates joining the labor force from the dual purpose
technical training schools and even from most CETs and other "terminal"
programs (paras. 36 and 37).
40.       Inadequate Quality of Training.  Technical training received in
programs other than CONALEP is inadequate for both skilled workers and
technicians in terms of application of practical skills to productive activi-
ties. These inadequacies result from: a lack of qualified teachers with
industrial experience; curricula, course content and basic instructional
materials which are frequently irrelevant to the productive sectors due to
lack of formal links with industry both during curricula development and
periodic revision; lack of appropriate training equipment, because of
financial constraints, lack of consultation with industry or academic biases
of instructional staff; and scarcity of consumable supplies and audio visual
materials.
Subsector Achievements
41.       Despite the significant deficiencies existing in upper-middle level
technical training, tremendous achievements have been made during the 1980-84
period. With the creation of CONALEP, the proportion of graduates from
terminal technical training programs entering the labor force increased
significantly (para. 37). With Bank assistance (para. 45), the CONALEP
system which had no schools in operation in 1980, now has 122 new and
well-equipped schools located throughout the country, with an enrollment
capacity of about 110,000 students. CONALEP has initiated close ties with
industry, has sound advisory boards, and has initiated a job placement and
follow-up system. The CONALEP schools are prestigious and are in strong
demand because they are generally well staffed with industrially experienced
instructors. Moreover, the success of the CONALEP system has had a positive
effect on other technical training programs under the Ministry of Education
as was intended. The Government has assigned to CONALEP the leading role in
expanding and improving the sector; it is expected that at least the most
recent CETs would emulate this example, whereas other programs, whtich have
proven to be unresponsive, are being converted into regular academic
programs.
The National Agency for Professional Technical Education (CONALEP)
42.       CONALEP was created in 1978 as an independent agency responsible
for upper-middle level terminal technical training. Because of the difficul-
ties involved in the creation of a new training system, it was conceived as a
two-phase effort. The first phase of the CONALEP program (1979-84) which
involved creating the program, testing its major components and initiating
its development was supported by Bank Loan No. 2042-ME signed on July 31,



- 13 -
1981 (para. 45). Phase II of the CONALEP program (1985-88) consists of
further increasing the capacity of the CONALEP system and making necessary
adjustments in institutional, administrative and training aspects of the
program.
43.       CONALEP differs from other upper-middle level technioal training
programs in that: (a) it is semi-autonomous, which facilitates flexibility
and responsiveness to the changing needs and the participation of the produc-
tive sectors; (b) its administration is decentralized, which facilitates
delegation of operational decisions to local training authorities and
industrial advisory boards; (c) its curriculum has a practical orientation
and strong emphasis upon evaluation, 'hands-on experience, follow-up and
feedback; (d) its training programs, both regular and part-time, are strictly
terminal and job market oriented; (e) its unique student promotion activities
enhance the program's public image and encourage active support from the
productive sectors; (f) students pay a tuition proportio.al to their training
costs and have a supplementary tuition loan program available; and (g) its
technical instructors are from industry, they teach part-time (10-14 hours/
week generally) and cannot belong to the Teachers' Union.
44.       Program Objectives.  The CONALEP training program objectives are:
(a) to expand the output of skilled workers and technicians by creating a
large network of upper-middle level terminal training centers in close
cooperation with the productive sectors and in the quantities required by the
economy; (b) to improve the quali.y of training by emphasizing a practical
curriculum, which maintains its relevance to changing regional and sectoral
needs; Cc) to increase the efficiency of such training by enhancing its
public image, achieving higher retention rates and decentralizing training
opportunities; and (d) to upgrade the quality of the existing workforce, by
designing special programs and using CONALEP's facilities for the training of
both employed and unemployed adults.
Previous Bank Experience
45.       The proposed project would be the second Bank operation in the
sector. The first operation, the Technical Training Project (FY82), for
which Bank financing of US$90 million equivalent was provided by Bank Loan
2042-ME signed on July 31, 1981, supported the first phase of CONALEP's
development program. The first phase program (1980-84) comprised: (a)
constructing a central administrative and support complex to establish a firm
base for the effective management of the system; (b) constructing, furnishing
and equipping 122 training centers throughout the country with an enrollment
capacity of 110,000 students; and (c) recruiting and training 9200
instructors. CONALEP's first phase program has been very successful and will
be fully implemented by June 30, 1985. In addition, education oriented
components have been included in projects in other sectors and experience has
generally been favorable.



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.       A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5499-ME, dated April 29, 1985) is
being distributed separately. The proposed project was appraised in November
1984. Annex III contains a timetable of key events in processing the project
and a description of the special conditions of the proposed loan. Negotia-
tions for the proposed loan took place in Washington, D.C. on April 10-25,
1985. The Mexican delegation was headed by Lic. Luis Nava of NAFINSA, and
included representatives from the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit and
CONALEP.
Project Objectives and Description
47.       The proposed project would assist CONALEP in implementing its
second phase program (1985-88). The second phase program contemplates
constructing, furnishing and equipping about 97 training centers with an
additional enrollment capacity of 90,000 students. This would require an
additional 7,500 trained instructors. The specific project objectives are
to: (a) improve the operational efficiency and effectiveness of CONALEP; (b)
increase the supply of skilled workers and technicians by expanding CONALEP's
training capacity; (c) improve the quality of CONALEP's instruction; (d)
develop an adequate maintenance system and explore other cost reduction
measures; and (e) provide flexible support for the program as a whole by
facilitating the development of strategic training options and institution
building.
48.       The proposed project, in supporting the second phase of CONALEP's
development program, would provide technical assistance to achieve the above
objectives, support the creation of 24 pilot production units and assist in
the development of about 97 Phase II institutions which are to be fully
operational by October 1990.
The Implementing Agency
49.       Administration.  CONALEP is administered at both central and local
levels. At the central level, the Board of Governors, comprised of seven
business and industrial leaders appointed by the Minister of Education to
serve staggered terms, determines policy. The President appoints the
Director General of CONALEP, who chairs the Board for a maximum of two four-
year terms. The Director General is the chief administrative officer and is
assisted by eight departmental directors in charge of planning, academic
operations and teacher training, buildings and equipment, evaluation and
certification, administration and finance, legal affairs, promotion and
external relations, and equipment procurement. At the local level, a
director, assisted by coordinators of training programs and administrative
services, heads each technical training center. A committee comprised of
local and regional business and industry personnel, instructors and students,
advises the director on training matters.
50.       The CONALEP program is publicized through an effective promotional
campaign directed to business, industry, parents and potential students. The
campaign emphasizes the important role of skilled workers and technicians in



- 15 -
economic and social development, and describes the CONALEP training program
(including details of selected courses), employment opportunities, the job
placement system and enrollment procedures. The large number of students
admitted to the program as a result of this campaign (estimated at 80% of
students admitted), as well as the amount of assistance CONALEP receives from
industry, is an indication of the campaign's success.
51.       Training Programs and Enrollments.  CONALEP has developed 97
regular training programs primarily for the manufacturing and service
sectors. These programs, which have a duration of three years, are carried
out in centers located throughout the country. The enrollment capacity,
programs of study, and location of centers were determined on the basis of
national, regional and local development plans and well-designed criteria.
Enrollment is open to qualified students who have completed grade nine.
Regular training programs operate in two daily shifts of six hours each for
five days per week. In addition, an upgrading program is open to employed
youths and adults who have at least six years of basic education. Current
enrollment capacity for regular and upgrading programs, both day and evening
shifts, totals about 110,000 students in the following broad fields:
Agriculture and Food Processing, Industry and Construction, Fisheries,
Services, and Health.
52.       Curricula.  Experienced subject matters specialists, assisted by
specialists from business and industry develop all curricula and course
syllabi. In addition to the training programs for regular students
(para. 51) there are 82 training programs for upgrading the existing
workforce. Instructors and advisory members from local industry adapt the
basic course syllabi to regional requirements. CONALEP's courses of study
are heavily oriented toward practical experience; on average 60% of student
time is devoted to technical practice; and 20% each to technical and general
theory.
53.       Instructor Characteristics and Preparation.  Experienced and fully
qualified instructors teach all general subjects. Technicians and engineers
are recruited on a part-time basis to teach technical theory and technical
practice. Local industry cooperates by making industrially qualified
instructors available. Preparation of these instructors is carried out by
CONALEP through its own teacher training unit, comprised of qualified and
experienced professional teacher trainers, assisted by qualified part-time
trainers.
54.       The instructor training program consists of preservice courses and
ad-hoc inservice caurses, and in special instances programmed learning
courses by correspondence. The preservice courses are conducted in CONALEP's
central facilities, or at the regional level, in local training centers, and
consist of 56 hours of pedagogical preparation, including 14 hours of
practice teaching. The minimum inservice training consists of 64 hours of
human relations, instructional methodology, modular curriculum preparation,
and shop work organization and management. Additional inservice course work
is provided for upgrading specialized technical skills. The curricula and
course syllabi for instructor training courses are well developed according
to modern pedagogical practice. The 122 training centers fully or partially



- 16 -
operational in 1984-85 employed about 9200 instructors. About 1500
instructors will be trained for the 1985-86 school year.
55.       Operational Performance Evaluation.  Student and instructor evalua-
tion and feedback are joint functions of the local training centers and the
National Directorate of Evaluation and Certification. This directorate has a
well-qualified staff consisting of 22 professionals and adequate numbers of
support personnel. It has developed a series of well-designed and executed
instruments for evaluating instructor and student performance. New students
are regularly tested, and undergo four weeks of remedial studies, if
warranted. This pre-enrollment evaluation has had a significant effect in
reducing the high rate of dropouts in the early years of CONALEP. The
directorate assists the local centers in the proper use and evaluation of
these instruments and in the feedback of relevant information into the
curricula and the teacher-learning process. This information assists the
local instructors and the national level subject matter specialists to
improve curricula, course syllabi and overall performance.
56.       Placement and Follow-up of Graduates.  Each training center, with
the assistance of its local industrial advisory committee is responsible for
job placement and for assessing the relevance of training as measured by job
performance. The local advisory committees are expected to diligently pursue
the development of a strong placement and follow-up system. The National
Directorate of Evaluation and Certification provides advice and necessary
instruments for the systematic evaluation of graduate placement and
performance.
57.       Financing.  The allocation of the Federal Government to the CONALEP
program during 1984 was Mex$11,000 million (US$63.6 million) or about 1.6% of
the total budget of the Ministry of Education and Culture. In addition to
federal funds, CONALEP is empowered to receive funds from the productive
sectors. Total contributions and contracts from 1979 to 1984 have amounted
to approximately Mex$655 million (US$4.8 million) at 1984 prices, and were
mostly in-kind donations of land, rent-free or donated buildings and equip-
ment.  CONALEP's students pay tuition and may commit themselves to a deferred
payment plan upon graduation and employment. Student revenues amounted to
about Mex$510 million (about US$3.0 million) in 1984. The National
Directorate of Financing and Administration is currently reviewing CONALEP's
long-term policy regarding tuition fees.
58.       Unit costs were US$876 per student in 1984, and are estimated to be
US$823 per student in 1985. The recurrent unit costs for other upper-middle
level technical training programs In 1983 ranged from US$650 to US$1,250 per
student year.
59.       The CONALEP program appropriately addresses the issues of the sub-
sector, is well designed and is being rapidly implemented. Among its more
important strengths are: (a) a well organized and staffed administration;
(b) the practical orientation of its curriculum, which is terminal in nature;
(c) the use of industrially experienced and pedagogically qualified
instructors; and (d) a highly successful promotional program. However, there
are some deficiencies and weaknesses which must be addressed to achieve the
goals of its development. The main goal is to increase the output of skilled



- 17 -
workers and technicians to levels more in line with the country's needs. In
order to achieve this goal, CONALEP will have to: (a) improve student
retention rates, currently 48.4X; (b) nearly double its training capacity to
respond to demand for skilled workers and technicians; (c) make plans to
avoid potential instructor shortages during peak production hours; (d)
establish systems for maintenance and other cost-reduction alteriativeR; and
(e) adequately equip all CONALEP training centers to eliminate the artificial
distinction of  project  and -non-project  centers - the latter of which are
ill-equipped.
Improving Operational Efficiency and Effectiveness
60.       Central and Local Administration.  CONALEP's central administrative
system has demonstrated proficiency in project planning and implementation
(para. 49). However, in view of expansion plans which would involve a near
doubling of present capacity and the problems inherent in -oordinating such a
large training system, the project would finance the costs of specialist
assistance and short study tours for staff to observe, study and participate
in administrative and industrial advisory activities applicable to the
CONALEP system. The project would also finance a variety of management
training activities aimed at strengthening the administrative abilities of
key local administrators.
61.       Integrated Approach.  CONALEP should strengthen its incipient
system of placement and follow-up for graduates by actively maintaining its
contacts with local industries and employers. The project would finance
specialists' assistance for the analysis of options and the marginal costs of
strengthening the system of placement and follow-up for graduates (para. 56).
Increasing the Output of Skilled Workers and Technicians
62.       Technical Training Centers.  The project, which would enable
CONALEP to meet the targets set by the Government for its second phase
program, includes the construction, furnishing and equipping of about 97
training centers. The training centers would be distributed among the 31
states and the Federal District. When the centers are fully operational in
1990-91, enrollment and output by major fields of study in the 97 centers
would be as follows:
Major Field of Study        Enrollment         Annual Output
(Students)         (graduates)
Regular     Upgraded
Agriculture                   4,950            1,180          900
Fisheries                     1,080             260          200
Services                    37,800            9,080        6,800
Industrial                  41,940           10,060        7,520
Health                       4,230             1,000         760
TOTAL                        90,000           21,580      16,180



- 18 -
It is expected that women will occupy about 30% of the training places.
Curricula and course syllabi are complete for all new centers and would be
basically the same as those used for the first phase program (para. 52).
Improving the Quality of Instruction and the Instructor Training Program
63.       Instructor Training Program.  When fully operational in 1990-91,
the new training centers would require the equivalent of an additional 7,500
full time instructors. CONALEP is continuing to expand its instructor train-
ing programs, recruitment procedures and instructor services (paras. 53 and
54). The project would provide specialists' assistance for further revising
instructor training materials and to upgrade recruitment procedures and
instructor services.
64.       Pilot Production Units.  The project would provide initial
financial support to create revolving funds for the initial purchase of
production materials and supplies for about 24 pilot "production units"
within selected training centers and programs. The funds would be allocated
to programs such as meat processing, textiles, metal machining, welding,
cabinet making, foundry and hot metal working and other training programs
where the cost of consumable supplies is high. These production units would
emphasize the production of marketable items to be sold to industry or
individuals under prearranged contracts. The full costs of materials, energy
and non-labor costs would therefore be recaptured to sustain the program.
This "production unit" approach, which has proven successful in many training
institutions, is expected to improve student motivation, enhance student
retention and reduce training costs financed from the regular budget. The
project would provide technical assistance to CONALEP for carrying out
several feasibility studies for the selection of pilot production units
(para. 66).
Development of a Maintenance System and Other Efficiency Measures
65.       Maintenance.  The project would support the development of a build-
ing and equipment maintenance system which would include: (a) a method for
verifying that proper maintenance records are being kept in each training
center; (b) a set of procedures to follow when equipment breaks down, includ-
ing repair and temporary replacement policies; and (c) policies for spare
parts inventory control. During negotiations of the proposed loan, agreement
was reached that a provisional system for the maintenance of buildings and
equipment would be implemented by September 30, 1985. Based on experience
with the provisional system, a definitive system would be forwarded to the
Bank for review by December 31, 1986 and put into effect not later than March
31, 1937 (Section 2.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
66.       Efficiency Measures.  The project would provide technical assis-
tance for studying and/or implementing cost reduction measures such as: (a)
reducing local adminiscrative costs by increasing the size of the smaller
training centers, where justified by local need; (b) finding administrative
means to effect cost reductions in the fixed commitments of small centers
where scale cannot be increased; and (c) initiating practical production
activities in selected centers and programs where sales by "production units"
(para. 64) could ease the financial burden of providing consumable supplies.



- 19 -
Overall Institutional Support
67.       Criteria for the Creation of New Centers.  With Bank assistance,
CONALEP has been refining the eligibility criteria for the creation of future
training institutions and has developed guidelines for the allocation of
equipment funds. New centers have been selected concurrently with the
development of these refinements and they would be established on the basis
of economic need (economic demand and gainful employment), feasibility
(social demand and geographical distribution and instructor availability) and
economic efficiency (economic size, minimum class size and other efficiency
alternatives). These criteria, which include certain revisions and clarifi-
cations of those used in Phase I, are reasonable and acceptable to the Bank.
The expansion of existing training centers and the location of new training
centers financed under the project would be in accordance with the revised
and agreed upon criteria (Section 2.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
Furthermore, CONALEP, with specialists' assistance would develop a draft
transitional program for identifying existing centers that are too small or
otherwise do not meet the revised criteria and actions to be taken to correct
existing deficiencies. The draft plan would be presented to the Bank for
review and comment by December 31, 1985 and necessary adjustments would be
implemented during the years 1986 through 1988 (Section 2.03 of the draft
Project Agreement).
68.       Strategic Training Options.  The project would provide consultants'
services for the creation of an outreach training system for the development
of strategic training alternatives with sufficient flexibility to meet short-
and medium-term local and regional needs, particularly those of smaller
communities. Among the alternatives to be studied are: (a) 'feeder training
centers" offering core first and second year curricula; (b) a system for
rotation of programs and equipment from centers where they no longer match
employment needs; (c) cooperative training programs with local industry in
those specializations requiring excessively costly equipment and/or
consumable supplies; and (d) a system for transporting students among three
or four nearby municipalities to increase efficiency of facilities.
Project Cost and Financing
69.       Capital Costs.  Total project costs are estimated to be US$162.2
million, of which US$82.8 is in foreign exchange. Project costs include
about US$9.3 million of sunk costs, representing civil works prior to January
1, 1985. Project costs include physical contingencies equal to 5% of base
costs on construction (after January 1, 1985), furniture, equipment, produc-
tion supplies and technical assistance. Price contingencies have been
estimated at 20% for construction (excluding sunk costs), 9% for equipment,
18% for furniture and 13% for technical assistance. Total contingencies are
estimated at about 19% of base costs and 16% of total costs. The proposed
loan of US$81.0 million would finance about 53% of project cost (excluding
sunk costs), equivalent to the estimated foreign exchange cost. The Govern-
ment would finance the balance of project cost. CONALEP also receives
contributions from the productive sector; such contributions have not been
considered in project costs because they are mostly in-kind donations such as
land, rent-free buildings and second hand equipment (para. 57).



- 20 -
70.       The proposed Loan would be made to Nacional Financiera, S.A.
(NAFINSA), a Government agency designated to borrow from the Bank, at
standard terms for Mexico. NAFINSA would, through contractual arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank (condition of effectiveness), transfer loan funds to
CONALEP for the carrying out of the project (Sections 3.01 and 6.01 of the
draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.04 of the draft Project Agreement).
NAPINSA would repay the principal amount of the Bank loan together with
interest and other charges. Up to US$7.0 million ,f the Bank loan would be
made available as retroactive financing for equipment and technical assis-
tance expenditures after January 1, 1985.
71.       Recurrent Costs.  When fully operational in 1990-91, the recurrent
costs of the project are estimated in constant 1985 pesos at Mex$19,730 mil-
lion (US$96.3 million). CONALEPs future operating budget represents about
1.8Z of projected federal recurrent expenditures for education and culture in
1990. CONALEP's current recurrent expenditures are 1.6Z of the federal
budget for education and culture. In view of the high pr..ority given to the
proposed program and the Government's strong commitment to expanding output
of technical labor, it is expected that those expenditures will be met.
Procurement
72.       Civil works would total US$60.1 million, excluding contingencies.
Works would be spread over about 97 sites in the 31 states and the Federal
District. None of the individual construction contract costs would be great
enough to attract foreign bidders. Therefore, construction contracts would
be awarded through local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures which have been
reviewed and are acceptable to the Bank. Mexico's construction industry is
highly developed and capable of executing works at costs competitive with
international bidders.
73.       Equipment purchases under the project would total about US$71.9
million (base cost). Equipment contracts exceeding US$600,000, representing
approximately 30Z of the total value of equipment procured under ICB, would
be subject to the Bank's prior review. Where feasible, contracts for equip-
ment would be in packages of at least US$300,000 and would be procured
through international competitive bidding (ICB). However, up to US$20 mil-
lion of equipment would be procured in packages of US$40,000-300,000 in
accordance with LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Up to US$4.0 million
of equipment, in packages smaller than US$40,000, would be procured through
local shopping. Furniture costing about US$4.8 million (base cost) would be
procured through LCB procedures which were reviewed and are acceptable to the
Bank. Supplies for the production units would be mostly procured through LCB
procedures acceptable to the Bank. However, small groups of items costing
less than US$30,000, and not exceeding in the aggregate US$250,000 would be
procured through local shopping (Schedule of the draft Project Agreement).
Terms of reference for consultants' contracts exceeding US$100,000 would be
submitted for the Bank's prior review and approval (Schedule I of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Disbursements
74.       In line wi1 experience under the first project, the loan is
expected to be disbursed over a four and one half year period. To facilitate



- 21 -
administration, disbursements would be concentrated on a few components of
the project. The Bank would disburse 100% of foreign expenditures, 100X of
local expenditures (ex-factory costs) and 85% of local expenditures for
off-the-shelf purchases for equipment (including installation), production
materials and supplies. In addition, the Bank would disburse against 100% of
expenditures for technical assistance for specialists in adm'nistration,
management training, and training materials, and feasibility studies for
production un'ts, cost-reduction measures and outreach programs (Schedule 1
of the draft Loan Agreement). To accelerate disbursements, NAFINSA would
establish and maintain under its control a Special Account, with an initial
deposit of US$8.0 million, which would be operated in accordance with terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Section 2.02 and Schedule I of the
draft Loan Agreement). NAFINSA would make disbursements from the Special
Account against requests submitted by CONALEP to pay eligible expenditures,
and would subsequently forward withdrawal applications to the Bank for
replenishment of the Special Account.
Project Implementation
75.       Coordination, implementation, supervision and monitoring of the
project would be the responsibility of the administrative directorates of
CONALEP. Actual construction of training centers would be the responsibility
of the Administrative Committee of Federal Programs for School Construction
(CAPFCE), a semi-autonomous agency responsible for all school building
construction, in coordination with CONALEP. The project is expected to be
completed by June 30, 1989. The closing date would be December 31, 1989.
Accounts and Auditing
76.       An agreement was obtained during negotiations that CONALEP would
maintain accounts to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures of
the project. The independent auditors' reports of CONALEP's accounts and of
the Special Account would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months
after the close of each fiscal year (Section 4.01 of the draft Project Agree-
ment and Section 4.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Justification
77.       Bank assistance to CONALEP would support Government efforts in
resuming economic and social growth by expanding employment, improving the
living standards of a large segment of the population, and promoting
essential structural industrial reforms. The project would support a
balanced regional distribution of these efforts through the expansion of
technical and vocational training opportunities to less developed regions of
the country. Furthermore, the proposed project would ensure Bank involvement
in improving the overall management efficiency of the institution during a
critical expansion phase. Finally, the proposed project would provide
foreign exchange necessary for the institution to maintain a well defined and
effective training policy.



- 22 -
Project Benefits
78.       The proposed project would greatly strengthen technical training at
the middle level. The project would: (a) contribute to the further
institutional development of CONALEP; (b) enhance the overall quality of
training; and (c) increase the output of skilled workers and technicians. In
addition, WONALEP's success would have a beneficial demonstration effect on
the quality and effectiveness and, hence, eventually on the prestige of the
other upper-middle level technical training programs.
79.       The major quantifiable benefits of the project, when fully
operational in 1990-91 would be an annual increase of about: (a) 21,580
skilled workers and technicians; (b) 1,500 technical teachers; and (c) highly
specialized skills upgrading for about 16,180 employed workers and
technicians. Assuming that CONALEP and other technical training programs
could increase their annual output to a total of about 75,000 skilled workers
and technicians by 1990, these graduates would represeit only about 8% of the
new job seekers (2.6% technicians, 5.4% skilled workers). Upgrading of the
labor force would still require the support of other programs.
Project Risks
80.       The major risks are difficulties in recruiting part-time
instructors during peak production hours and retention of students. The
ability of CONALEP to pay competitive salaries should diminish the problem of
teacher recruitment. A favorable student-teacher ratio and well-equipped
facilities which result in a practical application to course-work should
diminish the risk of student retention. The risk of expected benefits of the
production units not materializing is more than offset by CONALEP's proven
capacity for implementing innovations. Further, the project would provide
for the financing of feasibility studies prior to establishing the production
units. Overall, considering CONALEP's capacity for monitoring and
implementing the program, as demonstrated under the previous project (para.
45), the risks are acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL IF TRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
81.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Nacional Financiera,
S.A., the draft Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Colegio Nacional de
Educacion Profesional Tecnica and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of
effectiveness and other covenants of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
82.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 23 -
PART VI - RECOMHENDATION
83.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 1, 1985



- 24 -                                                   ANEX I
T A IILS 9   3h                              Page  1 of  5
NERICO                 - SOCIAL INDCATOR8 DATA SEET
ICRO                                 RR         cGROUPS (EIGHTED AVERAGE) /a
MOST                     (     lSR30W  ESTZHTI) /b
RLECEST          NICODL R    t           EDItxDLE r1CoN
itiaLk     l9mlO  ISTTxATzIkb     LAT. AMRt50  8 CA             EUROPE
AM  (T3I0LA  SQ. R)
TOTAL                               1972.5      1972.5   1972.5
ACRICULTURAL                         953.2       976.4    979.5
GN PR CuAITA (U1f)                      360.0       130.0   2270.0            I2OB.6                     2345.1
sm    au_sIFITON P   CAPXTA
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT3        539.0       773.0   1340.'              9S.5                     1122.6
PnwILAUD   D 9SITAlL STATISTC                        *
POULATION.HIDYKAR (THOUSANDS)      17073.0    51176.0  73122.0
URWAN poPULATlON CZ OF TOTAL)         50.8        59.0      68.0              66.5                      46.6
POPULATION PRoJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YE  2000 (HILL)                            109.4
STArIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                            19.5
POPULATION IHENTIRE                                        1.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. a.                          13.3        25.9      36.1              33.7                      32.9
PER SQ. IQI. AII. LAND              37.7        52.4      12.8              92.4                     158.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-It. IRS                          45.6        46.5      44.1              39.9                      31.6
15-61 VRS                           51.0        50.0      52.2              56.0                      61.1
65 AND AIIOYE                        3.4         3.5       3.4               4.1                       7.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (I)
TOTAL                                3.0         3.2       3.0               2.4                       1.6
URN                                  ^4.a        4.7       4.2               3.6                       3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)          45.4        43.4      33.9              31.3                      23.4
CRUDE DEArH SATE IPER THOUS)          11.1         9.7       7.1               S.1                       8.8
GROSS REPEOOUCTtON RATE                3.3         3.2       2.2               2.0                       1.6
FAMELY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)             ..        25.1   1145.0 Ic
USERS (2 OF HARRIED WIEN)             ..          ..      39.0 7ir          0.3
PDO  AM RURERITUI
INDEX OF FOOM PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                         91.0       100.0    104.0              114.3                     114.5
PER CAPITrA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)       t17.0       112.0    121.0              110.6                     128.6
PROTEINS (GRMS PER DAY)             69.0        66.0      74.0              67.3                      39.7
OF StIHCH ANIMAL AND PULSE        29.0        27.0      28.0 Id           34.1                      34.5
CHILD (A"ES 1-4) DEATH RATE           10.3         6.5       4.0               5.7                       5.Z
WKALTE
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (TEARS)         57.0        61.3      65.4              66.7                      67.4
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         91.1        73.6     52.9               60.6                      54.2
ACCESS To SAFE SATER (EPOP)
TOTAL                               23.5        9.0 /a  58.0 Ze            65.4
URmAN                                 ..        65.5 /a  61.4 /.            76.1
RURAL                                 ..        21.0 7i  51.0o              46.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(t OF POPULATIUN)
TOtTAL                                          37.0 I1  38.0 /a            52.9
URBAN                                 ..        60.0 7-  so5.i 7            67.0                        ..
RURAL                                            4.0 7Ol   13.o7r           24.5
POPULATION PEa PHYSICIA             1830.0      1510.0       ..             1917.7                    1065.8
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             3650.0      1390.0       ..              615.6                     164.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL RED
TUTAL                              590.0       970.0        ..             367.2                     326.3
URRAN                              570.0 If   1170.0       ..              *11.5                     201.5
RURAL                                 ..      1370.0       ..             2636.3
ADKISSIOS PER HOSPITAL RED             ..          ..       ..               27.3                      20.0
alSc
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.4         5.7
URANU                                5.7         5.7
RURAL                                5.2         5.3
AVERACE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOH
TOTAL                                2.9         2.5
URBAN                                2.6         2.2
RURAL                                3.4         3.2
ACCESS TO ELECT. (E OP  MLLINS)
TOTAL                                           58.9
URUAN                                           20.7
RURL                                  ..        27.8        .                  .*



- 25 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3                                        Page 2 of 5
IlSCO0                - SOCIAL INICATORU DATA SHZET
3(11200                             REPEBENCE CR013 (WEIGHTED AVZRAGE) /a
nOST                    (HOST RCENT ESTIMATE) b
tCEIT            HIDODL INCOME          MIDDLE LNC@
1960Ib-    19Lb- ESTD(ATELk        LIT. S      SCA  CA         wean
ADJUSTED ENRDLUIEHT RATIOS
PRDEARY   TOTAL                    60.0       106.0    121.0              103.4                    101.1
KALE                    82.0       106.0    122.0              106.3                    105.5
UZIME                   77.0       102.0    120.0              106.5                     96.7
SZCONUDTz TOTAL                    11.0       22.0      S1.0               43.2                    59.1
rULE                     14.0       26.0      54.0              42.3                     ".9
FINL"                    8.0        17.0      69.0              64.3                     50.6
VOCATONAL (s O SECODIT)             23.6       26.7      11.6              33.6                     21.6
PUPIL-TEACER RaTIO
PRIMARY                            64.0        *6.0     37.0              30.1                     25.1
SECONSDT                           13.0        14.0     16.0              16.8                     20.5
ADULT LITEAZY SATE (C)               65.4        74.2     B2.7              79.5                     75.6
PASSENGER CARSJTOUSAND POP           12.9       24.1      61.3              46.0                     54.7
RAD20 RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP         89.0       273.7    295.6             225.6                    164.9
TV RECEMRSITHOUSAND POP              17.5        58.5    10.1              107.2                    123.8
UVIPAPEE ('DZLY GENERA]
NzaTRESr') CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPLATIOIN            73.3          ..     64.5              63.5                     96.3
CIND  ANMIAL ATTENDANCICAPITA         9.8        4.9       6.6 K             2.8                      2.9
TOmAL LAUOR roR  (THOUS)          11191.0    14722.0  2138.O0
FEALE (PERCENT)                    15.2        17.4     20.0              23.2                     34.5
AGICUL>TRE (PERCENT)               55.1        65.2     35.6              31.5                     60.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.5       22.9      Z5.8              23.9                     23.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              30.2        28.6     29.3              32.2                     42.9
ALLE                               51.1        47.4     46.7              49.3                     54.7
FEMALE                              9.2        10.1     11.7              15.2                     31.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENC RATIO              1.6         1.7      1.6               1.4                      0.9
INCOME D2ISTRITO
ERrET n PltIVAT INCOME
RECEIVED ST
RICHEST SX OF HOUSCEHOLDS            ..
HIGIEST 201 OF BDUSEHODS           61.1 lb    60.7      57.7 td
LOEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS             3.4 7      3.3       2.9 7ir
LOWEST UII Or BOUSEHOLDS            9.8 7r      9.9      S.9 7*
PVm   TAGT tZOW
ESTSC&TED ABSOLUTE POVERTY IIICOWC
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..       ..              28S.2
RURL                                 ..         ..        ..              186.0.
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY IDCOhE
LEVE!L (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..    471.0 /c          522.6
RtRAL                                ..          ..    471.0 7ir         372.4
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY XNCGIE LCEVL (E)
URN                                  ..
RURAL                                ..
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N 0 T Z S
/a  The roup averaes for each indacator are populnclon-ltmhted arithmetic menu.  Coverage of countrsa. mng th
indlcraors depend. on availability of dats and la not uniforz.
lb  Unless otherwise noted, -Data for 1960- refer to any yer beteen 1959 end 1961; -Daca Eor 1970  beEwes 1969 end
1971; and date for -bec Recent  tlamtrC- between 1980 end 1962.
/c  1979; ld 1977; /a Srved fron  acer supply and sewae;  If 1962; ih 1976  lh 1963.
JUE, 1984



u--ltd ut a     -II              sa. i-m                taua            u
ema.      a.       eAaat  au-ti       a- i e,us   isnu   q
td  ttuaiaau 'std1  an-   "ST   -3 pu-a.. tti
m -    -1.  -IV                                                                                                                  Vivo~ ;  ait ett a   Ilt5  eIa-id       ~i  a3t
ten,    l                                                                      u.   ad.-sd  'sa.a           ntd  siet-a                   am    utm-a
Iamadaheasttttt..-  tmsl   )tla*t                                                                   55fltt.mt -a.aitjah  Padt's9~iai  'iia   -te
intite'-Wa   .-m.s-a.a~ti. 3   nta   i.n.  mm    Wilfl    ms-*Am5  ade 
DCtnap,  ai.  p-t..         iI    I-amaa  ae    jt  i   t
- A- -PI-t psMmIa'!aa.a..ast a im -
or .-A                                                                                                         -J.~~~~~~J thitPa.'nIS     ftit.   ..   .   iteit  n-m
-                                              'a', tmt  -   sat'~~~~V- *Aald-s,.
*t~i.l*.i  at   i5~-  asa'~  -mt'nad  -  ~ - a..~ tns            hhi... .dl Iansaifi-P                   I SP=d Z-.(its "IC   alm -t    h d
'sue      -tat  JttS. ai.  MJ                                                           Al,ele  glum.1MA.
ttui  .*-Ju-I '  t  an'sat  ta     at     -ai   ...a~'I t-spi  ot  CM    fl-tbit aJiPetaa nu  stli-s
tain  taieu-t. 5  uali-a  tlia-t  n-I  tl's lteii 1                         uhtaittp t.'s    sna    0   ilt  . hPl md 8    aiAt u. An a-
-  u.ap.    q.-   at.Anfa   tut       ii tms-inlpatt                                        iu-tt    a   ta    aa~       pg't---m..m   a    .ut*st
-P.ierp-ta                                                                                                   stat-,"A
tn't~lt    un..tlh                  'sdsl    5sS   iiit.stSt                                             ii*I~f    t,idi-lt sztua 8.utt
fi'   -n-    ATa-g    I P'Itr-    itecIis  fu               P'   e            Vsas
-T I..                                         ti    septi  li              rwaue        sAte. I    u    a   eea
a-.maai  -u- a-         '.z- m   etdtmt   :i-..tat                                              f      nu-ute    tuipSd    n~u-                                 t         l     -
t's.ata A   u-ten  - Am    .e  attm   it   .li                                               ete   a   ta..ntta-mtua:~eeaaaa   ~a   ti   .
I  ha    i   u ~ ttnta   W~55hut-tt tesW   lg--iJa    a    ma.  ni'   u                                                                             . e  Iot. eia...   u   mta
at est.d.nmn  - nsa   ma   na   t          A'A -I  (ates    t.    stt-ate.t
7M,            n=.g  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~.e   mm    -                                          m    -   .~   tIttlatle-iudA.               duta.,-u"-.J.-  ue
.m.Zt!)-imttn    tOati   u-   m   s-                                 t.iti                              ,dsasiata  aisus    aain                       gnIt    3n    -            ia
en.P.aeieattl  .nuaiul-a   m.It.m.iaajSri-  tea    stei-a-btItt.taa   atutt  luaiaiP  hu  gtt-Ii*t  '  tiet AiS
haeaama  si t~    maat  staiann   itti  u Shdiai -mI-utt              ts   ta.aatj in  'ttt.~                      iala'sAi'_ts eA'  p- uA
a'   ...-           gsai)ta.  tsaA tr      gtais    sa.u'                                            -phane   sgaia 'tth                              e   t   h -ttli   et
-e -t  i-tt  las5a. .ua's.aia' -A..   aea   tna--lS~-;=                                        td?a   .  a-t-ahtt-g-euCa'sM Na-i5 te   it atpm
A.s s.   a          1ai  J.ttaadS  ea         ..a....           a  ne
V- ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ atesitsui.-S    a.aa- -                                                      eani   e.i-   ae      -.ei   ie
-   Ala- =hatgp-    sei.  hftm    taag   hipua   ait                                                                                                                          iui
ge-*uuiei    a. rmitr   iesa            ..fsit  Vt.h .I,sir5  sg~aaan                                     .,m.a I:upee taau                     ""t~si . Atia   'sattit
atmiaqt    -  -  a-I  -I-' pas...  i.a  tea-leie iata'am                   uttanaut  n..sai  sieiae.alt.It pia.  istintisi  I                          ta
-it-.at,             .I        b  A _        t  P.ernIe. atinuAa-e'.um   a    ataaatttitdi
taa-tnt   tu a,       gi.  ahaa  '.saa.  utfts5  at at..a-u                                         -r-5P_        P-.uu  is   uiiaat   es..-(uslsi')-s  Iii pa
jIpi  gJsuatuit                a.        e'taa    ..ttsaeasais~nmm   u -    'r-aIa-i., aaitaa
eepae.!shgdij    '-i.jisg                           aas  tt'sai                                     si   .'ailnig'e  -aha       aV',ae    telhnaS
agi  s  -hisa   a   tiitI     tgni,.   .teaiattaima   tpt:tiah   a-5isst  m-it aa'sai'e



KIM 4 31
alleft mmis                  man       ima    ams  m Kul  ii           m     ai        n     ma43                    43      IULw6.2 i.                             l      o
. .. . .....t.....L. .. U - -LU                                                *' 4             .' 4                                    .       .42                  L       LZ     -.
S                                      OLD6  IILS   an3   M.1l  mums  11it:  IILl?   P589  I"                         4.3    &"       I.E11   Lie           man   im0.14  i02.e    Ste
amss,    a.   m                         gas3  -La      La      .as    -La    -Lo    aso   -3.4   -win                 La      L        ,1      ieL                  itS    ILS1   -I.
..        M.  9                        nag1  In.   rnm   mu..  aLES  inA   IL".  ur0   Xft                            I.3   14.10    S.A1    4.10          1Nh    MM.2    9ti1   tie
las,m m.m                               La     an3   uLn    ub.s    eLse   Li?   ILK  iS X01                          Lis    LU.    -.111   u1               fib    I4.I   19.1    MM1
ML a   lows                           usO    an    C."   tLam    aLIm    am9    In    a             u.n              Lu     IL.      Lo     Lb              1.1    2.10   56.34 31
KT? IiS  MM                            -l.a1  -LW    -aim   -L."   -11.33  -6L44  -eta1  -liD1    *3X                HAD   ILO       19.6    LU             -1.51   -LO:   -LWt   -3.3
IM   ar. maim                          ILK1   34.41   V.a   aLim   iLE1   n,m1   aS    WO    aLIs                     4.30   .9.3    -*4    ILsa            a11.?   ala   IL"    him9
stars                                   1ai      2       la     i5      a       ai      Lt tI?         3129                    45       U     LI1.                    LB     LU .or
uSia!L                                 14.41 . ILa   i     LS iSI  3?!3.2             iE mLaN I      1Un0.4                   L       3.14    Lm            S         l-2   Ia    ha
"-a  nan  46  a's  mmmi           DM03 MIS~~~~~.  a 'Lirn.        M3        n      :5 I 
CsIftI4.                                        17       C.                                                                           L.ns =  L 
.113   uSE                               It a    wAwis?sM   Sills dB' O  12      it    SB       m       E
woomn vl                                 NC    "to   am         me43    rim1   la"     ie      at    mwsn
ar . ...a.                            .......Mi  .....  .....  ......  mu---ta                i
-Ei.t.vinSW.                            .t  lot   3me1  musS   bi17             3ll    l        bU aS il  NiC
W.0iCiSS sm                            3d       =va  tail  Imp        o il   sup7  Avg    ami    1
U~-ilU$ .6 0341                         IVt    il              1 U' 0a?  aid    OIT    4M    am3   la
sasy turn                              wmh.   -Ma iu i? lb.?   EC      .1a    SWi   s.   i'If    &ma
...u.. .a' .......:    t..    a.:..an
rawV  -al   :a                          4.1     a         0                   -Oc .5  .1    air
f "v : 12 mPa.7L                               *.a3    L.am  :3e.9    ii.11   I.V   a' tx              .1
A'L:- --  : -----i                                     - -----4.-----     ----i
[WN   r-1                                                                                                                         ai 1w  is   urn..I  .l
0361'                         2    Il*a~~~~~~~3.     3- s., 11
11*95-15   aialrnem                                    :x-J.:-.:       iti
Xat-..3 awm "Kr                                                                                                                           Is I..iv lila
3-w-a' S 41".11                           'L. 34.4  W2111   3.'                                                                   .1
ii                                            '."  42Is  -r.L           21.1
t&iE   Krl                                   ;LUmS                       413    OT           EB  mymi :.m-                        o    u                               i 
in,    owg   i              10,~u: .  iS13UIO                                               Un                                    6
ilk     ILIt   am                      am    ilLS                      LI?                     La~~~~~~~~~'"~m    ta1  Mm                     a
aM-Pa ss                                        ul                            VML&o
2' ......                                                                 - ------mm--ma  -u...at.... -i-in  -r-
1' Gui in rim  a  mom  a. mica  : war'm      I-I      elan"                                                            M       M                                     o
as m iS                                        G. m.s Llc                                                                     .41    Li .M                                 I
VA-ciMiP n      ii'a   m           urn     3 art.                              Z:617110    II                                                                        7j     4
59. 156331' F tisi. mis namEr. -L re'.:4 a.Inna12O    14
Imu    -f                                         uIL                          I                         W                      .8    99                              "     I



IUN 11111142 CU Ef 411111111                                                                            P up   DF Su  
,_ ._,,.__ ._,_ ...................... __ .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..__. ___........__
ION  IUS  mo   m aomi mmii m4m msc mDuns                                                                                                      m
afloat  ~~~~UKNLLNAtCInurMIM                                                                                             1I      
tYtO     ins3     am        am11     nm        io1u     lipi      a98     19
SM! CALE DF ff1P8137
EIPIRTS 1l1lL1800J l6NR                          3117     4793    232       19424    27M4    2121       27130    3031    55542
a"oRTS IIEUIa  NF NESt                           32       WOO    21250    34420    21092    1119         5 tS3    19194    4n123
REzMo IBIACE                                     -7t5    -3117    -Zm       -499      3702    11525    1244U    ao37        *a1
NET FACTDR INE                                   -4n    -aot    -4898    -75tR   -10561    -191    -970    -107a 7   -11H5
'a.TEPEST PAVNEwS)                              -290    -1032    -5478    -8382   -11264   -981   -1ioma   -1236    -a22s
OAM ? crO85  IALAICE                            1244    -4571    -7223   -1254    -4819        5545      3745     -470    -774
PRIATE D7IUECT INVESTMENT                         065      24       1254     1lp        709      376       ro       soo      VI
PFILIC RED. AU  LOG TERN LOWS, NET                241      21a      4574     9415      7418     3813      2545      1070     0173
DI1ErENTS                                       E26 4s2e         U400    1333    I0520    11721        7301    9210    21411
REP24IENTS                                      547     4104      4024     3713      3072     1901     4713      7350    I053
IPF INETI                                          ...       -      -120     -1C7       221     1M30      120      0200    -IS0
DINTER CAPITAL                                    90      427       2544     2753    -1944    -4472    -5170    -3440    -1910
CHOSiE IN RESEf5 ES  --INCREASE)                 -002     -165    -1023      -ri3     4445    -45t0    -2520        Do    -109
SE ILLECIOIU                                       45       ---       74       70      *
SD LCN 5--- F@--- --- --- --- -------
3481 lIla LOA Cr;4NI I4ENTS
PIuIOC *. RED  L.T. LOANS
IBRD                                           14L1L  l1. 0)O   t25.00  1021.0   539.9N   740.30
1DC
UTER NLL111E1&                                it.to   i:t.9    Z.*    291.50  1W.G 4.O n29.14
s3vERbEmur                                      712t.  2Y5.s90 9930   f7l.6   117. 13   226.70
SIPOLIERS                                       'O.f    141.00    83.90   Q09.0O   20.20   ;:1.74
-S 4AND F'lNCItAL  INSTITU'rONS              :170.44  !373.  *0n9.  10 '516.30  B419.3e  5599.
lES  AND  ?ESI SE;il'
Pr8L3c 20'I OUhSTfuI NO r16 D0IIj0E3          320.3 o 1103.5   33571.vO  62136.W  50346.60 6p731.70                                                                         ETERIu  KEIT
[END F PfR8:D)
I mTEREST ON all: wEST                         :OJ.4C   8.'O  s4&.m    440.10  ser5.30  41e50.10 Qcs'rauas lMD 01596ISE
REPAYPEk7S ON PWA IC DEB!                      4?s.-0    5'.17   *009.'C  :4`1.26  3n9   f0:.90                                                                        - -------- --------------
PUB it DEE1 SE;;;:E IET                       C9:. er  1582. 0  10565Q  G C7.1    37J.40  19J 4.24                                                                        I 2E:. 10, 1t98
BOEE GA EIP3P. EWEIS OF                                                                                                                            PLriu   n & LT.
!SBLUC 2051 SERVFIE  It,                 :         :;.z       t ;i:          28.54    37;.97    ;. 7                                               tLos                             SILLINS  FECCENt
ISD                                      2374      4. ie
121A6E TSE    D OF FLiC NEN CWPPIRENTS                                                                                                              GMti DFF. SOURES                          740      11.39
.   INTEREST As I tIF PRIOR 'EA; s             7.40 .    1l.    11.40    04.W    I4.'5    13.41                                                  OTIER PRIVATE                            56262     8.:1
D.C. ad a.                                                                                                                                    510661
D.  0ERA6E MTUFII? tF 'EU LOWIS                 ---     h .9     *A0       8.70     6.00       . 60
IEARSI                                                                                                                                     TOTAL                                   647Z2    00.10 
[IRD EIPPSUR
Ia.      1 D3 1 W. ND DI   AS I OF            13 2Q     2.95     4.15      5.74     5.35      4.30
maclt .DD. AND a.
L.  IND DEBT SERVICES AS 1 F                   7.80     7.;14    :25       3.36       .49     4.01
FLORLIC DEBT SERVICES
a ALL FIOiSES REFER TO EOUI MD LIOiS TERN PUBiLIC 01T OY  ORISo.
UDT RILBILE SEPERTELY BUT  uLUIEE IN TH1E ?TAL.
SIRMES: R    F  EllIt. BPS. PAr STAFF ESTIrATES.
ROD  23.190



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 1/
A. Statement of Bank Loans (as of March 31, 1985)
Loan                                                              Amount less    Undis-
No.       Year      Borrower                 Purpose             Cancellations   bursed
58 loans fully disbursed                    3,495.2
1553-5    1978      NAFINSA                 Agriculture               56.0          0.5
1643-5    1979      NAFINSA                 Small-scale Agri.         60.0          3.3
1706-5    1979      NAFINSA                 Irrigation                92.0         46.7
1712-5    1980      NAFINSA                 Industry                 175.0         31.8
1820-5    1980      NAFINSA                 Small and Medium
Scale Mining           40.0         18.9
1858-5    1980      NAFINSA                 Irrigation               160.0        A47.9
1881-5    1981      NAFINSA                 Small and Medium
Scale Industry        100.0          1.5
1908      1981      NAFINSA                 Irrigation                23.0          4.6
1913      1981      BANOBRAS                Water Supply             125.0         72.7
1929      1981      BANOBRAS                Railways                 150.0         48.3
1945      1981      NAFINSA                 Rainfed Agriculture    264.6          104.3
1964      1981      BANPESCA                Port Development          10.0          6.5
1990      1981      BANOBRAS                Urban Development II   164.0          119.6
2042      1982      NAFINSA                 Technical Training        90.0          6.2
2043      1982      NAFINSA                  Integrated Rural
Development           175.0        111.9
2100      1982      NAFINSA                 Irrigation. Rehab II    65.0           61.7
2142      1982      NAFINSA                 Capital Goods
Industry              152.3        117.4
2154      1982      NAFINSA                 Pollution Control         60.0         49.4
2191      1983      NAFINSA                 San Fernando Agri.        48.4         41.8
2194      1983      BANOBRAS                Urban Engineering          9.2          6.3
2262      1983      NAFINSA                 Agri. Marketing          115.0         92.8
2281      1983      BANOBRAS                Third Water Supply       100.3         88.0
2325      1983      NAFINSA                 Third Small Medium
Industry              175.0        134.2
2331      1983      BANCOMEXT               Export Development       350.0        294.5
2428      1984      BANOBRAS                Highways                 200.0        164.4
2450      1984      BANPESCA                Ports                     76.3         76.1
2454      1984      NAFINSA                 Agricultural Credit    300.0           97.6
TOTAL                                           6,831.3
Of which has been repaid to the Bank             1,365.7
Total now outstand,ng                            5,465.6
Amount sold                   92.3
of which has been repaid    92.3                     0.0
Total now held by Bank 2/                        5,465.6
Total undisbursed                                             1,948.9
1/ The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30, and October 31.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 30 -                         ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                                                                       US$ Million
Year           Obligor                      Type of Business           Loan  Equity  Total
1958/59 Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. /1               Industrial Equipment           0.8    --       0.8
1958     Bristol de Mexico, S.A. /1    A.C. Engine Overhaul              0.5    -       0.5
1961     Acero Solar, S.A. /1             Twist Drills                   0.3    -       0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidors Fierro
66/68    y Acero de Monterrey, S.A.  Steel                             2.3   21.4   23.7
1963     Tubcs de Acero de Mexico,
S.A. /1                       Steel                          0.9    0.1    1.0
1963     Quimica del Rey, S.A. /1         Sodium Sulphate                0.7    -       0.7
1964/66  Industria del Hierro, S.A. /1 Construction Equipment            --      2.0    2.0
1970     Minera del Norte, S.A. /1        Iron Ore Mining                1.5    -        1.5
1971     Celanese Mexicana, S.A./1        Textiles                      12.0    -      12.0
1972     Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de C.V. /1  Pulp and Paper                    /2      /2      /2
1973/79  Cemento Veracruz, S.A.           Cement                        15.9    -      15.9
1974/81  Cancun Aristos Hotel             Tourism                        1.0    0.3    1.3
1975/78  Mexinox, S.A.                    Steel                         12.0    3.2   15.2
1978/81
/84    Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.          Pulp and Paper                10.7    5.0   15.7
1978     Tereftalatos Mexicanos, S.A.  Petrochemicals                   19.0    -      19.0
1979/84  Cementos Tolteca, S.A. /3        Cement                       168.0    7.9  175.9
1979/81  Hotel Camino Real Ixtapa,S.A. Tourism                           --      3.1    3.1
1979     Conductores Monterrey, S.A./3 Electrical WIre and Cable  18.0    -            [8.0
1980     Industrias Resistol, S.A. 13  Particleboard                    25.0    -      25.0
1980     Vidrio Plano de Mexico
S.A. /3                       Flat Glass                   114.9    -    114.9
1980     Minera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V. /3               Mining                       110.0    --   110.0
1981     Cel-iosicos Centauro, S.A./3  Pulp and Paper                   59.5    --    59.5
1981     Corporazion Agroindustrial,
S.A.  /3                      Agri-Business                 11.3    3.0   14.3
1984     Metalsa, S.A.                    Motor Vehicles
and Accessories             3.0    1.4    4.4
1984     Capital Goods Facility           Industrial Equipment         100.0    -    100.0
1985     Proteison                        Cotton Seed Flour              2.0    0.8    2.8
1985     Primex /3                                                      16.4           16.4
Total Gross Commitments                                      705.7   48.2  753.9
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment,
and Sales                                                    540.4   22.1  562.5
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                            164.2   26.1  190.3
_        =
Total Undisbursed (including participants)                   150.9    6.5  157.4
/1    Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
/2    US$25,000.
ay    Gross commitment including amounts sold to participants.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
MEXICO
SECOND TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
*           I.  Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project: About 9 months
(b) Project prepared by: CONALEP
(c) First Bank mission to review project: October 1984
(d) Departure of appraisal mission: November 1984
(e) Nr- _iations completed: April 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: September 1985
II. Special Bank Implementation Action
None
III. Special Conditions
Ca) A provisional maintenance system would be put into practice by September
30, 1985; based upon experience with the provisional system a definitive
system would be produced and submitted to the Bank for review by December
31, 1986 and p.t into effect not later than March 31, 1987 (para. 65).
(b) The expansion of existing training centers and the location of new
training centers financed under the project would be in accordance with
criteria acceptable to the Bank (para. 67).
(c) CONALEP would present to the Bank by December 31, 1985 a draft plan
identifying training centers that do not meet agreed criteria and
proposed actions to correct deficiencies; rezommendations of this plan
would be implemented during the years 1986 through 1988 (para. 67).
(d) NAFINSA would, as a condition of effectiveness, enter into contractual
arrangements with CONALEP for the transfer of loan funds (para. 70).



UNITED   STATES   OF   AMERICA
r_d.      \ W       _ -z
eNooles                                       JU
Al II IGuyms VIjjI 
3ir            I ,vf  r)  f                                                                                               N    
. North   WVest  Ij1orreo  A
4.~~~~~P1
..In So Luas-Zao
'\       ' .Aguoscolmen
P..drtO G-lo
Porr0l
47Cobo Sm L ~ ~    ~        ~       ~       Coim 
KILOMETERS 0          100       2W0       30.       A0         500                              V  al le          of    .Ml exlico       W.V ; 
tAILES 0               100             2C0              300b
z _  __rn - _s__o__
MILES ______ __o _ P___ _ _ _ _ _V le                                                                          o          e       o      V
0      100              2~~~~~~~~10'      0
_   b mAn          .s   b ~ll   t           W    0     C



IBRD  18856
VD.
MEXICO
SECOND TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
30-
Cd A..u~:~\                                                                                       Phase I Numbe of existing trainingicenters
Phase II, Numher of project training centers
Regional boundaries
v  \.'  Naotionol capital
N,.w5 Ro.re. Z                                                                              State capitals
0    Principal cirtes or towns
\   v   ,;       ;                                                    - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Divided highwayws
oJawntwe  zit  '\                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Selected manor roads
Railroads
+.Moncbw t           * 5^Rivers
A     Principal aerports
Monterrey          _              Mo~,,,o.._e                                              State boundaries
'on                        4.    ^ Morornoro                                        ._  _. International boundaries
_d  C
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- .yi WEf 7i .w..iaiu. I... 
=   9    I    ~C iudod'-           i 
Vict6rra 
)   -                            I -~ -{r Vrr5 
--  -@ 00 -                       I i_
p,.0... .. '                j...r 0
0                    
aeon    tv              . -;Merido
v wG40rsquo/o    ;           .      OT.dpc  -                                                   Compackad
U._  t ro               _OvwOp<                                                                   *     I      Pe o         L0zUWLrr  20-
Pachuca                                                               Cornpec
-uT        o    l    u     c Crna                                                 d'                                  "ernal
*   -        ,                         -,                                                         sost {'s 6Cuerr--   '
(--3 S-Ad- NA
x,,        /~Chelponringot' w
\- '  jOaxocaco   )            '           ' -            \                   j BeLIZE
-Iuxiio Gui .errez        t
o                   T-i                                                     J -  A         __
,,P-tEYoWd.                                                           GUATEMALA
Topachu o                                  HONDURAS
MARCH 1985



