Report No. PID8174
Project Name                     Colombia-Andean Region Conservation (@)
and Sustainable Use of Biodiversity
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office
Sector                           Environment
Project ID                       COGE63317
Borrower(s)                      N/A
Implementing Agency              Alexander von Humboldt Research Institute
(Instituto de Investigacion de Recursos
Biologicos Alexander von Humboldt)
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                November 18, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         November 27, 2000
Board Date                       February 22, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Background: Within Colombia, the Andes are biologically the richest
biogeographic region, surpassing even the humid lowland forests of Amazonia.
The Andes contain 21 distinct ecosystem types (Etter et al., 1999), each of which is
remarkably diverse due to great fluctuations in altitude, climate, and geology resulting
in geographical isolation, particularly in the valleys and mountainous areas. This has
produced very high rates of endemism. Biodiversity in Colombia is still not fully
documented. Recently, field surveys in the "Cordillera Oriental" undertaken by the
Instituto Alexander von Humboldt (IAvH) indicated that 30t of 400 recorded bird species
were new records for this area, 5t were new for the country and one is probably new to
science. The Andean region is also the most intervened in Colombia. Two thirds of this
area is highly impacted by human activities (about 70t of Colombia's population lives in
this region) and some ecosystem types are now very rare. A major cause of biodiversity
loss is the advance of the agricultural frontier and associated deforestation and soil
erosion. Agricultural and animal husbandry practices, logging activities, as well as
inappropriate resource use patterns contribute to greater rural poverty and to
biodiversity loss. The loss and degradation of natural habitats has endangered the
survival of numerous speciesi. Invasive species also represent a threat to biodiversity,
especially in freshwater ecosystems.
Main Sector Issues: Colombia is generally recognized to be one of the five "megadiverse"
nations in the world Mittermeier, 1998). With a total surface area of 1.14 million km2,
representing about 0.8w of the world's surface area, Colombia is home to about 15t of all
known terrestrial species (Table 1). This makes Colombia one of the countries with the
highest concentration of species per unit area. The country has the largest number of
species of birds and amphibians in the world and ranks high in the number of vascular
plants and vertebrates. The country also possesses 18 ecoregions (WWF/World Bank report,
1996), the second highest of any country in Latin America. The most recent ecosystem map
of Colombia (Etter, 1998) identifies 65 ecosystem types.



Government Strategy: The National Biodiversity Policy (Ministry of the Environment, 1997)
was developed within the context of the Biodiversity Convention - ratified by Colombia
through Law 165/94. At the request of the Ministry of the Environment (MMA), IAvH led the
preparation of the National Biodiversity Report as well as the National Biodiversity
Strategy and Action Plan formulation processes. Both projects were supported by GEF
through UNEP. The National Biodiversity Policy and proposed Strategy and Action Plan
(1998) concentrate on three lines of action: conservation, equitable and sustainable use,
and improved knowledge. In the National Biodiversity Report (1998), the Andean region is
identified as the leading regional priority in terms of biodiversity conservation and
sustainable use. Subsequently, MMA has established biodiversity conservation in the
Andean region as a top environmental priority for the National Development Plan. The
proposed National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (1998) is a 25-year plan for
implementation of the National Policy using the following strategies: i) promotion of
conservation through: a) consolidation of the national system of protected areas; b)
slowing the loss of biodiversity; c) restoration of degraded ecosystems, protection of
endangered species; and promotion of ex situ conservation; ii) promotion and encouragement
of the sustainable and equitable use of biological resources through: a) sustainable
management of natural resources; b) development of the economic potential of biodiversity;
c) the assessment of the economic value of biodiversity; iii) improvement and
complementing the knowledge on biodiversity (both formal and traditional knowledge). The
plans and strategies mentioned above were carried out by IAvH using a highly
participatory approach. This has allowed IAvH to step into a leading role for
mainstreaming biodiversity conservation and sustainable use in Colombia. IAvH has been
asked by MMA to support the formulation of policies for regional and local governments and
other sectors of society. The current project will be one of the vehicles to support the
implementation of some components of the National Biodiversity Action Plan. IAvH will act
as the coordinator and manager for project funds which will be executed by different
actors. Consistent with the National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan, the MMA
recently established the National Protected Areas System (NPAS) constituted by the
"Sistema de Parques Nacionales Naturales" (SPNN) and protected areas of regional and local
character including private reserves and establishes an overall system of coordination and
policy guidelines. This SPNN marks a significant change from the traditional restrictive
and exclusionary approach that is inherent in Colombian laws that predate the 1991
Constitution. The SPNN focuses on the social dimensions of conservation and seeks to
improve the effectiveness of conservation in protected areas by involving local
communities that implies a diversity of methods including collaborative management. One
of the important objectives of the policy is to contribute to solving conflicts over the
occupation and use of protected areas and buffer zones, including those related to the
overlapping areas of parks and communally titled lands of indigenous and black
communities. Most recently, the MMA developed a "National Strategy for the Conservation
of the Andes" (August 1999) that presents a well structured coordinated program approach
for the Andes. Biodiversity actions as described above are fully backed-up by the current
administration through The National Development Plan ("Plan Nacional de Desarrollo
1999-2002"). Within the Plan, recognition is given to sustainable development and proper
management of natural resources and contains a Strategic Plan for the Environment
("Proyecto Colectivo Ambiental") with three main objectives: (i) conservation and
restoration of priority areas within strategic eco-regions; (ii) promotion of
environmental sustainability of economic sectors; and (iii) promotion of sustainable
regional and urban development.
2. Objectives
Project development objective.
The project's development objective is to increase conservation, knowledge, and
-2 -



sustainable use of globally important biodiversity of the Colombian Andes (the tropical
Andes is considered by many to rank first in the list of biodiversity hotspots). The
project launches, in the Andes, Colombia's National Biodiversity Policy and Proposed
Action Plan that has been prepared in the framework of the Convention on Biological
Diversity.
Specifically, the project will:
* support the development of a more representative, effective, and viable Andean protected
area system;
* identify conservation opportunities in rural landscapes, develop and promote management
tools for biodiversity conservation;
* expand, organize, and disseminate the knowledge base on biodiversity in the Andes to a
wide audience of stakeholders and policy makers, and implement monitoring tools; and,
promote inter-sectoral strategies to address some root causes of biodiversity loss in the
Andes.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The World Bank has supported a natural resources management project (Loan 3692 Natural
Resources Management). This US$ 65 million project (US$ 39 million lent by the Bank, US$
7.10 million from the Netherlands and the rest from the government), started in 1994 and
is expected to close in December 2000. Its main objective is to develop policies and
mechanisms that would help arrest the ongoing degradation of natural renewable resources
in Colombia. The main components include: (i) support for the development of a national
forest policy and of a strategy for natural resource management in the Choc6 Region,
including actions such as ecological zoning; the establishment of an environmental
monitoring system for four ongoing forest use projects; and titling and demarcation of
indigenous reserves and of Afro-Colombian communities; (ii) in the western Highlands,
protection and rehabilitation of selected watersheds; (iii) investments in the improved
management of national parks and buffer zones; (iv) strengthening of programs and
institutions for forestry/environmental education, training, research and pilot projects;
and, (v) the strengthening of the regional park system through a Dutch grant. Experience
and lessons learned will prove of great use to the current project.
The MMA developed a "National Strategy for the Conservation of the Andes" in August 99
that presents a well structured coordinated program approach for the Andes. This document
describes the rationale, complementarity, linkages and thematic and geographic differences
among all the different GEF investments in the Andes region.     This document is an
evidence of cooperation and coordination between the Implementing Agencies and the
Colombian Government.
Due to the range of GEF biodiversity initiatives in Colombia the GoC with IAs
collaboration has taken important steps to define a coherent program approach in order to
optimize resource allocation, ensure synergies and complementarities within the GEF
biodiversity window and maintain overall coherency with national priorities, policies and
plans.
4. Description
The project contains the following components:
-3 -



1. Conservation Zones and Protected Areas: This component will promote the consolidation
of Colombia's National Protected Areas System (NPAS) within the Andean region. The NPAS
includes national, regional and local protected areas as well as private reserves. This
component will support plans for the Conservation Zones and management activities in
priority protected areas.
2. Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biodiversity in Rural Landscapes: The conservation
and sustainable use of biodiversity in rural landscapes is a crucial component for an
integral biodiversity conservation strategy for the whole Andean region. This is
important because some ecosystem types and threatened species are exclusively found in
landscapes modified by agricultural practices, near and around the protected areas. This
component will among others, support the assessments of conservation opportunities in
rural landscapes, develop and disseminate management tools for biodiversity conservation
and promote institutional and economic incentives for biodiversity conservation.
3. Knowledge Base for Decision Making, Monitoring and Evaluation: Within the project
area, this component would support and expand existing efforts to improve knowledge and
monitoring on the different aspects of the regions' biodiversity, its species, ecosystems'
fragility and needs for protection.
4. Inter- sectoral Coordination: Under this component, studies and training would be
provided to relevant government agencies, and third parties (private sector) to promote
the inclusion of biodiversity goals in sector development plans for the Andes.
5. Financing
Financing plan (US$m): 30.0 million
Local Governments (CARS)          8.0
The Netherlands                   4.0
GEF                               15.0
Other local                       1.0
Other international donors        2.0
6. Implementation
The grant is expected to be implemented in six year, although it has been divided in two
phases. The first phase will last 3 years. At the end of the first Phase and during the
mid-term review mission, a decision will be made by the Bank whether to enter Phase II.
The decision will be based on whether the Targets for triggering the second Phase have
been met. The executing agency for the project will be the Instituto Alexander van
Humboldt. IAvH' general director will sign the legal agreements with the Bank and other
project donors and will act as the official liaison for the project. The IAvH director
will give general directives for the project, as well as approve and follow-up on the
Annual Operating Plans. For project's matters, the IAvH director will be assisted by: A)
IAvH General Assembly in accordance with the Institute's by-laws, this Assembly is
composed of 18 members from the Ministry of Environment, the National University of
Colombia, Colombia Natural Sciences Foundation (Colciencias), Regional Autonomous
Corporations (CARs), Non Government Organizations and Public and Private Universities. It
meets once a year and determines the directives and policies of the Institute as well as
selects the Annual Fiscal Auditing. For project purposes, the Assembly will oversee the
overall auditing of the project to ensure that it is in compliance with the agreement
entered with the Bank. B) IAvH Board of Directors in accordance with the Institute's
by-laws, the Board of Director has 9 members. This Board is chaired by the Minister of
the Environment and includes members of private and public universities, NGOs, CARs and
-4 -



the Colombian Natural Sciences Foundation (Colciencias). For project purposes, the Board
will oversee monitoring and evaluation of the project. It meets several times a year and
will be responsible for project follow-up
7. Sustainability
The project will promote integration of biodiversity concerns with other sector policies
and it will work towards intersectoral coordination that takes biodiversity and
sustainable resource use into consideration. This will help influence the investments of
the country, complementing and redirecting resources towards conservation and sustainable
use of biodiversity. Joint financial efforts of different sectors to promote conservation
and sustainable use will generate a larger positive impact on biodiversity.
* Each component of the project will attempt to put in place self-financing mechanisms to
recover the initial investment and/or to make the project financially viable in the long
term. These mechanisms will include those that generate income for local communities and
for public and private organizations involved in biodiversity conservation.
* The project will design, adapt and promote incentives and other economic instruments for
sustainable agricultural production (such as compensation for environmental benefits and
services) when appropriate and feasible. Pilot projects will be undertaken in project
sites in order to implement and test these instruments.
* Income generated from service fees and concessions will be used to maintain the
protected areas and to promote conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity in areas
in and around protected areas.
* The project will aim at making use of the Clean Development Mechanism once it becomes
available.
* The project will identify barriers to sustainable use of natural resources and will
attempt to remove these barriers.
* The project will promote bio-commerce through facilitating the use of capital funds such
as Banco Verde, Latin American Biodiversity Venture capital fund and Environmental
Enterprises Assistance fund. For financing in the medium term, the project will establish
a fund to support biodiversity-friendly resource use projects and a fund-raising mechanism
that will attempt to channel funds from international sources such as Iniciativa de las
Americas, ECOFONDO, Iniciativa de Bosques, Biodiversity Venture Capital Fund, resources
from Spain, Germany, the Netherlands as well as the Clean Development Mechanism; national
sources such as Fondo Nacional de Regalias (conservation areas and micro-catchments),;
regional sources such as municipalities, NGOs and CONIF.
* The project will contribute to the reduction of uncertainty and costs and implicit risks
in sustainable environmental investments and the creation of new markets by providing
information, funds, and institutional and technical assistance as well as training and
educational programs.
* The project will encourage the investigation of international markets for new products
in agro-forestry and silvicultural systems
* The participatory nature of the project will ensure social sustainability of project
activities. It will also assist the peace process and the efforts to reconstruct of the
damaged social fabric in Colombia by creating democratic, decentralized and efficient
institutions, generating employment through participatory and alternative agricultural
- 5 -



sector development, and therefore ultimately reducing poverty.
* Institutional sustainability will be further ensured through capacity building in
existing institutions that are responsible for or involved in conservation and sustainable
use of biodiversity at the national, regional and local levels.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
* Limited Institutional Capacity in the Government
Project resources cannot be tied to inefficient disbursement procedures and project
execution should be in the hands of agile and efficient institutions. The project uses an
executing agency that would avoid bottlenecks in terms of capacity of implementation and
budgetary authority. The implementation and administration responsibilities will be with
the executing agency, the IAvH, and no funds will be channeled through the central
government's budgetary system.
* Protected Areas/Conservation Approach
Effective biodiversity conservation requires a regional approach. The project seeks a
conservation area approach that includes landscape management. Given that parks as
islands of conservation are not socially nor ecologically sustainable, the project will
establish conservation areas of varying types (IUCN categories I-VI), with sustainable,
long-term management plans.
Varied local conditions require a tailored approach to specific protected areas. The
project will incorporate local conditions in the design and management activities. With
support from the PDF Block B, public participation has contributed to processes
appropriate to the local context.
Effective management of conservation areas requires a participatory approach.
Conservation activities will only work in the Colombian sociopolitical context if there is
social consensus. Therefore the project seeks participatory management of protected
areas. The participation strategies will accommodate local biophysical and socioeconomic
particularities, depending on the region and zone.
* Economic Incentives/Development Plans
Biodiversity concerns need to be incorporated to broader political and socio-economic
frameworks. The project will assist in a major effort to incorporate biodiversity
considerations into sectoral planning. This project, therefore, utilizes economic and
other incentives as a conservation strategy, through reciprocal benefits agreements and
the generation of local benefits.
* Project Implementation/Monitoring
The project must be flexible during implementation. It needs to be evaluated regularly
and adjustments need to be made to the components and strategies. The fact that the
project is designed in two phases will provide for this flexibility and possibility of
learning from one phase to the next. The participation strategy needs to be one of the
most flexible activities
Better efficiency and effectiveness during execution require an adequate monitoring and
evaluation system. The project will make efforts in the acquisition and expansion of the
knowledge base and development of methodologies for monitoring and to construct
appropriate indicators, and, in accordance with similar GEF projects in Colombia, will
monitor the application of the national biodiversity policy and the contribution of the
projects.
-6-



9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues There is no major adverse environmental impacts expected as a result of this
project.The project is designed to be entirely positive from an environmental standpoint,
particularly by promoting conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity. The project
was based on a sound biological and environmental analysis of the current opportunities
and threats in the Andean Region.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Claudia Sobrevila
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Tel (202) 473-5004- Fax(202) 522-3132
Email: csobrevila@worldbank.org
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending, January 12, 2001.
- 7 -



