Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21723-CO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED GRANT FROM THE
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.8 MILLION (US$15.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE INSTITUTO DE INVESTIGACION DE RECURSOS
BIOLOGICOS ALEXANDER VON HUMBOLDT
FOR AN
ANDEAN REGION CONSERVATION AND SUSTAINABLE USE OF
BIODIVERSITY PROJECT
February 12, 2001
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Colombia, Mexico & Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January, 200 1)
Currencv Unit = Colombian Peso
COP$1.0 = US$.00044
US$1.00 = COP$2252
FISCAL YEAR
July 1, 2000   -       June 31, 2001
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAR                  Regional Autonomous Corporation (Corporaci6n Aut6noma Regional)
CAR                  Regional Autonomous Corporation of Cundinamarca
CARDER               Regional Autonomous Corporation of Risaralda
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CAS                  Regional Autonomous Corporation of Santander
CBD                  Convention on Biological Diversity
CDMB                 Regional Autonomous Corporation of the Meseta de Bucaramanga
CI                   Conservation International
CONIF                National Corporation for Forestry Research (Corporaci6n Nacional de
Investigaci6n y Fomento Forestal)
COP                  Conference of the Parties of the CBD
CORMACARENA          Regional Autonomous Corporation of the Macarena Region
CORPOAMAZONAS        Regional Autonomous Corporation of the Amazonas region
CORPOBOYACA          Regional Autonomous Corporation of Boyaca
CORPOCALDAS          Regional Autonomous Corporation of Caldas
CORPONARINO          Regional Autonomous Corporation of Nariflo
CORPONOR             Regional Autonomous Corporation of Norte de Santander
CORPORINOQUIA        Regional Autonomous Corporation of Orinoquia
CORTOLIMA            Regional Autonomous Corporation of Tolima
CRQ                  Regional Autonomous Corporation of Quindio
CVC                  Regional Autonomous Corporation of Valle del Cauca
DAMA                 Administrative Department of the environment of the Capital District
DNP                 National Planning Department (Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n)
FIGAU                Investment Fund for Urban and Environmental Management (Fondo de Inversi6n
para la Gesti6n Ambiental Urbana)
GEF                  Global Environmental Facility
GoC                  Government of Colombia
GTZ                  German Agency for Technical Cooperation
IAvH                Alexander von Humboldt Institute (Instituto de Investigaci6n de Recursos
Biologicos Alexander von Humboldt)
Vice President:         David De Ferranti
Country Director:       Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Director:        John Redwood
Sector Leader:          Adolfo Brizzi
Task Team Leaders:      Claudia Sobrevila/Juan Pablo Ruiz



IBRD                International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB                 Interamerican Development Bank
ILO                 Intemational Labor Organization
INDERENA            National Institute for Natural Resources (Instituto Nacional de Recursos
NaturalesRenovables y del Ambiente)
IUCN                International Union for the Conservation of Nature
MMA                 Colombian Ministry of the Environment
MoE                 Colombian Ministry of the Environment
MSP                 Medium Size GEF Project
NGO                 Non Governmental Organization
NPAS                National Protected Areas System
PAD                 Project Appraisal Document
PCD                 Project Concept Document
PCU                 Project Coordination Unit
PLANTE              Alternative Development Plan (Plan de Desarrollo Alternativo)
PNUMA / UNEP        Programa de las Naciones Unidaspara el Medio Ambiente, United Nations
Environment Program
PRAES               Projectos Ambientales Escolares
RAC                 Regional Advisory Committee
SINA                National Environmental System (Sistema Nacional Ambiental)
SPNN                National Parks System (Sistema de Parques Nacionales Naturales)
TNC                 The Nature Conservancy
TORs                Terms of Reference
UAESPNN             National Parks Administrative Unit (UnidadAdministrativa Especial del
Sistema de Parques Nacionales Naturales)
UNCTAD              United Nations Conference of Trade and Development
I JNDP              United Nations Development Program
UNEP                United Nations Environment Program
WB                  World Bank
WCS                 Wildlife Conservation Society
WWF                 World Wildlife Fund






Colombia
Andean Region Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biodiversity
Contents
A: PROJECT DEVELOPMENT AND                          GLOBAL OBJECTIVE                 ......................................... .............. 2
IA. PROJECTDEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE .................................................................                               2
IB. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS .................................................................                                 2
B: STRATEGIC CONTEXT .................................................................                                          3
IA. SECTOR-RELATED COUNTRYASSISTANCESTRATEGY(CAS) GOALSUPPORTED BYTHEPROJECT(SEE
ALSOANNEX1): .................................................................                                                   3
lB GEF OPERATIONALSTRATEGY/PROGRAM OBJECTIVEADDRESSED BYTHEPROJECT: ........................ 3
2. MAIN SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENTSTRA TEGY .................................................................                   3
2A. MAIN SECTOR ISSUES .................................................................                                         3
2B   GOVERNMENTSTRATEGY .................................................................                                        5
3. SECTOR ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED BY THE PROJECT AND STRATEGIC CHOICES .................................... 8
3A. SPECIFIC PROJECT ISSUES .................................................................                                    8
C: PROJECT DESCRIPTION                    SUMMARY .................................................................            11
1. PROJECT COMPONENTS. ............................................................................                              1
2. KEY POLICYAND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT .......................................... 11
3. BENEFITSAND TARGETPOPULATION .................................................................                               12
4. INSTITUTIONALANDIMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS .................................................................                 12
D: PROJECT RATIONALE .................................................................                                          17
1. PROJECTALTERNA TIVES CONSIDERED AND REASONS FOR REJECTION .............................................. 17
3. LESSONS LEARNED AND REFLECTED IN PROPOSED PROJECT DESIGN ................................................. 21
4. INDICATIONS OFBORROWER COMMITMENTAND OWNERSHIP ............................................................. 22
5. VALUEADDED OF BANKAND GLOBALSUPPORTIN THISPROJECT ....................................................... 23
E: SUMMARY           PROJECT ANALYSES .................................................................                        23
1. ECONOMIC .................................................................                                                   23
2. FINANCIAL .................................................................                                                 24
3. TECHNICAL .................................................................                                                  24
4. INSTITUTIONAL .................................................................                                             25
5. SOCIAL .................................................................                                                    25
6. ENVIRONMENTAL .................................................................                                             26
7. PARTICIPATORYAPPROACH .................................................................                                     27
F: SUSTAINABILITY              AND    RISKS ................................................................. 29
1. SUSTA    INABILITY .................................................................                                        29
2. CRITICAL RisKs .................................................................                                            31
G: GRANT CONDITIONS ................................................................. 32
H: READINESS FOR              IMPLEMENTATION                .........................     ........................................ 32
I: COMPLIANCE WITH                 BANK     POLICIES .................................................................         33
ANNEX       1: PROJECT DESIGN               SUMMARY          ............................    ..................................... 34
ANNEX       1-A: PROJECT TARGETS FOR                    END     OF PHASE        1 ................................................ ........ 40
iv



ANNEX 2: PROJECT DESCRIPTION ............................................................. 41
ANNEX 3: PROJECT COSTS .............................................................       50
ANNEX 4: INCREMENTAL COST ANALYSIS SUMMARY ........................................................ 53
ANNEX 5: FINANCIAL SUMMARY .............................................................  59
ANNEX 6: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS .............                  .................. 60
ANNEX 7: PROJECT PROCESSING SCHEDULE ..................................... ........................ 67
ANNEX 8: DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES .........................      .................................... 68
ANNEX 9: STATEMENT OF LOANS ............................................................. 70
ANNEX 10: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE .............................................................  72
ANNEX 11: SOCIAL ASSESSMENT & PARTICIPATORY PROCESS ....................................... 73
ANNEX 12: INDIGENOUS PEOPLES DEVELOPMENT PLAN .................................................. 96
ANNEX 13: MEASURES TO AVOID RESETTLEMENT ............................................................ 105
ANNEX 14: COLOMBIA GEF PORTFOLIO .............................................................  113
ANNEX 15: GEF BIODIVERSITY PROJECTS IN THE ANDEAN REGION .......................... 116
ANNEX 16: MONITORING AND EVALUATION PROGRAM ................................................. 120
ANNEX 17: SECURITY ISSUES .............................................................  127
ANNEX 18: SELECTION OF PRIORITY AREAS .............................................................   129



Colombia
Andean Region Conservation and Use of Biodiversity Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela Country management Unit
Date: February 12, 2001                                Task Team Leader/Task Manager:
Claudia Sobrevila and Juan Pablo Ruiz
Country Manager/Director: Olivier Lafourcade           Sector Manager/Director: John Redwood
Project ID: CO-GE-63317           Sector: Environment  Program Objective Category:
Environmentally Sustainable Development
GEF Supplement ID: CO-GE-63317                         Focal Area: Biological Diversity
Lending Instrument: GEF Grant                          Program of Targeted Intervention:
[ ] YES        [X] NO
Project          [] Loan        [] Credit    [] Guarantee    [X] Grant        [] Other [Specify]
Financing
Data
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (SDR1 1.8 million) (US$15.0 million equivalent): (GEF Grant)
Financing plan (US$m): 30.0 million
Source                                         Local               Foreign              Total
Cofinanciers
Local Governments (CARS)                            8.0                                    8.0
The Netherlands                                     2.5                  1.5               4.0
GEF                                                11.5                 3.5               15.0
Other local                                         1.0                                    1.0
Other donors                                        1.5                 0.5                2.0
Total                                              24.5                 5.5               30.0
Borrower: N/A
Recipient: Instituto de Investigaci6n de Recursos Biol6gicos Alexander Von Humboldt
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies):
Estimated disbursements (Global  2001   2002       2003      2004      2005       2006     2007
Supplement FY/US$M):
Annual        1.5      2.0        3.0       3.0        2.5       2.0       1.0
Cumulative       1.5       3.5       6.5        9.5      12.0       14.0     15.0
Project implementation period: 2001 - 2007      Closing Date: December 31, 2007



A: Project Development and Global Objective
la. Project development objective
The project development objective is to increase conservation, knowledge, and sustainable use of
globally important biodiversity of the Colombian Andes1 (the tropical Andes is considered by
many to rank first in the list of biodiversity hotspots2). The project launches, in the Andes,
Colombia's National Biodiversity Policy and Proposed Action Plan that has been prepared in the
framework of the Convention on Biological Diversity.
Specifically, the project will:
*   support the development of a more representative, effective, and viable Andean protected
area system;
*  identify conservation opportunities in rural landscapes, develop and promote management
tools for biodiversity conservation;
*  expand, organize, and disseminate the knowledge base on biodiversity in the Andes to a wide
audience of stakeholders and policy makers, and implement monitoring tools; and,
*  promote inter-sectoral coordination to address some root causes of biodiversity loss in the
Andes.
lb. Key performance indicators
Key performance indicators related to the project development objective include the following.
Additional information is found in Annex 1.
* 6 regional active networks of protected areas established in project conservation zones
* Participatory management plans for 50% of existing national protected areas within the
project conservation zones prepared and implemented
* 50% of remaining ecosystem types per ecoregion represented in protected areas.
* 4 biodiversity and socioeconomic surveys of different representative rural landscapes for the
identification of conservation opportunities completed.
* 4 management tools for biodiversity conservation in rural landscapes (e.g. corridors,
enrichment of productive landscape matrices and life fence rows) evaluated for biological
effectiveness and economic viability.
* 2 management plans for 2 threatened species of global importance.
* Biodiversity baseline for the Andes region built based on information available.
* 8 comprehensive biodiversity assessments filling major knowledge gaps in the Andes.
* A biodiversity state-pressure-response indicators system implemented, updated and in use.
* A network of Andean biodiversity databases established with at least 15 institutional
biodiversity databases systematized and linked to the network.
'For the purposes of this project, the Colombian Andes is defined as the areas encompassing over 500 m in the Eastern, Central,
and Western Cordilleras (thus excluding a small number of other high altitude areas such as the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta or
the Sierra de Macarena).
2 This assessment has been made, among others, by Conservation International (1998), Mittermeier (1998), and Myers (1989).
2



* Inclusion of biodiversity considerations in the MoE environmental licensing TORs and on
guidelines of infraestrucutre, mining, energy and agricultural projects
B: Strategic Context
la. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see also
Annex 1):
CAS document number: 17107-CO       Date of latest CAS discussion: October 15, 1997
The CAS identifies protection and conservation of the environment as one of the major themes
of World Bank Group assistance noting that the country is listed as one of the worldwide priority
areas for conservation of flora and fauna. According to the CAS, "inadequate management of
natural resources.. . has led to a growing deterioration as seen by the loss of biodiversity,
deforestation .., endangered strategic ecosystems, soil degradation, highly polluted rivers, canals
and wetlands." This project contributes to the CAS's strategic focus on sustainable
development/protection and conservation of strategic ecosystems; improving the effectiveness of
the recently introduced decentralized system for environmental management; and promoting
employment opportunities for the poor through environmentally sustainable projects.
lb. GEF Operational Strategy/program objective addressed by the project:
Operational Program Number 4, Mountain Ecosystems and Number 3, Forest Ecosystems
Colombia ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) on November 28, 1994. This
project is consistent with Colombia's commitments to the CBD, with emphasis on Articles 6
(integration of biodiversity across sectors), 7 (biodiversity identification and monitoring), 8 (in-
situ conservation), 10 (sustainable use) and 13 (education and public awareness).
With regard to the GEF Operational Program, the project supports the following key elements of
the GEF Operational Strategy: Andean Region use of biodiversity, increased awareness, policy
reform, capacity building, sectoral integration, and financial sustainability. Specifically, this
project supports conservation of biodiversity and sustainable use in montane and forest
ecosystems (Operational Programs 4 and 3) as well as the cross-sectoral area of land
degradation. The project is fully consistent with the principles of the Conference of the Parties of
the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP) as it takes an ecosystem approach to maximize
biodiversity conservation under a variety of management regimes and involving a range of
stakeholders including local communities, indigenous peoples, non-governmental organizations
(NGOs), the private sector, and local, regional and central government agencies. Finally, the
project also addresses issues of agrobiodiversity which were endorsed as a GEF Priority by the
III Conference of the Parties in Buenos Aires (1996).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
2a. Main sector issues
Colombia is generally recognized to be one of the five "megadiverse" nations in the world
(Mittermeier, 1998). With a total land surface area of 1.14 million kM2, representing about 0.8%
3



of the world's surface area, Colombia is home to about 15% of all known terrestrial species
(Table 1-Annex 8). This makes Colombia one of the countries with the highest concentration of
species per unit area. The country has the largest number of species of birds and amphibians in
the world and ranks high in the number of vascular plants and vertebrates. Colombia also
possesses 18 ecoregions (WWF/World Bank report, 1996), the second highest of any country in
Latin America. The most recent ecosystem map of Colombia produced for the Humboldt
Institute by Etter (1998) identifies 65 ecosystem types. Within Colombia, the Andes are
biologically the richest biogeographic region, surpassing even the humid lowland forests of
Amazonia. The Andes contain 21 distinct ecosystem types, each of which is remarkably diverse
due to great fluctuations in altitude, climate, and geology resulting in geographical isolation,
particularly in the valleys and mountainous areas. This has produced very high rates of
endemism.
Biodiversity in Colombia is still not fully documented. Recently, field surveys in the "Cordillera
Oriental" undertaken by the Instituto Alexander von Humboldt indicated that 30% of the 400
recorded bird species were new records for this area, 5 were new for the country and one is
probably new to science. Inventories and field surveys are still required to further document the
magnitude of Colombia's biodiversity and support stronger priority setting exercises and policy
formulation.
Of the Andean region, Colombia expereinces the most human intervention. For instance, two
thirds of this area is highly impacted by human activities (about 70% of Colombia's population
lives in this region) and some ecosystem types are now very rare. A major cause of biodiversity
loss is the advance of the agricultural frontier and associated deforestation and soil erosion.
Agricultural and animal husbandry practices, logging activities, as well as inappropriate resource
use patterns contribute to biodiversity loss and to greater rural poverty. The loss and degradation
of natural habitats has endangered the survival of numerous species3. Invasive species also
represent a threat to biodiversity, especially in freshwater ecosystems.
Social unrest is a critical consideration in biodiversity loss; violence and civil unrest have been
endemic in the Andes for over 50 years. Some areas have strong presence of guerrilla
organizations or right-wing paramilitary groups while at the same time other regions have
expereinced less social and civil unrest. The area encompassing illicit crops production has
steadily increased. Land clearing for illicit crops directly affects biodiversity as might the
application of herbicides. Financial resources available to reduce biodiversity threats are limited
by the current fiscal crisis affecting all central government activities. In fact, current projections
indicate that central government spending on environment will continue to be reduced in the
foreseeable future.
The lAvH estimates that over 240 species of Colombian mammals, birds and reptiles are endangered (9% of the nation's total)
and over 550 vascular plants (1.5%). Most of these species are in the Andes region. No data are available on the status of
amphibians, fish and invertebrates, although many are likely to be endangered of threatened. This is particularly worrisome for
amphibians as the country is home to 609 species (37% of which are endemic), the most of any country in the world.
4



2b. Government strategy
i) Institutional aspects: The institutional framework for biodiversity in Colombia is one of the
most comprehensive in Latin America and dates back to 1968 when the National Institute for
Natural Resources -Instituto Nacional de Recursos Naturales Renovables y del Ambiente
(INDERENA) was created. INDERENA was affiliated with the Ministry of Agriculture and was
in charge of managing Colombia's protected areas and of carrying out research activities on
fauna and flora. In 1993, through Law 99/93, the government created the Ministry of the
Environment -Ministerio del Medio Ambiente - (MMA) and launched its decentralization policy
for environmental management. Environmental management responsibilities were transferred to
the Regional Autonomous Corporations -Corporaciones Aut6nomas Regionales- (CARs). This
law also created the National Parks Administrative Unit - Unidad Administrativa Especial del
Sistema de Parques Nacionales Naturales (UAESPNN) within MMA, to develop a new
approach to manage Colombia's protected areas. UAESPNN initiated a new program called the
National Protected Areas System of Colombia that supports different categories of protected
areas, from regional to local, and from public or private to collectively owned. In addition, Law
99/93 also created four related research institutes in order to support scientific, technical decision
and policy-making processes. These research institutes are conceived as joint ventures involving
among others the Ministry of the Environment (as president of the board of directors),
Colombia's National Science Foundation, private and public universities, NGOs and CARs. In
addition, these institutes are largely governed by more flexible administrative and legal rules as
compared to the less flexible legal framework governing most public entities.
Within this context, the Alexander von Humboldt Institute - Instituto de Investigaci6n de
Recursos Biol6gicos Alexander von Humboldt (IAvH) was created. The mission of the IAvH is
to promote, coordinate, and carry out research that contributes to biodiversity Andean Region
use. The IAvH began activities in 1995, and took over some of the research functions previously
carried out by INDERENA. It has a General Assembly and an active Board of Directors with
nine members from diverse sectors that together make decisions on the policies and actions of
the Institute. The IAvH has developed research activities in four main programs (biodiversity
inventories, conservation biology, use and valuation, and policy and legislation) with two cross-
cutting programs for information and training. In addition, strategic alliances with national and
international entities have facilitated the forging of common interests and as a result have
strengthened research projects. Finally over the last 5 years, the Institute has managed to reduce
the percentage of national government contributions in its budget from 95% in 1995 to less than
50% in 1999. Its budget for 1998 was approximately $4.5 million.
Under the country's 1991 Constitution, the responsibility for environmental management was
passed from the national government to the CARs, of which there are 33 in Colombia and 18 in
the Andean region. CARs vary greatly in their access to financial resources, which depend on
whether or not they are eligible to receive remittances from the power sector and on the extent of
taxable land holdings, since a part of these taxes are passed on to them by the municipalities.
CARs also vary greatly in their institutional capacity, as most recently noted in the National
Report on Biodiversity4 regarding institutional capacity at the regional and local level. In some
instances, CARs have been able to strengthen their management and technical capacity in
relatively short periods of time. IAvH has worked closely with some of the CARs, developing
4IAvH, Informe Nacional Sobre el Estado de la Biodiversidad Colombia 1997, Santafe de Bogota, IAvH, PNUMA, Ministerio
del Medio Ambiente, 1998 (Vol. 2). p. 232.
5



joint biodiversity assessments and regional planning tools. (See Table 1 Annex 10 for a list of
CARs to be considered under the project).
ii) Government plans and strategies: The National Biodiversity Policy (MMA, 1997) was
developed within the context of the Biodiversity Convention - ratified by Colombia through Law
165/94. At the request of MMA, IAvH led the preparation of the National Biodiversity Report as
well as the National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan formulation processes. Both projects
were supported by GEF through the United Nations Environmental Program (UNEP). The
National Biodiversity Policy and the proposed Strategy and Action Plan5 (1 998) concentrate on
three lines of action: conservation, equitable and sustainable use, and improved knowledge. In
the National Biodiversity Report6 (1998), the Andean region is identified as the leading regional
priority in terms of biodiversity Andean Region use. Subsequently, MMA has established
biodiversity conservation in the Andean region as a top environmental priority for the National
Development Plan.
The proposed National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (1998) is a 25-year plan for
implementation of the National Policy using the following strategies:
i)    promotion of conservation through: a) consolidation of the national system of protected
areas; b) slowing the loss of biodiversity; and c) restoration of degraded ecosystems,
protection of endangered species; and promotion of ex situ conservation;
ii)   promotion and encouragement of the sustainable and equitable use of biological
resources through: a) sustainable management of natural resources; b) development of the
economic potential of biodiversity; and c) the assessment of the economic value of
biodiversity; and
iii)  expansion of knowledge base through improvement of scientific information and
protection of traditonal knowledge
The plans and strategies mentioned above were carried out by IAvH using a highly participatory
approach. This has allowed IAvH to step into a leading role for mainstreaming biodiversity
Andean Region use in Colombia. IAvH has been asked by MMA to support the formulation of
policies for regional and local governments and other sectors of society. The current project will
be one of the vehicles to support the implementation of some components of the National
Biodiversity Action Plan. LAvH will act as the coordinator and manager for project funds which
will be executed by different actors that will be selected with strict criteria of demonstrated
institutional capacity.
Consistent with the National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan, the Ministry of the
Environment recently established the National Protected Areas System (NPAS) constituted by
the "Sistema de Parques Nacionales Naturales" (SPNN, National Parks) and protected areas of
regional and local character including private reserves and establishes an overall system of
coordination and policy guidelines. This SPNN marks a significant change from the traditional
Colombia Biodiversidad Siglo XXI: Propuesta Tecnica para la Formulaci6n de un Plan de Accion Nacional en Biodiversidad
Instituto de Investigaci6n de Recursos Biol6gicos Alexander von Humboldt. Edited by M.C. Fandillo y P. Ferreira. Santafe de
Bogot6. IAvH, Ministerio del Medio Ambiente, DNP. 1998.
6Informe Nacional Sobre el Estado de la Biodiversidad Colombia 1997, Santafe de Bogota, IAvH, PNUMA, Ministerio del
Medio Ambiente, 1998.
6



restrictive and exclusionary approach that is inherent in Colombian laws predating the 1991
Constitution. The SPNN focuses on the social dimensions of conservation and seeks to improve
the effectiveness of conservation in protected areas by involving local communities and
incorporating a diversity of methods such as collaborative management. It explicitly recognizes
the conflicts created by the restrictive nature of the laws, arguing for transitional mechanisms
that recognize that people are living in and depending on the parks and surrounding areas and
that this is not necessarily incompatible with conservation of ecosystems. One of the important
objectives of the policy is to contribute to solving conflicts over the occupation and use of
protected areas and buffer zones, including those related to the overlapping areas of parks and
communally titled lands of indigenous and black communities.
The MMA developed a "National Strategyfor the Conservation of the Andes" in August 1999
that presents a well-structured coordinated program approach for the Andes. This document
describes the rationale, complementarity, linkages and thematic and geographic differences
among all the different GEF investments in the Andes region. The strategy demonstrates the
cooperation and coordination between the Implementing Agencies and the Colombian
Government in early project design and preparation.
Biodiversity actions as described above are fully backed by the current administration through
The National Development Plan ("Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 1999-2002"). Within the Plan,
recognition is given to sustainable development and proper management of natural resources and
contains a Strategic Plan for the Environment ("Projecto Colectivo Ambiental") with three main
objectives: (i) conservation and restoration of priority areas within strategic eco-regions; (ii)
promotion of environmental sustainability of economic sectors; and (iii) promotion of
sustainable regional and urban development.
Several programs are being carried out to support the objectives of the Strategic Plan for the
Environment, some of which have some relation with the objectives of the proposed project.
These include: (i) Water Program: strengthening legislation and institutions to optimize
sustainable use of water; (ii) Biodiversity Program: seeking consolidation of the national
protected areas system, and promotion of the Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan; (iii) Forest
Program: seeking the establishment of 160,000 ha of protective and productive forest; (iv)
Productive Systems Sustainability Program: seeking the establishment of a research program to
identify alternatives including substitution of illegal crops, establishment of incentives and
mechanisms for reconversion and ecotourism; and (v) Green Markets Program: promoting the
research of biodiversity-friendly goods and services, including supply, demand, barriers and
opportunities; and, promoting such goods and services and commercialization and coordination
of the implementation of the Clean Development Mechanism. All these programs are to be
implemented with resources from the Ministry of Environment, a credit from the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB), the Regional Autonomous Corporations, the Fondo Nacional de
Regalias, the Plan Colombia, Plante, the National Environmental Institutes (SINA) research
institutes (including IAvH), International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)
credit, and IBRD-(Investment Fund for Urban and Environmental Management)FICAU credit
among others.
Other government policies with an impact on Andean Region use of biodiversity include: a) the
Plan Verde that provides incentives and resources for reforestation and restoration of natural
forests; b) the National Forests Policy that seeks the consolidation and strengthening of national
forests and regulates the use of plants within the forests; c) the National Water Policy that seeks
7



the conservation of headwaters and their ecosystems; and d) the Rural Development Policy that
seeks entrepreneurial development in rural areas while seeking the sustainable use of natural
resources.
Indigenous groups have been recognized by the government as key players in the management of
biodiversity areas. In the past 5 years, indigenous territories have been demarcated and the
regulations around these territories have been supporting many aspects of self-detennination for
each ethnic group. In fact, the Colombian Constitution recognizes the compatibility of
indigenous management of the territory and conservation objectives. Private reserves are also
starting to play an important role in biodiversity conservation, particularly because they have
been legally recognized. However, there are limited incentives for private landowners to set
aside land for conservation purposes. A regulation has been drafted which would provide for tax
and fiscal incentives to promote private reserves and is in the process of being approved by the
Ministry of the Environment.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
3a. Speciflc project issues
An Integrated National Protected Areas System. Protected areas are the most important
mechanism for biodiversity conservation. Although any protected area conserves biodiversity, it
is important to move forward from isolated strict conservation areas towards systems of
protected areas, based on an ecoregional perspective, in order to allow the conservation of
biodiversity processes that take place at larger spatial and temporal scales. Today, particularly in
the Andes, protected areas and corridors systems can only be achieved using different
conservation categories. For the Andes in particular, protected areas under different categories
within the Colombian National Parks system (Sistema de Parques Nacionales Naturales), today
cover 7% of the region. In addition, some Autonomous Regional Corporations have begun the
establishment of regional reserves. At the municipal level, no experience in protected areas
establishment and management exists, but there is a great interest and potential for the
establishment of municipal protected areas. Private efforts to create protected areas have also
born fruit and the "Asociacion Red de Reservas de la Sociedad Civil" counts today over 200
private reserves in the Andes Region. Finally, areas under land management categories declared
by the state, such as Forest Reserves, can also be important parts of such systems. The current
project addresses the need to develop an integrated system with a variety of protection categories
at regional and local levels.
Representativity and effectiveness ofprotected areas. An estimated 7% of the Andean area is
under some sort of protection regime (there are 29 national parks and over 60 regional parks in
the Andes). However, a recent analysis7 documents serious gaps in representativity of
ecosystems at the NPAS and rapid processes of transformation of critical habitats, led by
agricultural activity throughout the region. It is therefore urgent that actions be taken to ensure
that critical habitats and unique ecosystems underrepresented and or under threat be identified
and afforded protection. The project addresses the issue of representativity and the urgency of
the pace of transformation. This will be achieved through the consolidation and improved
management of protected areas and the designation of new areas protecting critical habitats and
Etter et. a], 1999, Report on Representativity and Transformation of Ecosystems in the Andes.
8



ecosystems not yet adequately protected. Component 1 of the proposed project intends to result
in a "Protected areas system more representative, effective and viable".
Andean Region use in intervened areas. The project will address the issue of Andean Region use
of biodiversity in rural landscapes through a component specifically designed to promote
biodiversity friendly practices and to promote goods and services compatible with sustainable
use of biodiversity. The rural landscapes component will support activities to promote markets
for biodiversity friendly goods and services and implement incentives for sustainable use.
Lack of awareness. This issue is addressed through the inclusion of a component to expand the
knowledge base and activities designed to promote awareness. The project also includes
activities geared to promote sound decision making and planning on issues affecting biodiversity
in the context of the environment and agricultural sectors.
Poor sector coordination. Regional planning has not traditionally intemalized biodiversity
concerns and many farming practices used currently have not been biodiversity friendly. Many
sectors of the Colombian economy have a tremendous, if unintended, impact on biodiversity.
This is particularly true for sectors such as transportation, energy, and agriculture. There is an
urgent need for national leadership on coordinating all environmental investments in the Andean
region to maximize their effectiveness and working with non-environmental sectors to mitigate
their impacts on biodiversity. Finally, common to all the problems of the sector, there is a
pervasive lack of good knowledge on biodiversity and how to use and disseminate such
knowledge to decision-makers. The project will promote the inclusion of biodiversity
conservation goals in development strategies.
3b. Strategic Choices
a) Project Strategy and Phasing: The current project is one of the vehicles designed to support
the implementation of some key components of the National Biodiversity Action Plan (1998).
The IAvH has been designated by the Ministry of Environment as the umbrella organism to
coordinate and manage project funds and activities, however, most of the project will be
implemented regionally and locally. The project has been designed as a comprehensive program
for the Conservation of the Andes of Colombia. It includes protecting some of the few key
ecosystems left in the Andes. The selection of these key ecosystems was done through a very
strategic approach of biodiversity priorities, threats and social concerns. The project has been
prepared in a participatory way to promote leverage of other resources and to have a
multiplicative effect. The project requires a high coherence and consistency due to important
number of players such as the CARs (Regional Autonomous Corporations), regional National
Parks Administrative Units (UAESPNN - the Park Service), NGOs, universities in addition to
productive and community organizations.
There is an inherent risk to the ambitious goals of the project. Other risks are the innovative
aspects of the proposed project (decentralization, biodiversity conservation in modified
landscapes, etc.), institutional complexities, and limited capacity in some of the areas. Reducing
its size was considered during preparation but was discarded due to the loss of ownership and
key features in project design. The strategic and comprehensive approach would also be lost. In
order to reduce the risks of developing too large a project, it was agreed that the project will
require 6 years to be completed and that it would be implemented in two phases. The first phase
(3 years) has been designed to implement conservation actions in 5 critical zones where
9



assurances of success are most likely and to initiate the building blocks for the remaining zones
(See next section for details on selection of these zones). At the end of the first phase, and before
fully undertaking actions in the remaining zones, a mid-term review mission would be carried
out to determine if pre-determined benchmarks have been met to warrant expansion of the
project activities to new areas. The list of targets for the end of Phase 1 have been prepared and
are described in Annex 1-A. The targets are an integral part of the Grant Agreement between the
Bank and IaVH.
b) Project Scope: Several components of the project will have a region-wide focus while other
components will be focused geographically. The region-wide activities will focus on the entire
area of the Colombian Andes since they will look at sectoral issues, monitoring tools and
scientific information that is needed across the region. This will apply to Component 3
Monitoring and Knowledge Management, and Component 4 Sectoral Integration. Components
that involve on-the-ground investments shall be geographically focused. This is a function of the
limited resources of the project and the undesirability of spreading these investments over large
geographical areas, particularly considering that the Andean Cordillera represents 25% of the
national territory and harbors a tremendous variety of biological, cultural, and institutional
environments. For more geographically localized investments (Component 1 and to some extent
Component 2), specific conservation zones have been selected (See next section).
c) Selection of Priority Zones: During early preparation, the IAvH carried out a detailed selection
process using different sources of information (See Annex 8). The first study used was done by
IAvH andidentified twenty one different ecosystem types in the Andean Region based on the
preliminary map of natural ecosystems of Colombia (Etter, A., 1998)(See Annex 8). These units
were considered the starting point of the prioritization exercise. The ecoregions maps of
Colombia prepared by the World Wildlife Fund/World Bank (WWF/WB) in 1997 and later
revised by WWF- Colombia in 1999 were overlaid with the Andean Ecosystems. The selection
process also used the results of the Universidad Javeriana's study which includes climatic,
topographic and soil data amongst others to generate a map of potential ecosystems ( Etter, A. et
al, 1999). Another important input into the selection process was the MMA's "National Strategy
for the Conservation of the Andes" that describes all the thematic and geographic investments by
GEF in the Andes region. This allowed the preparation team to sort out certain areas already
covered by other investments. The final analysis excluded areas with low viability and major
social unrest, where significant investments are already taking place and with weak institutional
capacity. As a result, a set of 11 candidate zones encompassing a representative sample of the
Andean ecosystems and biodiversity were identified (See Map). Of these zones, five have been
selected for Phase 1 (Table 1 - Annex 10). These zones include: 1) the Northeastern Paramos
and Moist Forests, 2) the Alto Putumayo, 3) the Dagua-Calima-Paraguas Corridor, 4) the
Altiplano Cundiboyacence, and 5) los Nevados Parks and neighboring coffee area. For Phase 2,
given social unrest considerations and that additional biological and ecosystem losses will
continue to be documented during Phase 1 implementation, the IAvH will select 3 to 5 of the
remaining 6 zones by the time of the mid-term review. The six candidate zones for Phase 2 are:
1) the Cuchilla de los Cobardes and Chicamocha Canyon; 2) the la Rusia Paramo and Quercus
Forest of Santander, 3) the Patia Valley and neighbor western Andes Chain mountain forests; 4)
the Carare-Op6n region; 5) the Tatacoa desert and; 6) the dry forests of the
10



C: Project Description Summary
1. Project Components.
For a detailed overview of the project description and components, see Annex 2. The cost table
below presents the financing plan for the project.
Indicative Costs  Indicative Costs
(US$M)          (US$M)
Component                      PHASE 1         Entire Project     % GEF for entire
GEF    Total    GEF      Total      projectl
Project Conservation Areas     3.22    7.27    5.56     12.53     44.0
Andean Region use of Biodiversity in  2.80  5.53  4.30   8.47     51.0
Rural Landscapes
Knowledge base & monitoring    1.82    3.25    3.10     5.60      55.0
Sectoral Integration           0.30    0.40    0.50     0.86      58.0
Project management             0.77    1.27    1.54      2.54     0.61
TOTAL                         8.91    17.72    15.00    30.0      N/A
The six years' project contains five components:
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
During the implementation of the project, the component on Sectoral Integration will aim to
identify policy and institutional reforms that would support the project objectives, and to the
degree possible, the project will support such changes. Examples of likely reforms to be
supported by the project includes: modifications or clarifications of government policy and the
legal framework, including the creation of economic incentives for conservation activities
(currently under study by the National Government with new regulations to be defined); and,
more flexibility concerning how conservation objectives can be achieved in protected areas
including buffer zones surrounding national parks.
A preliminary review of the current framework of incentives for biodiversity conservation
indicates that there is a comprehensive set of instruments on the books but their application has
been inconsistent. Given the current social and institutional complexities in rural areas in
Colombia, it was agreed that an analysis should be undertaken of opportunities in project areas to
implement, in a consistent manner, appropriate incentives for biodiversity Andean Region use.
The analysis of these opportunities will be done in parallel with the other technical studies (in
particular the socio-economic analysis) and aim to incorporate the right tools when required.
Accordingly, an activity involving the identification, design, and implementation of appropriate
incentives regarding sustainable management of rural landscapes has been added.



3. Benefits and target population
The tropical Andes, because of the combination of high diversity and threats, is a global priority
for biodiversity conservation. Arresting the loss of biodiversity in this area will result in
important global and national benefits.
Aditionally, Colombia will benefit from improvements in the management of its natural
resources through the new management tools to be developed and disseminated to other
government sectors (Components 2 and 4). The project will also directly benefit rural
populations and indigenous peoples through support for more sustainable use of biological
resources. Bearing in mind that the project will intervene in prioritized conservation zones, some
benefits (especially economic) will concentrate on specific geographic places and populations. A
list of the target populations in the conservation zones is presented in Annex 10 - Table 1. The
project's investment in the creation and dissemination of knowledge will be of value to decision-
makers but is also of great benefit to the scientific community both globally and nationally.
As a result of the project, there will also be a series of indirect benefits related to agriculture and
land management, such as prevention of soil erosion, pollination, as well as direct potential
benefits accruing from bio-prospecting, ecotourism and use of biological resources. These will
primarily benefit local constituencies in the affected areas, providing potentially improved and
more sustainable incomes for rural populations.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
The project is designed to build upon the already existent institutional strengths of the entities
involved. Nevertheless, the new conceptual, methodological and operative contributions
constitute a motivation to change or consolidate already ongoing changes and inter-institutional
relations. Institutional sustainability of the project will be a key consideration. That is to say, the
permanent adoption of the project's objectives by the institutions involved in a long term strategy
to diminish the technical, financial and organizational dependence upon international
cooperation projects.
Under this approach, the project will aim its institutional efforts to: a) guide and inform the main
stakeholders about the distribution of responsibilities, motivation and organizational forms; b)
increase the organizational capacity of the institutions in shared leadership, cooperative
participation, participatory design and conflict resolution; c) adapt existing external abilities,
increasing the technical confidence and cost-effectiveness of project results; d) design a realistic
structure of tasks and activities, taking into account a participatory planning framework,
adequate duration, flexibility and a follow-up and self-evaluation system.
Implementation Period
The grant is expected to be implemented over a six year period and has been divided into two
phases - each phase lasting 3 years. At the end of Phase 1, during the mid-term evaluation, the
triggers/targets agreed between IaVH and the Bank would be subject to an independent
evaluation and judgment would be used by Bank Management on whether to proceed to phase 11
or not. The triggers/targets are an integral part of the Grant Agreement between IaVH and the
Bank.
12



Executing Agency: Instituto Alexander von Humboldt (IAvH)
The Instituto Alexander van Humboldt (IAvH) will execute the project. (for a full description of
the IAvH, please refer to section 2b). A letter sent in September 2000 by the Minister of
Environment and Focal Point for the GEF designated full responsibility of the project to the
IAvH. The IAvH General Director will be responsible for entering into legal agreements with the
Bank and other project donors and will act as the official liaison for the project. The IAvH
Director will also give general directives for the project, as well as approve and follow-up on the
Annual Operating Plans. For other project matters, the lAvH director will be assisted as follows:
A) IAvH General Assembly . In accordance with the Institute's by-laws, this Assembly is
composed of 18 members from the Ministry of Environment, the National University of
Colombia, Colombia National Sciences Foundation (Colciencias), Regional Autonomous
Corporations (CARs), Non Government Organizations and Public and Private Universities. The
Assembly meets once a year and determines the directives and policies of the Institute and
selects the Annual Fiscal Auditing. For project purposes, the Assembly will oversee the overall
auditing of the project to ensure that it is in compliance with the agreement entered into with the
Bank.
B) IAvH Board of Directors. In accordance with the Institute's by-laws, the Board of
Director has 9 members. This Board is chaired by the Minister of the Environment and includes
members of private and public universities, NGOs, CARs and the Colombian National Sciences
Foundation (Colciencias). For project purposes, the Board will oversee monitoring and
evaluation of the project. It meets several times a year and will be responsible for project follow-
up.
C) Tripartite Committee: In addition to the support from IAvH's Assembly and Board,
the IAvH director will work closely with Bank and co-financier staff to approve the annual
POAs and supervise project implementation (see section below on Project Supervision).
Project Coordination Unit
The IAvH will establish a project coordination unit (PCU), whose core staff will be a National
Coordinator (NC) under the supervision of the General Director of the Institute, an Assistant and
a Secretary. The National Coordinator will be responsible for the day-to-day operations of the
project such as planning and report writing, coordinating the selection of beneficiaries and,
supervising administrative and financial activities as well as technical monitoring and evaluation.
The PCU's responsibilities will also include the development of inter-regional, inter-institutional
and inter-sectoral relations to give support regional and local project activities. The PCU will
include the Thematic Unit (TU), the Regional Unit (RU), the Institutional Unit (IU) and the
Financing and Administrative Units (discussed under the Financial management section, below)
to support implementation of different aspects of the project. Currently, the IAvH already has a
National Coordinator, a Financial Administrator and various Technical Coordinators which will
continue working for the project.
A. Technical Experts: The Thematic Unit (TU) will operate with four experts, each in
charge of the four main project components (Conservation Areas, Biodiversity in Rural
Landscapes, Knowledge Base and Monitoring, Sectoral Integration). These experts will have a
technical background in the main topic of the component they will be responsible for and they
13



will prepare the Annual Operating Plans and the bi-annual technical reports. In addition, they
will ensure conceptual and methodological coherence among all activities and the integrity of the
project and providing feedback to regional coordinators and the PCU.
B. Regional Links: For Components 1 and 2, the Regional Unit (RU) will operate with 3
professionals who will ensure the coordination among the national office and the local activities
in order to keep regional actors infonned about the evolution of the project at national and inter-
regional level and to foster the required support for the participatory design and implementation
of the Annual Operational Plans. These professionals will be required to have experience in the
region they will act and demonstrated abilities to work with many different actors. They will
keep in close rapport with the technical experts. These regional staff will ensure the
implementation of the Annual Operational Plans agreed. They will establish regional teams
under the lead of a relevant regional entity, in many cases the Regional Autonomous
Corporations (CARs). Representatives of the CARs, Non Governmental Organizations, regional
universities, the National Direction of the National Natural Parks Unit, and members of the PCU
(see below for description of the PCU), among others, will form part of both teams. The tasks
and local activities of the project will be carried out through local and regional organizations
such as NGO's, universities, local associations, CAR's, Regional Units of UAESPNN, through
co-operation agreements and contractual figures. All stakeholders will evaluate their own results
and will form part of the project's information, follow-up, control and monitory system.
C. Institutional Expert: The Institutional Expert will be in charge of organizing,
implementing and evaluating a training and development program for the development of the
biodiversity institutional capacity in the Andes. The institutional expert will also be in charge of
strengthening the national, regional and local networks of actors related to the project.
Project Management
Successful project management will be contingent on: (a) effective decentralized execution of
the project; (b) timely financial evaluations; (c) adequate informnation for decision making
processes; (d) participatory processes with all the relevant actors and stakeholders; (e) timely
responses to changes in the context of the project; (f) efficient relations and operative processes
with GEF and the Government of the Netherlands. The participatory decision-making structure
aims to increase the management capacity of the stakeholders in the five regions of the project
(Phase 1) through the implementation of shared leadership principles.
A full description of project activities is spelled out in the Operational Manual. Yearly project
management will be governed by Annual Operating Plans (POAs), which will include a
statement of specific objectives for the year, a description of the activities, expected outputs,
monitorable indicators, detailed estimated budgets and a procurement plan. POAs will be
prepared by the PCU for the project as a whole (GEF, the Netherlands, CARs and other donors),
indicating the source of financing in the budget.
Those CARs approached by IAvH during project preparation have responded very favorably
with letters of intent to pledge cooperation and financial resources. Resources provided by
CARs, as counterpart financing, will be executed directly by them in there area of jurisdiction.
The Netherlands8 and other donor contributions of counterpart financing will be executed
s The Netherlands has submitted a letter of intent and the full proposal is expected to be approved and signed with
14



directly by IAvH. Mutual responsibilities and obligations regarding project implementation and
investment financing will be presented on a yearly basis through the POAs for review and
approval by the IAvH, the Dutch Embassy in Colombia and the World Bank in September. The
full description of all administrative procedures, including how to plan, prepare, select, procure,
contract, finance and supervise project activities will be spelled out, as a condition of
effectiveness, in the Operational Manual, which will guide the PCU in the implementation of the
project.
The IAvH will submit to the Bank bi-annual progress reports tracking physical and financial
performance targets by March 31 and September 30 of each year. Twice a year after receipt of
the progress reports, the Bank, the IAvH and the Dutch Embassy, assisted by independent
consultants, would conduct a mission to jointly review progress made against objectives and
monitoring targets.
Program Monitoring and Evaluation. The IAvH would be responsible for ensuring that project
results and impacts are monitored throughout the life of the project. The preparation team has
agreed to use a participatory approach and the use of independent consultants to carry out the
monitoring and evaluation functions of the project. Performance monitoring indicators are
included in the Operations Manual and in Annex 14. As specific activities are developed in the
POAs, corresponding performance indicators will be agreed upon. The PCU will annually visit
sites where activities are taking place to review specific indicator performance and to make
suggestions on how to improve project performance.
A self-evaluation mechanism will be applied through participatory processes with project
stakeholders. Self-evaluation is considered a key element of the project as the participants
become evaluators rather than objects of evaluation. This mechanism will also allow for the
analysis and discussion of both measurable results and working processes in addition to
facilitating the systematization of conclusions and learned lessons, turning into a valuable
planning and adjustment instrument, and can be used periodically without incurring in further
expenditures in terms of human, technical and financial resources. The evaluation by project
stakeholders will also play the role of peer evaluation, which has been considered one of the
most effective evaluation mechanisms in project with a variety of stakeholders. The results of
these evaluations will be an integral part of the biannual review by Bank and donors.
Mid-Term Review. The Bank and the IAVH will not later than the 36th month after the Effective
Date, undertake an in-depth review of the progress of the Project to evaluate the Project's
implementation arrangements and its on-the-ground effectiveness based on the targets set forth in
Annex I A of this document. For that purpose, the IAVH will , not later than one month before
the date of such review, prepare, contract out an independent evaluation to consultants
acceptable to the Bank under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank,
a report on the progress in the carrying out of all components of the Project, the achievement of
such targets, and on lessons learned therefrom.
Financial Management
Administrative and Financial Staff: A Financial Administrator is already appointed for
the project with high qualifications and will be responsible of the financial and administrative
IAvH before Grant Effectiveness.
15



aspects of the project such as ensuring that the Operational Manual is followed, contracting
services and goods, monitoring financial transactions and reporting, etc. (see Financial
management below for more details). This Financial Administrator will be assisted by two new
staff in charge of procurement and in financial management, two additional outside accountants
and one secretary which is already part of the IAvH staff.
Accounting and Financial Arrangements: Accounting and financial management of
project resources will be under the responsibility of the PCU. The PCU will be responsible for
project administration, signing contracts, authorizing payments, disbursing funds, supervising
contracts technically, administratively and financially, consolidating project accounts and
information, budgeting, preparing financial reports, establishing internal controls, contracting out
independent audit for the project. Project accounting and management will start with the
submission of SOEs. A year after project initiation and after installing an integrated project
financial system acceptable to the Bank, the PCU shall prepare and submit to the Bank quarterly
project management reports (PMRs) linking project expenditures to key monitoring indicators of
activities carried out during each quarter. The formats and basis to produce those reports would
be in accordance with the Bank Financial Management Manual and LACI procedures. In
addition to project management reports, external audits of project financial statements and IAvH
statements will be required on an annual basis (see below for more details). Operational,
financial and audit procedures are being speIled out in the Operational Manual and will be a
condition of Grant Effectiveness. Counterpart CARs' and the Netherlands's funding will be
managed independently from the GEF funds. These funds are financial resources and not in
kind. The role of the PCU with respect to counterpart funds is to ensure their yearly budgeting in
the POAs and to report the activities carried out for the project and funds utilized during the year
The CARs have already submitted a commitment letter spelling out their contributions towards
the project. The Netherlands has also submitted a letter of intent and the full proposal will be
approved and signed with IAvH before Grant Effectiveness. The IaVH is also required to
present signed Cooperation Agreements with the CARs participating in the project on a yearly
basis stating clearly their financial contribution to the project.
Procurement: The full description of the procurement arrangements and plan have been
discussed with the IAvH and are included in the Operational Manual and in Annex 6 of the
PAD. The PCU will be responsible and would follow Standard Bank Procedures for all Project
Procurement, and ensure their enforcement in procurement by beneficiaries. A three-year
procurement plan and all procurement procedures are being included in the Operational Manual
which is a condition of Grant Effectiveness. Procurement would include consultant services,
goods and equipment.
Disbursements: A Special Account shall be established in a Commercial Bank acceptable
to the Bank. The account will be managed by IAvH. The IAvH, will be responsible to regularly
submit withdrawal applications, supported by the appropriate documentation according to Bank
disbursement procedures. The GEF grant would be disbursed against eligible expenditures as
shown in Schedule C Annex 6. Disbursements would be made on the basis of full
documentation for all expenditures made under contracts requiring prior review by the Bank
(Schedule B-Annex 6). For all other expenditures, disbursements would be made against SOEs
for which supporting documents would be maintained by IAvH and the beneficiaries and would
be available to the Bank and to the independent auditors for review.. After the first year, it is
anticipated that project financial monitoring mechanisms agreed with PCU will enable GEF
16



funds to be disbursed on the basis of PMRs linked to expected project activities during such
quarter. Retroactive financing will be authorized for an amount up to SDR 390,000. Taxes are
not eligible and they will be paid from the counterpart funds.
Financial System: The PCU has agreed to install an integrated financial system to
monitor the financial and physical activities of the project. The integrated financial system would
include planning, internal controls, accounting, project monitoring and financial reporting. The
project chart of accounts would be structured accordingly assuring that project investments will
be accounted by components and categories established in the PAD. This will be done before
Grant Effectiveness. The project accounting and financial system would gather processed and
accounting data in order to produce accurate financial information. The accounting and financial
system would be linked with others project monitoring systems assuring reliable information.
Auditing Requirements: The PCU within the IAvH will be responsible for preparing
combined financial statements for the project as a whole. The project account will be audited
annually; consequently, an annual audit report of project accounts, and a separate opinion with
respect to the Statements of Expenditures and the Special account will be prepared by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with International Standards on
Auditing and the guidance provided in the "Guidelines and Terms of Reference for audits of
Project with Financing by the World Bank in the Latin America and the Caribbean Region: (the
guidelines). The auditors will be selected before the beginning of each year to be audited. The
PCU will submit to the Bank a certified copy of the agreed audit report no later than four months
after the end of each year. TORs for all audits should obtain the Bank's no objection. TORs for
the first year Auditors are a conditon of Grant Effectiveness.
Operational Manual: The functions and responsibilities of the project management would be
governed by the Operational Manual, which would include, among other aspects, project
procedures, financial guidelines, annual POA cycle, criteria for selecting beneficiaries, staffing
and assignment of staff responsibilities, supervision of beneficiaries, flow of funds, special
account, budgeting, auditing, reporting as well as procurement and disbursement procedures. The
Project Operational Manual will be a condition of Grant Effectiveness. We received a draft
Operational Manual during negotiations. Detailed procedures for selecting beneficiaries on the
diverses components have been included. The Manual will also contain the model contracts or
"convenios"that will be used to disburse funds to implementers/ beneficiaries. The IAvH will
submit for Bank approval detailed activities of each component in the yearly POA. For
components 1 and 2 which involve activities on the ground, before selecting the
implementers/beneficiaries, the IAvH will strictly apply the eligibility criteria for environment
and social safeguards. (See Annex 11, 12 and 13). Specifically, the eligibility criteria that only
project activities with no conflicts in land tenure and land use will be financed will be strictly
followed. The Bank will monitor that these rules are followed during supervision.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection
Government execution. An alternative to the project design consisted of a project executed by the
Government of Colombia with the support of third party agencies. However, it was considered
17



preferable that the executing agency be independent of the central govermnent budget, in view of
the current financial difficulties and the difficulties associated with routing resources through the
government budget.
Period of execution and phasing of the project. Consideration was given to a longer period of
execution and a possible APL approach in view of limitations in institutional capability. A two
phase, six-year project was finally selected as a feasible alternative. The project would be
implemented in eight to ten different zones by regional entities under agreement with the IAvH
on a more or less parallel track. During the first phase, the project would target its investments in
five zones.
Regional vs. local coverage. A project covering only part of the Andes region was considered.
However, the government has decided to assign a strategic, umbrella role to this initiative,
requiring therefore that it deals with regional issues for the entire Andes. In the same vein, an
alternative was considered to restrict the project to a single biogeographical unit as for example
cloud forests or paramos. This alternative, being supported through some parallel activities
supported in Colombia by the GEF, would not have provided the level of support required to
address the issue of rapid loss of habitat and biodiversity in the Andes region as a whole.
Conservation only approach. Consideration was also given to a simpler thematic focus restricted
to conservation (e.g., strengthening of the NPAS). However, as the National Biodiversity Plan
clearly states, given the state of intervention in the Andes, a more comprehensive approach that
includes agrobiodiversity (rural landscapes) is required to increase the effectiveness of the
activities proposed. at the country level.
Security and illegal crops issues. Careful consideration was given to evaluate whether investing
biodiversity conservation funds in Colombia has a high risk of being wasted due to the insecurity
and to the illegal crops issues. After discussions with the Government, international NGOs
working in Colombia and bilateral donors, it became clear that conservation work can be
effective in Colombia as long as a balanced investment approach is taken. The IAvH submitted
a strategy to deal with insecurity issues. The main key of this strategy include:
I) The project has taken multiple themes approach including investing in research and policy at
the national level and investing in local areas not affected by the insecurity and illegal crops
issues.
2) The selection of conservation zones carried out during preparation has focused heavily in
avoiding high risk areas and therefore, ensuring project success even in the local areas
investments.
3) Project design has taken into account the lessons learned from conservation actors that have
been able to successfully implement conservation projects in many areas in Colombia for several
consecutive years. .
4) A flexible response has been included where the project design allows the Conservation Zones
to be monitored for security issues and to move out of a Zone to another at any time without
loosing the objectives of the project. The IAvH has built in mechanisms in project execution
where the local entities and NGOs that can work most effectively at the local level are selected.
One of the selection criteria is their success in operating safely in areas.
18



5) The project has designed a monitoring system that will be able to tell IAvH where the risks are
in real time.
6) And finally, the project is designed to move in gradually and firmly to one Zone, but it will be
able to make tough decisions of pulling out of a Zone, if needed.
For a full description of security issues and how the project has been taking them into account is
described in Annex 17.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned)
Sector issue                                     Project             Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Bank-financed and prepared
Develop the policy, institutional and  Natural Resources                  S               S
technical base for sustainable natural  Management (Loan No. 3692)
resource management within decentralized
framework, with emphasis on forestry sub-
sector and Pacific Coast region
Develop operational capacity to canry out an  Magdalena Medio Regional   S                S
ambitious ten-year, community led, multi-  Development Project/LIL
sectoral development program in one of the  (Loan No. 4371)
most conflictive regions of Colombia
Develop methodology for establishment and  Peasant Enterprise Zones for  S                S
operation of "zonas de reserva campesina"  Peace Project/LIL (Loan No.
for areas of colonization affected by  4363)
violence, illicit activities, and degradation
of natural resources
Provide matching grants for investment  Rural Development                 S               S
projects to be carried out by municipalities  Investment Program (Loan
and communities in order to increase   No. 3250, completed)
incomes and living standards of rural
communities
Andean Region development of the Sierra  Andean Region Use of
Nevada de Santa Marta                  Biodiversity in Sierra Nevada
de Santa Marta (GEF grant
and Bank LIL under
preparation
19



Promotes a strategy for the sustainable use of  Sustainable use of         S               S
biodiversity in the westem slope of the  Biodiversity in the Westem
Serrania del Baud6 in a joint effort between  Slope of the Serrania del
governmental institutions and civil society,  Baudo" (Medium-sized
and for the benefit of the local communities  Project under
implementation).
Community Based Management for the Naya  Community Based
Conservation Corridor (Medium size GEF  Management for the Naya
project under preparation)              Conservation Corridor
(Medium size GEF project
under preparation)
Supports the establishment and demarcation
of indigenous territory as a strategy for  Conservation of Mataven
natural resources conservation. It is working  Forest (Etnollano) (Medium
on the creation and management of the first  size GEF project under
"Indigenous National Park" in Mataven   preparation)
forest in the Amazon.
Other development agencies              - Indigenous consultation on
the sustainable development
plan for the Sierra Nevada de
Santa Marta (implementation)
- Conservation of paramos
and high-andean forest
biodiversity in the Macizo
Colombiano (GEF project
under preparation)
- Biodiversity conservation in
the Macarena Special
Management Area (GEF
project under preparation)
UNDP
Government of the Netherlands           - Consolidation and
institutionalization of the
conservation strategy for the
Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta
(implementation)
Government of Spain                     - Biocommerce Initiative
GTZ                                     - Checua river watershed
erosion control project.
WWF                                     - Planning for the Northern
Andes Ecoregion
TNC                                     - Western Andes Chain
Program
IUCN                                    - Sustainable Use Initiative
for the Northern Andes
Region
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
2a) Linkages with World Bank portfolio. The World Bank has supported a natural resources
management project (Loan 3692 Natural Resources Management). This US$ 65 million project
(US$ 39 million lent by the Bank, US$ 7.10 million from the Netherlands and the rest from the
20



government), started in 1994 and is expected to close in December 2000. Its main objective is to
develop policies and mechanisms that would help arrest the ongoing degradation of natural
renewable resources in Colombia. The main components include: (i) support for the development
of a national forest policy and of a strategy for natural resource management in the Choc6
Region, including actions such as ecological zoning; the establishment of an environmental
monitoring system for four ongoing forest use projects; and titling and demarcation of
indigenous reserves and of Afro-Colombian communities; (ii) in the western Highlands,
protection and rehabilitation of selected watersheds; (iii) investments in the improved
management of national parks and buffer zones; (iv) strengthening of programs and institutions
for forestry/environmental education, training, research and pilot projects; and, (v) the
strengthening of the regional park system through a Dutch grant. Project implementation has
proved satisfactory to date. It was the first phase of a longer-term program and has generated the
policy, institutional, and technical base for future forest management and land titling investments
in the Choc6 Region. Although a different environmental and socioeconomic region from the
Andes, experience and lessons learned will prove of great use to the current project, in particular
those related to watershed management.
2b) Collaboration with Other GEF Implementing Agency. The MMA developed a "National
Strategy for the Conservation of the Andes" in August 99 that presents a well structured
coordinated program approach for the Andes. This document describes the rationale,
complementarity, linkages and thematic and geographic differences among all the different GEF
investments in the Andes region. This document is an evidence of cooperation and coordination
between the Implementing Agencies and the Colombian Government in early project design and
preparation. A summary of this strategy developed through consultatiors and meetings between
the MMA, coordinators of the projects in the Andean Strategy and the GEF implementing
agencies World Bank and UNDP is presented in Annex 14 and 15.
Due to the range of GEF biodiversity initiatives in Colombia the GoC with IA collaboration has
taken important steps to define a coherent program approach in order to optimize resource
allocation, ensure synergies and complementarities within the GEF biodiversity window and
maintain overall coherency with national priorities, policies and plans. For a summary of this
process and a presentation of the Colombia GEF portfolio please refer to Annex 14.
Other important initiatives related to the project are the WWF program for the northern Andes
region, TNC project for the Eastern Andes Chain (Colombian and Venezuela) and the IUCN
Northern Andes Sustainable Use Initiative to which the project has been in contact during
preparation through the IAvH, which in all cases is a Colombian partner of these initiatives.
Additionally, the IAvH is implementing the Biocommerce Initiative for Colombia with financial
and technical support of the UNCTAD and the Government of Spain which will be of great
support for the Rural Landscapes Component.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design
Limited Institutional Capacity in the Government
Project resources cannot be tied to inefficient disbursement procedures and project execution
should be in the hands of agile and efficient institutions. The project uses an executing agency
that would avoid bottlenecks in terns of capacity of implementation and budgetary authority.
21



The implementation and administration responsibilities will be with the executing agency, the
IAvH, and no funds will be channeled through the central government's budgetary system.
Protected Areas/Conservation Approach
Effective biodiversity conservation requires a regional approach. The project seeks a
conservation area approach that includes landscape management. Given that parks as islands of
conservation are not socially nor ecologically sustainable, the project will establish conservation
areas of varying types (IUCN categories I-VI), with sustainable, long-term management plans.
Varied local conditions require a tailored approach to specific protected areas. The project will
incorporate local conditions in the design and management activities. With support from the PDF
Block B, public participation has contributed to processes appropriate to the local context.
Effective management of conservation areas requires a participatory approach. Conservation
activities will only work in the Colombian sociopolitical context if there is social consensus.
Therefore the project seeks participatory management of protected areas. The participation
strategies will accommodate local biophysical and socioeconomic particularities, depending on
the region and zone.
Economic Incentives/Development Plans
Biodiversity concerns need to be incorporated to broader political and socio-economic
frameworks. The project will assist in a major effort to incorporate biodiversity considerations
into sectoral planning. This project, therefore, utilizes economic and other incentives as a
conservation strategy, through reciprocal benefits agreements and the generation of local
benefits.
Project Implementation/Monitoring
The project must be flexible during implementation. It needs to be evaluated regularly and
adjustments need to be made to the components and strategies. The fact that the project is
designed in two phases will provide for this flexibility and possibility of learning from one phase
to the next. The participation strategy needs to be one of the most flexible activities
Better efficiency and effectiveness during execution require an adequate monitoring and
evaluation system. The project will make efforts in the acquisition and expansion of the
knowledge base and development of methodologies for monitoring and to construct appropriate
indicators, and, in accordance with similar GEF projects in Colombia, will monitor the
application of the national biodiversity policy and the contribution of the projects.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
The central government has committed its support in a number of ways: endorsement of the
project by the GEF focal point (the Minister of Environment), participation in all preparation
missions for the project, dedication of IAvH staff to prepare and coordinate all aspects of the
project, identification by the Government of biodiversity conservation in the Andes as one of the
top ten environmental priorities of the country (National Development Plan).
22



Through its 1991 Constitution, the Republic of Colombia has effectively decentralized the
responsibility for environmental management to the Regional Autonomous Corporations.
Ownership of the project by the CARs is critical to the project's success. Every CAR that has
been approached by IAvH during the preparation of the project has responded very favorably
with pledges of cooperation and financial resources. The US$8.0 million of formal counterpart
funds from the CARs is the most striking indication of their ownership of the project. During the
pre-appraisal mission, the IAvH provided the Bank with copies of letters of intent to participate
in the execution of the project indicating the counterpart funds that they will allocate to the
project.. The Parks Unit has also confirmed its participation. Resources provided by CARs as
counterpart financing will be executed directly by them in their jurisdiction area. Mutual
responsibilities and obligations regarding project implementation and investment financing will
be presented on a yearly basis through the POAs that the Bank will review and approve in
September each year.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project
As an implementing agency of the GEF, and a committed lender in the environment sector, the
World Bank has an active biodiversity portfolio in Latin America and the Caribbean. The Bank
brings its experience within this sector to bear on this project. Specifically in Colombia, the Bank
has been supporting the Natural Resources Management Project (including protected area
components in the Choco) for many years and has a number of other GEF biodiversity projects
now under preparation (see section D2).
Beyond experience in the natural resource management sector, the World Bank also brings to
this project its experience in social sectors. In Colombia the Bank is executing a project in the
Magdalena Valley directed at helping with development and conflict resolution in rural
populations. Finally, the Bank's extensive investment in Colombia, in sectors as varied as
transportation, agriculture, and energy, provide potential access to some of the key non-
environmental sectors this project aims to influence through the Sectoral Integration Component.
The value added of global support with GEF resources resides in the fact that GEF resources are
critical for supporting the global incremental costs of biodiversity conservation in globally
significant ecosystems and for providing a platform for strengthening national coordination in
the sector, as a complement to regional action at the field level.
E: Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic
Incremental Costs. Project activities that will yield global benefits and generate incremental
costs are eligible for GEF financing. To calculate the incremental costs of the project, an
estimate of the baseline expenditure was made to establish the current and planned amount of
funding for Andean Region use of biodiversity in the selected sites in the Andes region as well as
for national level planning, during the life of the project. The difference between the cost of the
baseline scenario (US$ 128.93 million) and the cost of the GEF alternative (US$ 158.93 million)
is estimated at US$ 30 million. This represents the incremental cost of achieving global
environmental benefits through establishing new protected areas, strengthening policy and legal
frameworks for protected area management, developing mechanisms for Andean Region use of
23



biodiversity and natural resources in rural landscapes, and strengthening local and national
capacity for conserving globally significant biodiversity. Co-financing for the GEF alternative
from international and other local donors is estimated at US$ 15.0 million. The Regional
Autonomous Corporations have committed to mobilizing US$ 8.0 million toward the GEF
alternative; these will cover recurrent and investment costs for the conservation areas, rural
landscapes and sectoral integration activities. The contribution from the CARs has been written
in the GEF/Bank-IaVH grant agreement and will be provided on a yearly basis over the life of
the project. The Netherland Embassy has committed US$ 4.0 million to IaVH for the first phase
of the project. The signing of the Netherland - IaVH agreement is a condition of grant
effectiveness of the GEF/Bank-IaVH grant agreement. NGOs and other organizations will
contribute US$ 1.0 million as matching funds to the grants they will receive from the GEF
project. Finally, US$ 2.0 from other donors will be sought during the life of the project. The
GEF grant contribution would be US$ 15.0 million (see Annex 4 for the detailed Incremental
Cost Analysis).
2. Financial
Fiscal Impact. The project would not directly result in an increase or decrease in revenues to
government. Moreover, the protected areas would develop capacity to generate and retain funds
through introduction of visitor fees and other income earning activities that will reduce pressure
on the national budget. Tourism generated as a result of the project will also help increase
Colombia's tax base as a result of increased spending by consumers and foreign visitors.
Mechanisms to provide for the project's long term sustainability have been otherwise provided
for in project design in a number of ways: (i) development of revenue generating activities, such
as ecotourism, bio-commerce, non-wood forest product development, etc.; (ii) investigation and
implementation of recurrent funding mechanisms such as taxes and levies on production from
natural resource exploitation and the creation of a fund for the areas to provide long-term
financing for biodiversity conservation and local community participation; (iii) design of the
project to ensure that it will not create an additional burden on public expenditure by identifying
maintenance and additional costs within current budgetary allocations (part of baseline). The
contributions by the CARs and IAvH will cover some salaries and expenses of staff working on
the project as well as providing offices and other administrative support.
3. Technical
Technical studies. Seven technical studies have been contracted by the IAvH with PDF-B
financing and one study has been financed through the WWF-World Bank Alliance. The results
of these studies have been used to assist in the design of the project. All the teams leading the
studies met with the IAvH and Bank representatives to review the results as a group. The studies
address: i) institutional arrangements; ii) socio-economic assessment; iii) design of a system of
indicators; assessment of representativity and transformation of Andean ecosystems under
protection; iv) design of an education and awareness program; v) review of productive systems
in the Andes and assessment of sustainability; vi) review of sustainability mechanisms for
proposed project activities; and vii) regional cooperation plan. All technical studies have been
concluded and the results have been integrated in this project document.
24



There are no other technical issues requiring special attention. It could be noted that some of the
work to be carried out in the component on Andean Region Use of Biodiversity in Rural
Landscapes is expected to lead to some innovative and technically interesting management tools.
4. Institutional
Institutional issues in the environmental management sector are particularly complex in
Colombia due to the decentralization of environmental functions to the CARs. A study on the
institutional issues was carried out during preparation and resulted in the institutional
arrangements described before. Discussions during project preparation resulted in a strong
recommendation by the Ministry of Environment to designate IAvH as the executor of the
proposed project. A letter from MOE was received in September 2000 to that effect. Under the
terms of the recommended structure, the project would be highly decentralized in its execution.
Regional activities would be the responsibility of local actors such as the CARs, University,
NGOs, associations, etc.. who would enter into collaborative agreements with the IAvH.
Likewise, the Parks Unit, through the corporation recently announced by Minister Mayr, would
also enter into a collaborative arrangement with the IAvH. The Bank met with a few CARs and
discussed the institutional arrangements. These are spelled out in the section on institutional
arrangements.
5. Social
A social assessment (SA) and participatory consultations have been completed for the project.
Spanish versions of the full SA are available in the project files. The assessment was based on a
review of literature, including recent reports such as "Economia y sociedad rural en los Andes
colombianos", "Procesos socioecon6micos que actuian como actores de presion sobre la
biodiversidad andina en Colombia" and "Conflicto agrario y medio ambiente". Interviews with
experts were also carried out wherever information gaps existed. Finally, national and regional
consultations were carried out during preparation to verify the outcomes of the social analysis.
The social assessment was carried out at two levels. The first level is the whole Andean Region.
For this level of analysis, the overall socio-economic analysis was carried out, and the main
social issues and the institutional context identified. With this information at hand, the
preparation team carried out national level consultations to select the project intervention zones.
The major factors used to select the project zones were the socio-economic issues and the
biodiversity. This analysis is presented in Annex 11 (social assessment) and Annex 18
(biological analysis). Once this level of analysis was concluded, detailed socio-economic
information was gathered for each major project zone. In addition, regional consultations were
carried out in selected project zones. The results of the regional consultation process identified
the key social issues for each project zone and deterrnined the key activities that would be
supported by the project to address these social issues. The results of this analysis are presented
in Table I at the end of Annex 11.
A detailed summary of the socio-economic assessment is presented in Annex 11. Annex 11
includes:
1) a socio-economic profile of the Andes Region,
2) identification of the main social issues,
3) a description of the institutional context,
25



4) description of the national consultations and participatory process,
5) how social issues have been taken into account in the selection of project zones.
6) description of the regional participatory process carried out during preparation.
7) how social issues have been taken into account in each project zone (Table 1).
8) formulation of a participatory framework during project implementation.
The project pays special attention to the Indigenous People. The IAvH carried out consultations
with the Indigenous People in the project zones and has completed an Indigenous Peoples
Development Plan (IPDP) (see Annex 12). The project will not have any resettlement as
indicated in Annex 13.
In sum, the following overall issues have been identified for the project:
* The selection of project zones was based on socio-economic data, issues of violence, and
other social criteria;
* The project will not have negative social impacts on the populations in the project areas;
* There will be no resettlement in the creation of new protected areas (see Annex 13).
* The project has a clearly defined participatory focus.
* The project's local activities are being designed through a phased participatory approach
(macrozones integrated plans and protected areas management plans) that aims at involving
key stakeholders at a local level described in more detail Annex 11.
6. Environmental
a. Environmental issues:
Major: There is no major adverse environmental impacts expected as a result of this project.
Other: Minor environmental impacts might be expected from some on-the-ground investments.
b. Environmental category:  [ ]  A   [x]   B     []    C
c. Justification/Rationale for category rating:
The Category B is designed to be entirely positive from an environmental standpoint, particularly
by promoting Andean Region use of biodiversity. The project was based on a sound biological
and environmental analysis of the current opportunities and threats in the Andean Region. See
Annex 18 (biological) and 11 (social) for details. Component 2 will support activities in
sustainable development area, but these will be screened for environrmental safeguards before
any investments are made. The environmental criteria are spelled out in the Operational Manual.
d. Status of Category A assessment: N/A
e. Proposed actions: Procedures for environmental impact assessments have been developed
during project preparation and are spelled out in the Operational Manual.
g. Status of any other environmental studies: N/A
26



h. Local groups and NGOs consulted:
Consultations on this project have taken place within the context of the Environmental Alliance
for the Andes and during project preparation activities. The project's local activities are being
designed through a phased participatory approach that aims at involving key stakeholders at a
local level. A summary of the consultations and participatory approach followed during project
preparation and the strategy for project implementation is presented in Annex 11.
i. Resettlement
The Recipient has been informed about the Bank's requirements to have a policy framework
applicable to involuntary human resettlements arising from any other donation-financed
subproject. The Recipient has responded by stating clearly that no resettlement will occur under
the project. The Recipient has submitted an Annex as part of negotiations clearly explaining the
safeguards they have taken in the design of the project to avoid at all cost resettlement. A
summary of the measures to avoid resettlement is included in Annex 13. The Recipient will
screen any activities of the project for potential resettlement issues and will decline financing
activities that could present such cases. The project contemplates the creation of a National Park
to protect the Cerro Patasco. This mountain is not been occupied by people. The local people
(Cofanes) living next to it have asked for the creation of this park. (see Annex 12 on IPDP). The
rest of the areas contemplated in the project are conservation easements in private lands and
regional reserves with legal rights for people to live in them. Furthermore, the new legislation of
the National System for Protected Areas has developed a wide range of categories of protected
areas enabling people to live and using resources to support their livelihood and therefore
avoiding any needs for resettlement. The project has set as the main eligibility criteria for
supporting project activities related to private conservation easements or regional reserves, that
they do not impact the land tenure and land use situation of local people. These eligibility criteria
are an integral part of the Operational Manual which rules the project. Proposals for these
activities will be submitted to the IAvH coordination unit and will clearly describe the current
situation around resettlement issues. IAvH will only select proposals with no resettlement issues
and proved to be solvent. The project was also designed to carry out activities in rural landscape
with local people living around parks. These activities represent an incentive to improve the
livelihood of people. So, in no way will project activities decrease people's livelihood, totally on
the contrary, it will improve it.
j. Borrower permission to release EA: []Yes  [ No  [x] N/A
k. Other remarks:
7. Participatory Approach
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
This project is being prepared under a strong participatory approach (Annex 11). The current
project has benefited from the participatory exercise carried out by the IAvH to prepare the
National Biodiversity Action Plan. This plan, prepared over the last year with GEF/UNEP
enabling activities funds, is the basis of the current project design and involved approximately
one hundred experts from the academic, government and NGO sectors. With PDF Block B
27



funds, efforts have been concentrated to identify the priority areas and potential partners at
national and regional levels. At the national level, consultations have included the Ministry of
Environment, the National Parks Unit, the Environmental Alliance for the Andes (12 national
and international institutions), well known experts and NGOs. Once the priority regions were
selected, consultations at the regional level have been carried out with all CARs of project phase
1 zones, the private reserves network, regional universities and environmental and social NGOs
working locally. In addition, participatory mechanisms and processes have been designed for
project implementation as summarized in Annex 11 and these will continue to be carried out at
the national, regional and local levels. Some of these mechanisms include:
i) Coordination and participation mechanisms at regional decision making level;
ii) Consolidation of sectoral action policies;
iii) Participation strategy for each of the components of the project;
iv) Indigenous peoples development plan; and,
v) Application of gender focus in the conservation strategy.
Because of the scope of the project, having national, regional and local activities, the list of
beneficiaries and stakeholders is presented in Table 1 of Annex 11. A summary list is presented
below.
Indigenous communities: Cofanes (ZIO organization).
Non-Indigenous communitiesl Campesino Organizations: Several organizations have already
been contacted and include: the Association of Farmers Development (Asociaci6n para el
desarrollo campesino) and the Farmer's Association for the Sustainable Development of
Northern Boyaca (Asociacion Campesina para el desarrollo sustainable del norte de Boyaca).
NGOs: A database of over 400 social, environmental and education NGOs working in the Andes
was collected during project preparation. A large number of them will be beneficiaries of project
activities during implementation. The NGOs consulted during the project design phase are: The
Nature Conservancy, Conservation International, WWF-Colombia, Pro-Sierra, the Civil Society
Natural Reserves Network.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Other key stakeholders are municipal and departmental governments as well as CARs within
project zones (See Table 1 in Annex 11). Also national level institutions such as environment,
transport, agriculture and mines and energy ministries, National Planing Department, Parks Unit.
8. Checklist of Bank Policies
a. This project involves (check applicable items):
28



[x]  Indigenous peoples (OD 4.20)      [ ]  Riparian water rights
(OP 7.50)  (BP 7.50)  (GP 7.50)
[]   Cultural property (OPN 11.03)     [ ]  Financial management (OP 10.02)      (BP 10.02)
]    Environmental impacts             [ ]  Financing of recurrent costs  (OMS 1.21)
(OP 4.01)  (BP 4.01)  (GP 4.01)
[x]  Natural habitats                  [ ]  Local cost sharing
(OP 4.01)  (BP 4.01)  (GP 4.01)        (OP 6.30)       (BP 6.30)      (GP 6.30)
[x]  Gender issues (OP 4.20)           [ ]  Cost-sharing above country three-year average
(GP 6.30)       (OP 6.30)      (BP 6.30)
[ ]  Involuntary resettlement (OD 4.30)  [ ]  Retroactive financing above normal limit
(OP 12.10)      (GP 12.10)
[x]  NGO involvement (GP 14.70)        [ ]  Disputed territory
(OP 7.60)       (BP 7.60)      (GP 7.60)
[x]  NGO involvement (OP 4.36)         [ ]  Other (provide necessary details)
b. Describe issue(s) involved, not already discussed above:
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
The project will promote integration of biodiversity concerns with other sector policies and it
will work towards intersectoral coordination that takes biodiversity and sustainable resource use
into consideration. This will help influence the investtments of the country, complementing and
redirecting resources towards Andean Region use of biodiversity. Joint financial efforts of
different sectors to promote Andean Region use will generate a larger positive impact on
biodiversity.
*  Each component of the project will attempt to put in place self-financing mechanisms to
recover the initial investment and/or to make the project financially viable in the long term.
These mechanisms will include those that generate income for local communities and for
public and private organizations involved in biodiversity conservation.
*  The project will design, adapt and promote incentives and other economic instruments for
sustainable agricultural production (such as compensation for environmental benefits and
services) when appropriate and feasible. Pilot projects will be undertaken in project sites in
order to implement and test these instruments.
*  The project will put in place ecotourism programs in protected areas where appropriate.
Income generated from service fees and concessions will be used to maintain the protected
areas and to promote Andean Region use of biodiversity in areas in and around protected
areas.
*  The project will aim at making use of the Clean Development Mechanism once it becomes
available.
*  The project will identify barriers to sustainable use of natural resources and will attempt to
remove these barriers.
29



*  The project will promote bio-commerce through facilitating the use of capital funds such as
Banco Verde, Latin American Biodiversity Venture capital fund and Environmental
Enterprises Assistance fund. For financing in the medium term, the project will establish a
fund to support biodiversity-friendly resource use projects and a fund-raising mechanism that
will attempt to channel funds from international sources such as Iniciativa de las Americas,
ECOFONDO, Iniciativa de Bosques, Biodiversity Venture Capital Fund, resources from
Spain, Germany, the Netherlands as well as the Clean Development Mechanism; national
sources such as Fondo Nacional de Regalias (conservation areas and micro-catchments),;
regional sources such as municipalities, NGOs and CONIF.
*  The project will contribute to the reduction of uncertainty and costs and implicit risks in
sustainable environmental investments and the creation of new markets by providing
information, funds, and institutional and technical assistance as well as training and
educational programs.
* The project will encourage the investigation of international markets for new products in
agro-forestry and silvicultural systems using mechanisms such as CCI (Corporacion
Colombia International).
*  The participatory nature of the project will ensure social sustainability of project activities. It
will also assist the peace process and the efforts to reconstruct of the damaged social fabric in
Colombia by creating democratic, decentralized and efficient institutions, generating
employment through participatory and alternative agricultural sector development, and
therefore ultimately reducing poverty.
*  Institutional sustainability will be further ensured through capacity building in existing
institutions that are responsible for or involved in Andean Region use of biodiversity at the
national, regional and local levels.
30



2. Critical Risks
Risk
Risk                                      Rating    Risk Minimization Measure
Violence                                  H          Focusing project activities on areas
where violence has a low impact on
conservation activities
Unforeseen land development:
- Formal (i.e. development plans)        M         Sound selection of project areas
through overlays and public
participation in agreement with
development plans
Areas of high incidence of illicit crops
- Informal                               M         will not be part of project
Political support                         N         Active participation of GoC in project
design and implementation
Long-term financial sustainability not achieved  M  Project will establish sources of funds:
i) CARs have long-term financing; ii) a
fundraising unit will be established
Legal rights of people to use biodiversity  N       Project based on incentives
infringed
Land tenure issues unresolved             M         Project will not buy land; project will
define criteria for Fund and
accommodate land tenure issues in the
field
Lack of stakeholder interest (i.e. producer  M      Project will target identified groups and
associations, sectoral agencies, decision makers)   present benefits of changed practices
Intersectoral accords ineffective         M          Follow-up, monitoring and evaluation.
Project will initiate publicity campaign
and disseminate information about
accords among interest groups
Corruption                                N         Close supervision
Technical and institutional capacity inadequate  H  Project activities dedicated to
for initiation of rural landscape transformation    developing this capacity
Local media not sufficiently engaged      M         Program to target local media
Productive landscape systems compatible with  M      Project investigating alternative income
biodiversity conservation not existent               generating activities
Unwillingness of producers to participate in  H      Funding sources being developed;
productive landscape transformation                  public involvement being sought;
incentives being assessed
31



Risk
Risk                                        Rating    Risk Minimization Measure
Overall Risk Rating                        S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G: Grant Conditions
The main grant conditions are summarized in the table below.
Conditions of Effectiveness
PCU               * TORs, list of qualifications and criteria for
evaluation and selection for key PCU staff;
* All PCU key staff selected
________________ [not in the Grant Agreement]
* [this is part of the PCU key staff]
Financial         * progress satisfactory to the Bank in the
Management, Audits carrying out of the Financial Action Plan
[not in the Grant Agreement]
Grant Agreement   Signed
between IAvH and
the Netherlands
Cooperation       Signed (amount specified US$500,000
Agreements CARs   equivalent)
for 5 macrozones
Operational       Completed
Manuals
H: Readiness for implementation
1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
1. b) Not applicable.   X
2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. X
3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.  X
4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under grant conditions (Section G):
32



I: Compliance with Bank Policies
1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies. X
2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
_    _   _   _    _   _   _              *CA        Q                -_                 _
Claudia Sobrevila/Juan Pablo      ohn Redwood                      oilvicr Lafou
Ruiz
Team Leaders                      Director                         Conn"y Manager/D)irector
33



Annex 1
ANNEX 1: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
COLOMBIA: ANDEAN REGION USE OF BIODIVERSITY IN THE ANDES
Narrative Summary                 Key performance Indicators        Monitoring and       Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
CAS and GEF objectives:                                             Evolution of CAS
WB: Reduction of poverty and                                        dialogue between WB
protection and conservation of the                                  and GoC
environment
GEF: Conservation of biodiversity of
global importance in the Andean
Region
GoC: Implementation of National
Biodiversity Strategy
Project Development Objective:
1. Increased conservation, knowledge  Improved management of        Remote sensing at   Violence, poverty,
and sustainable use of biodiversity of  biodiversity in the Andes (100% of  year I and year 5  political upheaval,
global importance in the Andes.  the ecosystem types in the Andes   combined with        economic restrictions,
representing the APAS; adoption of  agricultural and   Unforeseen land
biodiversity friendly guidelines; and  biodiversity surveys;  development are kept
increased knowledge on biodiversity  international and  derelontrol.
in the region)                    national use of new  under control.
information base;
awareness surveys of
transect of
stakeholders in year I
and year 5
Outputs:
Andean Protected Area System more  6 regional active networks of    Technical report     Sustained political will
representative, viable and effective,  protected areas established in project  Management plans  Stability of
conservation zones, with management                    develit of
plans, under implementation       Legal instruments of  development trends
Management plans for 50% of       creation at national  Long term financial
existing national protected areas  and regional level,  sustainability
within the conservation zones     Records of
prepared and implemented          registration
I new National Protected Area
established
40 new private reserves consolidated
30 annual workshops held for
dissemination and stakeholder
involvement in the establishment of
regional networks of protected areas
16 workshops held for dissemination
and stakeholders involvement in the
design and implementation of the
management plans of project
protected areas
50% of remaining ecosystem types  .
34



Annex 1
Narrative Summary                Key performance Indicators       Monitoring and      Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
per ecoregion represented in protected
areas
2. Incorporation of biodiversity  4 biodiversity and socioeconomic  Technical reports/  Long-term financial
considerations in rural landscape  surveys of different representative  collection reports  sustainability
strategies.                      rural landscapes for the identification  Surveys     Legal rights of people
of conservation opportunities                        to Less odiveople
completed                        Report plans        to access biodiversity
4 management tools for biodiversity  Management plans  Land tenure issues
conservation in rural landscapes                     Sustained stakeholder
evaluated for biological effectiveness  Survey of producers  interest
and economic viability (e.g.     Survey of Land use  Sufficient external
Guidelines published  resources to enable
10 pilot sites with selected     & disseminated      modifications
management tools implemented and
monitored                                            Acceptance of
guidelines and
2 management plans for 2 threatened                  management plans by
species of global importance                         producers
completed
Replication strategy
2 main productive system types                       adopted and effective
evaluated for the identification of
practices to increase biodiversity
conservation
Promotional material for practices
and management tools for
biodiversity conservation in rural
landscapes produced (4 videos, 4
manuals, 15 booklets in accessible
language)
Replication strategy for larger
application of guidelines drafted
Package of incentives for Andean
Region use of biodiversity designed
and promoted
Green market promotion program
initiated
Small grant fund established to
promote biodiversity-friendly
activities
3 of the project zones implemented
with examples of adoption of
promoted practices and management
tools
Knowledge base of biodiversity  Biodiversity baseline for the Andes  Collections reports  Violence
expanded, organized for decision  region built based on available  Documented increase  Natural/unnatural
making, evaluation of impacts and
35



Annex 1
Narrative Summary                Key performance Indicators       Monitoring and      Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
disseminated to stakeholders.    information                      in spp cataloged    destruction of
collections
Replicable methodological scheme  Research papers
for biodiversity assessment and            .  .      Decision-makers' use
monitoring designed              Annual project Impact of info, effect on plans
evaluation reports
8 comprehensive biodiversity     Document dta bases  Effectiveness of
assessments completed, filling major                 educational campaign
knowledge gaps in the Andes      Statistical reports  Effectiveness of media
10 institutions and 80 people trained  Monthly count of hits campaign
in taxonomy and collection       on website
management                       Surveys of decision
10 institutions collaborating with the  makers
project biodiversity monitoring and
assessments                      Surveys of Teachers
2 landcover map updates of the Andes Articles published
region, 4 years apart, based on
satellite imagery completed
Biodiversity state pressure-response
indicators system implemented,
updated, and in use
Network of Andean biodiversity
databases established
15 institutional biodiversity
systematized and linked to the
network
Active internet WebPages, electronic
publication and newsletters addressed
to decision-makers, scientists and
general public
15 institutions and 100 people trained
in biodiversity information
management
Biodiversity information kits
distributed amongst 1000 schools in
project zones
100 schools trained for the design and
implementation of schoolyard
ecology projects
30 articles published in national news
media
4 Andean biodiversity field guides
published
Inclusion of biodiversity        Inclusion of biodiversity        Agreements officially  Effectiveness of
considerations in sectoral       considerations in the environmental  published       intersectorial accords
development programs.            licensing TORs and on the        Biodiversity-friendly  Long term financial
environmental guidelines of      sector plans        sustainability of
infrastructure, mining, energy and  published. Minutes of accords
agricultural projects.           publish    Minu     a
7 biodiversity workshops on sectoral  accords published  Corruption controlled
biodiversity impacts for ministries  Technical reports
and sector associations held
Biodiversity impact monitoring   Survey of plans
36



Annex 1
Narrative Summary                Key performance Indicators       Monitoring and      Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
reports for selected projects in the
project conservation zone
Project Management, Monitoring and  Effective operation of project office  Annual report  Project successfully
Evaluation                                                        Extemal project audit implemented
Semi annual
supervision reports
Monthly
disbursement reports
Major project components:
Project Conservation Areas       $12.53 million                                       Political support and
willingness to
participate
Technical and
institutional capacity
sufficient
Field work possible due
to safety considerations
1.1 Participatory design of      $0.68 million
conservation zones
1.2 Establishment of new protected  $2.95 million
areas
1.3 Design and implementation of  $8.9 million
management plans
- Management Plans for national park
and regional conservation areas
Andean Region Use of Biodiversity  $8.97 million                                      Production systems
in rural Landscapes                                                                   compatible with
biodiversity are feasible
2.1 Assessment of biodiversity in                                                     Willingness of
rural landscapes                 $0.75 million                                        producers to participate
2.2 Development and              $4.265 million                                       Existent markets for
implementation of management tools                                                    bio-trade exploitation
to maintain biodiversity in rural
landscapes                                                                            Public participation,
interest
- Landscape management
- Endangered and invasive species
management
- Productive systems management
2.3 Promotion of biodiversity-   $0.35 million
friendly resource use practices
2.4 Design of a replication strategy  $0.25 million
37



Annex 1
Narrative Summary                Key performance Indicators       Monitoring and      Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
2.5 Creation of systems of economic $0.35 million
and/or institutional incentives
2.6 Promotion and development of  $1.505 million
markets for biodiversity-friendly
goods and services
- Establishment of a mechanism to
promote biodiversity-friendly goods
and services
- Analysis of existing markets and
ability of bio-trade goods to penetrate
the market
- Identification of products and
services with potential
commercialization
2.7 Creation of a fund to support  $1.0 million
promotion of biodiversity friendly
goods and services and
implementation of incentives
Knowledge base for decision making, $5.6 million                                      Violence
monitoring and evaluation                                                             Decision makers
interested in integrating
Expansion of knowledge base                                                           biodiversity
conservation into their
Organization of information      $2.5 million                                         plans
Dissemination to stakeholders                                                         Decision makers access
and digest information
Implementation of a monitoring   $1 15 million                                        presented
system of status-pressure-response
biodiversity indicators in the Andes
$0.8 million
$1.15 million
Sectoral Integration             $ 0.86 million                                       Sectoral agencies
amenable to change
Coordination with Colombian      $0.35 million                                        Government willing to
ministries                                                                            participate
Coordination with producer       $0.28 million
associations and economic
conglomerates
Access to other financial
resources/incentives
$0.13 million
Development of a system to monitor
environmental licenses for mega-
projects                         $0.1 million
Project management               $2.54 million
38



Annex 1
Narrative Summary               Key performance Indicators      Monitoring and      Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Project administration
- national
- regional
Audits
39



Annex 1-A
ANNEX 1-A: PROJECT TARGETS FOR END OF PHASE 1
Project Outcome                               Targets for end of Phase 1
Andean Protected Area System more representative,  3 regional active networks of protected areas
viable and effective                          functioning in project conservation zones
2 regional protected areas established
20 new private reserves established
15 annual workshops held for dissemination and
stakeholder involvement in the establishment of
regional networks of protected areas
8 workshops for dissemination and stakeholders
involvement in the design and implementation of
the management plans of project protected areas
Incorporation of biodiversity considerations in rural  4 biodiversity and socioeconomic surveys of
landscape strategies.                         different representative rural landscapes for the
identification of conservation opportunities
completed
2 management tools for biodiversity conservation in
rural landscapes evaluated for biological
effectiveness and economic viability (e.g. corridors)
2 main productive system types evaluated to be
considered as management tools to increase
biodiversity conservation
Fund to promote conservation incentives designed
Green market promotion program initiated
Knowledge base of biodiversity expanded,      Biodiversity baseline for the Andes region built
organized for decision making, evaluation of  upon available information
impacts and disseminated to stakeholders.
Replicable methodological scheme for biodiversity
assessment and monitoring designed
4 comprehensive biodiversity assessments
completed, filling major knowledge gaps in the
Andes
Inclusion of biodiversity considerations in sectoral  4 biodiversity training workshops for ministries and
development programs.                         sector associations employees held
4 biodiversity workshops on sectoral biodiversity
impacts for ministries and sector associations held
40



Annex 2
ANNEX 2: PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A.    Project Components
Component 1: Project Conservation Areas and Protected Areas
This component will promote the consolidation of Colombia's National Protected Areas
System (NPAS) within the Andean region. The NPAS, constituted by the "Sistema de
Parques Nacionales Naturales" (SPNN, National Parks) and protected areas of regional and
local character including private reserves has currently established an overall system of
coordination and policy guidelines. This component will support this government system by
testing some of its elements in key protected areas. Because all the existing protected areas
of Colombia cannot be supported under the current project, priorities have been established.
During preparation, priorities were established by first selecting the project conservation
priority zones (see previous section on Strategic Choices) and then by selecting which
protected areas within each conservation zone would be supported under this component.
Selection criteria for the conservation zones included: representativity of ecosystem types
within the NPAS, potential effectiveness, as well as social and institutional viability for
working in this zone. Eleven candidate zones have been identified, although only 8 to 10 will
actually be implemented. The reasons for choosing more candidate zones than the actual
zones is to have some back-up zones available in case the socio-political characteristics of
the zones change with time. From these eleven, five have been selected for Phase 1: the
Northeastern Paramos and Moist Forests, the Alto Puturnayo, the Dagua-Calima-Paraguas
Corridor, the Altiplano Cundiboyacence, and los Nevados Parks and neighboring coffee area.
During project preparation, the identification of which existing protected areas will be
supported has been done for Phase 1. The criteria used included: significance of the protected
area within the NPAS, biodiversity and ecological representativeness, institutional capability
and social and political climate. Specifically, protected areas to be supported under Phase 1
include: Cocuy, Tama, Pisba, Los Nevados, Otun-Quimbaya and Isla de la Corota (for more
details see Table I in Annex 11).
This component will support activities at two levels, one is at the protected areas level and
the other is at the conservation zones level. Both levels of work are needed since lessons
from protected areas management have clearly shown that protected areas cannot be seen as
isolated units within the landscape, but need to be addressed within a larger biogeographical
and social context. The current project will address both levels in parallel and each level will
be providing constant feedback to each other on the results attained.
In the following sections, the general activities to be supported under this component are
described. The biodiversity threats and the underlying causes of biodiversity loss for each
conservation zone have been identified and are summarized in Table 1 of Annex 11. This
threat analysis has allowed the preparation team to preliminarily identify which specific
activities would be supported for each zone and protected area. For a detailed list of
activities for each zone and park, refer to Table 1 of Annex 11. The specific activities
will be finalized once the plans for the protected areas and for the conservation zones are
concluded.
41



Annex 2
1) Strengthening Existing Protected Areas: Based on the threat analysis described above, a
summary of the most critical investment needs for the following Phase 1 protected areas has
been prepared: Cocuy, Tama, Pisba, Los Nevados, Otun-Quimbaya and Isla de la Corota (see
Table 1 - Annex 11). For the Phase 2 protected areas or for new protected areas that would
be identified in the next section, a common framework that includes the following guidelines
will be used:
-     Needs for more assessments and inventories.
-     Needs for stakeholders consultation.
-     Demarcation - identify and evaluate demarcation needs.
-     Zoning schemes and use categories proposals.
-     Personnel - Description of personnel needs assessments, review of current
personnel - and staffing levels as well as requirements to properly manage and
carry out enforcement activities, training assessment and plans for training
current staffing levels, etc..
-     Infrastructure improvements: description of current situation, estimates of
what is needed; methodology for assessment (WWF, IUCN, TNC parks in
peril, Consolidation Scorecard, forest innovations, etc.)
-      Identification of surveillance, community outreach and educational programs.
-     densification of monitoring programs.
-     Buffer Zone management issues and proposed activities.
-     Social Assessments. The need for social assessments with a brief description
of -the current social situation; proposed activities, possibilities for co-
management or involvement of social groups in or around the areas.
-     Identification of potential partners and the basis for their participation.
-     Risks: an assessments of the factors that could put the project at risk or
jeopardize its sustainability.
Every year, the IAvH will submit to the Bank an Annual Operating Plan describing in details
the activities that will be carried out through grants. Once approved by the Bank, the IAvH
will seek grant proposals to carry out the plans and investments in each Park. The National
Parks Administrative Unit (UAESPNN), the Regional Autonomous Corporations (CARs),
the Civil Society Reserves Network, NGOs and local community organizations will apply for
these grants.. The selection criteria to select the organizations to carry out these grants are:
a) that there are no land tenure or land use conflicts; b) established presence in the local area;
c) technical expertise for the activity proposed; d) proven track record in successful
conservation work; e) counterpart funds; f) administrative capacity; and g) proven experience
in participatory processes. All procedures for calling the grants and selecting the grantees
are spelled out in the Operational Manual. For Phase 2 protected areas, before carrying out
any investments in existing protected areas, the IaVH will submit to the Bank a detailed
management and investment plan. GEF support would only be for incremental expenditures
beyond baseline in existing protected areas.
42



Annex 2
2) Participatory Design and Implementation of Conservation Zone Plans: The design of the
conservation zones will involve a highly participatory process including different
stakeholders within each zone. This process already started during project preparation for
some of the conservation zones. This participatory process will contribute to build a new
relationship between traditional managers of protected areas and local communities
(campesinos, indigenous, and afrocolombians among others). Workshops and meetings will
be organized to unify conservation criteria and develop a participatory conservation plan for
each zone. A flexible participatory strategy will be applied according to each zone, based on
lessons learned in similar processes seeking to integrate the interests and goals of
communities, governmental institutions and private initiatives. Technical studies for each
conservation zone will be carried out to improve the quality of the information available for
conservation plans. The major aspects of these plans will include: a) identification of
conservation gaps within the zones and of conservation opportunities to fill them, b)
identification of the social and institutional strengthening needs to carry out biodiversity
conservation; c) design of a protected areas system; d) identification of key actions to ensure
the implementation of the system and promote inter-institutional integration; e) identification
of partners to implement project activities and f) cooperation in biodiversity conservation and
management information flow to stakeholders will assure well-informed decision making
throughout the participatory processes to prepare the plans. A promotional program in local
media and written materials will be implemented in each area to disseminate to the local
general public the objectives and evolution of the conservation zone plans.
The plans will be submitted to the Bank before investments are carried out. In particular, if
the plans identify the need to create a new protected area, a plan for creating the new area
will be submitted to the Bank to ensure that the social safeguards in Annexes 11, 12 and 13
are being followed. The only new National park foreseen to be created is in the Alto
Putumayo. The plans to create new areas will include: a) detailed characterizations of the
areas from a biological and a socioeconomic perspective, b) proof that land tenure and use
are resolved, c) consultation, d) legal definition of the area and e) proposal submitted to the
government authority. Execution of this activity will be carried out by IAvH through grants
to the National Parks Administrative Unit (UAESPNN), the Regional Autonomous
Corporations (CARs), the Civil Society Reserves Network, the IAvH and other NGOs. The
procedures for selecting the grantees have been agreed and are spelled out in the Operational
Manual which is a condition of Grant Effectiveness. Once new protected areas are created,
they can become eligible to be supported under the activity above (Strengthening existing
protected areas).
Component 2: Andean Region Use of Biodiversity in Rural Landscapes9
The Andean Region use of biodiversity in rural landscapes is a crucial component for an
integral biodiversity conservation strategy for the whole Andean region. This is important
because some ecosystem types and threatened species are exclusively found in landscapes
I Components 2 and 4 will be closely coordinated. However, given the very strong impact of land use in agriculture on
biodiversity, component 2 is solely dedicated to this issue. The inter-sectoral coordination supported through component 4
focuses on the planning aspects of development in the Andes.
43



Annex 2
modified by agricultural practices. In addition, these rural landscapes harbor wild relatives of
commercial crops and traditional cultivars. This component lays the groundwork to promote
long-term conservation of biodiversity in transformed landscapes that still maintain
biodiversity through provision of habitats and/or corridors, which include both production
systems and natural habitat remnants. This component will be implemented mainly in the
same conservation zones indicated in Component 1. Within this component the targeted
regions are those covered by transformed landscapes. These regions are inter-Andean
valleys, the coffee-growing belt, sub-Andean slopes, and the Eastern Andes plateau.
This field oriented component will specifically support:
1) Assessments of conservation opportunities in transformed landscapes. These
assessments will evaluate biodiversity associated to different rural landscapes but absent
from more pristine areas, as well as socioeconomic conditions. Special attention will be paid
so that areas selected for further interventions harbor significant biodiversity (i.e., unique
ecosystem remnants, and threatened species), and that areas with biodiversity values too low
will be avoided. This information is fundamental to guide the design of landscape
management tools and to provide the development of the Regional Systems of Protected
Areas (SIRAPS) with field data from transformed landscapes. This subcomponent will be
coordinated by the IAvH in close collaboration with scientific, governmental and non-
governmental institutions, and autonomous regional corporations with expertise in
biodiversity assessments. The type of assessments that will be supported under this
component include: a) remote sensing-based identification of study areas; b) rapid
assessments of biodiversity elements associated with elements of rural landscapes under
different regimes of production; c) surveys of socioeconomic conditions associated with
different production systems; d) identification of threatened species that depend upon
transformed landscapes; and, e) identification of invasive species that may represent a threat
to biodiversity. The criteria to select the executing institutions for these assessments include:
a) previous experience in carrying out assessments; b) qualified professional and technical
staff; c) use of state-of-the art methodologies to carry out the assessments; d) expertise in
participatory data collection; and e) proven ability to present results in a user-friendly format.
These criteria are part of the Operational Manual.
2) Development of management toolsfor biodiversity conservation in rural
landscapes. Long-term sustainability of biodiversity in rural landscapes requires suitable
habitats as well as connectivity among habitat patches. Habitats with significant biodiversity
may include remnants of the original ecosystems and some production systems. Connectivity
could be achieved through different landscape management tools such as corridors of natural
habitat and some production systems. Management tools to be evaluated and supported under
this activity involve: a) habitat corridors, b) enrichment of grassland in dry environments, c)
structurally complex production systems such as shade coffee, d) live fencerows and, e)
management of threatened species. The threatened species will be selected after the
biodirsity assessment have been carried and have identified the critical species to carry out
management tools. Also, traditional and modern resource use practices will be evaluated as
potential landscape management tools, including comparative analyses from societal and
economic points of view. Further, biodiversity based goods and services will be evaluated as
means to increase economic interests to sustain biodiversity in rural landscapes.
44



Annex 2
Significant field experiments to develop rural landscape management tools that
promote biodiversity conservation have been carried out during the past and current decade
in the Western, Central, and Eastern Colombian Andes by NGOs, universities, and
individuals. However, no evaluation on the effectiveness of those already established
experiments has taken place or is planned by these institutions. This subcomponent will
measure the effectiveness of tools created by natural experiments where management
practices have created some desirable landscape configurations. It will measure the
effectiveness of the on-going efforts described above, and it will support establishment of
new management tools in the field.
Field establishment of new tools (e.g., corridors) will be conducted in places where
they could significantly contribute to local conservation efforts, such as the linkage of
important habitat remnants. Therefore they will offer experimental information along with
actual conservation achievements. They will also contribute data on field implementation
costs. Selected rural landscapes types include those dominated by cattle ranching on slopes,
coffee production systems, mixed production systems (campesino), timber plantations, and
landscapes with Andean wetlands.
This subcomponent will be coordinated by the IAvH and parallel activities will be
conducted in different regions by the IAvH, as well as by associated organizations and the
CARs. The criteria to select the institutions that will carry out the analysis of the
management tools for each topic will be spelled out in the Operational Manual and include:
a) analytical skills; b) technical expertise in the topic of the management tool; c)
demonstrated on the ground experience in the area of agriculture, agroforestry and related
farming practices; d) strong economic background; e) wide knowledge of innovative
approached to rural landscape management (if possible, international).
3) Dissemination of management tools developed during the project. It is crucial for
the success of this project that a dissemination strategy be implemented to promote
biodiversity friendly resource use practices. This dissemination strategy will be done
through local workshops, specialized workshops for natural resource managers and
agricultural technical manuals, publications, videos, etc. This subcomponent will be
coordinated by the IAvH. Dissemination activities will be undertaken at the regional level by
associated institutions, such as autonomous regional corporations, and NGOs. This strategy
is intended to bring together existing institutional and funding resources from the agricultural
sector, regional autonomous corporations, and NGOs, so that the management practices will
be sustainable on the long-term. The overarching goal is the inclusion of biodiversity
considerations in agricultural practices, as well as in the design and management of private
and regional systems of protected areas.
4) Development of a system of institutional and economic incentives that would allow
sustainable implementation of the management tools developed during this project beyond
the period of the project. This strategy acknowledges the fact than conservation may imply
costs than the producer of the rural sector should not assume for the benefit of the whole
society. This subcomponent will bring together institutions that offer or may offer in the
future incentives for Andean Region production. The Colombian government has currently
incentives that if correctly applied can contribute to conservation, yet these incentives not
always have the desired impact. The project will act as a facilitator to bring together
45



Annex 2
different sources of incentives, within the areas of action of the project, in order to analyze
their impact and to propose more effective applications. The aim is the creation of regional
systems of incentives, through a participatory process involving local, regional and national
incentive sources. At the local level, the project will work at the sites were landscape
management tools will be tested to develop a system of incentives to encourage a more
generalized implementation. The project itself will not implement a system of incentives, that
will be taken on by institutions that constitute the source of incentives.
As a part of this sub-component, the IAvH will design a funding mechanism to
promote markets for sustainable biodiversity goods and services. This fund would support
biodiversity-friendly resource use projects that would be selected following transparent
criteria. The criteria would include: 1) in eligible areas; 2) is economically viable; 3) is
technically, institutionally and socially feasible; 4) has no negative environmental impacts; 5)
beneficiaries are organized groups; 6) favors directly or indirectly the conservation of
biodiversity. The rules for funding sub-projects will be finalized during Phase I. A
consultancy will be supported to detennine the administrative structure, requirements for
beneficiaries matching contributions, monitoring and evaluation and operational manual.
This initial consultancy will be validated through a series of consultative workshops with key
social stakeholders. To ensure compliance with GEF principles, the design will take into
account the GEF guidelines on best practices and experiences of investment funds designs
(1998). This fund will only be invested in the globally significant areas that have already
been identified in the project (Annex 18). The manual of the fund to be developed will
ensure that GEF will only finance incremental costs. This will require that sources of funds
to pay for the baseline be identified and secured before implementing the fund. During the
design phase, the following sources will be approached as matching possibilities: Iniciativa
de las Americas, ECOFONDO, Iniciativa de Bosques and, Biodiversity Venture Capital
Fund. The final design of the fund will also take into account the social participatory
processes and Bank environmental guidelines. The participatory processes to be
implemented during Phase I will ensure a sufficient degree of participation in the design of
the fund. This will ensure that some of the key design issues are maximizing existing
mechanisms and that there are no duplication of efforts. Before Phase II, the full design of
this incentive funding mechanism will be approved by the Bank before fumds are disbursed.
Component 3: Knowledge Base for Decision Making, Monitoring and Evaluation
Within the project area, this component would support and expand existing efforts to
improve knowledge and monitoring on the different aspects of the regions' biodiversity, its
species, ecosystems' fragility and needs for protection. This component would also address
the current lack of sufficient knowledge and deficient scientific information of Andean
biodiversity to set biodiversity conservation priorities as well as to make decision at national
and regional scale. The available and generated information will be organized and
disseminated to different audiences: Scientific community, decision-makers, school students
and general public. To achieve this, the following activities will be implemented by IAvH:
1) Biodiversity assessments: The project will strengthen regional capacity in taxonomy and
collections management to improve the Country's capacity to generate a biodiversity
46



Annex 2
inventory of the Andes. This will be done by strengthening IAvH's training efforts in
taxonomy and unification of a biodiversity inventory collection and a monitoring protocols
towards regional universities, UAESPNN and CARs. In the same line, the project will
undertake and promote field biodiversity assessments to fill major knowledge gaps in the
Andes. mainly western slopes of the Cordillera Occidental, Paramillo, San Lucas, Perija,
eastern slopes of Cordillera Central. Field information together with satellite imagery and
geographical information systems will be used to generate a biodiversity baseline of the
Andes and to monitor it throughout the project and beyond. Basic information of this
baseline will be a 1:500.000 natural ecosystems and remnants as a result of coordinating and
supporting CARs isolated mapping efforts. Additionally, species distributions in the Andes
will be verified and updated for all bird species and for other groups such as Rubiaceae and
Melastomataceae This will contribute to recognize the importance of endemic, sensible and
threatened taxonomic groups in the Andes as well as to identify biological groups of
economical importance
2) Building of a Decentralized Biodiversity Information System: A biodiversity information
system for the Andean region of Colombia will be developed in order to facilitate access to
existing and new information to decision-makers, scientists, and the general public, among
others. IAvH is designing this system as a decentralized network of institutional databases.
Institutions and individuals providing and using information will access data from all
databases of the network through a standardized protocol, such as the Kansas University
Z3950 protocol. This kind of protocols allow access to on-line databases in any kind of
software platform provided a description of the database is available. Databases in the
network will share a minimum number of information fields so that a standard view can be
defined for each database type so the user will receive the same view regardless of the
platform on which the consulted databases are stored. A web site for this decentralized
Biodiversity Information System will be created. As well as offering access to the networked
databases, the site will offer processed information products such as species distributions,
endemism spots and threatened species concentration spots according to identification of
needs by users bringing together information providers and users. Key information providers
include research institutions, universities, relevant government agencies, non-government
organizations, botanical gardens and other ex situ conservation centers, among others. These
institutions have significant amounts of information available, gathered over many years, in
the form of biological collections, reports, and publications. In a few cases the information is
organized in a manner that is readily available and easily accessible for users, but in general
this is not the case. Therefore a special effort will be made to build the capacity to establish
this network, through training, technology transfer and promotion of cooperation on
taxonomy, databases, and geographical information systems. Work has already started and
collaborative agreements are already signed for institutional strengthening and systematizing
information of biological collections and biodiversity in general with the main botanic
gardens of the Andes (7) and biological collections and universities such as Javeriana,
Antioquia, del Valle, del Cauca and Nacional.
3) Implement a Dissemination and Public Awareness Program: The program includes
activities designed to disseminate information on biodiversity in the Andes to different
audiences: decision-makers, scientists, school students and the beneral public, according to
their different information requirements and using different communication strategies.
47



Annex 2
Workshops and publications addressed to decision-makers will be coordinated with
Component 4. An Internet site for the biodiversity information system built with newsletters
and electronic publications will be established. School students in project zones will be
addressed by replicating IAvH's experience in Villa de Leyva in training teachers and
producing material to include biodiversity in school PRAES (environmental school projects
demanded by the Colombian legislation). Field guides on specific groups such as birds,
amphibians and reptiles will be produced to reach researchers and arnateurs and increase
national and international awareness of Andean biodiversity. Materials will also be prepared
for broadcasting through national and regional media.
4) Implement an Indicator System Of Biodiversity State-Pressure-Response: This Indicator
system will include biological and socioeconomic information to monitor the current status
of biodiversity in the Andes, the evolution of the pressure on it and its response to national
policy and project measures. The system and its implementation strategy has already been
designed (document in project files).
Component 4: Intersectoral Coordination
Under this component, studies and training would be provided to relevant government
agencies, and third parties (private sector) to promote the inclusion of biodiversity goals in
sector development plans for the Andes. The IAvH will be implementing this component.
This would be accomplished through:
1) Coordination with Colombian Ministries and with sector associations and economic
conglomerates: Workshops on biodiversity, sectoral biodiversity impacts and intersectoral
planning for ministries and sector associations will be organized to strengthen the concept of
biodiversity amongst different sectors and institutions. These workshops will also serve to
disseminate the information collected and systematized in Component 3 and the results
attained under Components 1 and 2 that will be presented in the most appropriate format to
ensure the effective inclusion of biodiversity concerns in decision making. In addition, the
project will support the inclusion of environmental licensing procedures at the Ministry of
Environment level to introduce relevant biodiversity variables in the licensed terms of
reference and on the environmental guidelines of infrastructure, mining, energy and
agricultural projects. This would be a consultative process with the relevant ministries,
associations, economic conglomerates and other key stakeholders.
2) Monitoring biodiversity trends in large-scale development projects. Besides reinforcing
sector coordination and planning, it is necessary to follow-up effects on biodiversity arising
from mega projects. In particular those that may have a negative effect on the Andes
biodiversity and on the project zones. This will be achieved by monitoring biodiversity
impact of selected projects and using the collected information to improve sector
coordination and planning as well as the environmental licensing procedures. This will also
serve to create an alert system to identify possible threats to the current project. Significant
development projects with major impacts on biodiversity in the project zones will be
selected. This will be done by keeping track of development projects in the project zones and
48



Annex 2
evaluating their development stage and environmental requirements in the licensing process.
These projects will then be ranked and prioritized depending on their potential negative
impact on biodiversity. The project will not finance Environmental Impact Assessments, but
will track cumulative impacts and threats in the areas.
Component 5: Project Management and Project Monitoring
The project would support the needed administrative team, including one national
coordinator, four technical coordinators for components 1, 2, 3 and 4, and three regional
project coordinators in addition to the administrative staff. The project will support:
i) the above-mentioned project administration and coordination staff, their assistants, office
costs, facilities rental, administrative costs and transport;
ii) annual audits of the project; and,
iii) developing and implementing a monitoring system of the implementation of the project.
A more detailed description of the administrative structure is presented under institutional
arrangements.
49



Annex 3
ANNEX 3: PROJECT COSTS
I   COh~p9nbBhf  S       _  I TOTAL    GEF    I    IE        111 . - 
1 Project Conservation Areas  12530000  5840000        5840000  200000: 650000
Component Coordination       300000   300000
Monitoring and evaluetion
1.1 Design of Conservation Areas  680000  340000          340000
1.1A Participatory Design of  340000  340000
Conservation Areas
1.1 B Consolidation of       340000         l          340000
Participatory Design of
Conservation Areas
1.2 Establishment of new protected  4050000  1200000     2000000  200000  650000
areas
1.2.1A One New National      550000   550000
Conservation Area
1.2.1 B Detailed biol6gical  200000                            200000
characterization of final new
area
1.2.2. Regional Protection  2000000                  2000000
areas design and declaration
(10)
1.2.3A. 25 new private reserves  650000  650000
established
1.2.3B. 25 new private       650000                                    650000
reserves established
1.3 Design and Implementation of  7500000  4000000        350000
Management Plans of 6
protected areas
1.3A Design and             4000000 4000000
Implementation of Management
Plans of 6 protected areas
11.3B Design and            3500000                  3500000
Implementation of
Management Plans of regional
protected areas
21Conservaci6n y uso sostenible  8470000  3967500 3032500 1402500  67500
de biodiversidad en paisajes
rurales
Component Coordination,      540000   540000
Monitoring and Evaluation
2.1 Evaluaci6n de biodiversidad  795000          552500   242500
en paisajes rurales
2.2 Desarrollo e implementaci6n de  3970000  510000 2300000 1160000
herramientas de manejo para
conservar biodiversidad en
paisajes rurales
2.2.1. Herramientas de      3460000          2300000 1160000
manejo del paisaje de los
recursos naturales y sistemas
productivos
| 2.2.2. Red books production  410000  410000l
| support and threatened species _   _                                I
50



Annex 3
management plans
2.2.3 Fortalecimiento de    100000   100000
capacidad humana in rural
landscape management
2.3 Creation of systems of      355000   175000  180000
economic and/or institutional
incentives
2.3.1A First Phase (3 afhos) of  180000      180000
participative design of regional
and local incentive systems
2.3.1B Second Phase (3 anos)  175000  175000
of participative design of
regional and local incentive
systems
2.4 Promotion and development of  1390000  1322500                67500
markets for biodiversity-friendly
goods and services
2.5 Dissemination and replication  470000  470000
strategy of 2.2 to 2.4
2.6 Creation of a fund to promote  950000  950000
biodiversity friendly goods and
services and to implement
incentives
3 Knowledge base for decision  5600000  3077500 1409000  735000  222500  156000
making, monitoring and
evaluation
Component Coordination,     330000   330000
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.1 Expansion - Construction and  2360000  845000 10000001 3150000 200000
complementation of baselines
3.1.1A. 3 Field             495000   495000
Characterizations
3.1.1 B. 5 Field           1515000          1000000  315000  200000
characterizations, data
postprocesing and storing
3.1.2. Ecosystems map update  250000  250000
3.1.3. Training program to  100000  o100000
fortify national capacity to
complete inventories and
,maintain collections
3.2 Descentralized Biodiversity  1290000  1081500       195000   13500
Information System                   ___
3.2.1. Design and            65000    65000
Implementation of an
Information management
strategy
3.2.2. System Management    650000   636500                   13500
and development of information
management and analysis tools
3.2.3. Training and capacity  115000  115000
building in information
management
3.2.4. Infrastructure       265000   265000
development and data capture
of 10-15 regional System                               .   l _
51



Annex 3
Nodes
3.2.5 Strengthening of system  195000               195000
nodes
3.3 Dissemination and Public   790000          409000  225000          156000
'Awareness
3.4 Biodiversity status-preassure-  830000  821000               9000
response indicators system
4 I nter-sectoral coordination  860000  500000                       360000
4.1 Impact Analysis of current  330000  330000
policies, workshops, training of
Colombian ministries, sector
associations and economic
conglomerates
4.2 Inclusion of biodiversity in  360000                               360000
sectoral policies
4.3 Monnitoring project threatening  170000  170000
mega-projects
5 Project Management        2540000  1615000  311000         614000
5.1 Project administration    2440000  1530000  296000         614000
5.2 Audits                     100000   85000   15000
TOTAL                     30000000 15000000 4752500 7977500 1104000 1166000
52



Annex 4
ANNEX 4: INCREMENTAL COST ANALYSIS SUMMARY
Biodiversity conservation in the country as a whole, and in the Andes specifically, has taken
on greater prominence in the last five years. The Government of Colombia (GoC) has
adopted a National Biodiversity Policy which has led to a Biodiversity Strategy and Action
Plan, both of which prominently feature the importance of the Andean region. Direct on-the-
ground investments in biodiversity conservation have been less apparent, but the Ministry of
the Environment created the Instituto Alexander von Humboldt five years ago and, through
them, is financing a great variety of important activities in biodiversity conservation.
An estimate of the Baseline Scenario for such investments (what would have been spent in
the absence of a GEF project) is presented below, together with the level of investments
under the Alternative Scenario with a GEF project. The difference between the Baseline
Scenario and the Alternative Scenario is thus conservatively estimated at $30.0 million which
we feel could be argued are all global benefits because of the direct linkage with
conservation in one of the world's hotspots of biodiversity. Nevertheless, only 50 % of these
global benefits are to be covered by investments from the Global Environment Facility.
Baseline Scenario
Without intervention of the GEF, the Andes would likely continue on the current path of
unsustainable development. Past pressures from increased urbanization, cultivation, grazing, etc. have
led to 63% of the area being intervened. There is a loss of natural habitat of an estimated 150,000 to
250,000 hectares per annum, despite recent initiatives to protect them. Biodiversity loss in the Andes
is actually occurring; for example, 5% of all bird species in the Andes are vulnerable.
The "Plan Indicativo Cuatrienal 1998-2002" published by the Ministry of Environment (MMA)
identifies 47 actions to i) conserve and restore priority areas in strategic ecosystems; ii) facilitate
sustainable urban and regional development; and, iii) contribute to environmental sustainability in
sectors. Most of the actions relate to water issues; but about 60% of the resources are applicable to the
Andes, and many of these are supported by the international donor community. Including resources
from the international donor community, the national budget and those from the Regional
Autonomous Corporations (CARs), in total, it is estimated that there will be an investment of close to
$130 million dollars over the next 6 years in the project area targeted to biodiversity conservation.
Project Conservation Areas
The protected areas of the Andes have never been well funded, in part because of insufficient
government funding in general for protected areas and the high priority that has been
accorded to parks in other regions such as the Choc6 and the Amazon. We estimate that
baseline government funding for the national park system - specifically targeted to
biodiversity conservation - in the project area is equivalent to about $US 7.74 million over
the lifetime of the project.
With the decentralization of many state conservation functions that has occurred as a result of
the 1991 Constitution and the subsequent Law 99 in 1993 formally moving many functions
to the CARs, significant funding for Andean protected areas is provided at the regional level.
We estimate that this is currently equivalent to about $11 million/year for the project area.
53



Annex 4
International Cooperation has traditionally been an important source of funding in Colombia
and over the lifetime of the project, it is estimated that support to the conservation zones of
the project will be provided by Canada, international initiatives, and NGOs (including WWF,
TNC, and IUCN) and will amount to about $15.0 million.
Finally, support for privately managed nature parks in Colombia is strong because of an
innovative but incipient legislation and policy environment which supports incentives for
landowners to protect their forest resources. We could measure this support by calculating
the incentive payments that have been made by the government (this greatly underestimates
the true level of financial support that private landowners provide by choosing to participate
in this program but this would be very difficult to calculate).
Andean Region Use of Biodiversity in Rural Landscapes
It is considered extremely difficult to quantify the current levels of baseline financing in the
area of promotion of biodiversity in rural landscapes. In effect, vast numbers of projects and
rural investments in the area of watershed management, social forestry, etc. are already
taking place in this area. Although extremely conservative and admittedly somewhat
arbitrarily, we include here under the Baseline Scenario only those investments in the project
area that very explicitly address issues of biodiversity conservation in rural landscapes using
a similar approach to that of the agrobiodiversity component of the planned GEF Project. We
estimate this at $34.8 over the lifetime of the project (see Table). These projects are funded
by the GoC ($0.32), by the CARs through Biocomerce ($13.4), and by international co-
financiers, including Spain ($20.1). Finally, we consider a somewhat arbitrary figure of $1.0
as the contribution from private landowners to maintain biodiversity in their rural productive
landscapes.
Knowledge Base for Decision Making, Monitoring and Evaluation
Government funding for the IAvH over the first three years of its existence have amounted to
about US$ 3.5 million/year. The primary function of the Institute is precisely the generation,
organization, and dissemination of biodiversity knowledge. Of total government funding we
estimate that about $1.57 million can be considered to be of direct importance to
conservation of biodiversity in the regions that this project is being implemented.
Currently, there is only limited funding in the area of biodiversity knowledge management
from the CARs ($0.2 million) or from the private sector ($0.06 million).
Sectoral Integration
A great many projects and investments are underway in Colombia which address root causes
of loss and unsustainable use of biodiversity in the Andes. To the degree that poverty and
rural violence are considered root causes, it could even be argued that billions of dollars will
be invested over the lifetime of the project in this area.
This component of the project is concerned however with the investment being made to
reorient existing sectoral programs to make them more compatible with the goals of the
project. Of particular concern to the project are the programs or projects in sectors that can
54



Annex 4
have direct negative consequences on the project outcomes (transport policy, energy policy,
agricultural programs, etc.) but also of interest is the possibility of more specifically
introducing biodiversity concerns into more neutral programs (such as social violence
initiatives).
It is very difficult to calculate what the Baseline Scenario might be for this component. Its
true value might reflect some part of the investments in environmental impact assessments
for virtually all projects in the Andes, the opportunity cost of program and project changes to
reflect biodiversity concerns, the cost of extra studies being done on biodiversity, etc. We
arguably estimate the value of this component under the Baseline Scenario as being about
$3.54 million over the lifetime of the project.
Baseline Costs. Total expenditures under the baseline Scenario are estimated at US$ 128.93
million, including US$ 9.75 million from the Government of Colombia, US$ 80.06 million
from the Regional Autonomous Corporations, US$ 35.52 million from international
cooperation, and US$ 3.6 million from private donors.
Baseline Benefits. Implementation of the Baseline Scenario will result in limited protection
of biodiversity in protected areas in the Andes Region of Colombia, and limited capacity to
manage them sustainably. Due to the fiscal crisis in Colombia, the budget for national park
management has been limited, and efforts for biodiversity conservation hindered. The CARs
are currently not directly involved in conservation of biodiversity, except in limited cases of
regional protected areas. The efforts of international and national NGOs will result in a
marginal increase in environmental awareness, and activities of development agencies will
result in a limited increase in sustainable natural resource management. International donors
have invested limited resources in "biomarket" initiatives in short-term, very small-scale
demonstration projects. These activities, however, are unlikely to ensure protection of
globally significant biological resources, due to lack of an explicit focus on biodiversity
values as well as institutional, financial, legal and socioeconomic constraints to their
protection.
Alternative Scenario
Scope. The GEF Alternative will build on the Baseline Scenario by (a) supporting the
development of a more representative, effective, and viable Andean protected area system;
(b) identifying innovative conservation opportunities in rural landscapes, developing and
promoting management tools for biodiversity conservation; (c) expanding, organizing, and
disseminating the knowledge base on biodiversity in the Andes to a wide audience of
stakeholders and policy makers, and implementing monitoring tools; and, (d) promoting
inter-sectoral strategies to address some root causes of biodiversity loss in the Andes,
ultimately influencing development scenarios in the Andes to better reflect the importance of
conserving and sustainably using biodiversity. The GEF Alternative will make possible
activities that are not possible in the Baseline Scenario, including national and regional
capacity building, and an expanded scientific knowledge base, enabling prioritization of the
needs for protected area interventions and replication of the experience gained at the project
sites throughout the Andes region. Information will be disseminated in a fornat readily
available to decision-makers. Furthermore, the experience of participatory design of
55



Annex 4
management plans - both for protected areas and production systems - will be disseminated
through a website and a series of workshops, and the project will establish both national and
community-based mechanisms to support conservation-friendly development. It will also
build public awareness of the importance and need to conserve Andean biodiversity. Finally,
the project will seek international sources of funding for sustainable financing of some of the
activities that are of a long-term nature.
Costs. The total cost of the GEF Alternative is estimated at US$ 158.93 million, detailed as
follows: (a) Conservation Areas - US$ 102.27 million (GEFfinancing - US$ 6.06 million);
(b) Rural Landscapes - US$ 42.79 million (GEFfinancing- US$ 4.30 million); (c)
Knowledge Base - US$ 7.93 million (GEFfinancing - US$ 3.60 million); (d) Sectoral
Integration - US$ 4.40 million (GEFfinancing- US$ 0.50 million); and, (e) Project
Management - US$ 1.54 million (GEFfinancing - US$ 0.54 million).
Benefits. Implementation of the GEF Alternative will protect the area of the globe with the
highest concentration of biodiversity, through both demonstrated and innovative measures.
Benefits generated from the project will include those classified as "national" (protection of
local and regional environmental resources and increased public awareness of environmental
issues), as well as those considered "global" (sustainable conservation of some of the last
remaining natural habitats in the Andes, and conservation of threatened and vulnerable
plants).
Incremental Costs. The difference between the costs of the Baseline Scenario (US$ 128.93
million) and the GEF Alternative (US$ 158.93 million) is estimated at US$ 30.0 million.
This represents the incremental cost for achieving global environmental benefits. The
Regional Autonomous Corporations have committed to financing US$ 88.06 million,
including US$ 8.0 million towards incremental costs, complementing the GEF financing of a
proposed grant of US$ 15.0 million. The Government of the Netherlands has confirmed their
US$4.0 million pledge towards the project - and additional international resources are
expected, which would total US$ 7.0 million. Private landowners and industry are expected
to participate in both the Protected Areas component and the Rural Landscapes component,
and it is estimated that at least an additional US$ 1.0 million will be leveraged by this
project.
56



Annex 4
r                                                                           TERNATIV
BASELINE SCENARIO                                          ALTERNATIVE SCENARIO                                 E MINUS
BASELINE
Government    Regional   International  Private  Total   Government    Regional   International  GEF     Private   Total   Incremental
of Colombia  Corporations  Cooperation  Sector  Baseline  of Colombia  Corporations  Cooperation         Sector    GEF        Cost
(non-GEF)                       Alt.
Project       7.74        66.0         15.0         0.0       88.74    7.74        70.47         18.0         6.06     0.0      102.27   13.03
Conservation
Areas
Rural         0.32        13.4         20.1         1.0       34.82    0.32        16.43         20.11        4.30     1.63     42.79    8.97
Landscapes
Knowledge     1.57        0.2          0.06         0.0       1.83     1.57        0.2           2.19         3.60     0.37     7.93     5.60
Base
Sectoral      0.12        0.46         0.36         2.6       3.54     0.12        0.96          0.22         0.50     2.60     4.40     0.86
Integration
Project       0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0           1.0          0.54     0.0      1.54     1.54
Management
TOTAL         9.75        80.06        35 52        3.6       128.93   9.75        88.06         41.52      - 15.0     4.60     158.93   30.0
Component                    Cost Category                US$ million                   Domestic Benefit             Global Benefit
Conservation Areas           Baseline                     88.74                        Aesthetic value;
Increased capacity for
sustainable management of
biodiversity and natural
resources
With GEF Alternative         102.27                                                     Conservation of globally-
inipori.anm hiodiker-ilh
Incremental                 1_3_03__   __--_
Rural Landscapes             Baseline                     34.82                         Local economic gains,
identification and emergence of
previously untapped, sustainable
markets
With GEF Alternative         42.79                                                      *   Sustainable use of globally-
_   _ ________________                                           _ __._______ _                                  important biodiversity
Incnrmental                 8.9 7
kno,Aledge Base              Raeline                       1 83                        Scieniilfi, kno ledge ha'e
expansion regarding
biodiversity;
Increased capacity for
sustainable management of
57



Annex 4
Component                     Cost Category                 US$ million                   Domestic Benefit              Global Benefit
biodiversity and natural
resources
With GEF Alternative          7.93                                                        Increased decision-making
capacity with impact on
international scale;
Increased capacity to prioritize
conservation area interventions
and manage areas to incorporate
conservation of biodiversity of
_____  ___                               ___ ___    _  ___                                 global significance
Incremental                   5.60
Sectoral Integr;ation         Ba'eline                        5 4                         Belier planning increa.ed lo.al
capacity;
Demonstration of options for
planning, establishment and
long-term monitoring of
sustainable natural resource
management in Colombia;
Increased public awareness of
environmental issues and the
need for sustainable natural
resource management in and
around the project sites
With GEF Alternative          4.40                                                        increased capacity to integrate
biodiversity of global
significance into sectoral
policies;
Increased public awareness of
the importance of conservation
of globally significant
biodiversity in Colombia, and of
issues that need to be addressed
in order to achieve the objective
IncrFenental                  0.86
Project Management            Baseline                      0.0                           Not applicable
____________________         With CEF Alternative         1.54       _   __             __           _                Not applicable
r IncTemental                   154                                 .
TOTALBaseithne                                              128.93
L                           j    eWith GEF Alternative n    158.93
Incremental                   30.0
58



Annex 5
ANNEX 5: FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Project Years I to 5
(projections in US$ millions)
Project Costs                                         Implementation Period
2001       2002      2003      2004      2005      2006     2007
TOTAL (US$M):                      3.9        4.5       6.0    .  6.0       4.0       3.4      2.2
Financing sources (US$M)
GEF                                1.5        2.0       3.0       3.0       2.5       2.0       1.0
The Netherlands                    1.0        1.0       1.0       1.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Local Governments (CARs)           1.0        1.0       1.5       1.5       1.0       1.0       1.0
Other local                        0.1        0.2       0.2       0.2       0.2       0.1      0.0
Other donors                       0.3        0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3      0.2
59



Annex 6
ANNEX 6: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
A. PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
There will be no works. All procurement of goods under the Project would be carried out in
accordance with the "Guidelines, Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999.
Consultants would be employed in accordance with the "Guidelines, Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997
and January 1999.
Procurement of goods and selection of consultants for Project coordination would be carried out
by the Instituto de Investigaci6n de Recursos Biol6gicos Alexander Von Humboldt (the Institute)
as the recipient of the Grant funds. The Institute would have overall responsibility for enforcing
that Bank requirements are adhered to by Subproject beneficiaries.
Procurement Capacity
An institutional capacity assessment of the Institute was carried out in June 2000, and its
outcome discussed on August 31, 2000, with the Regional Procurement Adviser; a subsequent
update was also discussed on November 3, 2000.
The Institute has an unusual legal set up; it is a public non-profit Civil Corporation created by
Law in 1990. It is linked to the Ministry of Environment but has administrative and judicial
autonomy and is guided by private law; thus, it is not bound by Ley 80 (Public Sector
Procurement Law).
Although the Institute's experience is mainly as provider of services to the Ministry of
Environment, in recent years, it has also implemented programs financed by international donors
such as GTZ, Darwing Initiative (U.K.), Smithsonian Institution, etc. The Institute is adequately
staffed to handle current workload. Its administrative body is composed by a Director, an
accountant, a financial analyst, a human resources staff, a Procurement Manager, a warehouse
staff and two assistants. The staff seems well qualified and motivated.
The Institute follows commercial practices in procuring its goods and services which is based on
price comparison. Its experience though is limited to acquisition of minor goods such as office
equipment and contracting of individual consultants. No formal competitions, such as open
bidding for goods or competitions of proposals for consulting assignments, have taken place
since its creation. Typically, the Institute negotiates partnership agreements with other
institutions for execution of parts of the programs entrusted to them.
In order to take over the new responsibilities that the Project would entail, the Institute would
contract a Project Coordinator, a financial management specialist, a procurement officer and
other technical professionals. Terms of reference and qualifications of the three identified posts
would be subject to Banks prior review.
The overall risk for procurement is AVERAGE.
60



Annex 6
Action Plan
The following actions are required to be taken by the Institute:
1. Preparation of an Operational Manual specifying procedures and requirements on, among
other areas, procurement of goods and selection of consultants, contract monitoring and
controls, and accounting-financial procedures. The Manual will also spell out eligibility
criteria, procurement procedures and other aspects related to Subproject Grants. In addition,
standard documents such as Request for Proposals for consultants, tender documents for
national public bidding, solicitation of proposals for shopping procedures, and templates for
evaluation of proposals will be contained in the Manual. Submission by Grant Effectiveness.
2. Selection of a qualified Procurement Officer, to work with the Procurement Manager, with
experience in procurement and contracting. TORs and selection will be subject to prior
review by the Bank. Selection by Grant Effectiveness.
3. Designate staff from the Coordination Unit, admnistrative sections within the Institute, and
from potential executing agencies to attend a training workshop on procurement that would
be given by the Bank. Workshop to be done at Project initiation.
4. Acquisition of appropriate software, as part of the financial management package, to report
procurement operations for PMR-based disbursements. This aspect to be agreed in
conjunction with financial capacity assessment of the Institute.
Procurement Plan
There is a Global Procurement Plan for the life of the Project and a specific Plan for the first year
of operation. The Bank will review and approve yearly Procurement Plans and a related Annual
Operating Plan for Project implementation.
The methods described below are based on the capacity assessment and are summarized in Table
A.
Goods
The Project would finance computers, and other small office equipment and furniture. Contracts
estimated to cost over US$50,000 would be awarded through NCB operations using standard
documents to be agreed with the Bank. Contracts estimated to cost under US$50,000, up to an
aggregate of US$200,000 would be procured following shopping procedures. No ICB operations
are contemplated.
Consultant Services and Training
Consultant services include environmental studies, technical assistance, promotional campaigns,
consultation workshops and training. All contracts for complex assignments and those estimated
to cost over US$80,000 would be awarded using QCBS procedures. Smaller consulting
assignments would be selected through method Based on Consultants Qualifications, up to an
61



Annex 6
aggregate amount of US$2.6 m. Other services of a straightforward nature would be selected on
the basis of Least Cost method, up to an aggregate amount of US$1 m.
Training services would include facilitator fees, training materials, rents, accommodation, meals
and transportation expenditures for participants.
Individual consultants will be contracted for Project coordination. Recruitment would be made
according to Paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Subproject Grants
The Project will finance two types of subproject grants: a) for carrying out conservation plans
and investments in National Parks (average size US$110,000), and b) for promoting markets of
biodiversity-friendly goods and services (average size US$20,000). Subproject grants would be
awarded on a competitive basis to community groups, individual inhabitants or local entities;
participants would be required to co-finance in cash or kind and to meet eligibility criteria
outlined in the Operational Manual. Standard subproject agreements acceptable to the Bank
would be used to transfer funds to the beneficiaries under conditions that would ensure adequate
implementation.
Procurement of goods and non-consultant services under the subprojects would follow
commercial practices which would include price comparison from three qualified suppliers. In
the event that consultant contracts with firms are to be financed as part of a subproject, the
selection method required would be "Consultants' Qualifications"; and in the event of individual
consultants the procedures would be comparison of three candidates. The Project Coordination
would grant exception, on a case by case basis, for direct contracting when it is the only practical
option (e.g., remoteness of area, absence of expertise or suppliers, etc.). It would also ensure that
requirements are complied with by beneficiaries. These procedures would be stated in the
Operational Manual.
Prior review thresholds
The proposed thresholds are based on the procurement capacity assessment and are summarized
in Table B. Other procurement would be subject to ex-post review which would be carried out
one a year by the Bank.
62



Annex 6
B.    DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
A Special Account (SA) shall be established in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. The account will be managed by IAvH. The authorized allocation for
the special account would be US$800,000, limited to US$400,000 until disbursement from the
GEF trust fund reaches US$1.2 million Under PMR disbursement, the ceiling for the advance to
the SA would go up to US$1.5 million. Under PMR based disbursement, withdrawal
applications would be submitted quarterly. Until disbursement is made based on PMRs, the
IAvH may submit monthly replenishment applications to the SA, supported by the appropriate
documentation.. The GEF grant would be disbursed against eligible expenditures as shown in
table C. Disbursements would be made on the basis of full documentation for all expenditures
made under contracts requiring prior review by the Bank ( table B). For all other expenditures,
disbursements would be made against SOEs for which supporting documents would be
maintained by IAvH and the beneficiaries and would be made available to the Bank and to the
independent auditors for review After the first year, it is anticipated that project financial
monitoring mechanisms agreed with PCU will enable GEF funds to be disbursed on the basis of
PMRs linked to expected project activities during such quarter. Retroactive financing will be
authorized for an amount up to US$500,000. Taxes are not eligible and they will be paid from
the counterpart funds. Operating costs include: reasonable expenditures incurred by IAvH for
the management of the Project, such as salaries of non-consultant personnel employed by the
PCU, travel costs, rentals, maintenance of facilities, consumable materials and supplies, and
utilities. Expenditures under Category (5) of table 4 C would only be disbursed after the IAvH
has issued a manual, satisfactory to the Bank (the Fund Operational Manual), setting forth
detailed rules and procedures for the operation of the Fund, including, inter alia, the criteria for
selection of Fund Subproject Implementing Entities and approval of Fund Subprojects, the model
form of Fund Subgrant Agreements, and the environmental and social protection provisions
applicable to Fund Subprojects.
63



Annex 6
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements10
(in US$million equivalent)
Total Cost
EVendltm CalWOMy                                                                 (uxnudirng
Procurement Method           Cotingences)
ICB      LCB         Other          N.B.F
1. Goods                                          0.23        0.12        1.00           1.35
(0.22)      (0.10)                     (0.32)
2. Consulting Services&                                       5.00        5.00          10.00
Training
(6.95)                     (6.95)
3. Operating Costs 1/                                         0.90        0.65           1.55
(1.70)                     (1.70)
4 & 5. Subproject and Fund                                    5.50        7.10          12.60
Grants
(6.03)                     (6.03)
Total                                          0.23       15.02       14.75          30.00
__ __ __ _ __ __ __ __ (  )  (0.22)  (14.78)         (15.00)
I/ Operating costs include office supplies, rents, fuel, utilities, travel expenses etc.
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items). The procurement
arrangement for the items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as "N.B.F." need to be explained in
footnotes to the table or in the text.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
10 For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD 1 1.02, "Procurement
Arrangements for Investment Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more
easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A, where applicable).
64



Annex 6
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review11
I.Wendltur.         Contac Valu            PrdcuremI ca Coac(m BOusci to
Caegoy             {(Threshold)            (a)    Method       Pilo lev .w
US $ thousands                               US $ millions
1. Goods
>50                  NCB                 First Contract
0.08
<50              Shopping                First contract
0.04
3. Services &
Training
Firms                      >80                 QCBS                 All Contracts
1.60
<80             Consultants'Qualification  First Contract, each
and Least Cost           method
0.11
Individuals                >50                                    None expected
Chapter V of Consultant
<50             Guidelines
>20                                     All TORs
1.80
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   3.63
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One first mission after 6
months of Project initiation and every 12 months thereafter. It is recommended that one
every 10 contracts be reviewed for each type of procurement.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of
Procurement Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
65



Annex 6
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Exwpen        Ca   y          Amnbwt In US   _iUD           Financing Percentage
1. Goods                                 0.30                        85%
2. Consultant and                        6.60                        100%
Training Services
3. Operating Costs                       1.60                        85%
4. Subproject Grants                     4.70                        100%
Conservation in Project Zones                            of amounts disbursed
5. Subproject Grants                     0.80                        100%
Fund for Biodiversity-                                   of amounts disbursed
Friendly programs
6. Unallocated                          1.00
Total                                  15.00
66



Annex 7
ANNEX 7: Project Processing Schedule
Project Schedule         Planned                  Actual
First Bank Mission       01/09/1999               01/09/1999
Appraisal Departure      11/01/1999               11/27/2000
Negotiations             11/15/2000               12/04/2000
Board Date               03/02/2000               01/22/2001
Planned Date Effectiveness
Prepared by:
Instituto de Investigacion de Recursos Biologicos Alexander Von Humboldt
Preparation Assistance:
PDF Block B TF 021053
Bank Staff who worked on the project included:
Name                  Specialty
Claudia Sobrevila     Task Team Leader, Senior Biodiversity Specialist
Juan Pablo Ruiz       Co-Task Team Leader, Nat. Res. Mgmt. Specialist
Walter Vergara        Principal Chemical Engineer
Christine Kimes       GEF Regional Coordinator
Gonzalo Castro       Biodiversity Specialist
Phil Hazelton        Natural Resources Management Specialist
Carmen Palaco Nielsen  Procurement Specialist
Kirsten Oleson        Operations Analyst
Douglas Graham        Biodiversity Specialist
Luis Carlos Guerrero  Audit Fellow
Maria Elena Castro    Social Scientist
Ram6n Anria           Program Assistant
67



Annex 8
ANNEX 8: DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
CEGA, 1999. Procesos socioeconomicos que actuian como factores de presi6n sobre la
biodiversidad andina en Colombia.
Congreso de Colombia, 1999. PROJECTO DE LEYNUMERO 173 DE 1999. Por el cual se
expide el Plan Nacional de Desarrollo para los ainos 1999 a 2002. Gaceta del Congreso, ANO
VIII, No 6.
CORPOICA, 1999. Sostenibilidad de los sistemas de producci6n en la regi6n andina
DNP, 1997. Pueblos Indigensa de Colombia. Bogota.
Fandiflo, M.C. y Ferreira, P. Ed, 1998. Colombia Biodiversidad Siglo XI: Propuesta Tecnica
para la Formulaci6n de un Plan de Acci6n Nacional en Biodiversidad Instituto de Investigaci6n
de Recursos Biol6gicos Alexander von Humboldt.. Santafe de Bogota. IAvH, Ministerio del
Medio Ambiente, DNP.
Forero, J., 1999. Economia y sociedad rural en los Andes colombianos. IER. Universidad
Javeriana. 1999.
Etter, Andres, 1998. Mapa Preliminar de Ecosistemas Naturales de Colombia. Santafe de
Bogoti. lAvH, PNUMA, Universidad Javeriana.
Etter, Andres; Fandifio, Martha y Wyngaarden, Willem van, 1999. Analisis General de
representatividad y transformacion de los ecosistemas de la regi6n andina en Colombia.
Fundaci6n Natura, TNC y WWF-Colombia, 1999. Propuesta para el plan de cooperaci6n
internacional. En el marco del Projecto Conservaci6n y uso sostenible de la biodiversidad en los
Andes Colombianos.
Gaviria, Diana y Velasquez, Patricia, 1999. Oportunidades y amenazas para el Projecto
Conservaci6n y Usos Sostenible de la Biodiversidad en los Andes Colombianos presentes en la
Ley del Plan Nacional de Desarrollo.
Gaviria, Diana y Velasquez, Patricia, 1999. Manual de Potenciales Fuentes Financieras. En el
marco del Projecto Conservaci6n y uso sostenible de la biodiversidad en los Andes
Colombianos.
Gaviria, Diana y Velasquez, Patricia, 1999. Estrategia de sostenibilidadfinanciera . En el marco
del Projecto Conservacion y uso sostenible de la biodiversidad en los Andes Colombianos.
IAvH, PNUMA, Ministerio del Medio Ambiente, 1998. Informe Nacional Sobre el Estado de la
Biodiversidad Colombia 1997, Santafe de Bogota.
68



Annex 8
IAvH e INSAT, 2000. INFORMAR: Base de datos socioeconomicos a nivel municipal y regional
para Colombia.
IAvH, CI- Colombia y Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n, 2000. Sistema de Indicadores de
seguimiento y evaluaci6n de la politica de biodiversidad en los Andes Colombianos.
IDEAM, 1999. Aprovechamientosforestales en Colombia. Subdirecci6n de Ecologia
Econ6mica.
Ministerio del Medio Ambiente, Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n, IAvH, 1997. Politica
Nacional de Biodiversidad, Santafe de Bogota.
Ramirez, C., 1998. Conflicto agrario y medio ambiente. Revista trimestral de la Fundaci6n Foro
Nacional por Colombia. No. 35. Septiembre de 1998.
Perez, E; Farah, M. y Rojas, M, 2000. Reconstruir la confianza en Colombia: Nueva
Institucionalidad en el Sector Rural. Facultad de Estudios Ambientales y Rurales. Universidad
Javeriana y REDCAPA.
UAESPNN, 1999. Politica de Consolidacion del Sistema Nacional de Arreas Protegidas, con
Base en la Participaci6n Social en la Conservaci6n. Repuiblica de Colombia, Ministerio de Medio
Ambiente, Unidad Administrativa Especial del Sistema de Parques Nacionales Naturales. Bogota.
WWF-Colombia y IAvH, 1999. Cobertura del Sistema de Parques Nacionales y vacios de
conservaci6n en Colombia.
WWF-Colombia y Fundaci6n FES, 1999. Identificaci6n de necesidades de educaci6n ambiental
y comunicaci6n. En el marco del Projecto Conservaci6n y uso sostenible de la biodiversidad en
los Andes Colombianos.
69



Annex 9
Annex 9: Statement of Loans
Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions             and actual
disbursenmentsa
Project ID    FY     Bonrower                      Purpose                      IBRO      IDA       Cancel.    Undisb.      Orig     Frm Rev'd
P0C6e80      1995   Colombia        AGRICULTURE TECHNOLO                          51.00      0.00       0 00      17.47     12.37         -5.23
P044140      2000   Colombia        CARTAGENA WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE             85.00      0.00       0.00      75.75      2.05          0.00
P006891      1998   Colombia        COANTIOQUIAEDUCATION                          40.00      0.00       0.00      35.87     12.12          0.00
P068762      2000   Colombia        COCOMMUNITYWORKS(MANOSALA                    100.00      0.00       0.00     100.00      3.33          000
P006854      1993   Colombia        OBRA)                                         50.00      0 00       0.00      2.12       1.12          1.46
P046112      1998   Colombia        CO MUNICIPAL HEALTH SERVICES                   7.20      0.00       0.00      4.84       2.51          0.00
P060!78      2000   Colombia        CO PASTO EDUCATION                            20.00      0.00       0.00     20.00       0.70          0.00
P028685      1994   Colombia        CO RURAL EDUCATION                            90.00      0.00       0.12       0.06     -1.62        -12.42
P050576      1999   Colombia        CO SECONDARY EDUCATION                         5.00      0.00       0.00       3.79      2.13          0.00
P083643      2000   Colombia        CO YOUTH DEVELOPMENT                         506.00      0.00       0.00    212.99       0 00          0.00
P065263      2000   Colombia        CO-FSAL                                      225.00      0.00       0.00     154.93      6.59          0.00
P006893      1995   Colombia        EARTHOUAKERECOVERY                            11.00      0.00       000        1.10      1.10          0.00
P006884      1997   Colombia        ENERGYTA                                      15.00      0.00       0.00      11.49      9.67          0.00
P046031      1998   Colombia        FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT                  5.00      0.D0       0.00      0.61       0.20          0.00
P008852      1991   Colombia        MAGDALENA MEDIO                               50.00      0.00       0.00      2.14       2.14          0.00
P006868      1994   Colombia        MUNIC DEVT                                    39.00      0.00       0.00      15.40     13.48         15.40
P053243      1998   Colombia        NATURAL RESOURCE MAN                           5.00      0.00       0.00       3.98      1.35          0.00
P006887      1996   Colombia        PEASANT ENTERPRISE Z                         249.30      0.00       0 00     23.03      18.03          5.57
P008889      1994   Colombia        POWER MARKET DEVELOPMENT & ENERGY             30.00      0.00       0 00       1.94      1.94          0.00
P040102      1997   Colombia       (TA)                                           12.50      0.00       0.00      8.82       4.82          0.00
P006894      1996   Colombia        PUBLIC FINANCIAL MAN                         145.00      0.00      0o00       64.93     62.07          0.00
P057326      2000   Colombia        REG REF.TA                                     5.00      0.00       0.00      5.00       0.00          0.00
P039082      1999   Colombia        SANTAFEI (Water/Supply)                      137.10      0.00       0.00     100.00    10000           000
P039291      1996   Colombia        SIERRA NEVADA SUSTAINA8LE                     20.00      0.00       0.00      5.41       5.41        4-43
P006861      1998 Colombia          DEVELOPMENT                                   75.00      0.00       0.00      59.82      8.66         0o00
P006872      1996 Colombia          TOLL ROAD CONCESSION                          65.00      0.00       0.00      19.55     16.39          8.39
URBAN ENVIRONMENT TA
URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE
URBAN TRNSPRT
Total:                 2053.10    0.00       0.12      951.04    286.56     12.74
70



Annex 9
COLOMBIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                    Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan    Equity  Quasi   Partic
1969/85/88/93/95    CF del Valle               0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00
1963/90             Coltejer                   6.02    0.00     0.00    0.00    6.02     0.00    0.00    0.00
1995/99             Corfinsura                 25.00   0.00     25.00   0.00    0.00     0.00    25.00   0.00
1999                Harken                     20.00   0.00     0.00    25.00   0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00
1987                PRODESAL                   0.00    0.59    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.59    0.00    0.00
1977/89/92/94/96    Promigas                   7.50    0.00     0.00    16.67   7.50     0.00    0.00     16.67
1994/95             Promisan                   0.00    0.23    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.23    0.00    0.00
1996                Projectos                  0.00    5.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     5.00    0.00    0.00
1997                Suleasing                  24.82   0.00    0.00     0.00    2.25     0.00    0.00    0.00
1999                Surenting                  0.00    5.10     0.00    0.00    0.00     2.50    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:            83.34    10.92   25.00    41.67    15.77   8.32     25.00    16.67
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval            Company                      Loan      Equity    Quasi     Partic
2001                   Cementos Caribe              4047.62   0,00      10000.00  12952.38
1999                   Harken                       0.00      10000.00  0.00      0.00
2001                   Tolcemento                   3333.33   0.00      0.00      10666.67
Total Pending Commitment:    7380.95   10000.00  10000.00  23619.05
71



Annex 10
ANNEX 10: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Amarica   middle. 
Colombia   & Carib.   income      Development diamnond*
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                     41t5       509     2,094                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                 2,170      3,840    1,200
GNP (Atlas method, USS b/ons)                       90.0      1.955    2,513
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                        19        1.6      1.1
Labor force %)                                       2 7        2.5      1.2      GNP                            Gross
per    I,4                    primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 993.99)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below nationa/pove,ty line)  21
Urban population (X of total population)              73        75        43
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      70        70        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 he  rths)                 23        31        33
Child malnutrition I% of children under 5)             a         8        15               Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (X of population)     78        75        86
Illiteracy (6 of popvlaton age 15+)                    9        12        16
Gross primary enrolment (%of school-age population)  113       113       114              Colombia
Male                                               113                 114              Lower-riiddle-income group
Female                                             112                 116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999
GDP (US$ bilbons)                           27.9     39.5      991      86.6
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                18,2     18.5      19.5      13.0                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           15.2     18.0      15.0     17.8
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  19.9    22,7       13.6     11.0
Gross national savings/GDP                  19,2    19.8       12.3      9.0
Current account balance/GDP                  1.4    -0.5       -5.3      1 1
Interestpayments/GDP                         0.9     4.0        1.6      211                                Investment
Total debVGDP                               21,0    42.7       33.6     39,9     Savings
Total debtservice/exports                   14.3    484        30.5     43.2
Present value of debt/GDP                                      32.7     45.1
Present value of debtWexports                                 216.5    255 6
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998      1999   199943
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 3.4      3,4      0.5      4,3       2.6     ;         Colombia
GNP per capita                      0 8      1.6    -0.9       -7.1      1.0     [      _ Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       5.S      5.8      5.9      4.7       3.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999     [rovith of investmenf andGDP (1)
(X of GDP)
Agriculture                                 22.0     16.6      13.3     12.2        1
Industry                                    30.3    38.2       25.7     24.8     30 s
Manufacturing                             23.0     21.6      14.2      12.9
Services                                   47.7     45.1       61.0     62.9         _             
94   95
Private consumption                         70.7    68.1      67.5      67.9    _30
General govemment consumption                9.3     9.2       18.9     21.1
Imports of goods and services               13.5    13.8      20.9      19.5                 GOI         o GDP
(average annual growth)                 11979-89  1989-99     1998      1999    7Groth ofexportsiantfdimporsts(%)
Agriculture                                  2.5     -2.1       0.6      -0.2    40
Industry                                    4.7       1.9     -1 8      -11.0
Manufacturing                              2.8     -1.7      -0.3     -12.4    20
Services                                     3.0      5.3      -5 5      -0.7      1
Private consumption                          2.6      3.5       068     -5.1      0                9        9
General govemment consumption                4.3     8.4        0 9      4 3
Gross domestic investment                    2.3     5.7       -5.7    -30.1    -20 -
Imports of goods and services                0.8     13.2      -2.8     -13.5              Exports    --*-Imports
Gross nabonal product                        2.9      3.6       1.0     -5.5
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
72



Annex 11
ANNEX 11: SOCIAL ASSESSMENT & PARTICIPATORY PROCESS
A social assessment (SA) and participatory consultations have been completed for the
project. Spanish versions of the full SA are available in the project files. In this annex
we provide a summary of the socio-economic profile of the Andes Region, identification
of the main social issues, a description of the institutional context, description of the
consultations, how social issues have been addressed in project design and the action
plans, including a framework of social participation. The project, pay special attention to
the Indigenous People, carried out consultations with the Indigenous People in the project
zones and has completed an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) (see Annex
12). The project will not include any population resettlement as indicated in Annex 13.
1.    SOCIAL ANALYSIS
Geographical Characteristics Relevant to the Social Context. The Colombian Andes
occupy 305.000 km2 representing 31% of the country's land surface. The Andes Region
comprises a complex landscape of valleys; large rivers, the Cauca and Magdalena; high
mountain plateaus such as those in Cundinamarca, Boyaca and Narifio, high snow cap
peaks such as the Cocuy, active volcanoes such as the Galeras and deep and abrupt
depression such as the Catatumbo. All this heterogeneity can be present at very short
distances, creating a variety of microclimates and soil types. This diversity of climates
and soils had a major impact on human settlements in the region.
Population History. During the 1 5th Century, when the Europeans colonized America,
the largest population settlements were on the Caribbean Coast, the Magdalena River,
and a few flanks of the Central and Oriental Cordilleras. These Spanish cities followed
exactly the geographical location of the pre-columbian indigenous groups. The
Amazonian and Orinoquian region were not colonized. The concentration of population
in the valleys and mountain areas created a strong pressure since then on the tropical
mountain ecosystems and paramos
At the end of the 1 8h Century, the agricultural colonization developed rapidly in
Antioquia, Caldas, Risaralda, Quindio, Tolima and Cauca. During the 1 9th century, the
main crop was coffee and small -scale farming and small land-holdings predominated at
that time. While coffee farming incorporated the small colonists and his family into the
production system, cattle farming was based on buying land and getting as many titles as
possible. This colonization process let little by little to the exclusion of small land-holders
in the best soils of the country, resulting in the small farmers being pushed to always be a
the agricultural frontier. The same is true for the sugar cane industry in the Cauca Valle,
which was initiated in the 19Ith Century.
In 1936, through the Law 200, the government provided land titles to productive farms,
taking away unproductive lands from people and forcing land owners to produce crops
continuously for at least 10 years. In 1944, the landowners' interest were manifested in
the passing of a new Law 100, which allowed the large land holders to transform their
farms in capitalistic enterprises, foregoing the previous law. In 1947, Jorge Eliecer
73



Annex 11
Gaitan led the small farmers' defense, by requesting Congress to revise Law 100. His
murder in 1948, set off a period of political violence, that resulted in the continued loss of
the most fertile lands by the small farmers who were pushed further away from the
developed centers into the last remaining natural forests. Between 1948-1966, more than
98.400 land parcels were abandoned or sold in the Cauca Valley. This process of lack of
land access by small farmers and the inequality in the living conditions, partially explains
the origin of the current armed conflict that has been going on for the last 50 years.
Population: The majority of the population in the Andes is settled in the inter-Andean
valleys and in the internal flanks of the cordilleras, with lower population densities in the
paramos and the external flanks of the cordilleras, where ecosystems are better preserved.
The Colombian Andes host 72% of the country's population. Of these, 71% is
considered urban, 27% rural and 2% indigenous. Most of the population is concentrated
in a triangle formed by Bogota, Cali and Medellin and a significant number of large and
medium size cities are located in this region. The economic and political power is also
concentrated here. (see Map 2: Population density in the Andean Region, departments
and capitals). Regarding the indigenous population, 43.9% lives in the Andes (17.6% of
the ethnic groups) confined to mountainous forests, lowlands and in marginal areas of the
inter-Andean valleys. They live in their ancestral territories located in the departments of
Narifno, Cauca, Valle, Risaralda, Caldas, Antioquia, C6rdoba y Putumayo. (Greater
details of the indigenous issues are presented in Annex 12).
Poverty: The poverty indicators point out that 33 % of the Andean Region population do
not have their primary needs fullfilled. The poor population, with an index of
approximately 60%, is found principally in the Andean zones of Nariflo, Cauca, south of
Tolima, north of Cundinamarca, most of Boyaca and Santander, Norte de Santander and
north west and north of Antioquia. In the coffee zone around the Cordillera Central, in
the Huila region, south of Cundinarnarca and north of Santander, the index is between 10
to 40%.
Poverty is a permanent characteristic of the rural sector in Colombia. The crisis of the
agricultural sector is related to many factor among others: i) protectionism by the
developed countries; ii) the simultaneous growth of many developing countries
competing among each other; iii) variable climate with strong droughts alternated with
flooding; iv) diseases and plagues and; v) the political unrest and violence. Regarding
basic education, illiteracy in the Andean Region reaches 12.4% which is lower than the
national average (14.2%), the same is true for secondary education.
Involuntary Displacement. According to the Conferencia Episcopal Colombiana and
SISDES (Sistema de Informaci6n sobre Hogares Desplazados y Derechos Humanos),
between 1985 and 1995, 748.000 people were forced to abandon their homes and
economic activities due to rural violence. This statistic grew in the last four years up to
1.719.869 Colombians affected by rural violence in the last 14 years. According to
CODHES, in 1999, the most affected region was northwestern Colombia including
Antioquia, Bolivar, Cordoba, Magdalena, Choc6, Atlantico, Cesar, Sucre and Guajira
with a 75% increment in displaced people. The next affected region was central
74



Annex 11
Colombia, including Santander, Cundinamarca, Valle, Tolima, Norte de Santander,
Boyaca, Cauca, Narifio, Caldas, Huila, Risaralda and Quindio with a 56% increment. And
Finally South-East Colombia including Amazonas, Caqueta, Casanare, Putumayo,
Arauca, Guaviare, Meta, Guainia y Vaupes with a 43% increment. 86% of displaced
people, after trying first to settle close to their origin, end up moving into cities, mainly
Bogota, Medellin, Turbo, Monteria, Apartad6, Barranquilla, Necocli, Barrancabermeja,
Cali, Bucaramanga, Gir6n, Sogamoso and Popayan.
Land use. The small land owner, the medium land owner and the commercial agriculture
scale are the three predominant types of land possession and exploitation in the Andean
Region. While the first type predominates in the southern part of the country, the
medium and commercial agriculture are found in the central part.
The agrarian structure present nowadays is characterized by the coexistence of cattle
ranching with coffee farming and commercial agriculture. The major land use in the
Andes are agroecosystems dedicated to agriculture and ranching. They represent 15% of
the land surface of the country and are usually found above 1.000 m elevation. Most of
the cultivated land of the country is in the Andean region (60%). In the Andes, the
country produces 80% of its vegetables and 73% of its fruit. Agricultural production in
the Andean region varies greatly with the altitudinal variation. Table 1 shows the
different agricultural types corresponding to each elevation type.
Elevation                 Microregion                   Productive Systems
Cold
More than 2.000 m.a.s.l  Altiplanos cundiboyacense, Nariiio  Perennial crops 96%
and Antioquia and Region of    Annual crops 43%
Sumapaz                        Potatoes, vegetables, fruits (berries, tamarillo, lulo,
grenade), beans, wheat, barley, com, milk cattle.
Perennial crops 4%
Temperate                Coffee belt                    Annual crops 57%
Hoya of River Suarez           Coffee, citrics, bananas
Provinces of Gualiva and Rionegro  Sugar cane, guava
Up to 2.000 m.a.s.l.      Tolima and Huila              Beans, sugar cane, citrics
Cauca                          Beans, vegetables, bananas, corn, meat cattle,
Santanderes                    Vegetables
Bean, banana, onion, com
Fosa of Patia, Estribaciones of the  Figs, corn, yuca, cacao
Hot                      cordilleras in Huila,          Pineapple, sugar cane
Tolima, Santander and Valle del  Meat Cattle ranching
Cauca.
Source: CORPOICA 1999.
The land surface planted with sugar cane and potatoes in 1995 was 214.446 ha and got
reduced in 1998 to 210.859 ha. Ranching is mainly distributed as follows: 1) Double
purpose cattle, milk cattle, chicken, pork, meat cattle. 82.2% of the agricultural surface
75



Annex 11
of in the Andes is used for cattle ranching (12.028.880 ha). Ranchers use rotation
techniques to control erosion. Cattle ranching continues to expand in the soft slopes of
the Andes, producing erosion problems. According to CORPOICA 1999, 340 tons of soil
is lost every year due to erosion. The land surface used for cultivated pasture is 2.27% of
the Andes. The land surface under natural grasslands corresponds to 43.8% of the total.
In these types of grasslands the farmers use extensive cattle grazing.
The government gave 3274 permits for timber concession in 1995 equivalent to 43.812
hectares, corresponding to 1.169.663 cubic meters. Corantioquia gave 22% of the
permits, while CAS y CVC 7%, Corponarinlo 11%. Of the total timber volume, raw
plancks represented 72% while improved stands were 11 %. Carbon, pulp and other by-
products of the timber industry were 17%. Regarding forest plantations, of 11.787 ha
planted in 1995, CARDER and CAR represented the largest share 1.781ha and 1.701ha
respectively, while CVC represented 1.665 ha. (IDEAM, 1999).
72% of the Andean population has access to aqueduct and 67% to sewage collection.
The road system has 72.620 km. 11.7% is paved with an average density of 284rnkm2
which is higher than the national standard (I20/mkm2).
Industrial infrastructure is also centered in the Andean region. Three of the largest cities
are found there (Bogota, Medellin and Cali). 3156 industrial settlements are reported in
the andean region. 2350 in Antioquia and 1500 in Valle. The main corridor roads
connect these settlements (see map) and electrical and water infrastructure has also
focussed there. The andean region has the highest concentration of train lines, gas ducts
and several commercial airports.
2. MAIN SOCIAL ISSUES
Colonization Frontier. Although the colonization process has slowed down in the last ten
years and in some areas it is actually receding, there are still some colonization fronts
worth of mention. South of Cauca toward the Bota Caucana, south of Tolima, Mid-
Magdalena river valley, region between the coffee corridor and the Choco; north of
Santander towards the Catatumbo, north and west of Antioquia, a few municipalities in
Boyaca, Casanare and Arauca. These colonization fronts have caused a large damage to
natural forests.
Land use Conflicts. 63.8 % of annual crops, 60% of perennial crops and 74% of cattle
ranching overexploit land use capacity. Poor land management occurs along all the
altitudinal gradient, but since soil are more fragile at higher elevation, the impact is more
pronounced at higher altitudes.
One of the major problems causing loss of ecological integrity of soils and land is the
increased use of monocultures and pesticides causing, in addition, river pollution.
In the last decade there has been an increase in perennial crops in the Andean region. In
1990 and 97, annual crops lost 220.000 ha while perennial increased to 80.000ha. In the
oriental region of Boyaca, Cundinamarca, Huila, Norte de Santander, Santander and
76



Annex 11
Tolima, 60% of the land is under annual crops while 40% is under perennial. In the
occidental region, annual crops were reduced in 270.000ha and perennial increased by
60.000ha reaching 576.000ha.
Coffee Production. Several coffee varieties are produced in the Andean Region (ie.
Arabiga, Caturra and Variedad Colombia). Coffee dominated rural landscapes use to host
a diversity of other products including plantain, sugar cane, cocoa, row crops, extensive
cattle, intensive pig farming and self-consume products. Small patches of natural forests
also cover the tops of these mountainous landscapes. Coffee has lost importance in the
national economy during the last decade since the breakage on the international coffee
agreement in 1989.
Coffee has been the most important crop in Colombia since the beginning of the century.
Coffee is grown between 1.300 and 2.000m. 890.000 ha are cultivated and 12 million
bags are produced annually. The most important departments producing coffee are
Antioquia, Valle del Cauca, Tolima, Caldas, Risaralda, Quindio and Cundinamarca. 583
municipalities produce coffee. The total population of people living in coffee farms is 2
million, which corresponds to 423.000 families. Coffee production in 1998/99 was based
on 10.9 million bags, while exports were 10.3 million. The number of coffee producers
during that period of time was 566.000 which generated 37% of the agricultural
employment in the country. Coffee participation in the national GDP is 3,5% (Federaci6n
Nacional de Cafeteros, 2000).
Armed groups. The origin of guerilla groups in Colombia is explained by land tenure
inequity whilst the weak state presence in rural areas strengthened rural conflict. Once
economical support from communist nations ended, guerilla groups moved on to
narcotrafic and extortion. This means to many the loss of an ideological framework. In
the early eighties, paramilitary groups appear to satisfy the need of rural sectors (mainly
cattle farmers) to be protected from the extortive guerrilla practice.
Land Use Challenges. Land use management can be grossly grouped in three types in the
Andes; 1) mechanization and agrochemical use for potato, onion and vegetables
production; 2) medium mechanization and agrochemical use for coffee, cane, wheat, rye,
tamarillo, granadilla, blackberry, passion fruit, pineapple, tree fruits, citrics and peanut
production and 3) low or none mechanization and agrochemical use (campesino economy
systems) for yuca, cocoa, plantain, guava and corn production. Environmental and
biodiversity conservation impacts of mechanization and agrochemical use have been little
studied whilst recently campesino economy has changed intensifying crop density
adopting agrochemical use, new productive practices and genetic material.
Illicit Crops. Cocaine production started in 1980 in the amazonic area of the Departments
of Guaviare and Putumayo, lowly populated areas that had experienced successive
previous booms such as rubber, animal skins, oil and wood. Cocaine was the only
product that generated utilities in addition to being non perishable. From 1985 to 1995
cocaine production grew along the Guaviare, Caguan and Putumayo Rivers (C. Ramfrez,
77



Annex 11
1998). Although cocaine mostly grows below 500m it can be found in some parts of the
Andes. According to PLANTE (Plan Nacional de Desarrollo Altemativo), in 1999 6% of
the national production came from the Andes: 3.639ha in Cauca, 2.107 ha in Nariflo,
780ha in Tolima and 3.000ha in Norte de Santander.
Poppy production begun in 1990 in the paramos of Huila, Tolima and Cauca coinciding
with the strong price drop of cocaine pasta from one million pesos per kilogram in 1980
to 80,000 in 1983. By 1995 there were 20.000 poppy hectares in the paramos of the
Macizo Colombiano, or south of Colombian Andes and some in Cundinamarca and
Boyaca (Ramirez, 1998), 60% was of campesino production and 40% was commercial
production. According to PLANTE, by 1999 the production decreased to 5.500ha. Poppy
is grown on high elevation areas because of its temperature requirements, causing a
strong impact on these ecosystems.
Eradication measures such as fumigation and substitution programs have been undertaken
in the Andes. Fumigation forces migration towards remote areas pushing the agricultural
frontier whilst fumigated land becomes unfertile and consequently inhospitable for the
natural vegetation and fauna. (Ramirez. 1998).
Productive alternatives offered so far can not compete with illicit crops in terms of
economic return. In addition, product perishability is usually a limitation since ilicit crops
are always in remote areas. Cattle and monocultures may be suitable options from the
economical point of view but cause strong environmental impact on the fragile soils on
which illegal crops are produced.
Sustainable Development. Technological change is a generalized process in the andean
rural economy in Colombia. Its impact, however, is not consistent due to the variety of
ecological, social and economic conditions and to the accessibility to resources resulting
in a variety of production rates, technology adopted, and changes in the structure of the
rural family economy. The main factors behind productive systems change in the Andes
are the growing demand for food in urban centers, technological offer from the "green
revolution", roads construction, credit availability and, above all, the great transformation
capacity of rural family enterprises. There is an urgent need for the consolidation of the
sustainable development concept within state institutions and NGOs leading the subject.
3. INSTITUTIONAL CONTEXT
Political and Administrative Institutional Framework. For administrative and political
purposes Colombia is divided into Departamentos and the Departamentos into
municipalities. The Andes hosts 15 Departamentos and over 700 municipalities. The
Gobernaciones are in charge of Departamental administration and Gobernadores are
democratically elected every 4 years. Similarly, municipal administration is lead by
Mayors democratically elected every 3 years. Since 1993, enviromnent and natural
resources management is in the hands of the Corporaciones Aut6nomas Regionales
(CARs) responsible for implementing the policies of the Ministry of the Enviroment.
78



Annex 11
CARs' jurisdiction areas tend to coincide with Departamentos although some
Departamentos are split in few CARs so the Andes hosts 17 CARs. CARs are
independent legal entities with administrative and financial autonomy.
Public administration in Colombia, conscious of its centralism, bureaucracy and
hierarchical structure has started a political, administrative and fiscal decentralization
process in search of efficiency and higher levels of participation
Non Governmental Organizations. NGOs have a strong presence in the Andes and have
played an important role in rural development and more recently in biodiversity
conservation. They have taken on the state decentralization process and the opportunities
for civil society to participate in the execution of projects with state resources. In 1993
70.000 NGOs were estimated in Colombia of which about 3.000 were directly related to
rural development offering support on rural technology, agroindustry, rural housing,
transport network as well as credit, training, basic health and leaders formation. In the
last decade NGO's participation increased in subjects such as gender, environment and
conservation, by 1995 ECOFONDO surveyed 567 working on these subjects (Perez et
al., 2000).
Civil Society Conservation Initiatives. Currently in the Andes there are more than 200
private reserves where owners have reserved a part or the totality of their land for
conservation. A large proportion of these reserves combines conservation with
sustainable use as well as biodiversity friendly production. As time goes by, civil society
awareness and concern increases due amongst other reasons to the high degree of
transformation in most areas of the Andes and the evident enviromnental effect of this
transformation.
4. CONSULTATIONS DURING PROJECT PREPARATION
A participatory process was undertaken during project preparation to complement the
socioeconomic evaluation for the inclusion of socioeconomic considerations in the
project design. This helped verification of project implementation viability and
stakeholders support as well as the inclusion of stakeholders priorities as described next.
This section summarizes the participation that took place to design project components.
Participation at regional and local level to integrate regional priorities of the selected
project zones, local community views and ongoing Andean Region use processes in
project design are presented in a later section.
The project was conceived to launch in the Andes the National Biodiversity Strategy and
Action Plan published in 1998. This strategy contemplates action plans for a long (25
years), medium (10 years) and short (4 years) term aiming at implementing the National
Biodiversity Policy at a national level. This strategy is in itself the result of a
participatory process that integrated the work and views of approximately 100 individuals
from different disciplines and interest groups such as universities, environmental and
social NGOs, indigenous and afrocolombian communities, CARs, research institutes, the
79



Annex 11
National Planing Department and the MoE and other ministries such as agriculture,
mining and energy and foreign trade, amongst others.
In order to adapt The National Strategy and Action Plan to a six years project specifically
for the Andes, actions and work zones had to be prioritized according to the financial
resources availability, the Andes particularities, ongoing conservation initiatives and
previous experiences. Since the project is in it self conceived as a participatory process,
this was done in stages with the participation of relevant actors at each stage. Since all
stakeholders were not present at each stage, actors with experience, knowledge and
current involvement with local communities and local conservation initiatives were
considered key elements in the process to validate the viability of proposed actions.
Project Design Team. The process started with an objective planning (POP) and logic
framework workshop that lasted a week with the participation of IAvH, UAESPNN,
MMA and WB as the key actors to take responsibility in the definition of project
objectives and in its implementation. The preliminary log-frame produced was used to
refine the work plan for project preparation. IAvH assumed the responsibilities directly
related with its expertise and, to assure plurality, a diverse pool-of partners were selected
to help with project design. The project design team involved National NGOs: Fundaci6n
Natura, CEGA, Fundacion FES and Penca de Sabila; Universities: Universidad Javeriana;
Government Related Institutions: CORPOICA and Misi6n Social; International NGOs:
WWF, TNC and CI; private companies and well known consultants. Key criteria for the
selection of project design partners was an established record and ongoing community
work in the Andes such as the work of Universidad Javeriana and Fundaci6n Natura in
Santander, the work FES in Nariflo, the work of Penca de Sabila in Antioquia and the
work of WWF, TNC and CI in all the Andes.
Participatory Design of the Protected areas Component. Colombia is now structuring a
national system of protected areas, open to many more conservation categories than those
found in national parks. UAESPNN as leader of this process has organized national and
regional workshops on the topic to help design the system and its implementing strategy.
In addition, a few CARs such as CARDER and CVC have taken the lead in designing,
through participatory processes, their own regional systems which in time will become
nodes of the national system. IAvH has participated in these processes by providing
information and strengthening technical conception. As a result of this, IAvH has
strengthen the concepts of ecosystem's representativity and ecoregional approaches in the
process and has adapted the project's protected areas strategy to make it consistent with
the processes already under way.
Rural Landscapes. As part of project preparation, CORPOICA, benefiting from its local
presence through its regional offices, organized a series of regional workshops to identify
methodologies and sustainable production systems and its acceptance by local
communities for the 15 most typical products of the Andes. This information was
important for the selection of the rural landscapes to be addressed by the project.
Incentive Systems Design. During the last two years IAvH promoted a national work
group about current incentives for conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity. This
80



Annex 11
was done in collaboration with the National Planning Department (Departamento
Nacional de Planeeaci6n, DNP), RRSC, MoE, WWF and UAESPNN. Five incentives
workshops and an international seminar were organized with the participation of 95
institutions including 10 universities, 18 CARs, 6 productive associations, 47 NGOs, 3
ministries and 10 research institutes. This process was used to evaluate current and
potential impact of incentives in place. It was concluded that the incentives strategy of
the project has to be designed in a regional basis. Key incentives identified were
certification of products compatible with biodiversity conservation, tax exemption for the
establishment of private reserves and land titling of indigenous territories.
Biodiversity Information System. To strengthen well informed decision making, the
project aims to construct a decentralized biodiversity information system with the
collaboration of research institutions, universities, relevant government agencies, non-
governmental organizations, botanical gardens and other ex situ conservation centers,
among others. Most of the information held in these institutions is not of public domain
so a participatory process is in place to define information sharing protocols.
Collaborative agreements are already signed for institutional strengthening and
systematizing information of biological collections and biodiversity in general with the
main botanic gardens of the Andes (7) and biological collections as well as with
universities such as Javeriana, Antioquia, del Valle, del Cauca and Nacional.
International Cooperation. Two international workshops were organized by WWF and
TNC as part of project preparation, building on their international contacts and their work
programs for the Andes to identify international initiatives for the Andes to which the
project can contribute as well as benefit from.
Inter-Sectoral Coordination Component. Formal meetings and permanent informal
communication amongst IAvH, and MoE has strengthen the design of the inter-sectoral
coordination project component. This has been complemented by view exchanges with
other ministries and productive associations in the framework of current IAvH's teamed
work with ministries such as Education, Agriculture and Foreign Trade and productive
associations such as Federaci6n de Cafeteros. An agreement has been signed with the
National Federation of Coffee Producers to promote conservation and sustainable use of
biodiversity in coffee dominated rural landscapes during the project and beyond. Within
the framework of this agreement an international seminar on coffee and biodiversity took
place in august with the support of COLCIENCIAS.
Finally, coordination amongst the executing agencies of the projects of the National
Strategy for the Andes has resulted in the refinement of the strategy and the relationship
amongst GEF projects for the Andes.
5. HOW SOCIAL ISSUES HAVE BEEN TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT IN THE
SELECTION OF PROJECT ZONES
For project purposes the Colombian Andes is defined as the area of the three continuous
mountain chains above 500m, excluding Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta and Serrania de la
Macarena. As a result, project area ads up to 30% the Country's continental surface. To
81



Annex 11
maximize project effectiveness, field project actions will be concentrated in specific
zones to avoid atomizing of project resources. This section describes the process and
socioeconomic variables taken into account for the selection of the project action zones.
The objective of this selection process was to identify zones that meet the following
requirements:
* Need of intervention: Zones requiring intervention but not included in similar
projects.
* Project intervention viability: Zones with socioeconomic conditions that allow project
intervention and the implementation of its activities.
* Project effectiveness: Zones with biodiversity threats and loss processes that can be
faced with project foreseen actions and that offer conditions for long term
permanence of project actions.
*  Biodiversity Representativity: When added up, the selected zones will host a
representative sample of the Andean biodiversity in the minimum possible area,
giving priority to those areas with biodiversity of global importance.
* Presence of regional and local proceses compatible with project objectives: It is
considered a requirement to count on ongoing processes to be supported by the
project as the best assurance for community and institutional support to project
implementation.
The selection process begun with the elimination of areas not complying with any of the
established requirements:
Elimination of areas without need of intervention. Due to the high level of transformation
of the Andes (over 60%) all Andes was considered in need of intervention. Only areas
with similar projects were discarded: Macizo Colombiano Project, Biomacarena Project
and the Naya Corridor project.
Elimination of areas with low implementation viability. The main treath to project
implementation is violence. A map was constructed identifying violent zones to be
discarded. This map was constructed including guerrilla groups central command
settlements, active conflict zones between different armed groups (FARC, ELN, the
Army and AUC) and illicit crop areas under protection of armed groups. This map was
constructed based on the study contracted with CEGA for project preparation, press and
government reports, information collected in meetings and workshops throughout project
preparation and on IAvH's experience resulting from five years of intensive fieldwork.
Representativity and presence of regional and local processes compatible with project
objectives. Having discarded so far more than 30% of the Colombian Andes for project
purposes based on socioeconomic criteria, a process based on a combination of
socioeconomic and biological criteria was used to refine project action zones selection:
1. Verification of the existence of ongoing processes compatible with project activities
for all zones considered of outstanding biodiversity importance. This was done
82



Annex 11
throughout surveys and meetings during project preparation. As a result the first two
zones were identified:
* The Cocuy paramo complex, the most biodiverse paramo complex in the world as
stated in "Informe Nacional Sobre el Estado de la Biodiversidad en Colombia
1997' (IAvH, PNUMA, Ministerio del Medio Ambiente, 1998). Important regional
processes identified include the conformation of the regional system of protected
areas promoted by GENOR (a working group integrated by CARs, gobernaciones,
regional universities, NGOs, UAESPNN and now IAvH).
* The Alto Putumayo Zone, or the Andean Putumayo, identified as the most biodiverse
zone in Colombia according to the study Caracterizaci6n de la Biodiversidad en
Areas Prioritarias de la Vertiente Oriental de la Cordillera Oriental (IAvH, 1999).
The area was further refined after regional and local consultations to concentrate on
the Cerro de Patascoy, taking into account that it is probably the only unpopulated
area in the Andes of such extension and that there is an advanced process for its
protection lead by the Cofan indigenous community with the support of UAESPN,
WWF-Colombia, local NGOs and now IAvH. (See Annex 12 for more detail).
2.    Identification of zones with: i) a wide variety of ecosystems complementary to
those in the previously selected zones; ii) a wide variety of ecosystems concentrated in a
relatively small area, and iii) ongoing conservation and sustainable use processes
compatible with project objectives. Each new area was chosen within a new ecorregion
according to the WWF/WB(Dinerstein, 1996) Latin-American ecoregions map. In case of
similar alternatives, priority was given to zones with National Parks, higher institutional
capacity and community organization towards conservation and sustainable use by
considering municipal statistics about community organizations, concentration of
registered private reserves and presence of productive systems recognized as biodiversity
friendly such as shade coffee. As a result nine additional zones were identified as
alternatives for the project. Whithin selected zones, priority was given according to
biological complementarity to the previously selected pair.
As a result, the five zones were selected to work during the first phase of the project.
They offer favorable conditions for project implementation as well as presenting ongoing
conservation and sustainable use processes compatible with project objectives assuring
project effectiveness and long term continuation of project supported activities.
6. SOCIOECONOMIC ISSUES AND PARTICIPATION IN KEY PROJECT
ACTIVITIES
Having selected the project action zones, project preparation moved to define key
activities and identify key actors. An analysis was undertaken for each zone to identify
socioeconomic causes of biodiversity loss and potential socioeconomic biodiversity
threats. Consultation, meetings and workshops were also organized to identify ongoing
processes that could help the project in facing the identified biodiversity loss causes and
threats. A summary of the conclusion reached is presented in tables 1 and 2. A short
83



Annex 11
description of the main key project partners, ongoing processes at a regional and local
level and the process to identify them is presented next.
Many places in the Colombian Andes have a high degree of community organization
together with a strong sense of belonging. As a result, a great number of community
initiatives compatible with conservation can be found throughout the Andes such as
municipal watershed protection, regional natural reserves, private natural reserves and
diversity of production systems compatible with biodiversity conservation. The project
intends to build from active initiatives to orient, develop and strengthen them whilst
integrating them into regional strategies to multiply their impact.
In some particular cases IAvH has first hand knowledge about local processes due to
direct involvement. This is the case in the xerofitic ecosystems of Villa de Leyva, in
Iguaque national park and in shade coffee plantations at Quindio. For example, in project
zone 2 it collaborates with the indigenous communities Siona and Cofan since 1997 in
the characterization of their traditional territory, the cultural recuperation of medicinal
plants and in ecological and cultural reconstruction through cultural recuperation
workshops, botanic and ecological intercultural training and evaluation of environmental
management practices. Most of the community, including its 4 shamans, has participated.
It is already agreed with them to cooperate for i) the declaration as a reserve of a larger
portion of their traditional territory (in public lands), ii) the marketing of medicinal plants
and other non timber forest products and iii) the intercultural characterization of their
territory. Neighboring indigenous communities are aware of the process and are
interested in the establishment of similar cooperation agreements, the process has already
started and involves 6 indigenous groups at the Fragua river.
In all project zones, however, regional actors such as CARs, UAESPNN, RRSC, NGOs
and Universities have contributed to include the local perspective in the project. They
successfully maintain participatory processes around biodiversity conservation and
sustainable use making them aware and in many cases integral part of local initiatives.
Participation at local level in project design has so far happened indirectly by interacting
with these regional actors by respecting and leaming from their participatory strategies
since during project implementation they will play a key role in the coordination of local
activities. As a result of this the project has identified a large number of potential sites
where it can support and initiate conservation processes, rural landscapes work,
conservation and sustainable use incentives design and implementation and promotion of
green markets activities contemplated in project components 1 and 2.
The GENOR Process. A working group bringing together the CARs and Gobernaciones
of Santander, Norte de Santander, Boyaca and Orinoquia started 3 years ago to design a
common environmental plan for their area of jurisdiction which includes the project Zone
1. Later, this working group was extended to UAESPNN, IavH, regional universities and
NGOs. Having a common agenda facilitates the implementation of projects across
borders and the participatory approach in the conformation of GENOR facilitates inter-
institutional alliances and increases viability and community support. Within the
framework of GENOR three projects are starting aiming at the conservation and
sustainable use of paramos in Cocuy, San Turban and Rabanal. In addition to IAvH's
84



Annex 11
participation in regular GENOR activities, there were two meetings specifically about the
project. GENOR's priorities, which are the conservation and restoration of paramos
ecosystems, economic incentives design, institutional strengthening and the construction
of a regional biodiversity information system were highlighted in the project design.
The Eje Cafetero process. In the project zone 5 there is another regional process which
brings together the CARs surrounding Los Nevados National Park (CARDER,
CORPOCALDAS, CRQ and CORTOLIMA) and UAESPNN. They meet frequently to
discuss issues related to Los Nevados Park and as a result have already designed and
implemented as partners and with the local communities, a number of projects in Los
Nevados and its buffer zone. Los Nevados Park has always been the priority of this
regional process but recently the discussion turned towards the implementation of a
regional protected areas system and have invited lAvH, WCS-Colombia and regional
NGOs and universities to participate. An action plan is being prepared and will be
refined in a workshop early December. The project has integrated this initiative in its
design and has learned from this inter-institutional process and its experience with local
communities. The project was received as an excellent opportunity to support their
conservation efforts.
The Valle del Cauca Process. CVC as the only CAR of project zone 3 has initiated a
process to establish a regional protected areas system building on their success on three
regional protected areas with the support of local communities. It advances through a
participatory approach that so far involves regional universities, local NGOs, WWF-
Colombia, UAESPNN and IAvH. In summary, the process has expressed the need to
increase the representativity of ecosystems under protection, in particular the protection
of arid ecosystems and paramos and the restoration and protection of its wetlands as well
as the need to develop rural landscapes management tools and design effective
conservation incentives for the CAR to offer. This project is considered an attractive
opportunity to accelerate the process of consolidating a protected areas system.
The Cerro de Patascoy Protection Process. The main conservation objective in project
zone 2 is the Cerro de Patascoy. The Cofan indigenous community is leading a process
to protect the area with the support of UAESPNN, ADC, WWF-Colombia and IAvH
amongst others. The process was initiated two years ago and counts today with an action
plan, a modest budget and a committee to execute it. Although the area of interest is not
populated, the process is involves stakeholders in the buffer zone to define the borders,
and the legal protection figure.
UAESPNN Process. UAESPNN has been leading a process for the consolidation if the
National Protected Areas System and has important local presence in many areas. There
are six national parks inside phase 1 project zones for which they lead participatory
conservation processes. In addition UAESPNN is closely involved in community
initiatives interested in the protection of areas on national importance such as the already
mentioned Patascoy. This is an area of most importance for the project being in a highly
diverse andean ecosystem currently not protected anywhere. The indigenous and
campesino communities of the area with the support of UAESPNN, WWF and RRSC are
interested in the declaration of the area under some protection category that
85



Annex 11
acknowledges indigenous rights over their traditional territory. Well in line with today's
UAESPNN policy and the project's strategy, this initiative will count with strong support
of the project.
CARs are also key partners in this respect due again to local presence and their support to
sustainable development and conservation initiatives. Although CARs' technical capacity
and resources vary greatly, in many cases they manage regional reserves inside project
zones and are in close contact with municipalities and communities and their
conservation and sustainable use initiatives. A large number of potential project work
sites have been identified through CARs contribution to project design including Paramo
del Duende, Laguna de Sonso, Paramo de Rabanal and Laguna de Fiiquene, Paramo de
San Turban, Bogota wetlands, Bosque de Florencia, Ucumari and Bremen amongst many
others.
RRSC process. RRSC is a network comprisnig more than 200 reserves in the Andean
Region. These areas have been set aside by local land owners with strong interest in
conservation and sustainable use. Their involvement during the design and
implementation of the project will contribute to strenghten local participatin and long
term sustainability of project activities.
86



Annex 11
Table 1: Basic characteristics and key planned activities of phase 1 project zones
Project zone     Socio-economic considerations    Biodiversity loss causes  Biodiversity loss  Key planned Project Activities
threats
1. Northeastern  * Potato and bean campesino     * Agricultural frontier  * Oil exploration and
Paramos and     production                       expansion in the paramos  exploitation in the  * Redisign of Pisba Park
moist forests  * Extensive cattle and sheep production  from the western slopes  lowlands towards  * Cocuy, Pisba and Tama Parks Managenment
and in the forests from  Orinoquia           Plans Design and key components
* Key Partners:                    Orinoquia upwards     * Infrastructure      implementation
- CARs: Corpoboyaca Corponor,   * Heavy agricultural     Development         * Strengthening of GENOR and support to the
CDMB, Corpoorinoquia, CAS        activities in the western  (Cucuta-Bucaramanga  ecorregions' management plan
- Universities: Javeriana, Industrial  slopes            Road Construction)  * Promotion of alternative land uses and green
del Santander                  * Wood extraction for                         markets for substitution of cattle and potato
- Cabildo Indigena U 'wa          commercial and domestic                     production in paramos
- Parks Unit                      use                                        * Support to current campesino ecotourism
* Agrochemical                                initiatives.
contamination                              * Promotion of private reserves in PAs' buffer
* Rural poverty                               zones, water springs and forest remnants
* Effectiveness evaluation and promotion of
management tools: Life fences, corridors,
grassland enrichment with native trees.
2. Alto Putumayo * 1000 Cofan and Siona Indigenous  * No loss yet        * Oil exploration and
people: Forest products and                              exploitation        * Creation of a National protected area in
medicinal plant extraction,                             * Infrastructure      Patascoy
subsistence hunting and agriculture.                     development         * Consolidation of indigenous territories and
* Large state owned unpopulated areas.                    (Transversal de la   traditional practices
* Campesino production in the                             selva Road, Guamuez * Declaration of La Cocha as a RAMSAR site
highlands                                                multipurpose project) * Current private reserves network
* Strong campesino private reserves                      * Traditional         strengthening
network                                                  knowledge loss      * Green markets promotion: ecoturism and
* Key Partners:                                          * Armed conflict arrival  handicrafts in La Cocha, medicinal plants in
- CARs: Corponariflo,                                                         Cofan and Siona area.
Corpoamazonia
- Fundaci6n Zioai (CofAn and Siona
communities)
- RRSC,WWF, UAESPNN
- Association for Campesino
development (ADC)
87



Annex 11
Project zone     Socio-economic considerations    Biodiversity loss causes  Biodiversity loss  Key planned Project Activities
threats
- UMIYAC: Indigenous doctors
association
3. Dagua-Calima- * Camnpesino production in the hillside  * Agricultural frontier  * Illegal drugs
Paraguas      * Commercial agriculture in the    expansion from the      processing in remote  *Creation of the regional network of protected
corridor        lowlands: sugar cane, forest     lowlands upwards        areas                areas for the Valle del Cauca.
plantations                     * Habitat fragmentation in  * Infrastructure  * Creation of two regional protected areas: one
* Key Partners:                   the lowlands            development: Calima-  in a dry ecosystem and one in the Paramo del
- CARs: CVC                     * Agrochemical           2 hydroelectric      Duende
- NGOs: WWF, RRSC, FES,           contamination          project             * Management and recuperation plan design
Herencia Verde, CIPAV          * Soil degradation from                       and key components implementation for
- ASOCANA: Sugar cane producers   overexploitation                            Laguna de Sonso
association                    * Timber extraction                          * Extension of the Yotoco regional protected
- EPSA: Pacific's Energy Company  * Wetland drainage and                      area
degradation                                * Promotion of private reserves in PA's buffer
zones and corridors
* Effectiveness evaluation and promotion of
management tools: Life fences, corridors, dry
environments grassland and shadowed coffee
enrichment with native trees.
* Green production and markets promotion
(Organic products, certified forest)
* Evaluation and adjustment of agricultural
(Ministry of Agriculture) and conservation
(CARs and MoE) incentives
4. Altiplano    * High concentration of population  * Wetland drainage and  Population Growth  *Promotion of private reserves amongst contry
Cundiboyacence  a Large land owners                degradation            Infrastructure       house owners, arround wetlands and in dry
* Urban owners of country houses  * Agrochemical          Development          ecosystems.
* Campesino production of potatoes,  contamination                             Creation of a regional reserve in a dry
beans, onions, vegetables,      * Desertification from                        ecosystem
* Intensive and extensive cattle farming  overexploitation                     Management plan design and key components
for milk and meat.              * Habitat fragmentation                      implementation for the lagunas de Fiuquene y
*Key Partners:                   * Extensive monoculture                       Tota
- CARs: CAR, DAMA, Corpoboyaca   * High population                             Declaration of Fuquene or Tota as a
- Universities: Nacional, Javeriana, de  * Absence of protected                RAMSAR site
los Andes, etc.                   areas                                     * Effectiveness evaluation and promotion of
88



Annex I 1
Project zone     Socio-economic considerations     Biodiversity loss causes  Biodiversity loss  Key planned Project Activities
threats
- Fundaci6n Natura                * Lack of awareness                           management tools: Life fences and corridors.
- Asociaci6n de Municipios de la * Invasive species                           * Green production and markets promotion
Sabana                                                                  (Organic products, certified forest, weekend
- Corporaci6n Humedal de la Conejera                                            recreation)
* Evaluation and adjustment of agricultural
(Ministry of Agriculture) and conservation
(CARs and MMA) incentives
5. Los Nevados  * Highly populated area           * Note: stable landsacpe  * Industrializing and  * Update and implementation of key
Park and       * Small medium and large coffee    structure               homogenization of    components of Los Nevados management
neighbouring    farmers (Key stakeholder: Federaci6n  Habitat fragmentation  agriculture and timer  plan
coffee growing  de Cafeteros)                    Natural resources        production           Design and implementation of main
area           * Cattle farming,                  extraction                                   components of key regional reserves and Otun
* agrochemical contamination       Agrochemical            Urban growth         Quimbaya
* Invasive species                 contamination                               * Promotion of private reserves in PA's
* Key Partners:                    Agricultural activities                       bufferzones, forest relicts, corridors.
- CARs: CRQ, CVC, CARDER,                                                     * Development and promotion of management
Corpocaldas, Cortolima.                                                       tools for conservation in rural landscapes
- UAESPNN, RRSC,                                                              * Incentives for environmental services and
- Coffee growers federation                                                     ecotourism
NGOs: Herencia verde, Ecoandina                                               * Green production and markets promotion
amongst others                                                                 (Organic and biodiversity friendly coffee,
Universities: Tecnol6gica de Pereira,                                           certified forestry)
de Caldas, Nacional de Manizales, del                                          Evaluation and adjustment of agricultural
Quindio                                                                        (Ministry of Agriculture) and conservation
.____________ _  _(CARs and MMA) incentives
89



Annex 11
Table 1: Basic characteristics of alternative project zones for phase 2
No    Zone Name     Biodiversity considerations          Socio-economic considerations          Suggested Project Activities
6    Cuchilla de los  Area: 750.000 ha                   Extensive sheep production and campesino  Creation of a regional network of protected
Cobardes and   Large and diverse dry forest ecosystem  production of corn, tobacco, wheat and  areas
Chicamocha     complex in the Ecoregion            fruits in the highlands.               Creation of regional reserves
Canyon         Second largest forest remnant on the  Cattle, sugar cane, corn, cassava and  Incentives for euvironmental services
western slope of the eastern Andes   plantain in the lowlands               Promotion of private reserves
Chain.                               Campesino associations                 Green markets promotion, agroforestry in
Broad Altitudinal range              CARs: CAS, CDMB, Corpoboyaca.          particular
Dry Habitats in regular state.                                              Development and promotion of management
Principal Ecosystems: al, a3, a4, aal,                                     tools for conservation in rural landscapes
aa2, aa3, aa4, v3, v4
7     La Rusia      Area: 620.000 ha                     Extensive cattle production            Creation of a regional network of protected
Paramo and     Largest Quercus Forest in the Colombian  Campesino subsistence production.  areas.
Quercus        Andes                                CARs: CAS, Corpoboyaca                Consolidation of existing National parks.
Forest         Highly diverse Paramos                                                     Development of Ecoturism.
Broad Altitudinal Range                                                     Promotion of private reserves
Principal Ecosystems: al, aal, aa2, aa3,                                    Incentives for environmental services
aa4, p I, p3                                                                Green markets promotion
National Parks: Iguaque and GuanentA-
Ato rio Fonce.
8    Patia Valley   Area: 700.000 ha                     Extensive Cattle production            Creation of a regional network of protected
and neighbor   Large dry forest and xerophytic      Coffee production                     areas.
western Andes  ecosystems complex conected to pluvial  Campesino subsistence production.  Creation of a regional protected area
Chain         forest.                               CARs: CRC, Corponariflo               Integration to a regional network of protected
mountain      Includes most natural remnants of the                                       areas.
forests        Valle del Patia ecorregion                                                 Promotion of private reserves
Degraded habitats                                                           Green markets promotion
Transition from the Choco region up to                                      Development and promotion of management
the Andes and down to the Patia Valley.                                    tools for conservation in rural landscapes
Principal Ecosystems: al, a3, aal, aa2,                                     Incentives for environmental services
sal, sa2
9     Carare-Op6n   Area: 280.000 ha.                    Recent Colonization                    Creation of a regional protected area
Largest remnant of mountain and foothill  Strong agricultural frontier advance  Integration to a regional network of protected
forests on the western slope of the  Violence                               areas.
eastern Andes                        Extensive cattle production            Incentives for environmental services
I Only area with large tracts of natural  Campesino subsistence production   Green markets promotion
90



Annex 11
No    Zone Name     Biodiversity considerations          Socio-economic considerations          Suggested Project Activities
vegetation in the transition between the  Extractive activities: wood extraction and
Magdalena Valley wetlands and the    hunting.
Andes                                CARs: CAS, Corpoboyaca
Principal ecosystems: al, aal, sal, sa2
10   Tatacoa desert  Area: 350.000 ha.                   Production of sorgo, soya beans and corn  Creation of a regional protected area
Only large remnant of natural vegetation  Cattle farming                    Integration to a regional network of protected
in the ecoregion                     Uncontrolled tourism                   areas.
Large remnants of dry forest and     Agrochemical contamination             Incentives for environmental services
xerofitic ecosystems                 CARs: CAM, Cortolima                   Green markets promotion
Principal ecosystems: v3, v4
National Parks:
11   Dry forests of  Area: 150.000 ha.                   Steep slopes, very unproductive land.  Creation of a regional protected area
the Cauca      Only large remnant of natural vegetation  Some land cleared for cattle grassing  Integration to a regional network of protected
Canyon in     in the ecoregion                      Wood extraction                       areas.
Antioquia      Large remnants of dry forest ecosystems  CARs: Corpoantioquia               Incentives for environmental services
I Principal ecosystems: v3, v4                                               Green markets promotion
91



Annex 11
7. PARTICIPATION STRATEGY DURING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Due to the scope of the project, participation must be integral, including participation of local
communities, the private and the public sector as well as gender and age considerations. In fact,
as showed previously, the project itself has been conceived as a participatory process both during
its design and for its implementation. Key performance indicators in Annex 1 such as active
protected areas networks, # of institutions collaborating with project biodiversity monitoring and
assessment and a network of biodiversity databases seek to measure participation involvement.
On this ground, one of the main opportunities of the project that is to be exploited by this
strategy is the fact that the environmental matters can easily bring to the table many stakeholders
as has been the case during project preparation. However, stakeholders involvement and project
ownership can only be achieved through appropriate participation. This strategy is built upon
from the conviction that socializing is only one step towards participation, real participation
leads to decision making.
Another clear opportunity of the project is the fact that there are many active participatory
processes around conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity in the Andes. Most of these
processes concerning phase 1 project zones have been identified and contacted during project
preparation. As long as it is possible, the project intend to strengthen and build from existing
participatory processes.
a) Key Aspects in Project Participation. Building on previous experiences and ongoing
processes and according to project components the key aspects to foster participation in the
project are:
Information sharing: Information flow to stakeholders will assure well-informed decision
making throughout the participatory processes. To allow this, all the information generated by
the project will be considered public. In addition, relevant available information will be
distributed amongst stakeholders in all participation processes. A promotional program in local
and national media and written material will be used to disseminate to the local general public
the objectives and evolution of the project. In addition, an internet web-page and electronic
publications and newsletters will be set up to address decision-makers, scientists and general
public.
Participatory Design of Conservation Zones: A conservation strategy for each of the project
zones will be designed through a highly participatory process involving CARs, Municipalities,
campesinos, land owners, afrocolombian and indigenous communities, productive associations,
NGOs and existing biodiversity conservation and sustainable use organized initiatives. This will
contribute to build a new relationship between traditional managers of protected areas and local
communities. Workshops and meetings will be organized to socialize and unify conservation
criteria and develop a participatory conservation plan for each zone. A flexible participatory
strategy will be applied according to each zone, based on ongoing processes in the zone and
similar experiences seeking to identify common goals and interests of communities,
governmental institutions and private initiatives. The process will be supported on information
available and generated for the process. This process will lead to: a) identification of
conservation gaps within the zones and of conservation opportunities to fill them, b)
identification of the social and institutional strengthening needs to carry out biodiversity
92



Annex 11
conservation; c) Design of a protected areas system; d) identification of key actions to ensure the
implementation of the system and promote inter-institutional integration and; e) Identification of
key rural landscapes to promote biodiversity conservation and sustainable use; f) Identification
of local productive practices compatible with biodiversity conservation g) Identification of
partners to implement project activities and g) cooperation in biodiversity conservation and
management
Declaration of new protected areas: Declaration of new national and regional protected areas
will only take place when there is support from the majority of the stakeholders. Reaching this
point can take a long time so this will mainly happen on places already identified during project
preparation that count with advanced processes. As a result of a national territorial planning
exercise at a municipal level, most municipalities have proposed municipal protected areas, the
project will support those that fill conservation gaps and count with local support. A
participatory process with RRSC and private land owners will be implemented to design a
package of economic and institutional incentives for the declaration of private reserves.
Participation in protected areas management: The only way to garantee effective long term
management of protected areas is by integrating them to their social context. This will be
achieved in the project by promoting the new policy of UAESPNN published in 1999, "Politica
de Consolidaci6n del Sistema Nacional de Areas Naturales Protegidas, con base en la
Participaci6n Social en la Conservaci6n". This policy is based in the participation of local
communities and organizations in the management of the areas and is supported in the
decentralization of the National Protected Areas System giving more autonomy to the regional
nodes and the areas themselves.
Participation of Indigenous communities: So far the indigenous communities involved in the
project are the Siona and CCofan in project zone 2 (Alto Putumayo). As mentioned earlier,
IAvH currently collaborates with the indigenous communities Siona and Cofan since 1997 in the
characterization of their traditional territory, the cultural recuperation of medicinal plants and in
ecological and cultural reconstruction through cultural recuperation workshops, botanic and
ecological intercultural training and evaluation of environmental management practices. It is
already agreed with them to cooperate for i) the declaration as a reserve of a larger portion of
their traditional territory (in land which currently belongs to the state), ii) the marketing of
medicinal plants and other non timber forest products and iii) the intercultural characterization of
their territory. As until now, the project will respect in all cases the indigenous communities'
own participatory mechanisms. The project will follow ILO's agreement 169 about previously
informed consent. The project will respect the participation requirements specified by the
Colombian law specifically for indigenous communities. The project will respect the cultural
value given by the indigenous communities to the land will build on this to promote the
declaration of conservation areas by the indigenous communities inside their reserves.
Participatory characterization, monitoring and research: Participation of local communities in
characterization, monitoring and research will be promoted during project implementation. This
in search of community appropriation of the information and to promote intercultural work
methodologies.
93



Annex 11
Participatory monitoring and evaluation ofproject strategies: Periodical monitoring and
evaluation of project strategies will include participation of the stakeholders targeted by the
strategies to include their views in the permanent process of adjustment of the strategies.
Decentralized Biodiversity Information System: A participatory process has already started
bringing together inforrnation owners, keepers and potential users to agree on: a) the design of
the system: information content, software and hardware to be used b) management of
information property c) users requirements
Inter-sectoral coordination: Lack of basic knowledge is one of the main causes behind sectoral
policies inconsistent with biodiversity conservation and sustainable use. Biodiversity training for
ministries and sector associations employees will be organized. Training will be followed by
workshops for the sectors to evaluate the impact on biodiversity of current sectoral policies and
to propose coherent policy modification. Additional workshops for ministries and sector
associations will be organized to develop proposals for reduction of environmental impacts and
maximizing policy effectiveness through intersectoral policy coordination.
b) Selection Criteria and Potential Project Beneficiaries
Table 2 shows the criteria that will be used in choosing the beneficiaries of the project. Table 3
indicates the potential project beneficiaries by conservation zone for Phase I. The potential
beneficiaries for Phase II zones will be defined by the end of Phasel.
Table 2: Selection Criteria for Participation
Type of Beneficiary or Administrative      Technical             Specific criteria (in
Partner              requirements          Requirements          each TOR)
Non-Governmental      * Legal status        * Proven experience
Organization             established          in the field of
Grass-root            * More than 2 years     expertise
Organizations            old               * Staff hired or
* Demonstrated           contracted out with
Universities             administrative and   proven credentials
financial capacity  * Positive past record
Public Entity (national, * Capacity to procure  in taking
regional or local)       and contract         environmental and
(UMATAS, Municipal    * Auditor's report      social concerns into
councils, Communal       with good            account
Associations, CARS,      assessment
etc.).
Research Institutes
94



Annex 11
Table 3: Potential beneficiaries and partners.
Project Zone       Potential Beneficiaries and Partners
1. Northeastern    -NGOs: Fundaci6n Natura, Censat-Agua Viva, Codeboy
Paramos and moist  -Universities: Universidad Javeriana, Universidad Industrial de Santander,
forests            Universidad de Malaga, UPTC.
-UAESPNN
-GENOR
-CARs: Corpoboyaca Corponor, CDMB, Corpoorinoquia, CAS
2. Alto Putumayo    -NGOs: Asociaci6n Red de Reservas de la Sociedad Civil,WWF,
Association for Carnpesino development (ADC)
-Indigenous Organizations: UMIYAC (Indigenous doctors association),
Fundaci6n Zioai (Cofan and Siona communities), OZIP (Organizaci6n
indigena del Putumayo)
-UAESPNN
-CARs: Corponarifio, Corpoamazonia
3. Dagua-Calima-   -NGOs: WWF, RRSC, FES, Herencia Verde, CIPAV, INCIVA,
Paraguas corridor    Corpocuencas
-Universities: Universidad del Valle
-UAESPNN
-ASOCANA: Sugar cane producers association
-CARs: CVC
4. Altiplano       - NGOs: Fundaci6n Natura, Asociaci6n de Municipios de la Sabana,
Cundiboyacence         Corporaci6n Humedal de la Conejera
- Universities: Universidad Nacional, Universidad Javeriana, Universidad
de los Andes.
- UAESPNN
- CARs: CAR, DAMA, Corpoboyaca
5. Los Nevados Park  - NGOs: Orquidea, Herencia Verde, Ecoandina, Asociaci6n Red de
and neighbour        Reservas de la Sociedad Civil, Semillas de Agua
coffee growing    - Coffee growers federation, CENICAFE.
area              - Universities: Universidad Tecnol6gica de Pereira, Universidad de Caldas,
Universidad Nacional de Manizales, Universidad del Quindio,
Universidad Javeriana.
- UAESPNN
- CARs: CRQ, CARDER, Corpocaldas, Cortolima.
95



Annex 12
ANNEX 12: INDIGENOUS PEOPLES DEVELOPMENT PLAN
1.    Background
The project "Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biodiversity in the Andean Region of
Colombia" seeks to improve the ways conservation and use of biodiversity has been carried out
in the past years. Indigenous communities and organizations are fundamental partners in this
project. Traditional societies such as the indigenous people have conserved and used
biodiversity sustainably, since their livelihood depend on it. They have stored a vast knowledge
of how plants, animals and microorganisms can be used and how they need to be preserved for
medicinal, nutritional, ritualistic and other purposes. The Andean Region contains 14 different
ethnic indigenous communities. These indigenous people represent a diversity of culture, natural
resources utilization and social organization. Currently, indigenous people have 25% of the
country's land surface assigned to collective use. Most of these territories are in native forests
with very high biological importance.
The project seeks to find current models and systems of biodiversity use that are sustainable.
Economic development very often has led to over-exploitation of natural resources, leading to
the loss of species or varieties. As native forests get exploited as is the case in the Andean
Region, the extractive processes change from their native uses and the scale of utilization also
changes, leading to threats to natural resources. In Colombia, over the past years, traditional
communities and research and conservation organizations have approached each other to join in
new unseen partnerships to overcome the crisis of over utilization of natural resources. As
traditional communities get more and more marginalized due to other development pressures in
their territories, the threat to their native forests is increasing. This partnership has consisted in
supporting native communities with information and technical knowledge of the value of the
forest, sustainable use techniques and conservation. So, the combination of the indigenous
peoples' biodiversity knowledge and the new sustainable development models brought by
researchers and conservationists has begun a strategic alliance of these groups. This is the basis
of the Indigenous People Development Plan for the current project.
The analysis to prepare this annex included: 1) identification of which indigenous groups were
present in which macro project zones; 2) consultations carried out during preparation; 3)
indigenous people's legal framework; 4) socio-economic profile in the project zones; 5)
indigenous people's action plan.
2.    Project Zones with presence of Indigenous People.
Of the 5 areas where the project will operate, only 2 have the presence of indigenous people.
Zone 1 (the Northeast Paramos and Humid Forests) is inhabited by the Uwa indigenous
commnunity. Zone 2 (Alto Putumayo) is inhabited by the Cofan community and some Inga and
Kamsa community which occupy the Valley of Sibundoy. The Alto Putumayo project zone does
not include the lower amazon region below 1,000 m elevation. Problems of violence recently
featured in the press refer to lower elevations in the Putumayo outside project intervention areas.
96



Annex 12
In zone 1, the Uwa indigenous people are currently involved in a conflict with the oil company
OXY, having opposed their presence in their territory. As a consequence of this conflict, they
have expressed their interest of no external interventions of any sort. The project has
respectfully, excluded their territory from the project design and no activities will be executed in
their Resguardo without their prior informed concent.
One of the objective of the project in Zone 2 that is inter-connected with indigenous people is the
conservation of the Cerro Patascoy which is uninhabited due to its difficult access and
interrupted relief. The Patascoy presents very high biological diversity and has been considered
as a potential candidate to create a reserve to ensure its protection. The lands where the Patascoy
Mountain lies in public land. The Cofanes live nearby and use the Patascoy as a source of
medicinal plants. During the last two years, IAvH and the Park's Unit(UAESPNN) have
initiated a consultation process with the Cofanes (see below for details) around the need to
preserve the Patascoy and what would be the Cofanes role since they are the main users of this
area. The Inga and Kamsa live in the Valley of Sibundoy which is an area 30 km away from the
Cerro Patascoy. This valley is highly degraded and does not present an opportunity for
biodiversity conservation. The Inga and Kamsa are not likely to be involved in the project as
they are away from the project impact.
3.    Consultation process with indigenous people
So far the indigenous communities involved in the project are the Cofanes in project zone 2 (Alto
Putumayo). The IAvH currently collaborates with the indigenous communities Siona and
Cofan since 1997 in the characterization of their traditional territory, the cultural recuperation of
medicinal plants and in ecological and cultural reconstruction through cultural recuperation
workshops, botanic and ecological intercultural training and evaluation of environmental
management practices. There are already processes in place for i) the declaration as a reserve of
a larger portion of their traditional territory (in land which currently belongs to the state), ii) the
marketing of medicinal plants and other non timber forest products and iii) the intercultural
characterization of their territory. As previously said, the project will respect in all cases the
indigenous communities' own participatory mechanisms. The project will follow ILO's
agreement 169 about prior inforned consent. The project will respect the participation
requirements specified by the Colombian law for indigenous communities. The project will
respect the cultural value given by the indigenous communities to the land and will build on this
to promote the declaration of conservation areas by the indigenous communities inside their
reserves.
4. Legal Framework for Indigenous People
The Colombian Constitution of 1991 (Articles 7 and 8) not only recognizes the cultural and
ethnic diversity of Colombia, but establishes as a mandate the protection of the country's cultural
and natural richness through the following: (i) indigenous peoples languages are official within
their territory; (ii) collective property rights over land in resguardos; (iii) rights over
archeological heritage; (iv) the recognition of indigenous territories as public entities (entidad
territorial indigena); (v) the right to receive fiscal transfers from the central government; and (vi)
the recognition of the right of indigenous authorities to function according to their own norms
97



Annex 12
and procedures. Colombia ratified, via Law 21 of 1994, the ILO's Convention 169 on
"Indigenous and Tribal People."
The 1991 Constitution reinforced rights of indigenous peoples over their territory as an essential
element of their culture as previously recognized in other laws (for example, Article 2 of Decree
2001 of 1988). In Article 21, Decree 2164 of 1995, "Resguardo Indigena" is defined as: "a legal
and socio-political institution with a special character, composed of one or more indigenous
communities that with a collective land title enjoy the guarantees of private property, possess
territory and control its management and the internal life of the community through an
autonomous organization governed by the indigenous community's own normative system."
(Reserva indigena is a transitional stage prior to becoming a resguardo.) Property rights in the
lands of the resguardo are permanent and cannot be mortgaged or sold (Constitution, Articles 63
and 329).
In Article 286. the Constitution incorporates the concept of "Resguardo Indigena" within the
national territorial structure defined as a decentralized entity with political and administrative
autonomy, therefore giving indigenous authorities the right to manage their territory. In article
357, the Constitution established the right of the indigenous resguardo to receive fiscal transfers
from the central government, a practice initiated in 1994 with funds passing through
municipalities in accord with Decree 1809 of 1993. Article 330 of the Constitution indicates that
indigenous territories will be governed by councils (consejos) formed and regulated in
accordance with the practices and customs of their communities. Decree 1088 of 1993
recognizes as a public entity the establishment of "asociaciones de cabildos".
Other regulations relevant to the project are: (i) Article 6 of the Constitution details the need for
consultation of indigenous peoples any time actions are taken in their territories; (ii) Article 7
establishes that indigenous people have the right to determine their own priorities regarding their
development and they have the right to participate in any plans or programs developed by the
government that may affect them; (iii) Decree 2811 of 1974, the National Code for Renewable
Natural Resources and Protection of the Environment that contains regulations concerning the
national parks; (iv) Law 165 of 1994, Convention on Biological Diversity that relates indigenous
comunities knowledge to conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity; (v) Decree 1320 of
1998 that requires that social assessment be carried out where indigenous groups might be
affected; and (v) the Agrarian Reform Law 160 of 1994. According to Decree 2811 all
productive activities are forbidden within national parks and protected areas. Later, Article 7 of
Decree 622 of 1977 recognized that indigenous peoples' activities are compatible with protected
areas and established a special management regimen.
5.    Socio-Economic Profile of Indigenous People in Zone 2
The Alto Putumayo Zone contains two distinct geographical areas that will be characterized
differently, the Sector A (Alto Putumayo) and Sector B (Valley of Sibundoy).
a) Zone 2 - Sector A - The Alto Putumayo
The Cofanes are found in the Putumayo Department, along the River San Miguel, cafio la
Hormiga, River Guamuez; Communities of Santa Rosa, Sucumbios, Yarinal - Afiladores, Santa
98



Annex 12
Rosa of Guamuez and vereda El Aji. Their territories are constituted by the Afilador Reserve
(9.325 ha), the Santa Rosa of Sucumbios (5.129ha), and Yarinal -San Marcelino (9.813ha). The
population estimate for the Cofanes 1.457 inhabitants (DNP, 1997). They are organized in 11
communities that live in "resguardos" under the authority of "cabildos" and "taitas". The Cofanes
are open to receive members from other ethic groups, through marriages, as long as the married
couple remains in their community. The cultural tradition of the Cofanes is kept by the "elders"
and is lead by the shaman or "taita", who has the knowledge of use of sacred and medicinal
plants, particularly the Yage. They have continue to speak their own traditional language which
is Tucano.
In addition to the Cofanes, towards the south near the Ecuador border, the Sionas are found.
They live in the river Putumayo and its affluent, in the Rivers Pinuna Blanco and Cuehembi. The
principal territories of the Sionas are Buena Vista y Santa Cruz that amount to a land surface of
13.127 has. The Sionas are part of the Linguistic family: Tucano occidental and they have kept
their language. The current population estimate is 475 persons (DNP, 1997). They are divided in
groups: the Katucha-Pai, Yaiguaje (jaguar people), Maniguaje (mojarra people), Piaguate (aji
people); Ocoguaje (water people); Payoguaje (monkey people) and Amoguaje (armadillo
people).
Table 1 summarizes the different land tenure by ethnic groups in the Alto Putumayo region. The
table can be summarized by characterizing three types of land tenure situations: (i) communities
with sufficient land surface: Cofanes of Ukumari Kankhe; (ii) communities in fragmented territories
and with insufficient land surface: majority of the Cofanes and the Inga and Siona communities; and
(iii) agricultural communities with small private properties: some Ingas and Kamsa from the Valley
of Sibundoy.
Tabla 1. Indigenous Resguardos of the Putumayo y el Valle del Sibundoy.
Municipality         ResguardolReserva      Community    Dat       ha
MOCOA               CONDAGUA                   Inga        21/09/1993      227
MOCOA               PUERTO LIMON                Inga       21/09/1993      251
MOCOA               MOCOA                       Inga- Kamsa  21/09/1993    300
MOCOA               LA AGUADITA                 Paez       21/06/1994      99
MOCOA               YUNGUILLO                  Inga                      4.230
ORITO               LA CRISTALINA               Awa        9/09/1994       131
PUERTO ASIS         AFILADOR                    Cofan      25/08/1976    9.325
PUERTO ASIS         BUENAVISTA                  Siona      21107/1983    4.500
PUERTOASIS          SANTA CRUZ DE PIAUIJA BLANCO  Siona    29/09/1992     1.990
PUERTO ASIS         SANTA ROSA DE SUCUMBIOS     CofAn      1B/02/1976    5.129
SIBUNDOY            SIBUNDOY PARTEALTA          Kamsa      28/11/1979     3.252
SIBUNDOY,SANTIAGO,OT. VALLE DE SIBUNDOY         Inga- Kamsa              1.150
VALLE DEL GUAMUEZ   SANTA ROSA DEL GUAMUEZ      CofAn      30/04/1973     3.750
VALLE DEL GUAMUEZ   YARINAL-SAN MARCELINO      Inga        30104/1973     9.813
IPIALES             UKUMARI - Kankhe (EL OSO)   Cofan                   21.140
TOTAL                                                                    64.833
99



Annex 12
Issues: For the indigenous communities in the Alto Putumayo, it is vital for them to maintain their
traditions and sustainable use of their natural resources. They also need a large area with natural
habitats in order to continue their traditional lives, such as hunting, fishing, and forest products
collection. The fragmentation of their territories and the over exploitation of resources is pressuring
them to modify their traditional management techniques. The land tenure division among them due
to political divisions, has brought social and cultural loss. In addition, the lower elevations of the
Putumayo has suffered from the presence of illegal crops and the presence of armed groups.
Facing these threats, the Indigenous groups in the Alto Putumayo have organized themselves to
address these problems: (i) they have organized themselves as the OZIP ( Zonal Organization of the
Indigenous groups of the Putumayo); (ii) establishment of ethnical organizations around their
shamans or "taitas", such as the ZIO - A'I (wisdom Union) and the UMIYAC (Union of the
Indigenous "Yageceros" Doctors of Colombia) to strengthen their culture, rescue their native tongue;
(iii) Strengthening of their "cabildos" and creation of new ones where needed (Puerto Legizamo);
(iv) Political participation at the national level. The Inga tribe in particular has had a strong public
presence, as it counts with one Senator and various representatives to other elected organizations.
Several of the indigenous groups in the Alto Putumayo have prepared "planes de vida" (the
indigenous version of their development plan) and have send their proposal to participate in the
Government plans to eliminate illegal crops.
b) Zone 2 - Sector B - Pueblos del Valle del Sibundoy
i) The Ingas and other quechua-speakers
The Inga population is estimated to be 2.988 individuals (DNP, 1997). They have small
communal lands (see table above). They are organized in "cabildos", presided by governors.
They have three cabildos. The Ingas have a direct connection with nature.. The vital cosmic
force receives the name of sinchi. This force includes not only men and women, but also animals
and plants, soil, water, rivers, rain, mountains, forests, etc.. The Ingas preserve their traditional
languaje "quechua"."
ii) Kamsd
The Kamsa live in the higher part of the Valley of Sibundoy. They comprise 4.022 persons (DNP,
1997). Their native language is the Kamsa. They live in towns such as the Sibundoy and their
house architecture is the same as the criollos. They are organized in "cabildos"lead by a governor
which politically represents the group. In addition to having a subsistence agriculture, the Kamsas
work on artcrafts and women make weavings , necklaces and commercialize them.
The Valley of Sibundoy presents the following issues:
- Small land tenure and the unequal distribution of land.
- They suffer environmental problems due to soil erosion in the mountain slopes and sedimentation
of rivers due to heavy deforestation caused by cattle ranching in the nearby mountains.
100



Annex 12
- They also suffer from plant pests in their agricultural plots and loss of food crops and medicinal
plants.
- Poverty is another serious problem causing the indigenous groups to migrate towards the cities.
The Valley of Sibundoy has strong and consolidated "cabildos". There are juvenile
organizations, especially the Inga with one professional group and political representatives that
have had an important influence in the indigenous movement in the country.
6.      Indigenous People Action Plan
a) Current activities from which the plan is drawn.
The IAvH has been working with the Cofanes in the Putumayo foothills, in cooperation programs
with their local organization the ZIO since 1997. With the Uwa community, the IavH and the
Universidad Javeriana prepared a study entitled: Participation of the UWA in the management,
restoration and conservation of the National Park El Cocuy. In addition, the table below summarizes
all the activities that IAvH has carried out with indigenous communities and how the lessons learned
have been incorporated in project design.
COMMUNITY        PROJECT                  LESSONS LEARNED
v Life Plan (Plan de dImportance for the indigenous communities to have
vida)                  autonomous decisions and community planning to aid the
Cofan            *   Botanical inventories   definition of their development perspective.
*   Expeditions         *Importance to include an institutional development plan in
*   Communications          their Life Plans.
*Recognition of the importance of the ancestral knowledge
about culture and their natural environment.
*Scientific technical assistance needs to be based in the
recognition and respect of the autonomy about the
decisions made by indigenous groups.
*Importance to have specific agreements and protocols were
the rights of indigenous people are clearly spelled out.
*Participation of the Uwa  * In participatory projects, it is important to invite all the social
in the management,      actors interested in the project.
restoration and      * Importance of recognizing the models and methods used
Uwa                  conservation of         traditionally by indigenous groups to conserve and
Cocuy Park              manage biodiversity.
* It is necessary to ensure that adequate and transparent
mechanisms are in place to resolve any trust conflicts and
restore confidence.
One of the main strategy to ensure the success of the project is to identify the initiatives and active
processes lead by local and regional actors that are congruent with the project goals. These
initiatives and processes will be supported by the project following the directives described below.
i) Initiatives in the Alto Putumayo
The Cofanes have proposed a series of activities in their Life Plans that are compatible with the
project objectives.
101



Annex 12
COMPONENTS                            Strategies
Strengthen the organizational capacity of  Develop a continuous process of
the indigenous communities to protect and  information, training, evaluation with the
maintain the integrity of their territory and  indigenous groups, the farmers and the
initiate an environmental education   conservation and scientific groups that
program with the agricultural communities  work in the area
that live near the Cofanes.
Prepare a social and environmental Plan of  Training programs for the communities
the Ukumari Kankhe reserve, Sucumbios  regarding the location of their territory,
Gardens, defining the territory in    biological value and social pressure.
accordance with conservation priorities.  Norms for using resources would be
prepared and discussed with the
communities and local authorities.
Carry out the characterization of the  Identify the populations of botanical
medicinal plants in the area around the  species with traditional and medicinal use
Resguardo Oso and Jardines de         using native people knowledge. Build the
Sucumbios, as well as surrounding areas  necessary logistical support to store the
with the participation of local indigenous  collections and process the information.
experts and scientists.
Initiate a research process and       Develop an exchange programn of
experimental approach to use the      knowledge between the taitas (or
medicinal plants in an intercultural  traditional doctors) and the scientists.
context.
Strengthen the traditional medicine of the  Promote the Cofanes traditional
taitas as an internal method to pass to  production system such as their home
Cofanes future generations and preserve  gardens. Build and improve small centers
this knowledge of the natural world.  of medicinal and traditional knowledge
and to assist patients and the preparation
of traditional potions.
Promote exchange programs with other
communities in the Putumayo
ii) Initiatives in the Cerro Patasco
The Cofanes are the main promoters of an inter-institutional process that encompasses the Park
service (UAESPNN), the Association for Farmers Development (ADC), WWF and the IAvH. The
process has been going on for two years with the objective of identifying the most effective way to
protect the Patascoy Mountain. Currently, there is a very small budget designated by this group to
carry out this process. A committee has been established with the major players to define the steps
to reach this goal. The Cofanes have several reasons to want to protect this Mountain: 1) It has a
traditional value that would be strengthened if it is protected; 2) It is a source of wild plants which
are critical to the practice of their traditional medicine and ceremonies; 3) It is one of the main
sources of pure water for their villages. The project will support this process as seen in the next
section.
102



Annex 12
iii) Initiative in the Uwa Territory
In the 1997 study carried out by the UWA, Universidad Javeriana and the IAvH several goals were
identified for the future.
Socialize and discuss the environmental problems of the area with the local actors and initiate an
environmental education program.
Establish a dialogue between the different actors, identifying their roles, potentiality and
perspectives to work together.
Recognize on the ground the conservation problems and production challenges, completing a
participatory diagnosis of the current situation.
Identify the general guidelines to include new concrete programs that would address some of the
main problems identified.
b) Detailed Indigenous Action Plan
As mentioned earlier, the IAvH has been working with the Cofanes since 1997 in the
characterization of their territory, the recovery of medicinal plants, and the preservation of their
cultural and ecological heritage. This has been done through training, workshops and evaluation of
the current management tools been used. Most of the Cofanes communities have participated in
these activities, including the four taitas (shamanes).
The relationship of the Cofanes to this project is based on a mutually trusting relationship and has
been developed in the framework of projects that as we speak continue to be carried out by IAvH.
There is a signed agreement between the Fundaci6n Zio-AI and the IAvH to carry out activities in
their territory. As a result, it has been agreed that the current project will be framed within the
previous agreement. The main objective of the new project will be to support the protection of the
Cerro Patascoy. The following activities will be part of the agreement.
103



Annex 12
ACTIVITY                                             BUDGET
Declaration of the Patascoy Cerro. Definition of its limits, use  US $ 100.000
categorization, and definition of the legal figure to be used
through a participatory process already in place by the
Cofan community and supported by the UAESPNN, WWF
y IAvH.
Conclusion of the biological assessment, including  US $ 80.000
intercultural biological characterization of the Cerro
Patascoy. Indigenous people will activelly participate as
researchers for this activity
Development of a zoning plan for the Patascoy Cerro and its  US $ 50.000
surrounding areas. Training and support will be provided to
the Cofanes to define their needs for zoning and planning in
a participatory approach. This will help them define the
land use categorization that they might apply to their own
territory.
Promotion of marketing of medicinal plants and other non-  US $ 100.000
timber forest products from the forest to improve their
livelihood and economic sustainability.. Training and
studies will be carried out to assess the market potential,
the carrying capacity of the products, the feasibility to
commercialize these products.
104



Annex 13
ANNEX 13: MEASURES TO AVOID RESETTLEMENT
SUMMARY: The Recipient has been informed about the Bank's requirements to have a policy
framework applicable to involuntary human resettlements arising from any other donation-
financed subproject. The Recipient has responded by stating clearly that no resettlement will
occur under the project. The Recipient has submitted as part of negotiations of the Grant
Agreement clearly explaining the safeguards they have considered in the design of the project to
avoid at all cost resettlement. A summary of this framework is included below. The Recipient
will screen any activities of the project for potential resettlement issues and will decline
financing activities that could present such cases. The project contemplates the creation of a
National Park to protect the Cerro Patasco which is not been occupied by people; one reason why
it has been preserved. The local people (Cofanes) living next to it have asked for the creation of
this park. (see Annex 12 on IPDP). The rest of the areas contemplated in the project are
conservation easements in private lands and regional reserves with legal rights for people to live
in them. Furthermore, the new legislation of the National System for Protected Areas has
developed a wide range of categories of protected areas enabling people to live and using
resources to support their livelihood and therefore avoiding any needs for resettlement. The
project has set as the main eligibility criteria for supporting project activities related to private
conservation easements or regional reserves that they do not impact the land tenure nor land use
situation of local people. These eligibility criteria are an integral part of the Operational Manual
of the project. Proposals for these activities will be submitted to the IAvH coordination unit and
will clearly describe the current situation around resettlement issues. IAvH will only select
proposals with no resettlement issues and which prove to be solvent. The project was also
designed to carry out activities in rural landscape with local people living around parks. These
activities represent an incentive to improve the livelihood of people. So, in no way will project
activities decrease people's livelihood, totally on the contrary, it will improve.
BACKGROUND: Protected areas are the most important mechanism for the conservation of
biodiversity. Today, biodiversity conservation strategy focuses more on ecoregional processes and
in supporting a variety of protected area categories (parks, comunal reserves, indigenous reserves,
etc.) and not as much in the strict conservation of small areas. The rationale for this trend is that it is
more important to allow for the conservation of ecological processes on a greater spatial scale that
surpass the limits of zones under strict protection. Effective systems of protected areas with
connecting corridors can only be achieved today using conservation categories with diverse types of
uses and with the support of local populations. This is particularly the case in the Colombian Andes,
where the density and population distribution complicate strict conservation. In this context, the
project aims to support the development of conservation practices in different types of reserves and
private areas. To this end, the project will support the design of regional systems of protected areas,
the design anf the implementation of management planes, the design and designation of new
protected areas in order to fill important conservation gaps and promote and support private
reserves.
This focus on protected areas systems is not necessarily exculsionary of human presence.Instead
one of the priority tasks is the definition of levels of human intervention that influence the modes of
use and occupation used today in rural areas and regions of crucial biodiversity. Additionally,
national parks can comply with their function by interacting with the human population, as they
conserve important uninhabited areas. This idea is clearly reflected in the National Policy of
105



Annex 13
Protected Areas' put forth by the Special Administrative Unit of the National Natural Parks
(UAESPNN) and ratified by the National Environmental Council of Colombia.
In any case, in light of the high degree of transformation of the Colombian Andes and of the
generalizations of this phenomenon, the areas of interest for conservation programs are precisely
those scarce geographic areas with ample wildlife zones and with little population, at times
inhabited by indigenous peoples or by peasants with ancestoral roots to the land - social groups to
whom this policy principally refers, while at the same time providing guidelines for other social
groups who could potentially be affected, such as the following:
Peasant settlers.
Propietors or rural owners with agrarian enterprise activities.
Propietors or rural institutional owners.
Propietors or owners with recreational farms.
Propietors or private owners with means of conserving nature.
Concessioners with mining activities.
Spontaneous miners.
Under the guidance of this policy, the project will achieve its goals without resettling any human
population. This framework presents the fundamental guidelines of said policy and the strategy for
its application.
CONCEPTUAL FOUNDATIONS OF THE POLICY
The conservation of nature is carried out through different appraoches to protected area use, prior to
the removal of any human influence, in which absolute isolation is each time less viable and in the
long term idealistic. Given that it is required for management, the most cost effective forrn to do so
is by exploring strategies that involve those social groups in the tasks of conservation. This principal
aspect of the the objectives of conservation, those which involve cultural values, and finally the
survival instincts of the human race have the valuation of biological diversity possible.
The economic costs of strict protection are not calculable. It is indispensable to use other
mechanisms, particularly in situations of population occupancy, including when associated with
high biodiversity values given that the world economy andmuch less the developing countries are
capacble of assuming the costs of resettlement. This is due to the difficulties associated with the
economic valuation of biodiversity and the failures of the world economic markets that do not
internalize said value..
The imposition of isolation generates a disconnect of local communities from the protected area, in
addition to a sentiment of confrontation. The path is to accept that those local communities are
potential partners in conservation, not necessarily enemies.
1      12 UAESPNN. Politica de Consolidaci6n del Sistema Nacional de Arreas Protegidas, con Base en la Participacion
Social en la Conservaci6n. Rep6blica de Colombia, Ministerio de Medio Ambiente, Unidad Administrativa Especial del Sistema
de Parques Nacionales Naturales. Bogota, Agosto de 1999. 26 p.
106



Annex 13
On the other hand, the policy of isolating geographic spaces from the processes of development
tends to perpetuate the actual growth model that generates a cultural attitudinall change. The
contrary occurs with conservation proposals that confront the development model and insist in its
transformation toward a more nature friendly system, in areas recognized as crucial for the future of
biodiversity.
The creation and consolidation of geographic areas in the name of development, is a protection
mechanism but not the only one. The development of regional protected area systems is founded in
sustainable agrarian systems, understood by those processes of compatible production and
extraction with a logic of the conservation of nature and that, articulated to processes of social
harmonization, permits the reduction of pressures on protected areas, and in the same manner
intends to solidify from an integral perspective various schools of knowledge, recognizing the study
of traditional agriculture and the popular knowledge as fundamental pillars of its origin.
In accordance with Decree 2164/95, indigenous communities together with groups of families of
amerindian descent, with or without collective property title, conscientious of identity and that share
values, traits, uses or customs of their culture, just as forms of government, management or social
control and systems of self-regulation, that distinguish them from other communities.
When a social group is denominated 'campesino' or peasant it is in reference to communities of
families for which agrarian, productive and extractive activities are their principal form of deriving
income in the rural areas that they inhabit, where the work force is predominantly comprised of
family members and the production is for complete or partial self-consumption.
Proprietor is that person who backs the possession and profitable use of land with property title,
whether individual or collective, properly registrated, while the possesor is he who lacks regulation
and maintains his possession and/or profitable use in de facto situtaions or in informal titles. The
latter is the case of most colonized peasants and indigenous peoples outside of reserves, even
though they are present in exceptional cases in the remaining social grousp discussed above.
The proprietors or rural enterprise owners art those that conduct productive and extractive processes
with siginifcant capital investments, salaried labor and market oriented production. This is also the
case of commercial farming, cattle raising, and large-scale livestock, poultry and fish farming, and
in the industrial forest plantations, among other activities that may be found in the Andean zone.
The proprietors or institutional owners are very diverse, in that they can range from academic or
research institutions with relatively large areas to conduct their research and experiements or
military installations in strategic sites toofical and private entities that use small areas to install
telecommunication equipment.
The subsoil resources are property of the Nation, for which every mining activity is carried out
under governmental concession, even though small mining is on the margin of the laws, which has
been denominated spontaneous mining.
LEGAL FOUNDATIONS
This document reflects the Policy for Consolidation of National System of Protected Areas, rooted
in the Social Participation in Conservation (Politica de Consolidaci6n del Sistema Nacional de
107



Annex 13
Arreas Protegidas, con Base en la Participaci6n Social en la Conservaci6n), approved by the
National Environmental Council and disseminated by the Ministry of Environment in October
1999.
Additionally, in accordance with Article 16 of Covenant No. 169 of the OIT with regard to
"Indigenous Peoples and Tribes in Independent Countries" signed by Colombia August 7, 1991, the
indigenous peoples that live within or outside of legally constituted reserves have the right to remain
in their place of inhabitance.
Decree 622 of 1997 regarding the national system of parks establishes that settlement and
indigenous production systems are compatible with the conservation of protected areas, for that
reason the permanence of a community in a protected area will be respected and its rights to take
advantage of economically renewable natural resources, observing the compatible technologies with
the objectives of the conservation of the respective area. Consequently, under the Colombian
legislation, the Indigenous Reserve is compatible with the areas of the National Natural Parks
Systems, under strict protection.
In the same decree, legal land titles are respected within protected areas and it is specified that
agreement is reached with land owners compensation to the limitations of land use together with
incentives to make settlements to their owners for land use and natural resrouces, via sustainable
agricultural systems. Although within the Colombian constitution and laws, gaps exist that generate
uncertainties about the collective rights of peasant communities, "raizales" (those social groups that
are born and have ancestors in their area of inhabitance) that inhabit protected areas, the cited decree
does not explicitly regulate their expulsion or expropiration.
In the 1 990s regional and private conservation proposals were suggested. Among the regional
proposals the department of Risaralda is detached. The private reserves have solidified themselves
in the Network of Private Reserves of Civil Society, made up of 25,000 hectars of 93 associates,
located across the length and width of the national territory. Although they make up a much smaller
territory than the System of National Parks, they have committed various social actors to the
conservation of biodiversity and natural ecosystems, for whom the Network of Reserves has been a
space of reflection about the social mission of conservation. The new political guidelines of the
Parks Unit of the Environmental Ministry is a reflection of the fruits of this process. Since recetly,
the Decree regulates the establishment of private reserves.
PRINCIPLES OF THE POLICY
Consensualized decision-making. The development of regional systems of protected areas should be
a social exercise, based on processes of harmonizing interests and perceptions, guided by analysis
and comprehension of the relationship between society and nature in the diverse reality of each
region. Therefore, one of the principals of action should be the articulation of all persepctives from
the civil society and the State, with an emphasis on the local reality.
Conservation as a collective proposal. All types of initiatives suggested by individuals, organized
groups or the public sector should be articulated among local and regional actors when introduced
and methods for solidifying regional systems of protected areas promoted, always with the ultimate
goal being understood as conservation.
108



Annex 13
Integrity. The consensualized construction of regional systems of protected areas will begin with an
integral vision of the territroy, that intends to overcome the fragmentation of the construction of
knowledge, and the difficulty to foster a multicasual vision of the realities that confront the regional
system of protected areas.
Timely and Sufficient Information. Those responsible for conservation programs are obligated to
supply the population inhabiting the protected areas and its buffer zones available information
regarding the objectives and scope of the projects that affect them, as well as the potential benefits
and opportunities, with the understanding that this should take place prior to initiating participatory
decision-making processes.
Respect to social groups entailed to protected areas. The development of regional systems of
protected areas will begin with the recognition and environmental valuation of social and
institutional actors associated to them, for whom the decision should begin with integrated analysis
of the following aspects: historical relation of the social actors in the area, their models of
occupation and use of natural resources, the environmental regulatory system that governs de factos,
its expectations relative to the area and the legal jurisdiction of its relation..
Respect ofaquired rights. In the process of building consensus abour the objectives and strategies of
conservation, the rights of the social groups involved shall be established and respected - equally
those contemplated by current legislation and international treaties just as those defeated in previous
negotiations with the State.
Respect to local systems of social control of natural resource management: The planning and
execution of a conservation program shall recognize the diverse systems of social control for natural
resource management, exercised by multiple cultures in geographically, ecologically, socially and
organizationally diverse manners. Conservation actions should seek to be compatible with both
systems, the national environment and the consensus of the population historically settled in the
area.
Equitable benefits of conservation: The development of conservation programs requires training of
personnel and and as a result supplies a source of employment; likewise it represents an opportunity
to become familiar with and make use of the sustainable monetarization of the diverse
environmental functions of natural ecosystems. These are the benefits to which the dwellers of the
park areas and buffer zone should have privilidged access.
Parks with people. Given that the same legislative act that created the areas of the National Natural
Parks System inhibit conventional social investment, transition mechanisms should be introduced to
protect conservation units with human presence.
Creation of new protected areas. Should be the result of social harmonization, supported by
interinstitutional agreements regarding land use and needs for strict protection of ecosystems.
Gender Equity. The distribution of benefits and ompensations among men and women of the settled
familes in protected areas should recognize that the social roles undertaken by different genders in
productive activites guarantees and equitable control and access to compensations and incentives..
109



Annex 13
Privileges to vulnerable populations. Women head of households, children, elderly, disabled and
other vulnerable groups shall have privileged access to the benefits of the conservation programs.
Peaceful solution to conflicts. Entities and procedures shall be established that guarantee the
peaceful resolution of conflicts that emerge during the planning and execution of the conservation
program, equally among the population as between the population the entities responsible for the
program.
IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY FOR THE POLICY WITHIN THE PROJECT
1. Begin with participatory processes. A principal strategy of the project to assure that its activities
have no adverse impacts on involved populations, is that to begin with participatory processes that
are compatible with the objectives of the project. This reduces the possibility of encountering
stakeholders who confront the project considering that social and economic sustainability is
threatened, on the contrary they should perceive the project as support to achieve goals
consensualized in a participatory manner, with regard to initiatives of territorial ordinance.
Adequate participatory processes already exist in various project zones given the community
organizational levels in many zones of the Andes and a high grade of transformation that
demonstrates that the opportunity costs of conservation are greater than continuing its destruction.
The participatory mechanisms incorporated into the project design are detailed in Annex 11.
2. Participatory design of regional protected area systems. The responsibility for conservation and
the sustainable use of biodiversity fall directly and indirectly on numerous institutions, as well as
civil society. Project resources are limited in relation to the real necessities of conservation in the
Andes, for which one of the objectives of the project is to incentivate participatory actions with the
majority of these actors, which constitutes part of the social contract that allows the saving of
institutional resources and the completion of agreements with distinct social groups about financial
compensation for the restrictions to the utilization of natural resources, derived from the needs of
nature conservation.
The participatory design of regional systems of protected areas is a strategy to achieve this objective
and is functioning in three project zones. This process groups among other the CARs, the
UAESPNN, the IAvH, the INCORA, NGOs and community organizations of regional character and
productive union associations. As a team they identified the gaps in conservation in the region and
the best alternatives to fill them from the biological and socio-economic point of view (taking into
consideration the former point). This shall permit that the actions undertaken have a minimal
impact on the local communities at the time they count on the support of participants to minimize
the impact. The project has allocated US$680.000 for these activities.
3.Participatory identification of new protected areas. The new areas of the National Natural Parks
System shall suggest process of reaching agreement in terms of this policy, which should begin with
the study and analysis of the social dynarnics of the territories crucial for biodiversity conservation.
The agreements should be the culmination of profound processes of social reflection, an avenue to
legitimize decisions regarding various important aspects of the project. The criteria to support the
creation of new areas shall be the projects to be approved shall have resolved any form of conflict of
land use or tenure to be eligible for financing. In this manner, the project strategy seeks to
resolution of local problems in order to support any type of financing. This norm forms part of the
eligibility criteria for activities described in the Operational Manual.
110



Annex 13
4. New protected areas with national character. An example of this type of process is noted in the
Annex detailing the participation of indigenous peoples in the project (Annex 12) .
5. Support to municipal Territorial Ordinance Plans (POT) and in the Life Plans of ethnic
territories in zones of interest to the project. These planning instruments, actually in process of
becoming legalized, are an opportunity to involve localities in the conservation proposals without
need to impose upon them. For this reason the project shall support these processes through active
participation, when possible, and through the provision of available information, because they
should be considered as spaces that allow for the identification of opportunities for the project.
6. Promotion of sustainable productive activities. The design and implementation of the
management plans for protected areas have as an objective to ensure the long term sustainability,
which considers the actual and expected impact that the neighboring communities generate. For
this adequate sustainable productive activities shall be identified and promoted en each site. During
the first phase of preparation, the principal knowledge alternatives were gathered with the assistance
of CORPOICA. This process shall continue during the execution of the management plans and of
Component 2 of the project (conservation in rural areas) that includes the development of
management tools for rural areas, the identification and promotion of green products and markets,
the dissemination strategy and replicates the results of Component 2, and finally promotes
biodiversity friendly goods and services. The field implementation of this strategy, shall support the
Municipal Units of Agropecuary Technical Assistance (UMATA), in the spirit of integrating its
productive proposals with the conservationists through technical assistance to foster productive
alternatives with lower enviromental impacts.
7. Development of incentive systems for Andean Region use. Another form of improving the
compatibility among conservationists and human use is to promote the creation of economic and
institutional incentive systems at regional and local levels. This strategy commences with the
acknowledgement that conservation may imply that the producer can not assume for the greater
society. It seeks to attract institutions and resources that are offered and are interested in offering
incentives for Andean Region production the Certificate of Forestry Incentive (CIF), but that does
not always have its desired affect. The project will therefore act as a facilitator to consider the
various incentive offers in the areas of action of the project and provide information to analyze the
impacts of incentives in protected areas and their relation with the incentives actually offered. In
this manner, actual incentives may be adjusted and gaps identified along with forms to overcome
them so that it operates as an incentive system that responds to a regional strategy and not as a
isolated incentives that seek specific objectives.
8. Promotion and strengthening of the private reserves and the networks ofprivate reserves. As
previously stated, a fundamental aspect of this strategy is to identify actors with interests compatible
with the objectives of the project. This is the case of private proprietors with interests in
conservation. In the Andes today there exists more than 200 private reserves, where the proprietors
have reserved all or part of their land for conservation. Many of these reserves (93) are affiliated
with the Network Association of Private Reserves of Civil Society. The project relies on resources
to support the conformation and consolidation of private reserves in the areas of action of the project
and to strengthen to network that associates them in a manner that can offer improved services to
those affiliated while attracting more. It is important to note that indispensable requirement to
receive project support for the conformation of private reserves is the possession of a land title and
111



Annex 13
the actual control of its use, in a manner that guarantees its conservation for at least the medium
term and that the possibility does not exist to forcibly displace the population. This regulation for
investment eligibility, as previously mentioned, forms part of the Operations Manual that will be
applied for the duration of the project
9. Settler peasants and others The settler peasants with unsustainable productive or extractive
activities shall be linked to the conservation programs in terms of this policy and shall participate in
Component 2 that supports changes in productive systems that are more compatible with the
conservation of nature.
10. Economic resources The following table displays the principal resources for the implementation
of this strategy.
Activities                                                 Amount
Participatory design of regional systems of protected areas  US$ 680.000
Workshops, meetings and dissemination materials for the participatory  US$325.000
design of protected areas
Design and implementation of protected area management plans  US$ 7.500.000
Design and implementation of tools for rural area management  US$ 3.460.000
Identification of green products and markets               US$ 1.390.000
Dissemination strategy and replication of the conservation component  US$ 470.000
results in rural settings.
Fund for the promotion of biodiversity friendly goods and services.  US$ 1.000.000
Development of an incentive system for Andean Region use   US$ 355.000
Promotion and strengthening of private reserves.           US$ 1.000.000
Promotion and strengthening of networks of private reserves.  US$ 300.000
112



Annex 14
Annex 14: Colombia GEF Portfolio
Colombia is generally recognized to be one of the five "megadiverse" nations in the world
(Mitterneier, 1998) and has one the highest concentrations of species per unit area. It is home to
about 15% of all known terrestrial species including the largest number of species of birds and
amphibians in the world and one of the highest number of vascular plants and vertebrates. The
country also possesses 18 ecoregions (WWF/World Bank report, 1996), the second highest of
any country in Latin America. The most recent ecosystem map of Colombia (Instituto Alexander
von Humboldt, 1998) identifies 65 ecosystem types.
This outstanding natural endowment is reflected in the country's current GEF portfolio which
falls largely within the biodiversity thematic area and includes initiatives under three different
Operational Programs (#2, #3, #4) and the crosscutting issues of Land Degradation and
Watershed Management. The various proposals, at different stages of preparation and
implementation, target key representations of the county's wide spectrum of ecosystems,
geographical areas, environmental and social issues, from the Andean Paramo, to the Amazonian
Forest, to the Pacific Coast, and to the Caribbean Marine Resources.
Whilst this range of initiatives is highly justified by the country's megadiverse status, it calls for
the definition of a coherent programme approach in order to optimize resource allocation, ensure
synergies and complementarities within the GEF biodiversity window and maintain overall
coherency with national priorities, policies and plans. The GoC has taken important steps to
meet this challenge through the definition of a series of commitments and specific mechanisms
including the following:-
Coordination Committee: The Minister of Environment (MMA), UNDP and the World Bank
have established a Permanent GEF Committee that became fully operational in the second
semester of 1999 and has the following objectives:- 1) to ensure that all the new GEF initiatives
respond to Government priorities, as defined by the National Environmental Policy and the
National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan; 2) to clearly establish the thematic
complementarity of different initiatives and their different geographical location; 3) to exchange
information on successful and unsuccessful experiences and lessons learnt during project
preparation; 4) to create a forum of discussion between Implementing Agencies, Executing
Agencies and GoC on portfolio progress and execution in order to improve the efficiency in the
use of the financial and human resources; and 5) to exchange technical assistance between the
different initiatives.
Common Vision: The Colombia biodiversity portfolio projects share the same vision and strategy
whose main characteristics are:- 1) the conservation of biodiversity of global importance,
through the sustainable use of biodiversity and natural resources; 2) the identification and
removal of barriers for Sustainable Production Systems, as part of the strategy to prevent
biodiversity loss; 3) the participation of the local communities, and civil society in the definition
and execution of the conservation strategy; 4) the identification and implementation of a broad
range of protected area management categories for a more comprehensive conservation strategy;
and 5) decentralized environmental management at the regional and local level, as a necessary
factor for the success of any biodiversity conservation strategy.
113



Annex 14
Institutional and Organizational Coverage: The GEF Colombia biodiversity portfolio features a
wide institutional variety of executing agencies, that not only ensures the country's absorptive
capacity for the portfolio but also enriches the dialogue, the exchange of experiences, and
methodologies between individual proposals. This institutional diversity ranges from National
Government Institutions (e.g. the National Parks Unit), to Regional Government Institutions (e.g.
the Corporaciones Autonomas Regionales (CARs), to National NGOs (e.g. Foundation Natura
and Foundation Pro-Sierra), to local NGOs (e.g. Proselva and Etnollano), and to research
institutes (e.g. Instituto Alexander von Humboldt).
Portfolio Overview
The Colombia GEF biodiversity portfolio comprises nine projects that are under implementation
(1), preparation (7), and identification (1). A summary of project partners, objectives, and status
is described below.
Under Implementation:
1. Sustainable Use of Biodiversity in the Western Slope of the Serrania del Baud6 (Choco) -
Medium Sized GEF - Implementing Agency: World Bank. Executing Agency: Foundation
Natura Colombia. The objective of this MSP is the development of a strategy for the sustainable
use of biodiversity in the western slope of the Serrania del Baud6 and the marine resources of its
coastal area (Choco- Pacific Coast) in a joint effort between governmental institutions and civil
society, designed to benefit local communities, within OP#2, Coastal, Marine, and Freshwater
Ecosystems) and OP#3, Forests (GEF Approval April 1999; WB Approval June 1999; project
start up September 1999).
2. Caribbean Archipelago Biosphere Reserve: Regional Marine Protected Area System -
Medium Sized GEF - Implementing Agency: World Bank. Executing Agency: CORALINA.
The objective of the project is to conserve biodiversity and ensure sustainable use of coastal and
marine resources in the Archipelago, while enhancing equitable benefit distribution for the
community, within OP#2, Coastal, Marine, and Freshwater Ecosystems (GEF Approval May 00,
CEO approval June 00, WB approval June 00; Project start up August 00)).
Under Preparation:
3. Conservation of Biodiversity in the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta - Full Size GEF -
Implementing Agency: World Bank. Executing Agency: Fundaci6n Prosierra Nevada de Santa
Marta. The objective of this project is to conserve, restore and promote sustainable use of the
mosaic of tropical ecosystems in the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, within OP #4, Mountain
Ecosystems, and OP# 3, Forests (GEF-Council approval, December 1999).
4. Andean Region use of biodiversity in the Andes region. - Full Size GEF - Implementing
Agency: World Bank. Executing Agency: Institute von Humboldt. The project's development
objective is to increase conservation, knowledge, and sustainable use of globally important
biodiversity in the Colombian Andes, within OP #4, Mountain Ecosystems, and OP# 3, Forests
(GEF Council Approval, May 2000).
5. Biodiversity Conservation in the Paramo and Montane Forest Ecosystem of the Colombian
Massif- Full Size GEF - Implementing Agency: UNDP. Executing Agency: National Parks
114



Annex 14
Unit. The proposed project will protect globally outstanding ecosystems in the region,
establishing a network of protected areas, improving buffer zone management by enhancing
sustainable land use in areas adjacent to parks, and integrating biodiversity management
principles into regional and local processes, within OP #4, Mountain Ecosystems, and OP#3,
Forests. In view of the fragility and severe land degradation of mountain areas, it will also
address the crosscutting issue of land degradation (Block A granted).
6. Biodiversity Conservation in the Special Management Area La Macarena - Full Size GEF -
Implementing Agency: UNDP. Executing Agency: CORMACARENA. The objective of this
project is the conservation of biodiversity in the special management area La Macarena,
strengthening the management of the reserve and contributing to sustainable natural resources
practices, within OP#4, Mountain Ecosystems, and OP#3, Forests (Block B granted).
7. Andean Region Development of the Mataven Forest (Amazonia) -Medium Sized GEF -
Implementing Agency: World Bank. Executing Agency: Etnollano. The objective of this MSP is
to support the establishment and demarcation of indigenous territory as a strategy for natural
resources conservation. It is working on the creation and management of the first "Indigenous
National Park" as a strategy for Andean Region use of biodiversity in the Mataven forest in the
Amazon region, within OP#3, Forests. (Block A granted, MSP Brief submitted for GEF
approval)
8. Community Based Managementfor the Naya Conservation (Choco)-Medium Sized GEF -
Implementing Agency: World Bank. Executing Agency: Foundation Proselva. The objective of
this project is to develop and implement a community-based biodiversity management and
monitoring plan, endorsed by local communities and government, to be the long term guide for
future development in the Naya river basin of the Choco region, within OP#3, Forests, and
OP#4, Mountain Ecosystems (Block A granted).
Under Identification:
9. Marine and Coastal Protected Areas System of the Caribbean and the Pacific - - Full Size
GEF - Implementing Agency: UNDP. Executing Agency: INVEMAR. The objective of this
project is the Andean Region use of biodiversity in the marine and coastal protected areas of the
Colombian Caribbean Sea and Pacific Ocean, in order to contribute to the preservation of the
cultural diversity and the sustainable development of the nation, within OP#2, Coastal, Marine,
and Freshwater Ecosystems (Block B under preparation).
115



Annex 15
ANNEX 15: GEF Biodiversity Projects in the Andean Region
Key Position of the Andean Region
Within a megadiverse country, the Colombian Andes is biologically the nation's richest
biogeographic region, surpassing even the humid lowland forests of the Amazon, with 21 distinct
ecosystem types (Instituto Alexander von Humboldt, 1998) and high levels of endemism. This is
largely due to the division of the Andean range into three distinct mountain chains in the south
of Colombia. Each chain, or Cordillera, has high and differentiated diversity due to the wide
range of altitudes, climates, and geology resulting in geographical isolation, particularly in the
valleys and mountainous areas. The Andean region also has a remarkably high cultural diversity
with numerous indigenous groups. Housing approximately 80% of the nation's total population,
it holds a key role in the country's economy and as such had been placed as the highest priority in
different national plans and policies including the National Development Plan, the Collective
Environmental Plan, and National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan.
National Strategy for Conservation in the Andes
In view of its crucial importance, the GoC has taken additional care to ensure strategic GEF
intervention in the Andean region in order to avoid irreversible losses to globally significant
biodiversity. In August 1999 the MMA presented its National Strategyfor Conservation in the
Andes as the first stage of a long term policy to conserve biodiversity in this region. This
strategy contains four well-targeted and coordinated GEF proposals designed to address the
most immediate priorities in the region in a cost-effective and timely manner.
These four proposals include one national "umbrella" project and three regionally based projects
and fall within OP #4, Mountain Ecosystems, and OP#3, Forests"3. In view of the fragility and
severe land degradation of mountain areas, they will also address the crosscutting issue of land
degradation. The umbrella project will focus on themes best addressed from a national viewpoint
such as revision of the legal frameworks, developing conservation incentives such as
environmental service fees and green markets, and incorporating biodiversity considerations in
sectoral development. It will also develop national stakeholder and information networks,
strengthen institutional capacity for biodiversity conservation and increase the knowledge base
on biodiversity. In addition to these nationally oriented themes, the umbrella project will initiate
regional conservation actions in zones selected for their global biodiversity significance and to
ensure a comprehensive coverage of ecosystems focusing on areas not targeted through the
regional projects of the Andean Strategy.
This umbrella project will be complemented by regionally based projects in the Colombian
Massif, in the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta and in the Serrania de la Macarena. These areas
were selected based on four main criteria:- (i) the strategic value within the nation's biodiversity;
(ii) innovative elements that could enrich the National Conservation Strategy; (iii) social and
environmental processes that require differential treatment and (iv) well advanced and solid local
processes that present opportunities to work in areas of potential risk with greater success rates.
3 See Colombia GEF Portfolio Annex
116



Annex 15
The Colombian Massif is located at the confluence of four biogeographic regions (Amazon,
Pacific, Orinoco, and Andes) and at the intersection of the three Andean Cordilleras giving rise
to a rich mosaic of unique ecosystems. Furthermore, the Massif is known as the hydrographic
star of Colombia and is the catchment area of the county's four most important rivers. The Sierra
Nevada de Santa Marta is located at the confluence of the Andean and the Caribbean bioregions
and marks the most northern extreme of the entire the Andean Chain. It the world's highest
coastal peak, offering nearly all the climatic zones that can be found in Tropical America,
resulting in an outstanding biodiversity. The Serrania de la Macarena is located at the confluence
of the Amazon, Andes and Orinoco bioregions, represents the most western point of the Guayana
Shield and is the oldest geological formation in the country. The Serrania has a remarkably high
endemism and borders the eastern flanks of the Eastern Cordillera marking the biologically rich
transition between Andean and Amazon ecosystems.
Each regional project also presents unique cultural characteristics and important inputs for a
national strategy. The Colombian Massif has the largest ethnic diversity in a uniform region and
as such is ideal for the definition and development of inter-cultural management categories for
the conservation in the Andean region. The Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta equally offers a
unique input of indigenous knowledge to the conservation strategy as it houses the county's most
culturally consolidated and structurally organized ethnic group. The Serrania de la Macarena in
contrast presents the conservation challenges of areas under recent occupation following
unplanned and rapid colonization processes. This region also presents an opportunity to evaluate
a unique management category - Special Management Area- that requires the joint management
of a Regional Environmental Authority (CORMACARENA) and the National Parks Service.
The Massif and Sierra Nevada, in contrast, will consolidate and evaluate a different
management category-a Biosphere Reserve - in the former led by National Parks Service and the
latter a NGO.
Coordination Amongst Andean Projects
In addition to the general co-ordination efforts described in the Colombia GEF Portfolio 15,
additional measures have been taken to avoid duplicity between these closely related Andean
proposals. These efforts have focused on the clear definition of each project's contribution to the
Andean Strategy; the role of the National Parks Service, IAvH's, CAR's, NGO's and other
institutions in each project; and the identification of specific mechanisms to unify technical
criteria, define complementary project baselines and co-financing sources and develop
coordination mechanisms for project implementation.
Unification of technical criteria to ensure uniform inputs to the Colombia Andean Strategy
* All projects share the ecoregional approach in the design of their conservation strategy. The
scale of the ecoregions presented in Dinestein et al, 1998, has been detailed to allow national
analysis and cross-referencing with the national ecosystems map produced by the Institute
Alexander von Humboldt (1998). This classification has been used by all the projects as the
basis for biological analysis.
* The projects support the design and implementation of the national system of protected areas
currently being developed under the lead of UAESPPN that will include a broad range of
management categories. They will implement regional systems that will serve as pilot
117



Annex 15
experiences that could be replicated in other areas of the country. Furthermore, selection of
sites for on the ground work has been based on an ecosystemic analysis to ensure
representative regional systems of protected areas as the basis for in-situ conservation in the
long term.
*  All projects recognize the importance of permanent participation to assure ownership and
support of all stakeholders involved, from investors, the State, technical and scientific
community on the ground implementing agencies and local communities. This is in line with
the Parks Service instrument "Politica de la Conservaci6n con la Participaci6n Sociarl
which will be adopted for the development of the conservation areas components of all
projects.
*  A complete biodiversity baseline for the Andes and biodiversity information system will be
developed under the lead of IAvH to readdress the lack of basic knowledge and poor access
of decision-makers to this, that are root causes of biodiversity loss in Colombia. All projects
in the Andean strategy will contribute to this goal and help disseminate the information in
adequate format for decision-makers.
Economic baseline and project co-financing
The teams of the projects have also been working together to identify their baselines and
negotiate co-financing in order to optimize the use of available resources. As a result, a realistic
calculation of the resources for each project is under construction and will be clearly defined by
the time all projects reach maturity, avoiding double accounting.
Coordination Mechanisms for Project Implementation
A series of mechanisms have been established that will be further detailed as the projects mature.
These include the following:
*  To avoid duplication of efforts and assure unity of criteria, UAESPNN and IAvH will
coordinate the activities of all projects related to national parks and biodiversity information
collection and management, respectively. The UAESPNN will be integral part of each
project component focusing on the creation of regional protected areas systems ensuring that
these become complementary and functional modules of the national system under creation
by UAESPNN. Where appropriate the UAESPPN will use its close relationships with local
communities and other stakeholders in and near national parks to strengthen participatory
processes of all projects. IAvH will offer training and its experience in ecosystem mapping
and biodiversity characterization. Both IAvH and UAESPNN will coordinate a revision of
the current conservation legislation in Colombia according to their legal mandate and
propose adequate modifications to the GoC consequent with the conclusions reached during
the implementation of the strategy for the Andes.
*  The Ministry of the Environment will convene an annual Andean coordination workshop,
funded jointly through the projects in the strategy. These workshops will have open and
closed sessions each with clearly defined objectives. The open sessions will be used to
present project advances to diverse national and international audiences and provide
international expertise on the state of the art of Andean Region use of mountain ecosystems.
118



Annex 15
The closed sessions will be restricted to project teams and experts and will focus on joint
planning exercises, optimizing resources, interchange of experiences and specific
contribution of the projects to the Andean Strategy.
*  Regular meetings will be held between project coordinators and national executing agencies
to assure complementarily at the operational level. Project coordinators will convene these
meetings as specific needs arise. Project coordinators will also be invited as observers to the
IA evaluation missions of each respective project.
*  Mechanisms, such as common web pages and information bulletins, will be developed for
information exchange. All information collected by the projects will be of public domain,
and will be integrated in the biodiversity information system under creation by IAvH and the
umbrella project
* The work to be undertaken by the umbrella project on conservation incentives and green
markets (including ecotourism) will be adopted in all the projects to improve long term
financial sustainability of conservation actions. Local specifics and opportunities may be
addressed in regional projects where appropriate and later taken up by the umbrella project.
All projects will benefit from the biotrade initiative under implementation by IAvH.
119



Annex 16
ANNEX 16: Monitoring and Evaluation Program
The objective of this plan is to offer information to decision-makers about the evolution of
biodiversity, as the system on which the project acts, and about the administrative and
financial development of the project, to evaluate the project's evolution and its impact. The
first type of information will be collected and stored in an indicators system that reflects the
state of the biodiversity in the project areas, the negative pressures that affect it and the
institutional response implemented to face those negative pressures. The second type of
information, will be collected and stored in an indicators system to evaluate the efficacy,
effectively and timing of project actions at any time as well as to allow a final evaluation of
the project's impact and performance.
Part A describes the specific components of each of the indicators systems whilst part B
describes the operational structure required to implement the systems and to follow the
commitments acquired with the financiers and with the WB as implementing agency of the
GEF.
A. PROJECT'S MONITORING AND EVALUATION INDICATORS
The system counts with two basic components: i) simple indicators: to monitor
biodiversity characteristics as well as social, economic and demographic conditions in
project areas; and ii) complex indicators: to evaluate the performance and impact of the
project. This section presents the basic characteristics of these two types of indicators.
Table 1 shows project's simple indicators whilst Table 2 describes how complex indicators
to evaluate performance and impact of the project are built form simple indicators. More
technical detail can be found in the document Sistema de Indicadores de Seguimiento y
Evaluaci6n del Projecto y de la Politica de Biodiversidad en los Andes Colombianos-
Fundamentos Conceptuales y Metodologico (IAvH, 2000) in project files.
1. Simple Indicators to Monitor Biodiversity:
Monitoring indicators are quantitative measures of relevant manifestations of: a) the state of
biodiversity, b) the pressure over biodiversity due to human activities and c) the
institutional response to change the biodiversity state and negative pressures over it. These
are called Simple because they are only a measure describing a situation, they do not intend
to qualify or judge the situation. In other words they express simple irrefutable facts about
biodiversity in this case organized in a state-pressure-response structure'4.
* Indicators of State. Measure biodiversity state at all times. Allow biodiversity change
monitoring throughout the project. Detected changes are not necessarily result of
project actions.
14 This system is similar to the one used by OECD (Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development) as well as to the one
suggested by UN:
OECD (1994) Environmental Indicators, OECD Core Set, Paris
United Nations (1996) Indicators of Sustainable Development Framework and Methodologies,
120



Annex 16
* Indicators of Pressure. Reflect social, economic, politic and demographic factors that
produce changes on the state of biodiversity by interacting directly or indirectly with it.
* Indicators of Response. Identify the actions and measures put in place to achieve the
desired biodiversity scenarios. They reflect in a synthetic fashion governmental,
institutional and project defacto policies.
2. Complex Indicators to Evaluate the Performance and Impact of the project.
Simple state-pressure-response indicators are required but not enough to make judgments
about performance and impact of the project. For that matter we move onto complex
indicators that relate project goals and expected impacts with actual achievements. It is here
where project defined goals and expected impacts come into play.
Evaluation indicators are classified in two categories: a) Project performance indicators
related to the evaluation of project actions and b) Project impact indicators related to
changes in biodiversity state-pressure-response situation.
* Project performance Indicators. Compare programmed versus executed actions and
outputs using three measures: effectiveness, efficiency and timing.
-        The effectiveness indicator. Measures the advance of an specific action
against its programming. It is expressed as the percentage of the programmed action
that has been executed in reality.
The efficiency indicator. It is based on the programmed resources for an
activity and measures the percentage actually used to execute it.
-       The timing indicator. Measures the time gap between the real and the
programmed ending of an activity.
*  Project Impact Indicators. Compare biodiversity state-pressure-response situation
before and after project intervention. An first approximation to the initial situation or
base line was constructed during project preparation and will be complemented at the
beginning of the project. The main expected impact goals were defined during project
preparation and are in the project's log-frame. The reaching of these goals can be
additionally evaluated using two indicators for those goals with enough information:
-        The Productivity Indicator. Measures the cost-benefit relationship. Benefits
are estimated as the economic value of the achieved changes.
-        The Quality Indicator. Measures the difference between the planned and the
obtained output in terms of technical standards collectively accepted as desirable.
121



Annex 16
B. INDICATORS SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
1. Biodiversity Monitoring Indicators system
Implementation and operation of this system requires a technical administration unit that
will be hosted at IAvH. The system will be implemented in collaboration with local,
regional and national institutions that will provide some of the information and that will
have access to the integrated databases and will receive the reports to help them in their
decision making.
The main activities to be undertaken by the technical administration unit are the refinement
of the indicators system, the establishment of collaborative agreements with local, regional
and national entities collaborating with the system. The design of POAs, administration
and management of the databases, data processing and generation of reports and the design
of a long term financial sustainability strategy for the system.
The system has been and will continue to be designed to function only with information
available and informnation which is regularly updated by defined institutions. New
information can be incorporated in the system as long as it is responsibility for data
gathering is clearly defined.
Additional consulting will be required to:
a) Monitoring and training to evaluate and strengthen the capacity of the collaborating
institutions to provide data and use the results.
b) Design of data sampling and gathering methodologies for desirable information not yet
available
2. Project performance and impact indicators system
Project performance and impact monitoring and evaluation will be undertaken by the
Project Coordination Unit which will keep track of all project activities and collect the
required information to calculate the indicators. To assist on this matter, the project will
acquire and install project monitoring and evaluation software. The main activities of the
PCU regarding this issue are:
a) Design of the information gathering and update procedure to be followed for all the
activities undertaken by the project, including initiation dates, intermediate
commitments and dates, funds flow and achievements.
b) Information gathering throughout the project; and
c) Monitoring and evaluation of the effectiveness, efficiency and Timing of project
activities according to the previously presented indicators.
It will be responsibility of the unit to keep close track of project beneficiaries and activities
to assure adequate and timely information flow. The basis of project performance
122



Annex 16
evaluation will be the annual activities plan that will be ready the previous October of every
year. Semi-annual project performance monitoring and evaluation reports will be prepared
comparing these plans with the project evolution. These reports will be ready by March and
October every year reporting about the previous periods July-December and January-June
respectively. Project impact evaluation according to the indicators already mentioned will
be undertaken by independent consultants by the end of the project since environmental
impacts take a long term to leave traceable tracks.
Table 1. Biodiversity Monitoring Simple Indicators: A. Biodiversity Conservation; B.
Biodiversity Sustainable Use; c. Biodiversity Knowledge
A. Biodiversity Conservation
Variable                               Indicator
Natural ecosystem area             Area of each ecosystem in ecosystems maps
Threatened species                 # of Species identified as threatened in red lists and
S                                     books
T Ecosystems fragmentation            Current fragmentation index Vs Original
A                                     fragmentation index
T  Water production                   IDEAM's estimates of waterflow in L/seg-kmL.
E  Water flow regulation              Standard deviation of monthly waterflow divided by
the monthly average.
Water shortage                     Relationship between water demand and offer
Use of land in areas of biological  Area in grassland and cultures within areas on
interest                           biological interest
Road density in areas of biological  Road kilometers per Km2 of area of biological
interest                           interest
P Illegal extraction of flora and fauna  Number of confiscated specimens
R  Human density                      Rural density according to DANE's census
S Human life quality                  ICV (Indice de condiciones de vida) according to
DNP
S Economical activity.                Bank deposits amount
U  Water demand                       Water produced by areas of biological interest used
R                                     for aqueducts or hydroelectric
E Violence                            Percentage of violent deaths
Fumigated area                     Surface reported by illicit crops eradication plans
Introduction of transgenic material  Number of organisms known to be introduced
Invasive species                   Number of known introduced species
Hunting                            Confiscated specimens and hunting permits
Protected area per ecosystem       Percentage of original ecosystems area currently
under protection
Ex situ conservation               Percentage of threatened species conserved ex situ
123



Annex 16
B. Biodiversity Sustainable Use
Variable                                Indicator
Area under biodiversity sustainable use  Area certified for sustainable use production
S Area under Biodiversity friendly coffee  Percentage of coffee planted area under shade
T                                       coffee production
A Area under traditional cultures       Percentage of all productive area exploited with
traditional practices
E Sustainable wood extraction           Percentage of the estimate of extracted wood that
was legally extracted
Tourist attraction                   Number of tourist visits
P Agrochemical use                      National production - exports + imports
R
E
S
S
U
R
R Adequate Protected Areas' management  Number of areas with management plans under
E                                       execution
S                                       Expenditure in the implementation of management
P                                       plans
0
N
S
E                                       1
124



Annex 16
C. Biodiversity Knowledge
Variable                               Indicator
Andean Biodiversity Publication    Number of scientific publications about Colombian
biodiversity
S Man power dedicated to study        Number of professionals working on biodiversity
T biodiversity                        from the institutions holding agreements with
A                                     IAvH
T Digitized data                      Total number of digitized registers available in
E                                     biological databases
Repatriated data                   Percentage of international collections with
Colombian data that have repatriated their
information.
R Government investment in environment  Percentage of governmental budget dedicated to
E and biodiversity research           biodiversity research
S Amount of biodiversity research projects Number of biodiversity research permits
P Biodiversity interest in governmental  Percentage of biologists amongst governmental
O institutions                        employees
N  Biodiversity Research incentives   Number of research grants
S                                     Percentage of applications actually funded
E
125



Annex 16
(a)    Table 2: Examples of types of Indicators: Simple Indicators fro monitoring and
Complex Indicators for evaluation
Monitored                        a.     Indicator Type
Object
Monitoring                    Evaluation                  Impact
Ecosystem     State (e.g. Number of hectares)  Effectiveness =            % of recovered
Eo: Ha at the beginning of the  [(RI-Ro)/Rp -Ro) * 100]  ecosystem=
project                                                     [(El - Eo)/Eo]x1OO
El: Ha at any given time     Efficiency =               Additional valuation:
CTe/CTp
Pressure (e.g. Population density in the
ecosystem's area of influence)                              Productivity: cost per ha
Timing =recovered
Po: At the beginning of the project T
PI: At any given time            (Rtu- Rto)/ Rto 100   Quality: Biological
Response (e.g., Number of hectares                          diversity present in
under some degree of protection)                            recovered area.
Ro: At the beginning of the
project
RI: At any given time
Rp     = Project target
Rtl Rto = Real and programmed activity ending time.
CT     = Total Cost.
e,p    = executed and programmed
126



Annex 17
ANNEX 17: SECURITY ISSUES
Colombia has been affected by political violence and public order problems for decades.
The origins of the problem go back to the times of political violence of the 1950s, when
the first insurgent groups emerged. Over time this process has given birth to diverse
political tendencies in the distinct regions of Colombia. At different moments, peace
negotiations and relations have advanced, which have led to the institigated the
demobilization of groups such as M- 19 and Quintin Lame. Despite these efforts, the
subversive presence has increased in recent years, apparently linked to the financing of
their activities with resources derived from the cultivation and processing of illegal crops.
The situation has become more grave with the constitution of paramilitary groups that
have advanced activities against the subversive groups, principally in Caribbean
Colombia and more recently in Amazonian Colombia.
The government of Colombia has advanced a negotiation process with the main armed
groups, in hopes of finding a political departure from the conflict. For the past two years
a peace process has been advancing with the FARC-EP that includes the establishment of
a distension zone in the Department of Caqueta. This process includes the establishment
of a negotiations table that has identified a ten point agenda. It is important to point out
that the environment forms part of the agenda and is one of the priority themes to be dealt
with. Simultaneously dialogue with the ELN is advancing, with hope for the
establishment of a national convention to discuss peace issues. It is evident that those
processes are long and complex, but the existing room for negotiations should be
recognized as important to work towards an eventual political solution.
Colombian institutions have been working at the center of this conflict. The Institute
Alexander von Humboldt is no exception, given that it has been conducting field work in
diverse regions during the last five years, without having security problems. We have
noted that a profound respect exists for environmental issues, and that the distinct actors
with whom IaVH has been working (CARs, NGOs, municipalities, grass roots
organizations, etc..) share the goals of knowledge, conservation and the sustainable use of
natural resources.
We have noted that a profound respect exists for environmental issues, and that the
distinct actors share the goals of knowledge, conservation and the sustainable use of
natural resources. Not only are we convinved that it is possible and necessary to work
amid the conflict, but also that environmental themes may contribute to the solution of
the armed conflict in Colombia.
The present government has designed the Plan Colombia as an integral strategy to
substitute the cultivation of illicit drugs in conflict zones through the direct eradication of
crops and the development of productive alternatives. It is estimated that in actuality
nearly 100,000 hectars of Coca crops exist, concentrated in the Departments of Putumayo
and Caqueta, and some zones of Catatumbo. A much smaller extension of poppy crops
exists in the high Andean zones, principally in the Macizo Colombiano. The rural
127



Annex 17
populations of these regions have chosen to cultivate illicit crops as a source of income
generation due to the lack of competitive alternatives.
The Plan Colombia would not have direct impacts on the project areas as Coca
cultivation is growing principally in the lowlands of the Amazon and Catatumbo. The
consideration of public order has been a central element in the design of this project. In
the process of selecting the focus areas of the project, one of the central criteria has been
to avoid armed conflict zones. For this reason, the Serrania de San Lucas in the south of
Bolivar was excuded from the first phase, despite its enormous importance as one of the
remaining Andean forests with transition to the dry forests of Caribbean Colombia. The
zones identified during the first phase of the project have been included due to the
viability of carrying out field work. Nevetheless it is important to recognize that the
security outlook may change rapidly, and for this reason it is necessary to maintain
flexibility in the implementation of the project in order to reduce risks and at the same
time take advantage of the opportunities that may emerge.
The experience aquired by the Instituto Humboldt has permitted the design of a
methodology, which has been successful to date, to work in rural zones and avoid
security problems. The central element is the active participation of local groups in the
design and implementation of the project. The transparency adequate management of
information is key to guarantee the security of people working in the field. To this end,
we have adopted written presentation materials, in clear and simple language, that
respond to the concerns of the distinct actors. Information with regard to the participating
institutions, the objective and scope of the project, the types of activities to be carried out
and the complete list of participants are fundamental aspects. This information, like the
spaces for local participation in every aspect of the project, facilitates local ownership
and strengthens the likelihood of project success.
In conclusion, it is important to recognize the special characteristics of a country such as
Colombia at the time of project design and implementation. The project has taken into
account these elements in the design process, and throughout the execution of the project
the continuos review of these conditions will be necessary, for in some instances
adjustments will have to be made. The project may provide some support to the peace
process by helping some local sub-projects to develop pilot initiatives on the sustainable
use of biodiversity in the Andean Region. Finally, it is important to back and support the
institutions such as Instituto Humboldt that are seeking ways to continue to work amid
the conflict, and who have the necessary experience to confront project implementation
in Colombia.
128



Annex 18
ANNEX 18: SELECTION OF PRIORITY AREAS
Colombia is generally recognized to be one of the five "megadiverse" nations in the
world (Mittermeier, 1998). With a total surface area of 1.14 million km2, representing
about 0.8% of the world's surface area, Colombia is home to about 15% of all known
terrestrial species (Table 1). This makes Colombia one of the countries with the highest
concentration of species per unit area. The country has the largest number of species of
birds and amphibians in the world and ranks high in the number of vascular plants and
vertebrates. The country also possesses 18 ecoregions (WWF/World Bank report, 1996),
the second highest of any country in Latin America. The most recent ecosystem map of
Colombia ((Etter, A., 1998) identifies 65 ecosystem types.
Table 1 - Biodiversity: Colombia and the World
Category         Number of      Ranking of      Number of       Ranking of
Species     Diversity (in  Endemic Species    Country
the World)                      Endemism
Higher plants         45000-51000        2           15000-17000          3
Vertebrates (except       3374            1             634               3
fish)
Mammals                   456            3               28               13
Birds                     1815            1              142              5
Reptiles                  520            3               97              11
Amphibians                583             1             367               1
Butterflies              3100            3              300               4
Source: Mittermeier et al. (1997): Megadiversity, CEMEX, Mexico City.
Each of the five different bio-geographic regions of Colombia (Amazonas, Orinoquia,
Caribe, Pacifico, and the Andes) can boast a tremendous biological richness in line with
the overall biological importance of the country. However, within Colombia, the Andes
region stands out in terms of biological richness (Table 2). This is so even when
compared with humid lowland rain forests of Amazonian Colombia. When comparing
these five regions, the Andes has the highest number of species of mammals, birds,
reptiles, and amphibians.
The Colombian Andes
The Andes contain 21 distinct ecosystem types (Etter et al., 1999), each of which is
remarkably diverse as the result of great fluctuations in altitude, climate, and geology
resulting in geographical isolation, particularly in the valleys and mountainous areas.
This has resulted in very high rates of endemism. Biodiversity in Colombia is still not
fully documented. Recently, field surveys in the "Cordillera Oriental" undertaken by the
Instituto Alexander von Humboldt indicated that 30% of 400 recorded bird species were
new records for this area, 5% were new for the country and one is probably new for
science. Inventories and field surveys are still required to further document the magnitude
129



Annex 18
of Colombia's biodiversity and support stronger priority setting exercises and policy
formulation.
Table 2 - Biodiversity: the Andean within Colombia
REGION            Mammals        Birds       Reptiles   Amphibians    TOTAL
No.     %     No.    %     No.   %     No.    %     No.    %
Amazonas          85     19    868    50    147   29     134   23    1234   37
Orinoquia        101     22    644    37    119   24     41     7    905    27
Caribe           100     22    951    54    101   20     28     5    1180   36
Pacifico         167     37    830    47    210   42     181   31   1388    42
Andean           177     39    974    56    277   55    353    61   1781    54
TOTAL            4 54    =     1752         506         583          3295   =
Source: Informe Nacional sobre el Estado de la Biodiversidad en Colombia (Instituto Alexander
von Humboldt, 1998).
The high conservation priority assigned to the Colombian Andes is a function not only of
its biological richness but also of the high level of threats to its biological integrity. Over
seventy per cent of the country's population lives in the Andes and this has resulted in the
transformation of about two thirds of the region's natural habitats. At the same time, this
also means that a third of the Andes remains as natural habitat. These areas, albeit
fragmented and for the most part unprotected, represent a tremendous potential for saving
the globally important biodiversity of this region.
For these reasons, socioeconomic as well as biological criteria have to be considered
hand by hand when selecting project working areas, key activities and designing a
participation strategy.
Selection of Project zones
The Andes, as defined in this project (areas of the Cordilleras above 500 m, excluding the
Sierra de Santa Marta and Serrania de la Macarena), remains very large and diverse.
Although some components of the project, such as intersectoral coordination and
monitoring, intend to support investments over this entire area, those components which
involve on-the-ground investments in specifically defined geographic areas must be more
focussed. This is a function of the limited resources of the project and the undesirability
of spreading these investments over very large areas.
As part of the National Biodiversity Report, Etter has recently mapped 71 ecosystems in
Colombia. (Informe Nacional Sobre el Estado de la Biodiversidad Colombia 1997,
130



Annex 18
Santafe de Bogota, IAvH, PNUMA, Ministerio del Medio Ambiente, 1998). An update of
this map for the andean region (Etter, A. et al, 1999) shows 21 ecosystems within the
Andes and these units were considered the starting point of an exercise in selection of the
highest priority areas of the project. However, this classification of ecosystems only
considers structurally similar habitats (e.g., "Moist Andean Forests below 1000 m") and
does not take into account that similar ecosystems in widely separated areas, such as
different cordillera, may have quite distinct faunas and floras. To better take this into
consideration, the ecoregions map of Colombia (based on the WWF/World Bank
ecoregions report of Dinerstein, et al. 1997 but using a slightly revised map produced by
WWF-Colombia) was overlaid on the ecosystems of Colombia in order to subdivide
those ecosystems that occur in more than one ecoregion. This for example, resulted in the
division of "Moist Andean Forests below 1000 m" into three distinct ecosystem types
corresponding to the Cordillera Oriental Mountain Forests, Nortwestem Andes Mountain
forests and the Magdalena Mountain Forests ecoregions.
The ecosystems identified still represent a very large area so a methodology was adopted
to prioritize areas within the Andes. The objective of this methodology was to select 8 to
12 zones (blocks of natural ecosystems) containing a representative sample of all Andean
ecosystems whilst minimizing the area required.
The principal inputs at this stage were:
*  A detailed and exhaustive review of conservation priorities in Colombia that was
carried out in 1999 by a joint team of WWF-Colombia and the lAvH (Castro and
Hernandez, 1999). Their determination of high priority areas in Colombia was based
on a consideration of biological richness (defined by altitudinal gradients and areas of
avian endemism), representativity, and ecological viability (presence of blocks of
habitat of at least 10,000 ha).
*  An update of the actual ecosystems map of the National Biodiversity Report and a
map of the original ecosystems of the Andes, generated as part of project preparation
by Universidad Javeriana, using climatic, topographic and soil data by a model
calibrated with the remnant natural ecosystems. (Etter, A. et al, 1999).
*  A proposal of priority areas in "General Analysis on Representativity and
Transformation of Andean Ecosystems"(Etter, A. et al, 1999)
*  The results of the Social Assessment (see Annex II for details). A few elements are
described here.
* Areas where implementation of project activities was considered not viable, mainly
highly violent areas, areas of illicit crop cultivation and areas of very weak
institutional capacity.
* Areas to be included under other GEF biodiversity conservation projects under
preparation: The Macizo project, the Macarena project and the Sierra Nevada project,
all part of the Colombian strategy for the conservation of the Andes described in the
131



Annex 18
document "Presentaci6n de Projectos GEFAndinos, Una estrategia nacionalpara la
Conservaci6n de los Andes" (Colombian Ministry of the Environment, 1999).
As a result, over thirty percent of the original project area was deselected. Within the
remaining area, a set of 11 zones encompassing a representative sample of all Andean
ecosystems was selected; they are the alternative zones in which the project will work
and from which phase I zones will be selected. Table 3 shows all Andean ecosystems per
ecoregion, their conservation status and their representativity within national parks and
within the project zones.
Through an iterative process, the selection of project zones can be summarized as
follows: (see Map to locate the zones and table 5 for details):
*  Identification of ecosystems recognized and documented as being of outstanding
biodiversity importance and delimitation of a zone of contiguous remnants of natural
ecosystems. This resulted in the selection of the following 2 zones
*  The zone including the Paramo del Cocuy, the largest complex of paramos recognised
as the most biodiverse paramo area in the world acording to the National Biodiversity
Report (Informe Nacional Sobre el Estado de la Biodiversidad Colombia 1997,
Santaf6 de Bogota, IAvH, PNUMA, Ministerio del Medio Ambiente, 1998). The zone
was defined as the paramos and the contiguous moist forests.
*  The zone including the Alto Putumayo, the Andes transition towards the Amazons
which is estimated to be twice as biodiverse as equivalent ecosystems in the north of
the Andes. This was concluded as a result of a systematic assessment carried out by
IavH during 1998 and 1999 for the eastern flank of the Cordillera Oriental from the
Venezuelan to the Ecuador borders, the best preserved area of the Colombian Andes
(Caracterizaci6n de la Biodiversidad en Areas Prioritarias de la Vertiente Oriental
de la Cordillera Oriental, Villa de Leyva, Instituto Humboldt, 1999).
Identification of zones with a wide range of ecosystems complementary to those already
selected. When possible, each new zone was located in a new ecoregion. In case of
alternative equivalent zones, preference was given to those with more favorable land
tenure conditions, existing parks and stronger CAR support. When no large remnants of
an ecosystem exist, zones can include transformed areas such as coffee grown areas to
address conservation within rural landscapes.
Before selection, a feasibility check was done for each of the zones, taking into account
available socioeconomic information as well as the response from regional actors such as
CARs, some NGOs and Universities. Secondary socioeconomic information at
municipality scale was collected and integrated in a database during project preparation
to be used in the selection process and as input for the Biodiversity state-preasure-
response indicators system to be implemented during the project. Collected information
includes more than 60 variables grouped into i-social and demographic variables, ii-
sociopolitical and institutional, iii-economic and finantial and iv-natural resources. A
132



Annex 18
database manager was developed to manage the database. Table 4 presents some statistics
calculated with the available data.
Minimum criteria for the selection of a zone was:
* Strong support from the concerned CAR(s) and demonstrated willingness to co-
finance investments
* Local communities interest in environmental issues
* Clear trends towards sustainable production
* Land tenure situation favorable to establishment of protected areas.
* In the case of pretending the establishment of large protected areas, absence of human
populations or likelihood of reaching a mutual understanding on conservation goals.
So far the main criteria used to define zone boundaries has been the identification of
relatively pristine contiguous ecosystems blocks and surrounding area with relative
socioeconomic homogeneity and similar productive systems. In some cases, however,
boundaries were modified to minimize the number of CARs in each region when the
contribution of a CAR to a zone was small. Detail zone boundaries will be defined during
project implementation in a case to case basis. This according to the response of local
communities and municipalities to the project as well as based on more detailed land
cover information.
Project Phase 1 Zones
Phase 1 of the project will address Zones 1 to 5 (see Tables 3, and 4, 5 and Map), The
selected zones are distributed over 6 of the 9 WWF/World Bank ecoregions that overlap
the area defined as The Andes for this project. Although not full ecoregional coverage,
the selected zones cover all ecosystem types identified by the National Biodiversity
Report before subdividing them per ecoregions.
As well as representativity, project effectiveness and viability were taken into
consideration in the selection of zones. Phase 1 project zones include those with the
strongest institutional capacity and shown support to project objectives by key partners
such as CARs, NOGs, local communities (indigenous communities crucial in Alto
Putumayo, zone 2), producers associations (Federaci6n de Cafeteros, crucial in zone 5).
It is worth noting that some zones, as shown in Map, appear as enclosing non-natural
remnant areas. This is the case for ecosystem types that have no very large remnant left
and have to be conserved in relatively fragmented landscapes. In reality those areas
contain important natural remnants only not large enough to show at the original scale of
the maps (1:1 '500.000)
133



Annex 18
Table 3: Basic information on each of the 21 ecosystems found in the Andes, the ecoregions in whik -, dey are found, their conservation
and protection state anid their representativity within project zones. BAD: Tall dense forest; BMD: Medium dense Forest; BBA: Low
open forest; AA: Bushes, BBD: Low dense forest; BMA: Medium open forest; BB: Low forest. Based on the maps in Etter, A. et al. 1999
and WWF/World Bank ecoregions report of Dinerstein, et al. 1997.
Code Ecoregion                   Original  Remnant I National Parks  | Project Zones 1-11  Phas I Zones (1-5) 
Ecosystem                   (ha)    (ha)  % of Area  %of %of    Area  % of % of  Area  % of % of
Orig  (ha)  Orig Rem  (ha)  Orig Rem.   (ha)  Orig Rem                               _        ..
46  Bosques Motntanos de la cordillera Oriental
Al    BMD Perhu:medo Andino      222056 160660 72%   28560 13% 18%                                     Most remnants in the Macarena Project area
A3    BMD Humedo Andino         1790312 876224 49% 208491 12% 24% 253910 14%     29% 229571 13%   26%
Aa2   BBD Humedo Alto-Andino    1303923 727365 56%  177016 14% 24% 302602 23%    42% 298779 23%    41%
Aa3   BBD Seco Alto-Andino       100602   52743 52%                                                    Remnants only in Perija, a violent area.
Aa4   BMD Humedo-Seco Alto-       82488   78548 95%  17598 21% 22%    5191  6%    7%                   Most Remnants in the Macizo Project area
Andino
Sal   BAD Perhumedo Sub-Andino   938458 403222 43%   61998 7% 15%                                      Most remnants in the Macarena Project area
Sa2   BAD humado Sub-Andino      738979 224883 30%   87477 12% 39%   64276 9%    29%   64276 9%    29%
41  Bosques Montanos del Noroeste Andino
Al   BMD Perhumedo Andino       1119972 702005 63%  165702 15% 24% 130424 12%    19%  58544 5%     8%
A3   BMD Humedo Andino           402705  90927 23%                   89020 22%   98%  31775 8%    35%
Aal   BBD Perhuimedo Alto-Andino  547851 353711 65%  68801 13% 19%   44338 8%    13%   22676 4%     6%
Aa2   BBD H1-1medoAlto-Andino    654221 146061 22%    2623 0%    2%  72211 11%   49%   51009 8%    35%
Aa3   BBD Seco Alto-Andino        60712    4245 7%                    3139 5%    74%    3139 5%    74%
Aa4   BMD Humedo-Seco Alto-       41652   31396 75%    1928 5%   6%                                    Largest remnant in the Naya Corridor Project
Andino                                                                                            area
Sal   BAD Perh(umedo Sub-Andino  931940 624225 67%  123992 13% 20%   58314 6%     9%   18486 2%     3%
Sa2   BAD humado Sub-Andino       95327  51635 54%                   49357 52%   96%   24023 25%   47%
V3    BMA y AA Seco Valles       192672  50359 26%1                  39883 21%   79%   12547 7%   25%
43  Bosques Montanos del Valle del Cauca
Al   BMD Perhumedo Andino        764217  52347 7%      436 0%   1%    9565  1%   18%   9565  1%   18% Project includes the largest remnant
A2   BMD Perhumedo-Humedo        257004                                                                No big remnants. Conservation with rural
Andino                                                                                           landscape management.
A3    BMD Humedo Andino          816546   6555  1%    1359 0% 21%                                      No big remnants. Conservation with rural
landscape management.
Aal   BBD Perhumedo Alto-Andino  577723 129450 22%   12343 2% 10%    17083 3%    13%   17083 3%    13%
Aa2   BBD Humedo Alto-Andino   |4573261 82437 18%| 23582 5% 29%      119041 3%1 14%1 11904 3%      14% Largest remnants in the Macizo Project area
Aa4   BMD Humedo-Seco Alto-       508901 11220 22%    1272 3% 11%     5811|11%| 52%     5811 11%   52% Largest remnants in the Macizo Project area
Andino
Sal   BAD Perhumedo Sub-Andino   112733  38244 34%                                                     Remnantes only in Paramillo, a violent area
134



Annex 18
44  Bosques Montanos del Valle del Magdalena
Al    BMD PerhumedoAndino        1910327 148115 8%     4954 0%    3%   21660  1%   15%     183 0%     0%
A3    BMD Humedo Andino          1566761 205063 13%                    50693 3%    25%   10983 1 %    5%
A4    BMD Seco Andino              29631  29089 98%                    29138 98%  100%
Aal   BBD Perhumedo Alto-Andino  1380753 471877 34%    60343 4% 13%    21918 2%     5%     870 0%      0%
Aa2   BBD Humedo Alto-Andino      520202 225176 43%     3586 1%   2%   59692 11%   27%    16642 3%     7%
Aa3   BBD Seco Alto-Andino        610566   87854 14%                   63942 10%   73%   50366 8%     57%
Aa4   BMD H(umedo-Seco Alto-      405996 194926 48%     8903 2%   5%   23781  6%   12%   17436 4%      9%
Andino
Li   Arbustal y Bosque Bajo      217096   37651 17%    1004 0%    3%   35759 16%   95%   35759 16%   95%
SemiaridoAltiplano
L2   BMD Seco-Semiarido           182370                                                                  No remnants left
Altiplano
L3   Humedal Altiplano             80724  14000 17%                    10065 12%   72%     372 0%     3%
Sal   BAD Perhumedo Sub-Andino    863561 365861 42%                    55531  6%   15%
Sa2   BAD humado Sub-Andino      1678450 357516 21%                    35894 2%    10%
V3    BMA y AA Seco Valles        411976  71352 17%                    66971 16%   94%    2201  1%    3%
V4    AA y BB Semiaridos Valles   140936  87691 62%                    87896 62%  100%     410 0%     0%
47  Bosques Montanos del este de la cordillera real
Al    BMD Perhumedo Andino        3480521 301784187%                  108980 310%  36%  108980 31%%  36%
Aal   BBD Perhumedo Alto-Andino   356982 298844 84%                  |143282 40%   48%   143294 40%   48%
Aa2   BBD Humedo Alto-Andino       76049   30130 40%                   16569 22%   55%   16569 22%    55%
Sal   BAD Perhumedo Sub-Andino    2721321 212270178%      _          1116304 43%   55%
78  Bosques secos del Valle del Magdalena
Sa2   BAD humado Sub-Andino       646518              I                                                   No I Na remnants left
Vl    BMD Seco-Semiarido Valles   708008                                               I                  No remnants left
V3    BMA y AA Seco Valles        473745  32261 7%          |   |    ;32300| 7% 100%|
V4   AA y BB Semiaridos Valles     45463  16418 36%              ___   1     31%   86%_
77  Bosques secos del Valle del Cauca
Vl    BMD Seco-Semiarido Valles   222521                                                                  No I  i  a remnants left
V2    Humedal Valles               37465                    I                          INo remnants left
V3    BMA y AA Seco Valles        156641  49834 32%/                 I 42048 27%   84%/                   Only one iarge remnant very altered
V4    AAy BB Semiridos Valles      12100   11830 98%                   11927 99%1Q%                       O  ney elarge remnant very altered
79 Bosques secos del Valle del Patia
Sa2   BAD humado Sub-Andino        75670    4805 6%1                    4805 6%   100%
Vl    BMD Seco-Semiarido Valles    23258                                                                  No remnants left
V3    BMA y AA Seco Valles        1082811 67512162%         |   |    | 67512|62%| 100%|
135



Annex 18
V4 I AA'y BB SemiaridosValles  |   117041  5823150%1        1   1    |  5754149%1 99%1        l    l     l
139 Paranos de los Andes del Nortel
P1   Paramo Humedo                729658 664631 91% 266646 37% 40% 353646 48%      53% 353555 48%    53%
P2   Paramo Humedo                571629 527108 92% 192462 34% 37% 117302 21%      22%  117317 21%   22%
P3   Paramo Seco                   93310  78283 84%    3351  4%   4%   23311 25%   30%   23311 25%   30%
P4   Superparamo                   32368  31868 98%   31605 98% 99%    25232 78%   79%   25232 78%   79%
136



IBRD 31250
1 PreqectZ;Ies        COLOMBIA                                   N,lARAGUA
Poe2 Fv~,Lfl-.ACOSTA                                                               VN
e 3hMw F P'o,ea     PROJECT      ZONES                          1          -2  R S   VENEZUELA
_-                             CC>'[O t*Cir.52lE.IA  {
*Der,arneet Ca:pu.l       /'cs                  rr                                      *\ 'v~ \ 
*   Naorae.>:ICapvl                  *f- Seanara Eer2 
La'         RSers k.rrws~utSao - /-'                                         Santa Fe -r         -
Ele,at.onm ow,e I ' ' f ATLA% A IT   J  \Ir _- -                                    (
DO,garnen. I-:urdor.es  'Cancena                                                  /    B R A   Z I L
~ /~  Ilre-lll,>l dsgru-1nes  '  k.      / 
7,                     Lake-
-. , 7;  .E>AR          MLarerr                 -P E R U
PANAMA                     -     -               .
,,  '  {  /e  \  -  _                            | BOLIVIA
/  C        .NOTE
S~AI'JANDER                 .S            4    ?:.      h
t ,! , ~~~~~~~~~~~'                                    - J   ,     _      'S.'
N T I -3 a;uI   ,   S 
-  ns       ;      ( Qdi'9 )~~~ ARAUCA '\VENEZUELA
N.,:^2         ~t s      rJi ry,  N.   Cosonore
PACIFIC              .
OCEAN
/;}t ; 1  !8;t  9,  :1sl4 9   k          ~~~~~~~V I C H A D A ,
0             *           5./'> ' 
t  S2' / i /I'iL~, \ / r-  0
tSt  i /   \~~~~/             i- ' ' !, rJre \  <f ~~~~G U A I N I AJ' 
/ 0                                     G U a  I A R E _                             o 
0<j        aroa 4.f%         jt                                                                     xv \Sa< o  - .;
oO           <  V  A  U P E S ~~~ * ni. 4E  
Phase  I Project Zns*i  .>i~ 
DONortheastern Par,,mos and  roist forests   Z; . /j- J\
Alto Putumayo )>$>2 > .
Da u       P-Cal,ma-Porogros corridor
0  Alt,pl.n   Cund,yceyce
Los Nevados Pan, and neighbor coffee grov ng area               -  ! /o l -
Phase 2 Project Zones:                                A MA ZO N AS                    B R A Z I L
Q Cuchill de los Cobardes and Chicamocha Canyon                                 _ I      ___
0 La Rusia Paroma an Quercus Forest of Santander
0    Patia Valley and neighbor western Andes Chain mountain forests  _-
CoCrcre-Opon                                                         \    !     ~    
t Tatacoa desertPERU                                                      /
Dry forests of the Cauca Canyon n Antioquia          P             /
Other GEF Project Zones: ---* I
Naya Corridor Project      0     50    100  1 ,q: Le
Maccro Project .
Macaunna Protet            0      100    200 KILOMETERS   r         1.J
F  Sierra Nevada Santa Marta Project  74                               70
JANUARY 2001



