Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER 024843
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Andean Region Conservation and
Sustainable Use of Biodiversity Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
and
INSTITUTO DE INVESTIGACION DE RECURSOS
BIOLOGICOS ALEXANDER VON HUMBOLDT
Dated March 29, 2001
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER 024843
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 29, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank), acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment 
Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain 
members of the Bank as participants of the GEF, and INSTITUTO DE INVESTIGACION DE 
RECURSOS BIOLOGICOS ALEXANDER VON HUMBOLDT (the Recipient).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2, dated May 24, 1994, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund and 
appointed the Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2);
(C)
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the basis 
set forth in Resolution No. 98-2, dated July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of 
the Bank (Resolution No. 98-2);
Page  2
(D)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said 
request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for 
the Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under 
Resolution 94-2;
(E)
(i) the Project will be co-financed by the Government of the Netherlands 
pursuant to a grant agreement to be entered into between such Government and the 
Recipient (the Dutch Grant Agreement) providing for a grant in an amount equivalent to 
$4,750,000 (the Dutch Grant); and (ii) Corporaciones Autónomas Regionales, the 
Regional Autonomous Corporations of the Government of Colombia (the CARs), will carry 
out certain components of Parts A, B and C of the Project, and, for that purpose,  
will provide the funds required for the carrying out of such components, estimated to 
be in an aggregate amount equivalent to $8,000,000;
(F)
the Republic of Colombia, through the letter to the Bank dated September 
2000 from its Minister of the Environment, has requested that the grant provided in 
Article II of this Agreement (the Grant) be made to the Recipient; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans of the Bank, dated May 30, 
1995 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Section 2.01, paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 14, 15, 16, 18 and 
21, and 
Sections 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.06;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), (l), (m), (n), 
(o) and 
(p), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii) Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
the second sentence of Section 10.01, and Section 10.03; 
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as 
follows: “the term ‘Special Drawing Rights’ and the symbol 
‘SDR’ mean 
special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in 
accordance with its Articles of Agreement”;
Page  3
(ii)
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in 
Sections 5.01 (a) and 6.02 (f) thereof, means the 
Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF;
(iii)
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the 
Recipient;
(iv)
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means 
this Agreement;
(v)
the term “Loan”, wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Grant;
(vi)
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the 
Grant Account, the account opened by the Bank on its books 
in the name of 
the Recipient to which the amount of the Grant 
is credited; and
(vii)
a new paragraph (q) is added to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions, as 
follows: “(q) an extraordinary situation shall 
have arisen in which any 
further disbursement under the Grant 
would exceed the resources available 
for disbursement from the 
GEF.”
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Andean Region” means the region in the territory of Colombia, with an 
area of about 305,000 square kilometers, located in or adjacent to the Andean 
mountains;
(b)
“Cooperation Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.03 (c) of this Agreement;
(c)
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(d)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(e)
“First Phase Conservation Zones” means the following geographic areas in 
the Andean Region: (i) Northeastern páramos and moist forests; (ii) Alto Putumayo; 
(iii) Dagua Calima-Paraguas Corridor; (iv) Altiplano Cundiboyacence: and (v) Los 
Nevados Park and neighboring coffee-growing area, as such areas are identified in the 
map to be included in the Operational Manual, or any other conservation zone in the 
Andean Region that may, with the agreement of the Bank, replace any of the 
conservation zones listed above;
(f)
“First Phase Protected Areas” means the following protected areas (as 
defined in Law 99/93 of the Republic of Colombia): (i) Cocuy; (ii) Tamá; (iii) Pisba; 
(iv) Los Nevados; (v) Otun-Quimbaya; and (vi) Isla de la Corota, or any other 
protected area in the Andean Region that may, with the agreement of the Bank, replace 
any of the protected areas listed above;
(g)
“Fund” means the fund referred to in Part B.5 (a) of the Project;
(h)
“Fund Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Part A.3 (b) of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(i)
“Fund Subgrant” means any grant to be provided under a Fund Subgrant 
Agreement;
(j)
“Fund Subgrant Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement;
Page  4
(k)
“Fund Subproject” means any of the projects referred to in Part B.5 (a) 
of the Project which fulfills the criteria set forth in the Fund Operational Manual to 
be financed by a Fund Subgrant;
(l)
“Fund Subproject Implementing Entity” means any entity which carries out 
a Fund Subproject, after being selected in accordance with the eligibility criteria 
set forth in the Fund Operational Manual to carry out a Fund Subproject;
(m)
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 7.01 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(n)
“POA” means any of the plans referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this 
Agreement;
(o)
“PCU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(p)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(q)
“Second Phase Conservation Zone” means any of the following geographic 
areas in the Andean Region which has been selected by the Recipient, with the 
agreement of the Bank, to be included in Parts A.1, A.2 and B of the Project: (i) 
Cuchila de los Cobardes and Chicamocha canyon; (ii) Rusia paramo and Quercus forest of 
Santander; (iii) Patía valley and neighboring western Andes chain mountain forests; 
(iv) Carare-Opón; (v) Tatacoa desert; and (vi) Dry forests of the Cauca canyon in 
Antioquia, as such zones are identified in the map to be included in the Operational 
Manual, or any other conservation zone in the Andean Region that may, with the 
agreement of the Bank, replace any of the conservation zones listed above;
(r)
“Second Phase Protected Areas” means any existing protected area in a 
Second Phase Conservation Zone, or any new protected areas which may be established 
pursuant to the conservation plans referred to in Part A.2 of the Project, and which 
are  included, with the agreement of the Bank, in Part A.3 of the Project;
(s)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(t)
“Subgrant” means any grant to be provided under a Subgrant Agreement;
(u)
“Subgrant Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.03 (a) of this Agreement; 
(v)
“Subproject” means any of the activities under the Project, to be carried 
out by a Subproject Implementing Entity, which fulfills the criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual to be financed by a Subgrant; and
(w)
“Subproject Implementing Entity” means any entity (other than a CAR) 
which carries out a Subproject, after being selected in accordance with the 
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to carry out a Subproject.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eleven million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 11,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
Page  5
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall, subject to the provisions of Section 3.08 (b) of 
this Agreement: (i) carry out the components of the Project under its responsibility; 
(ii) cause, through the Subgrant Agreements, the Subproject Implementing Entities to 
carry out their respective Subprojects; and (iii) cause CARs, through the Cooperation 
Agreements, to carry out the components of Parts A, B and C of the Project under their 
responsibility, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, social, ecological and environmental standards 
and practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project (other than in respect of the Project 
components under CARs’ responsibility).
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the 
Recipient shall carry out, and shall cause the Subproject Implementing Entities to 
carry out, the Project in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Operational 
Manual (except with respect to Part B.5 of the Project), the Fund Operational Manual 
(with respect to Fund Subgrants and Fund Subprojects) and the POAs.
(c)
The Recipient shall not carry out, or cause to be carried out, any 
Project activity in any Second Phase Protected Area or any Second Phase Conservation 
Zone until the Bank shall have notified the Recipient, after the review to be held 
pursuant to Section 3.08 of this Agreement, that the Bank is satisfied with the 
progress of the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall enter into an agreement, satisfactory to 
the Bank (the Subgrant Agreement), with each Subproject Implementing Entity providing, 
inter alia, for: (i) the transfer by the Recipient, on a grant basis, to such 
Subproject Implementing Entity of the proceeds of the Grant or the Dutch Grant, as the 
case may be, allocated to finance the Subproject under the responsibility of such 
Subproject Implementing Entity; and (ii) the obligation of such Subproject 
Implementing Entity to: (A) carry out such Subproject as set forth or referred to in 
this Agreement, including, when applicable, taking all the environmental and social 
protection measures set forth in the Operational Manual, and (B) keep separate records 
and accounts in respect of such Subproject, and provide all information and documents 
to the Recipient as shall be required by the Recipient to comply with its obligations 
under this Agreement.
(b)
In operating the Fund, the Recipient shall make grants to Fund Subproject 
Implementing Entities under agreements, satisfactory to the Bank (the Fund Subgrant 
Agreements), whereby the Fund Subproject Implementing Entities shall, inter alia, 
undertake to: (i) carry out their respective Fund Subprojects as set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement and in the Fund Operational Manual; and (ii) keep separate 
records and accounts in respect of such Fund Subprojects, and provide all information 
and documents to the Recipient as shall be required by the Recipient to comply with 
its obligations under this Agreement.
(c)
The Recipient shall enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank 
(the Cooperation Agreement), with each CAR carrying out a component of Part A, B or C 
of the Project whereby such CAR shall undertake, inter alia, to: (i) carry out such 
component with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, social, ecological and environmental standards and 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for such component; (ii) without limitation to the provisions 
of (i) above, comply with the corresponding POAs and with the environmental and social 
protection provisions set forth in the Operational Manual; (iii) ensure that no 
Page  6
activity will be carried out under its component of the Project which may cause any 
involuntary resettlement of population; and (iv) provide all information and documents 
to the Recipient in respect of such component as shall be required by the Recipient to 
comply with its obligations under this Agreement.
(d)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the Subgrant Agreements, the Fund Subgrant Agreements and the Cooperation 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank 
and to accomplish the objectives of the Project, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive such 
agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.04. The Recipient shall maintain, during the execution of the Project, 
a unit (the PCU) responsible for Project coordination and management, such unit to 
have a structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, and to have qualified staff 
in adequate numbers as required to carry out its responsibilities, including a 
coordinator, a financial management specialist and a procurement officer with 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.05. The Recipient shall, not later than September 30 of each year 
during the execution of the Project, furnish to the Bank:
(a)
a plan, satisfactory to the Bank (the POA), detailing the Project 
activities to be carried out during the calendar year following the date of such plan, 
including expected Project outputs, detailed budgets for each activity and a 
procurement plan; and
(b)
evidence that the Recipient and CARs have entered into Cooperation 
Agreements in respect of the activities to be carried out by such CARs under the 
Project during the following calendar year.
Section 3.06. The Recipient shall:
(a)
cause the plan, set forth in the Recipient's letter to the Bank dated 
November 30, 2000, for the development of indigenous peoples located in the Andean 
Region to be carried out in accordance with its terms;
(b)
not start, or cause to be started, the implementation of any plan for a 
conservation zone under Part A.2 of the Project, unless the Bank shall have approved 
such plan; and
(c)
ensure that no activity will be carried out under the Project which may 
cause any involuntary resettlement of population.
Section 3.07. The Recipient shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the 
Operational Manual, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about March 31 and September 30 of each year during the execution 
of the Project, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by April 30 and October 31 of each year during the 
execution of the Project, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the relevant 
report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
said reviews and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Page  7
Section 3.08. (a) The Bank and the Recipient shall, not later than the 36th 
month after the Effective Date, undertake an in-depth review of the progress of the 
Project to evaluate the Project's implementation arrangements and its on-the-ground 
effectiveness based on the targets set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. For that 
purpose, the Recipient shall, not later than one month before the date of such review, 
prepare, with the assistance of an independent consultant acceptable to the Bank under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, a report on the 
progress in the carrying out of all components of the Project, the achievement of such 
targets, and on lessons learned therefrom.
(b)
If, after such review, the Bank is not satisfied with the progress of the 
Project and the targets set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement have not been 
achieved, the Bank may, by notice to the Recipient at any time after such review, 
withdraw its support to the carrying out of any new activities under the Project, and 
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Grant which has been allocated to finance such 
activities.
Section 3.09. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance 
with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank consistently applied, adequate to 
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records 
and accounts for the Special 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than 
four months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such 
year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such financial statements, 
records and accounts 
and a report of such audit, by said auditors, of such 
scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested 
(including, as part of the information to be provided in each such report, 
a management letter concerning the Recipient's internal controls); and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, 
accounts and financial statements, and the 
audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
Page  8
(a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Grant 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Recipient, not later than one year 
after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which: 
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected 
sources and applications of funds for of 
the Project for the six-month 
period following the period 
covered by said report; and (B) shows 
separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Grant during 
the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant during the six-month period following 
the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and 
(B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; 
and 
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Recipient shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the Dutch Grant 
shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the Dutch Grant Agreement. However, this provision shall not apply if the 
Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, 
cancellation or termination is not caused by the failure of the Recipient to perform 
any of its obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project 
are available to the Recipient from other sources on terms and conditions consistent 
with the obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement.
Page  9
(b)
Any of the CARs has failed to perform any of its obligations under its 
respective Cooperation Agreement, and such failure has materially and adversely 
affected the achievement of the objective of the Project.  In such case, the Bank may 
decide to exercise its right to suspend disbursements from the Grant Account only with 
respect to activities to be carried out in the area of jurisdiction of such CAR.
ARTICLE VI
Arbitration
Section 6.01. Any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement which is 
not settled by agreement of the parties shall be finally settled by arbitration in 
accordance with the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules in force on the date of this Agreement.  
The place of arbitration shall be Washington, D.C., United States of America.
ARTICLE VII
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Recipient has issued a manual, satisfactory to the Bank (the 
Operational Manual), setting forth specific rules and procedures for implementation of 
the Project, including, inter alia, the criteria for selection of Subproject 
Implementing Entities and approval of Subprojects, the model form of Subgrant 
Agreements, the environmental and social protection provisions applicable to the 
Project, procedures for procurement (including standard bidding documents), 
disbursement of Grant funds, and financial management under the Project, and the 
indicators to be used in the monitoring of the progress of the Project and the 
achievement of its objective;
(b)
the PCU's coordinator, financial management specialist and procurement 
officer have been selected as provided in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(c)
the Dutch Grant Agreement has become effective;
(d)
Cooperation Agreements have been entered into between the Recipient and 
CARs providing for the carrying out of activities with an aggregate cost of at least 
$500,000 equivalent; and
(e)
progress, satisfactory to the Bank, has been made in the carrying out of 
the action plan referred to in Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement. 
Section 7.02. The date June 29, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations 
hereunder.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 8.01 The Director-General of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Page  10
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Recipient:
Instituto de Investigación de Recursos
  Biológicos Alexander Von Humboldt
Calle 37 No. 8-40
Santa Fe de Bogotá, Colombia
Facsimile:
(571) 288-9564
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Santa Fe de Bogotá, Colombia, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
  as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility
By /s/ Alberto Chueca Mora
Authorized Representative
Latin America and the Caribbean
INSTITUTO DE INVESTIGACION DE RECURSOS 
   BIOLOGICOS ALEXANDER VON HUMBOLDT
By /s/ Cristián Samper
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
A. General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods (other than 
    240,000
85% 
 those financed by
 Subgrants and Fund
 Subgrants)
Page  11
(2)
Consultants' services, 
  5,170,000
100% 
including audits, and 
training (other than
those financed by Subgrants
and Fund Subgrants)
(3) Operating costs
  1,250,000
85%
(4) Subgrants
  3,680,000
100% of amounts disbursed
(5) Fund Subgrants
    630,000
100% of amounts disbursed
(6) Unallocated
    830,000
TOTAL
 11,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "training" includes reasonable expenditures for training 
materials, training facilities rentals, and reasonable travel, room, board, and per 
diem expenditures incurred by trainees;
(b)
the term "operating costs" includes reasonable expenditures incurred by 
the Recipient for the management of the Project, such as salaries of non-consultant 
personnel employed by the PCU, travel costs, rentals, maintenance of facilities, 
consumable materials and supplies, and utilities, which would not have been incurred 
absent the Project; and
(c)
the term "Subgrants" does not include Subgrants made out of the proceeds 
of the Dutch Grant.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
390,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within one 
year prior to the date of this Agreement but after September 1, 2000; and 
(b)
expenditures under Category (5) of the table in paragraph 1 above, unless 
the Recipient has issued a manual, satisfactory to the Bank (the Fund Operational 
Manual), setting forth detailed rules and procedures for the operation of the Fund, 
including, inter alia, the criteria for selection of Fund Subproject Implementing 
Entities and approval of Fund Subprojects, the model form of Fund Subgrant Agreements, 
and the environmental and social protection provisions applicable to Fund Subprojects.
4.
The Bank may, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient, require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for items not subject to Bank 
prior review pursuant to Section I, Part C.2 and Section II, Part D.2 of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement, as well as for training expenditures, operating costs, Subgrants and 
Fund Subgrants.
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank 
for deposit into the Grant Account an amount equal to the amount so used or the 
portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
B. Special 
Account
1.
The Recipient shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
Page  12
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Grant Account of amounts to be deposited into 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Recipient for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Recipient for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively 
for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; or
(c)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of:  (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the 
records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Recipient of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Page  13
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made  On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $800,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the 
amount of $400,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Grant Account, 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 940,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall 
have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this GEF Grant Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures.  Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Recipient, all 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Grant Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Grant Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Grant, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of:  (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project 
Page  14
Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order 
to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount 
indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, 
shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to increase conservation, knowledge, and 
sustainable use of globally important biodiversity in the Andean Region.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Recipient may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective:
Part A:
Conservation Zones and Protected Areas
1.
Preparation of conservation plans for First Phase Conservation Zones and Second 
Phase Conservation Zones, through, inter alia, the carrying out of technical studies, 
and workshops, meetings, and other participatory processes with stakeholders in such 
zones.
2.
Implementation of conservation plans for First Phase Conservation Zones and 
Second Phase Conservation Zones, including, inter alia, establishment of national and 
regional protected areas and private reserves, through the carrying out of technical 
studies and a participatory process involving workshops with stakeholders in such 
zones.
3.
Strengthening the management of First Phase Protected Areas and Second Phase 
Protected Areas, through, inter alia, the carrying out of biological and social 
assessments, the design of management plans, as well as the carrying out of area 
demarcation, zoning,  infrastructure improvements, surveillance, outreach and 
educational programs, and an assessment of personnel needs. 
Part B:
Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biodiversity in Rural Landscapes
1.
Carrying out of biodiversity and socioeconomic assessments of environment 
conservation opportunities in rural landscapes in First Phase Conservation Zones and 
Second Phase Conservation Zones.
2.
Development of management tools for biodiversity conservation in rural 
landscapes in First Phase Conservation Zones and Second Phase Conservation Zones, 
which will include: (a) habitat corridors; (b) enrichment of grassland in dry 
environments; (c) structurally complex production systems such as shade coffee; and 
(d) live fencerows.
3.
Development of management plans for threatened species.
4.
Dissemination of the management tools referred to in paragraph 2 above in First 
Phase Conservation Zones and Second Phase Conservation Zones, through local workshops, 
specialized workshops for natural resource managers, agricultural technical manuals, 
publications, videos and other means of communication.
5.
(a)
Design, establishment and operation of a fund within the Recipient (the 
Fund) to finance projects for the promotion of markets for biodiversity goods and 
services, adapting existing non-market incentives for conservation and sustainable use 
of goods (the Fund Subprojects).
(b)
Carrying out of a program to disseminate the Fund's activities.
6.
Identification and promotion of markets for biodiversity goods and services.
7.
Assessment and design of a system of economic and institutional incentives for 
the Andean Region.
Page  15
Part C:
Knowledge Base for Decision Making, Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
Strengthening of the regional capacity in taxonomy and collections management to 
improve Colombia's capacity to generate a biodiversity inventory of the Andean Region, 
including training of staff, carrying out of field biodiversity assessments and 
developing biodiversity collection and monitoring protocols.
2.
Establishment of a biodiversity information system for the Andean Region, 
designed as a decentralized network of institutional databases.
3.
Carrying out of a program to disseminate information on biodiversity in the 
Andean Region to different audiences, such as decision-makers, scientists, school 
students and the general public, according to their different information requirements 
and using different communications strategies.
4.
Development of an indicator system of biological and socioeconomic information 
to monitor the current status of biodiversity in the Andean Region, the changing 
pressures to which such biodiversity is subjected, and the effect on biodiversity of 
national policy and Project measures.
Part D:
Intersectoral Coordination
Carrying out of studies and training for the benefit of relevant government 
agencies and private sector entities to promote the inclusion of biodiversity goals in 
sector development plans for the Andean Region.  These activities will require: (a) 
carrying out of workshops on biodiversity, sectoral biodiversity impacts and 
intersectoral planning for government ministries and sector associations to strengthen 
the concept of biodiversity amongst different sectors and institutions; (b) a 
consultative process with relevant ministries, associations, economic conglomerates 
and other key stakeholders on the inclusion of environmental licensing procedures at 
the Ministry of Environment level to introduce relevant biodiversity variables on 
environmental guidelines for infrastructure, mining and agricultural projects; and (c) 
monitoring biodiversity trends in large-scale development projects.
Part E:
Project Management and Monitoring
1.
Strengthening of the capacity of the PCU to manage and coordinate the Project, 
including carrying out of external audits as set forth in Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement.
2.
Development and implementation of a system to monitor the carrying out of the 
Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods (other than those under Subprojects and Fund Subprojects) shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with competitive procedures advertised 
Page  16
nationally pursuant to standard bidding documents, satisfactory to the Bank, set forth 
in the Operational Manual.
2.
Shopping
Goods (other than those under Subprojects and Fund Subprojects) estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $200,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or 
national shopping procedures, at the option of the Recipient, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement under Subprojects and Fund Subprojects
Goods and works under Subprojects and Fund Subprojects shall be procured in 
accordance with commercial procedures acceptable to the Bank, including price 
quotations from three qualified suppliers, as such procedures are detailed in the 
Operational Manual and the Fund Operational Manual, respectively.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply to the first contract to be awarded pursuant to Part B.1 of 
this Section.
(b)
The following procedures shall apply to the first contract for goods to 
be awarded pursuant to Part B.2 of this Section:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier, the Recipient shall 
provide to the 
Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation 
of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of the contract, the Recipient shall 
provide to the 
Bank a copy of the specifications and the 
draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
Page  17
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Consultants' services, other than those referred to in Part C.2 and 3 below, 
estimated to cost less than $80,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
of $2,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Consultants' services for assignments of a standard or routine nature, estimated 
to cost less than $80,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of 
$1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Consultants’ services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
pursuant to Part B of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other 
than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms pursuant to Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 
2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided, however, that the terms of reference for the respective assignments 
shall be subject to the Bank’s prior review and approval.
SCHEDULE 4
Targets Referred to in 
Page  18
Section 3.08 of this Agreement
Part A of the Project
1.
At least three regional active networks of protected areas are functioning in 
First Phase Conservation Zones, with management plans under implementation.
2.
At least 15 workshops have been held for dissemination of, and stakeholders' 
involvement in, the establishment of regional networks of protected areas.
3.
At least two protected areas have been established in first Phase Conservation 
Zones.
4.
At least 20 new private reserves have been consolidated in First Phase 
Conservation Zones.
5.
At least eight workshops have been held for dissemination of, and stakeholders' 
involvement in, the design and implementation of the management plans of First Phase 
Protected Areas.
Part B of the Project
6.
At least four biodiversity and socioeconomic assessments of different 
representative rural landscapes for the identification of conservation opportunities 
have been completed.
7.
At least two management tools for biodiversity conservation in rural landscapes 
have been evaluated for biological effectiveness and economic viability.
8.
At least two main productive system types have been evaluated in order to be 
considered as management tools to increase biodiversity conservation.
9.
The Fund has been established and the Fund Operational Manual has been issued 
and put into effect.
10.
The program to disseminate the Fund's activities has been initiated.
Part C of the Project
11.
Biodiversity baseline for the Andean Region has been established.
12.
Replicable methodological scheme for biodiversity assessment and monitoring has 
been designed.
13.
At least four comprehensive biodiversity assessments have been completed, 
filling major knowledge gaps in the Andean Region.
Part D of the Project
14.
At least four biodiversity training workshops for government agencies and 
private sector entities have been held.
15.
At least four biodiversity workshops on sectoral biodiversity impacts and 
intersectoral planning for government agencies and private sector entities have been 
held.
