                                              Document of
                                          The World Bank

                                                                                 Report No: 77957-AFR


                                    RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                                  ON A

                PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                OF
   WEST AND CENTRAL AFRICA AIR TRANSPORT SAFETY & SECURITY
PROJECT (CREDIT 4163-BUR; GRANT 214-CM; GRANT H215-GUI; AND CREDIT
                             4164-MLI)

                                BOARD APPROVAL: 04/27/2006


                                  CREDIT TO BURKINA FASO

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.5 MILLION
                             (US$6.46 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                        GRANT TO THE REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.2 MILLION
                            (US$14.50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                           GRANT TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.9 MILLION
                             (US$7.10 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                            CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALI

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.8 MILLION
                             (US$5.51 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                              June 3, 2013

Transport Sector
Regional Department AFRCI
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAA    Civil Aviation Authority
ICAO   International Civil Aviation Organization
IDA    International Development Association
IP     Implementation Progress
PDO    Project Development Objectives




        Regional Vice President:      Makhtar Diop
              Country Director:       Colin Bruce
                Sector Director:      Jamal Saghir
               Sector Manager:        Supee Teravaninthorn
             Task Team Leader:        Noroarisoa Rabefaniraka
                             AFRICA
     WEST AND CENTRAL AFRICA AIR TRANSPORT SAFETY & SECURITY
                            PROJECT
                             P083751
                           CONTENTS




A.    SUMMARY ............................................................................................................... 1
B.    PROJECT STATUS ................................................................................................. 1
C.    PROPOSED CHANGES .......................................................................................... 4
ANNEX 1: REALLOCATION OF PROCEEDS ........................................................... 6
ANNEX 2: EXTENSION OF CLOSING DATE ........................................................... 8
Restructuring
Restructuring Type: Level II
Last modified on date : 06/03/2013

1. Basic Information
Project ID & Name                     P083751: 3A-West &Central Africa Air
                                      Transport TAL (FY06)
Country                               Africa
Task Team Leader                      Noroarisoa Rabefaniraka
Sector Manager/Director               Supee Teravaninthorn
Country Director                      Colin Bruce
Original Board Approval Date          04/27/2006
Original Closing Date:                12/31/2009
Current Closing Date                  06/30/2013
Proposed Closing Date [if             06/30/2014
applicable]
EA Category                           B-Partial Assessment
Revised EA Category                   B-Partial Assessment-Partial Assessment
EA Completion Date                    02/20/2005
Revised EA Completion Date

2. Revised Financing Plan (US$m)
Source                                         Original                Revised
 BORR                                                   0.00                      0.00
 ECEU                                                   0.00                      0.00
 FRDE                                                   0.00                      0.00
 IDA                                                   11.97                     11.97
 IDAT                                                  21.60                     21.60
 Total                                                 33.57                     33.57

3. Borrower
      Organization                   Department                     Location
 DIRECTION AVIATION
CIVILE
 GOVERNMENT OF
BURKINA FASO
 GOVERNMENT OF                                             Guinea
GUINEA

4. Implementing Agency
        Organization                 Department                     Location
 Direction Nationale de        Ministry of Transport
l'Aviation Civile



                                           i
5. Disbursement Estimates (US$m)
Actual amount disbursed as of 05/31/2013                                                   33.98
       Fiscal Year                  Annual                          Cumulative
 2012                                                0.00                          33.98
 2013                                                0.00                          33.98
                                                 Total                             33.98

6. Policy Exceptions and Safeguard Policies
Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?              N


Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? If yes,           N
please select from the checklist below and update ISDS accordingly before
submitting the package.

7a. Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
Original/Current Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
The project development objectives are set as follows: (a) Improve Civil Aviation
Authority's (CAA) compliance with ICAO's safety standards; (b) Improve CAA's
compliance with ICAO's security standard; and (c) enhance main international airports'
compliance with ICAO's security standards.

7b. Revised Project Development Objectives/Outcomes [if applicable]




                                           ii
  WEST AND CENTRAL AFRICA AIR TRANSPORT SAFETY & SECURITY
                         PROJECT

                             RESTRUCTURING PAPER


A. SUMMARY

1.      This Restructuring Paper is triggered by the requests received on May 17, 2013,
from the Government of Guinea, one of the four participating countries in the regional
West and Central Africa Air Transport Safety and Security Project (P083751) in order to:
(i) extend the current project’s closing date, June 30, 2013, by twelve months, to June 30,
2014, to allow for the completion of on-going activities; and (ii) reallocate the grant’s
proceeds among various expenditure categories in order to modify allocations per
category based on the remaining and ongoing activities.

2.      The proposed extension is consistent with the requirements of OP/BP10.00 as: (i)
the Project's Development Objectives (PDO) continues to be achievable; (ii) the
performance of the Implementing Agency and Recipients is satisfactory; (iii) an action
plan has been prepared and agreed with the Government to complete the project
satisfactorily; and (iv) there are no outstanding audits, or IFRs for the Grant.

3.     With the current request for extension for a further period of 12 months, the
cumulative project’s extension will be 54 months, thus requiring the Vice President’s
clearance. The Project was approved on April 27, 2006. For Guinea, the closing date
extension was retroactively granted in June, 2011, for two years, from December 31,
2009, to December 31, 2011, to align its closing date with the three other participating
countries. The second project extension by eighteen months, from December 31, 2011 to
June 30, 2013 was granted in December 30, 2011. With this extension, the Project will be
eight years old at the time of the new closing date, including two years of suspension,
from 2009 to 2011, because of the political crisis in Guinea.

B. PROJECT STATUS

4.      The PDOs are as follows: (i) improve Civil Aviation Authority's (CAA)
compliance with International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) safety standards; (ii)
increase CAA's compliance with ICAO's security standard; and (iii) enhance main
international airports' compliance with ICAO's security standards.

5.     The project proposed for restructuring is the first phase of a three-phase
Adaptable Program Loan (APL), and is comprising four beneficiary countries: Burkina
Faso, with a Credit amounting SDR 4.5 million (US$6.5 million equivalent); the
Republic of Cameroon, with a Grant for an amount of SDR 10.2 million (US$14.5
million equivalent); the Republic of Mali, with a credit for an amount of SDR 3.8 million
(US$5.51 million equivalent); and, the Republic of Guinea, with a Grant amounting to
                                            1
SDR 4.9 million (US$7.1 million equivalent). Guinea’s Grant Agreement was declared
effective on August 24, 2006.
6.       Progress towards achievement of the PDO for APL1 is satisfactory, as per the
current Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) dated May 23, 2013, as three
countries (Burkina Faso, Cameroon, and Mali) have achieved or even surpassed the most
significant project’s monitoring indicators through sustained training of technical staff in
air transport safety and security issues, institutional reforms, regulatory framework
updates. The three countries also duly carried out the agreed activities, both from
institutional and investment point of view.

7.       For Guinea, the progress towards achievement of the PDO is moderately
satisfactory especially because of the slow progress in legal and regulatory updates,
impacting on the delay in institutional reforms. Moreover, the recent rating of safety by
the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) indicated poor performance records
under the new methodology, with ICAO’s Standards and Recommended Practices
compliance rate as low as 8 percent, while the average rate for the region is about 40
percent. The ICAO’s recommendation includes the finalization of the institutional
reforms started under the current project (including the adoption of a new civil aviation
code and the autonomization of the CAA). However, the CAA’s security’s compliance
improved significantly, from one percent to 25 percent thanks to the financing of massive
training for inspectors and key staff involved in air transport security, the update of
various procedures, and the reinforcement of security measures at the airport (patrolling,
acquisition of communication devices, and better immunization measures of the airport to
avoid trespassing and unauthorized circulation within the airport zone). Efforts
undertaken under the current projects, especially the update of legislation and the
institutional reforms need to be sustained in order to achieve the PDO.

8.       As of mid-May 2013, the regional project’s overall disbursement rate was 94
percent. While all the project’s funds are now fully committed, Guinea’s disbursement
rate is still 72 percent since there are four on-going contracts whose total value represent
more than one third of the Grant’s total value: the procurement of a new air traffic
management console for the control tower at Conakry international airport, the works at
the airport (construction of an access road to the runway and an aircraft quarantine point),
as well as the elaboration of a new civil aviation code and its texts of application.

9.       The overall project’s Implementation Progress (IP) is also satisfactory. All
scheduled and agreed activities have been launched and the last ones should be
completed by the end of June in the three countries. For Guinea, the IP rating is
moderately satisfactory because of the very slow progress regarding the implementation
of the agreed procurement plan as well as its institutional reforms: it is now the only
country in the West and Central Africa region without an autonomous CAA. Thanks to
the project, the framework to create such autonomous CAA was designed, but further
actions are requested to finalize such reform: the adoption of a new civil aviation code
and its texts of application, and then the operationalization of the new CAA through the
appointment of its Board members, the recruitment of its Director General, Directors, and
staff, the adoption of its budget, etc. The experience under the project showed that this
operationalization may take months (in the case of Mali) or even years (in the case of
Burkina Faso), but the Guinean CAA is encouraged to continue to cooperate with its
                                             2
counterpart in Mali, as did the Burkinabe CAA, because of Mali’s successful experience.
The second concern is regarding the date of completion of two activities: the delivery and
installation of the new air traffic management console for the control tower at Conakry
international airport, and the completion of the new civil aviation code and its texts of
application. Both dates are scheduled to occur beyond the current closing date: the first
one should be in early September 2013, and the second one, at the end of July, 2013.
After those two milestones, the process of adoption of all those texts by the
corresponding authorities (Parliament, President of Republic, and Government) will be
launched during the second semester of 2013, followed by the operationalization of the
newly created autonomous CAA.

10.      The acquisition of the air traffic management console will improve
communication between pilots and air traffic controllers; enhance the reception and
utilization of data collected from navigation equipment already acquired by the project,
as well as the quality of data to be transmitted to pilots. If the project is not extended, the
Government will not have funds to finance this contract, and the contractor may sue the
Government for not honoring its obligation for payment. Likewise, if the project does not
finance the update of the legislation, the whole institutional reforms already undertaken
will be incomplete. However, because of insufficient remaining funds, two activities were
dropped: the update of ICAO security and safety audits results by an individual
consultant (estimated at US$65,000 each), and the organization of a crisis exercise
(estimated at US$80,000). The Bank Team has suggested that the Government or the
airport concessionaire finance both activities.

11.    Results achieved to date include the increase of the Civil Aviation Authority
(CAA)’s compliance with ICAO security standards, from 1 percent to 25 percent; the
increase of the CAA’s compliance with ICAO safety standards, from 53 percent to 70
percent; and the increase of the number of inspectors within the CAA, from 38 percent to
75 percent in safety oversight, and from 30 percent to eighty percent.

12.     The following key objectives were achieved by the project: in all the four
participating countries, airport security has been enhanced through the acquisition of
security equipment, ranging from magnetometers to x-ray machines, including cars and
motorbikes for patrol teams. Airport infrastructure has been improved through the
financing of fencing reinforcement (in Burkina Faso) and construction (in Cameroon);
construction of emergency centers (in Burkina Faso, Cameroon, and Mali), and other
airport infrastructure. On the institutional reforms, thanks to the project, an autonomous
CAA has been created in Burkina Faso in 2009; new civil aviation codes were adopted in
Burkina Faso and Mali, and regulatory texts and procedures in all the four participating
countries have been updated, especially to address deficiencies noted during ICAO safety
and security audits. CAA’s safety and security inspectors acquired essential skills to
fulfill their duties in compliance with ICAO’s standards. In Guinea, the project
contributed to the modernization of the country’s safety equipment through the financing
of new navigation aids equipment (ILS/VOR/DME) and meteorological observation
equipment (a Satellite Distribution System and an Integrated System for Aerodromes
Meteorological Observation). Guinea is now committed to set up an autonomous CAA:
the Ministry of Transport raised this issue with the President of the Republic during their

                                              3
weekly sectorial meetings, and they reiterated that they will make sure that the draft texts
are adopted after their acceptance by the technical ministries.

13.     The current proposed project closing date extension, together with the funds
reallocation will make it possible for Guinea to duly complete on-going activities, and
hence for the project to continue reaching its objectives of strengthening CAAs’ safety
and security supervision and enhancing their key international airports standards, as well
as to improve the project’s outcomes and return its implementation progress to a
satisfactory status.

C. PROPOSED CHANGES

Closing date

14.     The Guinea grant (Gr. H215-GUI) as well as the two credits for Burkina Faso (Cr.
4163-BUR) and Mali (Cr. 4164-MLI) and the Cameroon grant (Gr. H214-CM) are all
due to close on June 30, 2013. Request to extend the closing date by one year, until June
30, 2014, was sent by the Government of the Republic of Guinea, in a letter dated May
17, 2013. This additional period of one year for the Guinea component is necessary to
bring two current on-going activities to completion: delivery and installation of a new air
navigation console for the control tower of Conakry, and the completion of drafts civil
aviation code with its application texts. With the completion of those two activities, the
project can close its financial accounts, but the Government and the Bank need to
monitor the effective operationalization of the newly created CAA. The project’s
restructuring will make it possible for Guinea to catch up with the progresses made by the
three other participating countries by fully completing all on-going activities, and hence
to continue reaching its objectives of strengthening CAAs’ safety and security
supervision, as well as to improve the project’s outcomes and return its implementation
progress to a satisfactory status. The Recipient has in place an action plan which is
acceptable to the Bank (revised procurement plans and activities completion schedule) to
complete the project.

15.    This will be the third extension of the project for the Guinea component only.

Reallocation of IDA Financing Proceeds

16.     The proposed reallocation for Guinea is presented below. The reallocation is
mainly intended to use the “Unallocated funds?, and adjust the various cost categories,
based on actual costs. The Goods category will increase due to the integration of the
acquisition of the new console for the Conakry airport tower control and actual costs for
other equipment, including the meteorological observation equipment. The consultants’
services category has been reduced as some activities (security audit updates and crisis
exercises) have been dropped. Training and operating costs increased to reflect actual
costs.




                                             4
          Table 1: Proposed Reallocation of Grant Proceeds for Guinea
                                  Allocation (SDR)             % Financing
  Category of Expenditure
                              Current          Revised      Current   Revised

1. Goods                         2,350,000        2,425,000       100%         100%

2. Works                         1,100,000        1,100,000       100%         100%

3. Consultants’ Services          750,000          620,000        100%         100%

4. Training                       200,000          255,000        100%         100%

5. Operating costs                350,000          500,000        100%         100%

6. Unallocated                    150,000             0

TOTAL                            4,900,000        4,900,000


Procurement

17.    Procurement plans related to the activities to be implemented until the new
closing date have been updated by the Recipient and have been approved by the Bank
team, subject to the Bank Management’s approval of the project’s closing date extension.




                                             5
