 IEG
                                                                                                 Report Number: ICRR14708

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 06/01/2015

               Country: Africa
             Project ID: P083751                                                     Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: West And Central              Project Costs (US$M):                       35.07                47.1
                         Africa Air Transport
                         Safety & Security Proj
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                       35.07                34.4
      Sector Board:      Transport                     Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                                04/27/2006
                                                               Closing Date:            12/31/2009           06/30/2014
          Sector(s):       Aviation (94%); Central government administration (6%)
          Theme(s):        Trade facilitation and market access (33%); Regional integration (33%); Infrastructure
                           services for private sector development (17%); Regulation and competition policy (17%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Ranga Rajan                Christopher David       Christopher David           IEGPS1
Krishnamani                Nelson                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

This project, part of the West and Central Africa Air Transport Safety and Security Program, aimed at supporting the
goal of regional integration. The project, which covered Cameroon, Mali, Burkina Faso and Guinea , was the first
operation (phase 1) of a horizontal Adaptable Program Loan (APL). The second phase of the APL program covered
Nigeria and the third phase covered Benin and Senegal. As stated in each country’s separate Financing Agreement
(FA), the project objective was identical albeit explicitly focused upon the international airports of each country. The
formulations were as follows:

"To support the Recipient in improving compliance of its civil aviation sector and its [named] international airport [s]
with International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) safety and security standards ." (Financing Agreement (FA),
Schedule 1, page 6).

The project objective reported in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), just one report for all four countries, focused
upon the same substance as the FA version, but used a different formulation, as follows:

“Within each participating country to: (1) Improve Civil Aviation Authorities (CAAs) compliance with ICAO's
[International Civil Aviation Organization’s] safety standards, (2) Increase CAA's compliance with ICAO's security
standards, and (3) Enhance main international airports' compliance with ICAO's security standards."

In line with IEG/OPCS guidelines, this review evaluates the project on the basis of the objectives as formulated in the
Financing Agreements of the respective countries.



b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

There were three components (PAD, pages 7-8).

A. Strengthening of CAA’s safety and security oversight capacities (appraisal cost US$ 7.2 million: actual cost not
reported by ICR) . Sub-projects included: technical assistance for adopting and utilizing harmonized aviation codes
and regulations and creating autonomous CAA's; training of the civil aviation staff in the areas of civil aviation security
and safety oversights; acquiring basic communications and inspections equipment (such as two-way radios,
inspection vehicles and computers); and procuring library equipment (such as relevant ICAO training manuals and
materials, directives, online library and training materials )

B. Improvements in airport security and safety standards (appraisal cost US$ 23.25 million; actual cost not reported
by ICR) Sub-projects included: establishing appropriate aviation security legislation; developing security programs
(national airport and airlines programs); providing security equipment at the main international airports; replacing
navigational aids at the primary airports; capacity building activities; security measures at the various airport access
points (such as establishing identification equipment, security cameras, patrol vehicles, communications systems and
reorganization of passenger flows); rehabilitating existing airport fences and security patrol routes; rehabilitating or
constructing within existing airport building premises crisis centers (and acquiring necessary communication and
surveillance tools to equip these centers); training airport security personnel and developing airport security through
acquiring passengers and cargo X-ray machines; acquiring navigational aids and communication systems; and
developing means for financing airport security improvements (such as through airport security fees).

C. Others (appraisal cost US$ 4.62 million: actual cost nor reported by ICR). Sub projects included: the
implementation of Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs); financing project operating costs covering inter alia annual
financing audits; day to day management; and unallocated money set aside to cover any uncertainties regarding
planned project activities.



d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project Cost. At appraisal, the estimated cost was US$ 35.7 million. The actual cost at closure was US$ 47.1 million,
about 134% of the appraisal estimate. .

Financing. The project funding approved at appraisal was an IDA grant of US$35.07 million for the four countries,
allocated as follows: US$ 6.46 million to Burkina Faso; US$ 16.00 million to Cameroon; US$ 7.10 million to Guinea;
and US$ 5.51 million to Mali. By project closure, a total of US$ 34.4 million had been disbursed as follows: US$ 6.7
million to Burkina Faso; US$ 14.9 million to Cameroon; US$ 7.3 million to Guinea; and US$ 5.5 million to Mali.

There was parallel financing for complementary activities for the regional dimension of the project from the African
Development Bank (AfDB), the French Development Agency - Agence Francaise Developpment (AFD), and the
European Union (EU). (ICR, page 13). The ICR does not provide information on the extent of contribution by these
agencies.
.
Borrower Contribution . At appraisal, the Borrower contribution from Cameroon was estimated at US $ 1.5 million
(PAD, page 50). Contributions from other countries were not expected. At closure, the actual Borrower contribution
was US$ 12.7 million, US$12.3 million by Cameroon and US$ 0.4 million by Mali (ICR, page 40).

Dates. The project was restructured three times:
The first dated on June 16, 2010, was processed at the request of Burkina Faso, Cameroon, and Mali. This resulted in
the following changes. (i) A new evaluation method – the “systemic method” was instituted by the ICAO for complying
with aviation safety standards in late 2007 (ICR, page 12). This method replaced the previous Universal Safety
Oversight Audit Program (USOAP) approach. While the ICAO's previous methodology was based on three annexes of
the Chicago Convention, the new methodology covered 18 annexes. As a result, the baseline indicators for the CAA’s
of Burkina Faso, Mali and Cameroon were lowered, and the corresponding target values for the three countries were
downgraded..Guinea was the only country which was evaluated using the previous method, (ii) The project closing
date was extended by 24 months from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2011.
The second restructuring of December 29, 2011 resulted in the following changes: (i) The project closing date was
extended by an additional eighteen months (from December 31, 2011 to June 30, 2013) for completing the ongoing
activities in all countries. (ii) There was a reallocation of Credit/Grant proceeds for the whole project
The third restructuring of June 14, 2013, resulted in a selective extension of closing dates to Guinea by 12 months
(from June 30, 2011 to June 30, 2014) for completing ongoing activities that had been suspended for two years due to
the country’s political crisis.
Burkina Faso, Cameroon and Mali closed their activities 42 months behind schedule, and Guinea 54 months behind.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
Substantial.

The project development objectives of improving aviation safety and security were relevant to all the four countries in
the regional context. The objectives were relevant to the application of the 1999 Yamouussoukrou Decision (YD)
endorsed by the African Heads of state in 1999 to liberalize access to air travel markets in Africa (PAD, page 1). For
liberalizing intra-African air transport without compromising safety and security standards, it was important for the
Civil Aviation and Airport authorities of the regional countries to collectively reach ICAO’s safety and security
standards. The four project countries (Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Mali and Guinea) were signatories to the YD.

The project development objectives were relevant to the Bank’s Regional Integration Assistance Strategy (RIAS) for
West Africa, adopted in August 2001, and for Central Africa adopted on February 6, 2003 and to the September 2005
Africa Action Plan, since the project would help to promote, through regional integration, exchanges and economic
growth among West and Central African countries (PAD, page 2).

Although the aviation sub-sector is not specifically mentioned in the current Country Partnership Strategies (CPSs) of,
Burkina Faso (CPS for 2013-2016), Cameroon (CPS for 2010- 2013),Guinea (CPS for 2014-2017 ), and the Bank’s
Interim Strategy Note for Mali (for 2014-2015), improvement of transport infrastructure is. The project objective of
strengthening the aviation sub sector was part of the broader CPS priorities of improving transport infrastructure in
general. In this context, the project under review warrants a mention in the three CPS and the Interim strategy for
Mali.


b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial.

The activities supported by the project in the four countries were similar and reflected aviation reform programs
elsewhere in the region and across the globe. The project design included activities such as the strengthening of
CAAs safety and security oversight capacities, improvements in airport security and safety standards and the
implementation of more stringent airport premises access rules. All of these were intended to contribute directly to
achieving compliance with international safety and security standards.

The causal chain linking the delivery of project activities to intermediate outputs and, finally to outcomes that would
achieve the project’s objectives, was clear and logical. The project's component activities (aviation safety and aviation
security improvements at the principal airports, training of the main aviation agencies staff in aviation safety and
security measures, and measures aimed at addressing the adverse social impacts within airport premises), could be
expected to contribute to achieving the compliance sought by the project, both to the countries’ own CAAs and their
principal airports to ICAO’s safety and security standards. Such results, in turn, could help create a safe and secure
environment for air transport in West and Central Africa, one that would allow local airlines to competitively access
regional and worldwide markets, thereby supporting sustainable economic growth at the regional level (PAD, page 4).


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

The project development objective - " To support the Recipient in improving compliance of its civil aviation sector and
its international airports with International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) safety and security standards."- is
assessed in relation to its three sub-objectives: (i) improve CAA compliance rates with ICAO’s safety standards. (ii)
improve CAA compliance rates with ICAO security standards, and (iii) improve compliance of the international airports
with ICAO safety and security standards..

Outputs
Project outputs, which were common to all three sub-objectives, were as follows:

For all countries, airport perimeters were fenced, and new luggage scanning equipment, closed circuit television
(CCTV) devices and new electronic identification badges for personnel were installed at the airports of the respective
countries, as targeted (ICR, page 10).
Equipment to enhance safety and security (such as acquisition of x-ray machines, Closed Circuit Television (CCTV)
within the airport perimeter, human and luggage/freight checking loop to the whole airports extended area, was
installed and utilized as targeted, at the project closure stage.
All 26 airport[ inspectors in Cameroon and all 10 in Mali were trained in ICAO safety standards. Nine of Guinea’s 11
inspectors were trained at the project closure stage. The ICR does not provide information on the number of
inspectors that were trained in Burkina Faso.
All countries met or exceeded targeted shares of their airport security personnel who should have had are least three
years relevant experience. The results by country were as follows: (i) Cameroon - targeted 60%, achieved 70%; (ii)
Burkina Faso – targeted 50%, achieved 50%; (iii) Mali – targeted 75%, achieved 90%; and (iv) Guinea – targeted 65%,
achieved 85%.
Annual airport crisis simulation exercises were conducted in Burkina Faso, Cameroon and Mali. 3 problems were
recorded in Burkina Faso at the project closure stage as compared to the original target of less than 3. The
comparable figures for Cameroon and Mali were 3 and 2 respectively at project closure as compared to the target of
less than 3. The ICR (page ix) notes that airport crisis exercises were not carried out in Guinea due to the periodic
bouts of political instability from 2009-2012.

Outputs: in connection with the respective countries’ Civil Aviation Authorities (CAA) included the following:

Burkina Faso: An autonomous CAA was set up and its total budget became US$3.6 million in June 2013, as
compared to the target of US$2.00 million in April 2006. The budget allocated for security increased to US$ 1.40
million in June 2013, as compared to the original target of US$ 1.00 million.

Cameroon:.Its CAA's total budget increased to US$ 22.7 million in June 2013, nearly four times over the original
target of US$ 6.00 million in April 2006. The ICR(page 33) reports that at project closure, the CAA was able to cover
the operating costs that was previously funded by the project , keep trained police officers working at the airport due to
a specific agreement with the police and develop an internal quality insurance process. The budget allocated for
security increased to US$3.60 million, over three times the original target of US$0.90 million.

Mali: The CAA's total budget increased to US$6.50 million by June 2013 as compared to the original target of US$
2.60 million in April 2006. The total budget allocated for security increased to US$1.02 million by June 2013 as
compared to the original target of over US$1.00 million.

Guinea: The Guinean CAA was not set up at the project closure stage as targeted. Although the law for setting up the
CAA had been ratified, the legal decrees had not been passed to make the CAA functional at the project closure
stage.

Outcomes:

Objective One: Improve CAA compliance with ICAO safety standards : Substantial

According to an ICAO audit conducted by ICAO certified inspectors at project closure in 2013 in the respective
countries, the compliance rate of CAA’s of the respective countries was:

For Burkina Faso, the compliance rate increased from 49% at the baseline in 2006 to 70% as targeted
For Cameroon, it increased from 48% to 68%, slightly below the target of 70%.
For Mali, it increased from 28% to 75%, slightly below the target of 74%.
For Guinea, it increased from 53% to 70%, slightly below the target of 75%.

Objective Two: improve compliance with ICAO security standards : Substantial

According to an ICAO audit conducted by ICAO certified inspectors at project closure in 2013 in the respective
countries, the compliance rate with ICAO safety and security standards was:

Burkina Faso – 75% as targeted.
Cameroon – 75% as targeted.
Mali – targeted 75% achieved 86%
Guinea- targeted 35% achieved 25%.
Objective Three: Improve compliance of the international airports with ICAO safety and security standards : Modest

Decrease in the rate of illegal object seizures by the international airports is used as outcome indicator for assessing
the airports compliance with ICAO safety and security standards. The rate of illegal object seizures decreased to
0.50% as compared to the target of less than 2% in Burkina Faso. The comparable figures for Cameroon and Guinea
were 5% as compared to the target of less than 3%, and for Mali it was 0.52% as compared to the target of less than
0.50%. This indicator however is not very convincing, since it is not clear why a decrease in the rate of illegal object
seized at the international airports should signify improved safety and security standards at the international airports.
The ICR (page 19) also notes that “despite the achievements and despite eager interest shown by the beneficiary
countries from a second phase project, no next phase was envisaged by the Bank at the project closure stage.


 5. Efficiency:
  The PAD did not carry out a cost benefit analysis at appraisal. Annex 9 of the PAD (pages 83- 88) analyses the
possible impact of enhanced aviation safety and security on tourist flows, inward international direct investment and
trade. It concluded that, although it was not possible to isolate this impact from other factors, the improved safety
program could be considered as an important contributor to the development strategy of the countries of West and
Central Africa. However, no cost related data was obtained to quantify the net economic benefits of the program at the
appraisal stage.

The ICR (page 24) notes that an ex post attempt was made to quantify the benefits from the project, such increased
tourism and travel due to better air transport safety and safety. These in turn were expected to contribute directly to
contribute to gross domestic product (GDP) growth, employment generation and greater capital investment. The ICR
cost benefit analysis used passenger and freight air traffic for the 2006-2013 period data supplied by the CAAs. The
economic rate of return (EIRR) was 26% for Burkina Faso, 32% for Cameroon, 22% for Guinea and 39% for Mali.
The ICR uses the traffic data to estimate the benefits. However, it is clear from the ICR, how the project benefits and
costs were valued, to provide quantitative estimates of the net project benefits.

Further, while improved aviation and safety factors contributed to increased air traffic flows, it is not clear the extent to
which the project contributed to increased traffic flows, since other factors such as the growth rates of the respective
countries could have played a role in increasing air traffic flows.

Regarding the efficiency of the use of the project resources, it is important to note that there were no significant cost
overruns. On the other hand, project implementation was not efficient as it had to be extended for four and a half more
years (54 months) beyond schedule. Altogether, it took more than twice as long to implement than planned.
Efficiency is rated modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                        No
     ICR estimate                     No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Relevance, both of the project objectives and design, is rated substantial. Efficacy of achieving the project
objective was rated substantial for Objectives 1 and 2 and modest for Objective 3. Efficiency is rated modest since
the appraisal did not measure the likely benefits from the project and at completion the ICR may have overestimated
the results of air traffic growth attributable to the project.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

Government Ownership / Commitment: Although with the exception of Guinea, all the countries have autonomous
CAAs, and had committed budgets to them beyond the expectations of this project, and extensive training programs
were provided for the civil aviation staff and these in turn helped to improve the overall compliance with ICAO
standards, the CAA's financial autonomy and capacity need to be more firmly established for them to continue to
contribute to air transport safety and security needs (ICR, page 28). There is significant risk that the ongoing benefits
from this project may be undermined due to the weak financial and institutional environment of the participating
countries, and particularly that of Guinea (ICR 28).

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    As the project was the first in a horizontal APL series and there were few precedents in the Bank for supporting
projects aimed at enhancing regional aviation safety and security measures it was essential that there be
considerable effort put into getting the structural and institutional elements of the design right. The components
and reform focus of the design were well founded, but it required careful and measured thinking with regards to
how these would fit together and work in tandem.

Unfortunately, there were considerable limitations in how the Bank went ahead with regards to instituting these
structures:

There was no explicit linkage between the national and the regional dimension of the program even where this
was highlighted as a core component of the design. The envisaged program had a national and regional
dimension associated with regional aviation safety and security, and the regional dimension of the program were
important to achieve the outcomes of the program. However, since IDA could support only national programs, the
project financed only national dimensions of the project, and the regional components of the program were
financed by other development partners. This resulted in no explicit links between the national and regional
dimensions of the program, which were necessary for achieving program outcomes.
Guinea was included as part of the financing for APL, although it did not fully comply with the project’s three
eligibility criteria: (i) the creation of an administratively and financially autonomous CAA. (ii) the use of aviation
security and/or safety taxes to generate revenue for the purpose of financing its CAA and (iii) the attainment of
agreed percentages of compliance levels with ICAO's standards in the areas of aviation security and safety as
well as improved airport security. (PAD, page 4).The ICR (page 29) notes that a more thorough and systematic
evaluation of the real capacity of Guinea to implement the project activities should have led to that country’s
exclusion in phase 1 of the APL or at least to additional support to bring them up to the standard.
The project implementation time frame established at appraisal was not realistic given the steps outlined in the
design description. The ICR (page 29) notes that the customary time implementation framework for a single
country investment lending is 5 to 6 years. Hence, the decision to adopt a 3 year implementation period for a
regional operation proved to be optimistic.
The project design incorporated 12 sector specific effectiveness conditions (apart from the standard ones as
specified in the Bank’s General Conditions) and 35 key legal covenants for four countries each with its own
readiness status. So much conditionality points to a project that was not ready for implementation (ICR, page 29)
and did not reflect the reform agenda outlined in the design.
Although the PAD provided preliminary estimates of the costs necessary to implement the project component
activities based on the number of airports to be covered under the project, detailed technical studies and designs
related to major investments were not available for the civil works (airport fences, airport perimeter patrol roads,
crisis management centers etc) at the time of appraisal. This delayed project implementation. project.
The ICR (page 29) notes that the overall scope of the program - which initially aimed at covering up to 23
countries and more than 30 airports -was overly ambitious. Only four countries actually signed up. If all 23 had
done so, project implementation requirements would have overwhelmed the resources allocated by the Bank.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:

Nineteen Implementation Status Reports were filed during the eight years of project implementation during which
the Bank regularly fielded two supervision missions annually until the final year. These field missions were
supplemented by video/audio conferencing. Having environmental and social safeguards, financial and
procurement specialists based in Bank country offices also helped facilitate project implementation (ICR, page
30). The ICR also notes that the supervision teams responded in a timely fashion to deal with procurement delays.

However, there were minor shortcomings:
The lack of key technical studies for civil works (such as crisis management centers, works within the airport
premises such as fences and security patrol routes) and final bidding documents challenged project supervision
and slowed project implementation.
The ICR (page 30) notes that one important option that should have been given serious consideration during
supervision would have been to cancel the project components for Guinea.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

The Civil Aviation Authorities of Burkina Faso (National Civil Aviation Authority- ANAC), of Cameroon (Cameroon
Civil Aviation Authority- CCAA), of Mali (Mali Civil Aviation Authority- ANAC) and the National Directorate of Civil
Aviation of Guinea (DNAC) were the government agencies.

While Guinea did not fulfill the eligibility criterion at the appraisal stage, the other countries were unable to make
the project effective within the stipulated 120 days.

In the case of Cameroon, the Government financed complementary activities to comply with safeguards
(discussed in section 11) and also provided counterpart funds of US$ 12.3 million, which was well above its
funding obligation of US$ 1.5 million at appraisal. However, there were delays in adopting the Civil Aviation Bill
which although submitted in 2007, was adopted only in 2013. Hence the adoption of the Civil Aviation bill could
not be considered in the 2012 ICAO safety audit.

In the case of Guinea, there were frequent changes in Government and a lack of leadership at the ministerial
level. This in turn led to lack of commitment to complete the process to make their CAA autonomous.


   Government Performance Rating                                 Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

The principal implementing agencies in three countries, Burkina Faso, Cameroon and Mali were the Civil Aviation
Authorities: In the case of Burkina Faso, the project activities were initially implemented by the Direction Generale
de l' Aviation Civile et de la Meterologie (DGACM), and later by the autonomous CAA. In the case of Guinea the
project was supervised and regulated by the Direction Nationale l’Aviation Civile (DNAC) within the Ministry of
Transport..

Burkina Faso: At project closure, Burkina Faso had an autonomous CAA and the government had also applied for
the US Transport Sector certification of the Ouagadougou international airport. The ICR (page 31) notes that this
process is ongoing. The ICR (page 33) notes that the Project Implementation Unit performance in terms of setting
up and following on the monitoring and evaluation tools, the technical and regular steering meeting committee,
and project management tools (such as accounting software, manual of procedures, internal audits) was deemed
to be satisfactory.
Cameroon: Although there were initial staffing issues which in turn project resulted in delays of almost two years,
at the project closure stage Cameroon had an autonomous CAA with good financial standing.
Mali: The ICR (page 33) notes although Mali was affected by the political turmoil from March 2012 until March
early 2013, Mali's CAA performance was deemed to be satisfactory in view of its compliance rate with ICAO
security standards, even if slightly behind target..
Guinea; Although there implementation agency improved its safety compliance rate, it was still below the target.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                         Moderately Satisfactory
10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

Since the M&E design was based on internationally accepted ICAO standards, it was standardized across the four
countries so that they could be compared across countries.

There were nine principal ones: (i) the compliance rate with ICAO safety and security standards; (ii) the rate of
seizures of illegal products at the international airports assisted by the project; (iii), the percentage of technical
personnel in compliance with ICAO’s safety standards; (iv) the size of the total budgets of the CAA's of the respective
countries; (v) the percentage of ICAO certified security inspectors who were trained during the previous three years;
(vi) the adequacy of the budget allocations made by the CAAs of the respective countries for addressing aviation
security considerations; (vii) the airport security personnel with three or more years of experience; (viii) the number of
serious problems recorded during airport crisis simulation exercises; and (ix) percentage of embarking passengers
stopped in possession of illegal objects. .

There were too many indicators and the indicator used for assessing the safety and security at the international
airports- through decrease in the percentage of embarking passengers stopped in possession of illegal objects – is not
convincing, as it could be indicative of relatively lax enforcement measures at the international airports of the
respective countries.


b. M&E Implementation:

The country level implementing agencies were responsible for data collection and monitoring of results and the
national authorities were clear on what was being measured and how it was be measured. .

The CAA's compliance rates with ICAO standards needed to be revised to comply with the new ICAO methodology.
This revision in audit approach led to the revision of the baseline and the target for Burkina Faso, Cameroon and Mali.
Guinea was the only country to be evaluated under the old methodology.


c. M&E Utilization:

M&E data were used to assess project implementation progress. There is no direct evidence in the ICR of the use of
M&E results to inform policy making in the aviation sub-sector.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

The project was classified as Category "B" for the purposes of Environmental Assessment and a partial assessment
was required. In addition to Environmental Assessment ( OP/BP 4.12), the following safeguard policies were
triggered: Cultural Property (OP 4.11) and Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). These safeguard policies were
triggered on account of the following activities funded under the project such as: (i) Construction of fencing around
security perimeter to reduce trespassing; (ii) removal of vegetable gardens within the airport security perimeter; (iii)
removal of a few structures that had been built with the airport security perimeter. The ICR (page 17) notes that these
activities were identified at the Conakry airport in Guinea and the Douala and Yaounde airports in Cameroon. The
ICR page 17) notes that Resettlement Action Plans (RAP) were prepared in November 2005 and disclosed on
February 22, 2006.

The ICR (page 17) reports that although the implementation of the RAPs was initially slow due to a lack of proper
understanding of the World Bank Environmental and Safeguards policies by the project implementation teams, due to
capacity constraints, all three RAPs and other environmental mitigation measures were fully implemented in the
respective countries as follows:

Burkina Faso: Plant sellers in the airport security perimeters were relocated through a compensation program that
was in compliance with the World Bank safeguards.
Cameroon: (i) During the construction of the Douala airport fence and road appropriate mitigation measures for
wildlife preservation were employed as works were partially executed in a swamp area. (ii) A religious shrine located 1
km from Yaounde airport fencing and hence flagged in the RAP study, did not have to be relocated, as the
government had financed the construction of a new access road.
Guinea: All farming activity relocations involved compensation, determined through a RAP prepared by the
government and approved by the Bank team.
Mali. There were no environmental and social issues (ICR, page (ICR, page 18).

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Financial Management . The ICR (page 18) reports that financial management functions (including reconciliation of
accounts, external audits of project accounts) were carried by the project implementation units in the respective
countries in a satisfactory manner. Each unit provided quarterly reports with details on the financial aspects of each
activity funded by the project. The external audits, prepared and submitted in a timely fashion, were unqualified..

Procurement . There were no cases of mis procurement (ICR, page 19) However, the ICR (page 19) reports that while
project procurement arrangements were deemed to be in compliance with the Bank guidelines at the appraisal stage,
procurement issues became a major source of delays during implementation. The main reasons for this included: (i)
limited knowledge of the implementing agencies with World Bank Procurement Guidelines; and (ii) implementing
agencies’ difficulties in preparing terms of references and technical specifications of key project activities. The ICR
(page 19) notes that of the four project countries, Cameroon had the most difficulty with procurement and that the first
major works contracts were signed in Cameroon only two years after the date of effectiveness, and execution of
contracts was slow.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

None.

d. Other:

None.


12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Moderately
                                Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory
        Borrower Performance : Moderately                   Moderately
                                Satisfactory                Satisfactory
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The following three lessons are the most important ones drawn from the longer list presented in the ICR (pages
35-36):

(1) It would also have helped to have a realistic implementation time frame considering that it was multi country
regional project. The experience with this project was that implementation of the project was not satisfactory in
terms of achieving the PDO due to the lack of procurement capacity, absence of technical studies for most of the
civil works activities and implementation arrangements which needed modification to ensure greater coordination
between the project implementing teams and the implementing agencies. This project was expected to be
completed in 3 years but it took about 8 years to complete the implementation of all the project components..
(2) It would be helpful to group the participating countries by capacity. In the case of this project, the performance
of one country (Guinea) during implementation negatively impacted the overall performance of the project, both in
terms of timeline and achievement of objectives. A more rigorous assessment of countries at the preparatory stage
could have helped in ensuring that all countries in the project were roughly at the same level of readiness, when the
project started.
(3) It would have helped to have a regional dimension of the M$E framework. In the case of this project, although
the indicators focused on ICAO safety and security compliance at the national level, it was not possible to assess
casual linkages between the national components outputs and regional outcomes of the project.



14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes     No

Why? As part of a cluster Project Performance Assessment Report for the projects undertaken in the horizontal
APL series could be useful in verifying the ratings and in drawing lessons for future multi-country initiatives.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR provides a candid presentation of the difficulties and issues involved in implementing this project. It also
clearly discusses the problems associated with the Guinea project component. The lessons are thorough and
evidence based.
The ICR's discussion of outcomes is not very clear and a fuller account of the difficulties associated with the change
in methodology of ICAO would have been useful. It would also have helped to have an English translation of the
Borrower's ICR.
In addition, the ICR:
·Does not provide project costs.
·Is very long with 38 pages of main text. Unnecessarily detailed background material means that it’s only on p. 20 that
the ICR gets to the main self-evaluation point, namely the assessment of outcomes.
·Inconsistent treatment of the project objective by the ICR. On ICR p. 6 it is correct as per the legal agreement,
namely improving compliance with safety and security standards. On ICR p. 20 it was incorrect, namely improving air
transport safety and security itself. ICR actually reports that actual air transport and safety, not just compliance,
improved in Burkina Faso, but provides no evidence of this (ICR p. 31).
·Many typos—such as: regional leve (p. 13); exensions (p. 14); bestillustrated (p. 19); inprovements (p. 21); achived
(pp. 13, 30)—point to the need for more care in finalizing this report.
·Report of project cost benefit analysis at completion is scant; just 6 paragraphs in the main text and little of the 15
page . Annex 3 on Economic Analysis devoted assessing the project. Instead Annex 3 presents an overview of air
transport in West Africa in general.
·Citing country commitment of resources, a project input, as key evidence of the achievement of the project objective,
an outcome (ICR p. 25).
·The ICR could have benefitted more from the 35 pages of Borrower ICRs bringing valuable and distinct perspectives
to the performance of this APL. The text is provided in French, however, without any summary in English.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
