Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 13626
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
FIRST URBAN PROJECT
(CREDIT 1528-MAI)
OCTOBER 24, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIYALENTS
Currency Unit                                          Malawi Kwacha (MK) and Tambala
1 MK  =  100 Tambala
Exchange Rate at Appraisal                             US$1.00  -  MK 1.33
SDR 1.00 =  US$1.01663
Exchange Rate (October 1988)             :             US$1.00      MK 2.60
Exchange Rate (1989)                                   US$1.00      MK 2.73
Exchange Rate at Closing                               US$1.00      MK 3.81
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 foot (ft)                                           0.305 meters (m)
1 mile (mi)                                            1.609 kilometers (klm)
1 square mile (mi2)                                   2.590 square kilometers (km2)
1 ton (t)                                             0.907 metric tons (m ton)
ABBREVIATIONS
BCC                                                    Blantyre City Council
BML                                                    Building Materials Loan
CCDC                                                   Capital City Development Corporation
DLV                                                    Department of Lands and Valuation
IHA                                                    Intermediate Housing Area
ISS                                                    Institutional Support and Studies
LCC                                                    Lilongwe City Council
MHC                                                    Malawi Housing Corporation
MOWS                                                   Ministry of Works and Suppliesl/
NBS                                                    New Building Society
ODA                                                    Overseas Development Administration
OPC                                                    Office of the President and Cabinet
THA                                                    Traditional Housing Area
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Malawi                                   April 1 - March 31
Malawi Housing Corporation                             January 1 - December 31
New Building Society                                   February 1 - January 31
1/From March 1988 renamed Ministry of Works.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
October 24, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Malawi
First Urban Development Project (Credit 1528-MAI)
Attached is the 'Project Completion Report on Malawi - First Urban Project (Credit 1528-MAI)"
prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division, Southern Africa Department of the Africa Regional
Office, with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The project aimed at developing a wide range of housing options and it was to assist the
government in establishing a self-supporting housing program which was to address the issue of subsidies
and include technical innovations. With these ambitious targets the project became difficult to implement
by the agencies whose capacity furthermore was overestimated at appraisal. Due to the many problems
encountered during implementation, critical components had to be modified but objectives were not scaled
down. Project completion was delayed by three years.
Achievements in physical terms were substantial. The important but often elusive goal of making
housing affordable to low-income groups on a sustainable and replicable basis was not, however, realized.
Institutional aspects were improved to some extent through revision of building by-laws and formulation
of legislation to support the development of low-cost housing, and through studies to initiate policy
reforms. Important achievements were also realized in land security and land registration thus making
land dealings more efficient. Cost recovery goals, however, were not met thus leaving the sustainability
of project benefits uncertain.
Overall, this first urban project helped establish an improved basis for promotion of the
development of low-cost housing. The project outcome is rated as marginally satisfactory, its institutional
development impact as modest, and the sustainability of project benefits as uncertain.
The PCR is of good quality and offers pragmatic lessons. Part II presents a realistic review of
project implementation and supplements the lessons presented in Part I. The project may be audited later
when the ongoing Local Government Development Project (Cr. 2379-MAI) is completed.
Attachment                                             <
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onLy in the performance of
their officiaL duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discLosed without WorLd Sank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COM[PLEIsON REPORT
MALAWI
FIR  URBAN PROJEC
(CREDIT 1528-MAI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE   .....................................................                                                        i
EVALUATION SUMMARY . ...........................................  i
PART I.    PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ...................    1
Project Identity .       ..............................................                                       1
Background .................................................   1
Project Objectives and Description   ..................................    3
Project Design and Organization  ....................................    4
Project Implementation .            ..........................................  4
Results ....................................................    6
Project Sustainability  .          ..........................................                                7
Bank Performance .            ............................................                                   7
Borrower Performance .              ..........................................  8
Project Relationship . ............................................  9
Consulting Services and Studies  ....................................    9
Project Documentation and Data ....................................    9
PART H. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                               ........... 10
Bank's Performance   .             ..........................................    10
Bank Review Missions .              ..........................................  10
Approvals ..................................................   10
Flexibility ...........................                                                                      11
Borrower Performance ...........................  11
Lessons Learned ...........................  12
PART m.  STATISTICAL INFORMATION ................................ 14
Related Bank Loans/Credits .........................  15
Project Timetable  ..................................    16
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements ..........                       ................   17
Project Implementation . .................................. 19
Project Costs ..................................  20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
Project Financing                    ...............  21
Project Results:
Direct Benefits                  ...............  22
Studies ...............                                                   22
Status of Covenants ...............  23
Use of Bank Resources ...............  27



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
FIRST URBAN PROJECT
(CREDIT 1528-MAI)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the First Urban Project for which Credit 1528-
MAI (SDR 14.8 million [US$15.0 million equivalent]) was approved on November 27, 1984 and declared
effective on November 19, 1985. Following a restructuring of the project in 1989 and two extensions
(to June 30, 1991 and June 30, 1992), the Credit closed on June 30, 1993. An undisbursed balance of
SDR 4,107,257.18 (approximately US$4.16 million equivalent) resulting from cost savings due to
currency devaluations and to the discontinuation of some infrastructure works was cancelled on
November 2, 1993.
2.    The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of the Southern Africa
Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and by the Borrower (Part II).
3.    Preparation of this PCR was based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development
Credit Agreement and Supplementary Letters; supervision reports; consultants' reports; correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.






ii
PROJECT COMPLE ION REPORT
MALA
RST URBANPROJECT
(CREDIT 1528-MAD
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.    The primary objective of the First Urban Project was to help orient future housing development
in Malawi toward a market-based system by almost tripling the availability of mortgage finance,
introducing a new affordable standard of permanent bousing and restructuring key institutions to play a
more dynamic role in land and housing development. The project's aim was to enhance the housing
sector's viability and financial independence by encouraging greater use of private funds for housing
finance. The project was also to help the Government investigate ways of phasing out subsidies on the
existing housing stock and reducing the linkage between housing benefits and total public service
compensation policies.
2.    Major project components included: the development of about 2,230 plots by Malawi Housing
Corporation (MHC) and provision of about 2,000 mortgage loans for low-cost housing through the New
Building Society (NBS) under the Intermediate Housing Area (IHA) Programme; the development of
about 500 plots and the provision of about 1,000 Building Materials Loans (BMLs) by MHC under the
Traditional Housing Area (THA) Programme; and the Institutional Support and Studies (ISS) Programme
comprising a study of housing subsidies and wage policies, a training programme for small contractors,
a land adjudication and registration programme and a study of building regulations and institutional
support.
3.    The project was largely executed by MHC and NBS with the assistance of consultants. The
Office of Housing in the Office of the President and Cabinet (OPC) was responsible for overall
monitoring of project activities.



iii
Implementation Experience
4.    The management capacity of MHC, NBS and OPC was underestimated during project
preparation.  As a result, as problems were encountered in critical areas of planning, financial
management and engineering, these were not adequately addressed.
5.    The project which was appraised in 1983 and negotiated and approved in 1984 was expected to
have been completed within seven years. However, implementation of the physical components only got
underway in mid-1987 after nearly three years of delay due in part to the lack of detailed engineering
designs.
6.    Problems in project design became evident early on in the life of the project. The requirement
that houses be presold prior to the initiation of construction in order for mortgage funds to be released
could not be met by the majority of the intended beneficiaries. Additionally, increases in interest rates
and in the cost of construction made the achievement of the project's affordability objective nearly
impossible.
7.    In 1989, the project was restructured in an attempt to remedy the weaknesses in original project
design. A new mix of housing options was introduced in order to better reach the target groups.
Following the restructuring, reasonable progress was achieved with the civil works components.
However, the project's financial performance deteriorated and issues of cost recovery and financial
accountability became the source of some concern.
8.    The Closing Date of the project was extended twice (from June 30, 1991 to June 30, 1992 and
from June 30, 1992 to June 30, 1993) primarily to enhance the achievement of project objectives. Total
project costs at completion amounted to US$15.8 million, 13.3% lower than the appraisal estimate of
US$18.2 million. A balance of SDR 4,107,257.18 resulting from currency devaluations and savings from
the discontinuation of site development at Kameza (509 out of the 609 plots originally allocated have to
be resited) which remained undisbursed from the credit was canceled on November 2, 1993.
Results
9.    On the whole, the project failed to address the needs, priorities and desires of the low-income
urban groups for which it was targeted. Although the delivery of the physical outputs of the project,
particularly in respect of the IHA Programme, were achieved to a large extent, some targets relating to
the BMLs under the THA Programme were not fully reached. There were serious problems relating to
cost recovery especially in relation to the sale of core and shell houses.
10.   Under the ISS Programme, the Land Adjudication Study was largely successful. However, the
Housing Subsidies and Wage Policy Study aimed at reforming the entrenched system of subsidizing civil
service housing, did not yield the expected contribution to the policy debate or result in any changes to
the system. The country's Building By-laws were revised and appropriate legislation formulated to
promote the development of low-cost housing.



iv
11.   The impact of the technical assistance provided in support of project monitoring activities was
minimal, and did not serve to enhance the existing policy-formulation capacity within the key sectoral
institutions.
Sustainability
12.   The sustainability of the project depends on sectoral institutional and financial reforms being put
in place that would facilitate sustained housing development in the country. Given the changes in the
financial environment, the structure of the on-lending arrangements under the project would need to be
revised to enable NBS to promote and provide adequate financing for low-income housing. This would
also contribute to efforts being made by MHC to improve its cost recovery record in order not to
endanger the financial stability of the NBS.
Findings and Lessons Learned
13.   The main lessons drawn from the implementation of the First Urban Project are:
the importance of thoroughly assessing the institutional capability of the Borrower and
the implementing agencies so that measures such as a clearly defined role for technical
assistance and training of local personnel in key areas of financial management,
engineering planning and quantity surveying can be incorporated into project design;
-      the desirability of flexibility in project design to incorporate revisions in scope that will
allow the maximum benefits to be derived under the project, and for these to be
sustained;
-     the need to ensure that good policy coordination among the relevant implementing
authorities is achieved so that bottlenecks of an inter-institutional nature that impede
progress can be removed;
-     the basic assumptions on which the design of a project of this nature hinges (for example,
affordability, spatial priorities, standards, target groups to be served) should be
thoroughly examined so that possible deficiencies in the project design can be minimized;
-      the importance of establishing clearly defined and realistic marketing policies within the
social, economic and political context of the Borrower's country so as to assure effective
cost recovery and maximum benefits.






PROJECT COMPLETMON REPORT
MALAWI
EIS  URBAN PROJE
(CREDIT 1528-MAD
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identit
Project Name        First Urban Project
Credit No.          1528-MAI
RVP Unit            Southern Africa Department,
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country             Malawi
Sector       :      Infrastructure
Sub-sector          Urban
2.    BackoU=nd
2.1          Housing supply in urban areas in Malawi has historically been dominated by the public
sector. Over the years, the Government has maintained a successful sites and services programme
Oocally called Traditional Housing Areas ITHAs]) which has enabled lower income urban residents to
obtain access to basic services and construct self-help housing in a planned setting. However, at the
upper end of the housing scale, Malawi has maintained the colonial tradition of providing subsidized
housing as part of a benefit package made available to many higher-level employees in the public and
private sectors. The major share of such housing is owned by the Government, either as institutional
housing held by individual ministries in connection with specific Government activities or as a general
purpose pool of housing held by the Malawi Housing Corporation (MHC) and rented on a sub-economic
basis to the Government or to employees of statutory bodies and private firms. These various
programmes provide housing for roughly two-thirds of all urban residents, with half of the total residents
being supplied by the THA programme. The remaining urban housing stock is accounted for by self-help
housing constructed in unplanned housing areas (such as Ndirande in Blantyre and Old Kawale in
Lilongwe) and by formal sector housing developed by private individuals, the latter of which services less
than ten percent of total urban residents.



2
2.2          Between 1971 and 1981, MHC and the Capital City Development Corporation (CCDC)
maintained average annual growth rates of 5 percent for permanent housing and 17 percent for the THA
programme. This high volume of THA production provided for a major share of the increase in the
urban population, which grew at an estimated annual rate of about 8 percent over the period. The more
modest growth in the permanent housing stock was well below the increase in the number of employees
eligible for rental housing, so that by 1983, approximately half of the civil servants eligible for rental
housing were on the waiting list. Malawi's current budgetary constraints have since reduced the volume
of both new permanent housing and THA construction to minimal levels, further aggravating the growing
shortage of housing.
2.3          The primary reasons for the decline in housing production are: (i) the high level of
subsidy to the sector, which has been a factor in the deteriorating financial health of key institutions,
particularly MHC; and (ii) the high unit cost of permanent housing constructed to standard designs.
MHC is largely dependent for its revenues on rentals charged to Government. Because of Government's
own budgetary problems, rental increases have been granted reluctantly, consequently, MHC's financial
situation has weakened to a precarious level. As a result of the uneconomic rental structure and its
deteriorating financial position, MHC has been unable to attract long term loans from foreign and
domestic sources. In addition, the foreign grant funds which had been used for THA development are
becoming more difficult to obtain, in part because of problems with the achievement of cost recovery in
THAs. This, due in large part to housing costs moving beyond the financial means of low income
groups.
2.4          The Bank gave priority to the housing sector in its first urban operation in Malawi
because of the acute need to reorient policies and priorities towards the provision of affordable and
financially viable alternatives. In the urban areas in general, the Bank has provided assistance for water
supply, health education and industrial development through projects in these sectors. The Blantyre
Water Supply Project (Credit 71 1-MAI; 1977)1/ augmented water supply to Malawi's largest city, and
the Lilongwe Water Supply Engineering Credit (Credit 1272-MAI; 1982)2/ helped to identify and
prepare water supply and sanitation investments in Lilongwe. The Health and Nutrition Project (Credit
1351-MAI)Q/ was aimed at improving the health care delivery systemns in Lilongwe and Blantyre as well
as a number of semi-urban and rural areas.
2.5          It was expected that the First Urban Project would provide a programme of positive
actions to initiate the process of moving to a financially viable housing sector and contribute to the total
programme of urban development in Malawi. The project was prepared by the Government in 1981 with
assistance from consultants and the Bank; it was appraised in November 1983; and it was restructured
in 1989 to allow the Government to respond to changes in the external environment, escalated
construction costs and increases in interest rates.
I/Perfonnence Audit Report No. 6700 (1987).
/PMroject Comipldtion Repoft No. 8642 (1990).
3/Prjcct Completion Report No. 9258 (1990).



3
3.    Project Objectives and Desaiption
3.1          The original objectives of the First Urban Project were: (i) to develop a wide range of
housing options in Malawi; (ii) to assist the Government in establishing a self-sustaining housing program;
(iii) to introduce various technical innovations in the housing sector; and (iv) to assist Government in
addressing the issue of housing subsidies. To that end, the project consisted of the following parts:
Part A:      The Intermediate Housing Area (IHA) Programme which comprised the development by
MHC of about 2,230 plots for intermediate housing, construction of about 2,000 houses
on such plots and the provision by New Building Society (NBS) of mortgage loans for
these houses;
Part B:      The THA Programme which comprised the development by MHC of about 500 plots for
traditional housing and provision of Building Materials Loans (BMLs) to about 1,000
plotholders;
Part C:      The Institutional Support and Studies (ISS) Programme which comprised a study of
housing subsidies and wage policies, a training programme for small contractors, a land
adjudication and registration programme, a building by-laws study and an institutional
support programme.
3.2          The project was restructured in 1989. The major content of the restructuring was as
follows:
The IHA Programme was changed to comprise the development by MHC of 1,490 open
serviced plots and 760 plots with houses, the provision by NBS of 760 mortgage loans
and 1,490 BMLs as well as some serviced plots for community and commercial purposes;
The THA Programme was changed to comprise the development by MHC of about 590
open plots, the provision of 1,190 BMLs to plotholders, and some serviced plots for
community and commercial purposes.
3.3          Under the project, proceeds of the Credit were on-lent to MHC and NBS, the agencies
responsible for implementation. The Office of the President and Cabinet (OPC) was responsible for the
overall monitoring of project activities.
3.4          The project was implemented over nine years and at appraisal total costs were estimated
at US$18.2 million, net of taxes and duties. US$15.0 million (82.4%) of this was to be financed by a
credit from IDA; US$1.3 million (7.2%) from NBS; US$0.6 million (3.3%) from MHC; US$0.8 million
(4.4%) from individuals as mortgage downpayments; and US$0.5 million (2.7%) by the Government of
Malawi. Estimates of final project costs indicate of the US$15.8 million total, US$14.5 million (91.6%)
was financed from credit proceeds; US$0.2 million (1.3%) from NBS; US$0.5 million (3.5%) from
MHC; US$0.1 million (0.6%) from individuals; and US$0.5 million (3.0%) from the Government of
Malawi.



4
4.    ProJect Design and Organization
4.1          The project design was complex and ambitious. The objectives were clearly stated,
however, the capabilities of the implementing agencies (MHC, NBS and OPC) to successfully implement
them were wrongly assessed. Moreover, no concentrated efforts were made to strengthen capacity in the
crucial areas of financial management, engineering and planning.
4.2          The project failed to address the needs, priorities and desires of the low income urban
groups for which it was designed. The project design did not take advantage of the power of the
participation of the community (which has now been widely recognized as an effective vehicle in
successful project implementation) in detailing its needs, aspirations, standards and affordability levels.
4.3          Time frames and targets set were unrealistic considering the large number of project
components. Consequently, the responsibilities for implementation were never clearly understood and
the resulting confusion led to slippage in the project implementation timetables.
4.4          Critical issues in the design of the project, like effective demand, affordability levels,
financial arrangements, institutional capabilities and organization were not seriously and thoroughly
investigated before incorporating them in the project design leading to problems being encountered at all
stages of the implementation period.
S.    Project Imglementation
5.1          Implementation of the physical components of the project got underway after nearly three
years of delays caused by: (i) the failure to prepare detailed engineering and planning designs in advance;
and (ii) an overall lack of management capacity within the implementing agencies. Although the BML
Programme was launched, key issues concerning plot sizes, infrastructure standards and house types on
the remaining developments to ensure affordability objectives still needed to be resolved at this stage.
5.2          The financing arrangements for the IHA Programme proved problematic. They required
that houses were presold prior to initiation of construction in order to permit funding to be made available
during construction. As the house prices needed to be adjusted at the end of construction, MHC
experienced difficulties in justifying escalated prices due to the 20% devaluation in 1984 to beneficiaries.
The effect was that some beneficiaries could no longer purchase the homes because prices increased above
maximum permissible mortgage levels supported by their current incomes, and many could not afford
to pay the difference between revised sales prices and mortgage amounts.
5.3          There was major concern over the low proportion of delivered units for which regular
payments were being made by the beneficiaries. The financing arrangements were structured such that
the largest payment to be made on a unit was due at completion. Beneficiary commitment to loan
repayment was low. For a large proportion of units, final payments were not received despite the fact
that the bulk of the investment on each unit had been made. Units were frequently occupied at 'near
completion', with beneficiaries servicing smaller than expected mortgages. Thus, constraints were placed
on the flow of funds and the availability of resources for re-investment in the sector, which in turn
contributed to the poor cost recovery records of MHC and NBS.



5
5.4          In 1987, Malawi moved from a fixed interest rate structure to a market-based system,
resulting in mortgage interest rates increasing from 13% to 16.75%. However, in accordance with the
Development Credit Agreement, it was agreed that NBS could on-lend at a rate of 14.75%. Although
NBS increased the period of repayment of mortgage loans from 20 to 25 years to soften the effect of the
increased rate, the impact on affordability proved to be substantial.
5.5          Due to foreign exchange control restrictions and delays in approving importation of
materials, there was a shortage in the country of corrugated iron roofing sheets, a situation which led to
significant delays in the completion of units. This in turn jeopardized the BML Programme.
5.6          One of the most important components of the ISS Programme was the Housing Subsidies
and Wages Policy Study. Although, it was deemed crucial to Government's efforts at reforming the
entrenched system of subsidizing civil service and other housing, the study was not initiated until the
project was in its fourth year of implementation.
5.7          After project appraisal in 1983, a number of developments took place which together
made the housing affordability objectives of the project as originally designed, impossible to achieve.
Substantial increases in construction costs, escalation in interest rates, and the results of an income survey
(in 1987) which indicated that incomes were lower than those figures upon which the project design was
based necessitated a review of the project.
5.8          Accordingly in 1989, the project was restructured, with the modifications aimed at: (i)
remedying weaknesses in the original project design; and (ii) allowing the Government of Malawi to
respond to changes in the external environment.
5.9          In addition to the changes in the content of the major programme components (para. 3.2),
made at the time of the restructuring of the project, the Bank undertook, in collaboration with other
bilateral agencies, to support the upgrading of squatter settlements, particularly Ndirande in Blantyre.
5.10         Following the restructuring of the project, progress was made for the first time in several
components: two sites and the first group of houses were completed and the BMLs Programme for self-
help construction was underway; the policy studies under the ISS Programme were completed although
policy recommendations remained to be adopted; and after correcting methodological flaws, progress was
made in the land registration components. Disbursements increased accordingly from an average of about
4% per annum in the previous five years to 20% in the sixth year.
5.11         Two years after the restructuring, six civil works contracts had been completed and
another six were underway, with projects in all four cities started; the BML Programme was progressing
well with about 40% (about 600 loans) of the structures for which the loans were given either completed
or under construction; over 20% of Blantyre had been surveyed and recorded under the Land Registration
Component, which was within the targets set during restructuring of the project; and the final version of
the National Building Regulations was completed.
5.12         However, the Small Contractors Training Programme as redesigned, failed to win support
of the concerned agencies and was practically ineffective. Moreover, the recruitment of staff to
strengthen the implementation agencies proceeded extremely slowly even though these problems were
repeatedly brought to the attention of Government.



6
5.13         Despite the physical progress that was made after the restructuring of the project, financial
performance, particularly with respect to MHC, began to deteriorate: (i) discrepancies in the balances
pertaining to MHC's BMLs were noted; (ii) the amounts due to Government by MHC under the on-
lending agreement were not being determined on a consistent basis and, as a result, to date on-lending
interest payments have not been made; and (iii) other than with the issue of mortgages in respect of a
small number of BMLs, payments to NBS from MHC as required under the on-lending agreements were
not being made. Additionally, at the time of project closing, the report on MHC's audited accounts for
FY93 was six months overdue.
5.14         Work under the different project components was substantially completed by project
closing on June 30, 1993. Although the Closing Date was extended twice (from June 30, 1991 to June
30, 1992 and from June 30, 1992 to June 30, 1993), a considerable balance of SDR 4,107,257.18
remained undisbursed at the time of project closing. This was due to currency devaluations during the
project period and savings resulting from the discontinuation of site development at Kameza (509 out of
609 plots originally allocated have yet to be resited).
6.    Results
6.1          The implementation of the project saw major changes in focus and orientation due to
changes in the economic and financial environment not envisaged at appraisal. The broad major objective
of the project did not change, but the specific outputs envisaged at appraisal had to be modified in order
to enhance the opportunity of achieving the objectives.
6.2          The modifications sought to put in place a sites and services programme which would
eliminate: (i) the large, expensive, fully completed housing options constructed under the IHA Programme
envisaged at appraisal (which, by that time as a result of inflation, were affordable only to families above
the 92nd percentile of the urban income distribution); and (ii) the subsidized THA projects, and replace
these with residential housing developments which would emphasize open serviced plots, small core
houses and lower building standards, with full cost recovery, which would be affordable to a broader
range of families. In physical terms, the objectives of the project were to a large extent successfully
achieved. However, the major development objectives which sought to put housing development
affordable to low income groups in Malawi on a sustainable basis, were not realized.
6.3          The Land Adjudication and Registration Component of the Institutional Support and
Studies Programme was largely successful. The registration of the whole of Blantyre, including the city
center had been completed and was functioning under the Land Registry System at the time of project
closing. The benefits of this programme have been realized in: (i) giving greater security of title to both
the purchasers and lenders of land; (ii) affording greater protection of interests to proprietors,
leaseholders and mortgagees; as well as (iii) permitting dealings in properties to be effected more quickly
and cheaply.
6.4          The Housing Subsidies and Wage Policy Study was completed four years behind schedule
and failed to provide a comprehensive outline of different options available to Government. One outcome
of the study was the UNDP Trust Fund proposal in support of improvement of civil service conditions
and operations in Malawi. The Bank was supportive of the proposal provided that the Trust Fund was
related to housing policy reform, and not linked to the broader reform of the civil service.



7
6.5          Regrettably, due to the closing of the Project, the Bank was unable to meet its
commitment to supporting the Ndirande Upgrading Scheme before the project closed. While UNDP had
approved its participation in the detailed engineering phase of the scheme, Shelter Afrique was unable
to meet its commitment for the last phase, the Building Materials Loan Programme.
6.6          Since a cost-benefit analysis was not done during appraisal, it is not possible to assess the
direct benefits and economic and financial impact of the project in quantitative terms. There were,
however, some benefits which were largely intangible: (i) cessation of construction of new subsidized
housing; (ii) some progress made towards the provision of credible alternatives to the previous public
rental housing and the establishment of a rational basis for the Government to rid itself of obsolete
policies; and (iii) efforts made in policy reform of the major institutions in the sector to re-orient them
to a new market perspective.
7.    Project Sustainabilitv
7.1          The total amount of housing provided through the project will service only a portion of
the expected demand. Given the economic climate in Malawi, it is unlikely that the Government will be
able to contribute a significant amount of funds to housing development in the foreseeable future.
Therefore, it is essential that those institutional and financial reforms begun under the project be firmly
established in order to form a basis for sustained housing development beyond the completion of the
project.
7.2          The full participation of MHC and NBS and the introduction of effective cost recovery
pricing are essential elements in this strategy, by providing a mechanism for continuing mobilization of
domestic funds into the housing sector. However, these measures will not be sufficient unless a viable
basis is established for continuing the production of affordable housing by MHC and by ensuring that
NBS will be able to maintain an adequate growth of funds to sustain the required volume of mortgage
lending. To that end, the restructuring of the on-lending arrangements established under the project
would facilitate the provision by NBS of down market financing for low income housing on a consistent,
sustained basis.
8.    Bank Performance
8.1          At appraisal, the Bank overestimated the capabilities of MHC and NBS to implement a
project of this nature and did not encourage the use of technical assistance to train local personnel in the
key areas of financial management, engineering and planning.
8.2          Supervision missions were carried out irregularly during the early years of
implementation, and frequent changes in personnel assigned to the project did little towards ensuring that
progress was adequately monitored, or identifying potential problems in a timely manner.
8.3          The extensions of the Closing Date were practical in that they permitted the achievement
of a number of project objectives, thereby salvaging some aspects of the project.



8
8.4          The following lessons may be learned from the implementation of the First Urban Project:
a)    The need to build into the project design greater flexibility to enable adaptation of project
activities to changes in the financial and economic environment;
b)    The importance of focussing on the issue of affordability to low income groups; the
accessibility to the low income group would be enhanced by conducting a thorough
survey on income distribution in the initial stages of project design and evaluating the
impact of changes in the economic environment on the income group most vulnerable to
those changes;
c)    Care needs to be taken to thoroughly assess the institutional capability of the Borrower
and the implementing agencies so that measures such as a clearly defined role for local
capacity-building in key areas of financial management, engineering and planning can be
incorporated into project design;
d)    The need to ensure that good policy coordination among relevant implementing
authorities is achieved so that bottlenecks of an inter-institutional nature that impede
progress can be removed;
e)    The importance of establishing clearly defined and realistic marketing policies within the
social, economic and political context of the Borrower's country so as to ensure effective
cost recovery and replicability.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.1          There was full Borrower participation in the preparation of the project. The most crucial
weakness was the inability of the staff of the implementing agencies (MHC, NBS and OPC) to respond
adequately to the financial, technical and managerial requirements of the project. This, inevitably, led
to stagnation and delays in the implementation of the project.
9.2          Even though there was goodwill and enthusiasm on the part of the Borrower for the
project to succeed, there continued to be breaches of key financial covenants of the Development Credit
Agreement throughout, and right up to the close of the Credit.
9.3          Overall management of the program lacked coordination. Bottlenecks in the inter-
institutional relationships tended to slow down the progress in project implementation. The implementing
agencies only started submitting quarterly reports in the fifth year of the project. In addition, there were
considerable delays in carrying out staffing and other procedural agreements arrived at during missions
which stood in the way of better performance.



9
10.   Proect Relationship
10.1         At the beginning, the relatively new relationship between the Bank and the implementing
agencies, combined with the shortage of technical expertise and the lack of coordination between MHC,
NBS and OPC contributed in part to the slow progress achieved in implementation. However, as
implementation progressed, the professional rapport between the Borrower's project staff and supervision
missions grew and facilitated the identification of problems and in tackling them.
10.2         After the restructuring of the project, the relationship between the Bank and the
implementing agencies was enhanced, as both parties became more determined to salvage the project and
achieve results.
11.   Consulting Services and Studies
11.1         Although, the recruitment of consultants for the ISS Programme was a condition of
effectiveness, there were considerable delays in the selection process. The completed studies did not
adequately address the key issues or provide a comprehensive outline of policy options to Government.
Government decisions on the policy packages recommended were not taken.
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.1         The Development Credit Agreement (as originally prepared and as amended) was
straightforward and an adequate tool for project management in the implementation process. On-lending
agreements were prepared by the Borrower for passing on proceeds of the Credit to MHC and NBS were
straightforward. However, they proved difficult to implement because of changes in the financial
environment in which the project was being implemented.



10
MALAWI
FIRST URBAN PROJECT
(CREDIT 1528-MAI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The First Urban Housing Project despite problems encountered during project evolution and
implementation has enhanced the delivery of housing in the major urban centers of Malawi especially the
BML which is the largest project component has assisted in providing the much needed accommodation
to various sections of the urban communities. As indicated in Para 6.3 of Part I the benefits of the Land
Adjudication and Registration component have accrued to those who were squatters. They have acquired
full legal land titles.
1.0    Bank's Performance
The Bank's performance during the evolution and implementation of the project had its
bottlenecks which affected smooth project implementation.
1.1    Bank Review Missions
The Bank's review missions were not consistent. Changes in staff supervising the project affected
smooth implementation and retarded progress. The Bank changed the Task Manager of the
project five times over the implementation period. Each mission consisted of one or two different
personalities who questioned some of the issues already agreed with previous missions. This
resulted in constant changes in some aspects of the project and design parameters. There were
delays or non implementation of agreements or understandings reached during supervision
missions by the Bank e.g. Para 3.7 of September to October 1992 Aide Memoire hence the
current cost recovery problems. The critical issues to be looked into at each time whether legal
or financial or disbursement or technical aspects to avoid misinterpretation of operational
conditions and unnecessary delays.
1.2    Approvals
Contract documents for the following works were sent to the Bank in November, 1988 and Bank
approval was granted in February 1989 after several reminders:
-     Bills of quantities and drawings for 80 houses at Chimwankhunda and Blantyre;
-     Bills of quantities and drawings for 100 houses at Chimwankhunda and Blantyre.



11
-     Bills of quantities and drawings for Access Roads in Area 49 Sector I in Lilongwe.
Due to such delays, contracts were awarded 8 months later after Malawi had suffered two
currency devaluations which eventually affected the contract sums.
1.3   Flexibility
The Bank was not flexible enough to allow the Implementing Agencies carry out some of the
tasks with a free hand. The Bank imposed rigid conditions which to some extent caused
considerable delays and problems.
1.3.1  For example the Bank's condition to pre-sell the houses prior to construction was a very rigid
condition. MHC had to market the project using drawings. The majority of the low incomes
are illiterate, thus when it came to seeing the actual physical product, they objected and changed
their mind resulting into many withdrawals.
1.3.2  With regard to house prices MHC was working at a time when the economic situation was full
of uncertainties resulting in price changes. As a result, the people who had agreed to purchase
the houses at the original price did not accept the revised prices. This meant going back to
marketing.
1.3.3  Another Bank's inflexibility is clearly demonstrated in the infrastructure development at
Mchengautuwa in Mzuzu (80 plots). The problem of finding a contractor took almost a year.
The tenders were too high and MHC made a recommendation to the Bank to carry out the works
by direct labor.
The Bank refused and advised MHC to re-advertise. The response was very poor. Finally, the
Bank agreed to MHC's recommendations to carry out the works by direct labor. It took almost
two years (1990-1992) for the Bank to approve MHC recommendations.
2.0   Borrower Performance
The Government and its implementing agencies had problems in timely identifying well trained
personnel to be deployed to the project.
There were problems in trying to reconcile plot standards with the needs, aspirations, culture and
practices of beneficiaries and the Local Authority Bye-Laws. It took a long time for some
agencies to open and effectively operate special accounts under the project. Staff turnover in
some of the implementing agencies created knowledge gaps and cumbersome staff recruitment
procedures in government adversely affected the implementation of some components.
Apart from Kameza development which was discontinued pending resiting, all other project sites
were developed and the expected goods were delivered.
However, the project was vast and complex. Lack of foresight on the part of the government and
its implementing agencies as well as the Bank led to operational problems during the evolution
and implementation of the project.



12
There were so many unknowns particularly under the BML which lacked careful planning and
coordination. Issues like transport for transporting building materials to various project sites was
not originally included in the project because the Bank argued that this item was not under the
credit.
Lack of trained personnel in Accounting, Project Management and Supervision seriously affected
the implementation of the project.
Lack of appreciation of the project's product on the part of NBS particularly on Cores and Shells
caused problems during the implementation of the project. It was originally agreed that NBS was
to finance the Shells/Cores as built but later NBS insisted on financing only finished houses. This
did not only affect the beneficiaries but resulted in mass withdrawals.
It was agreed that interest rate for Shells/Cores would be fixed at 11% per annum and that of
BML's fixed at 8.75% per annum. Changes in interest rates between what the beneficiaries were
told (8.75%) and what NBS is now charging (20.15%) has resulted into a number of beneficiaries
pulling out of the Shell/Core component. This has also affected the affordability levels of the
BML beneficiaries resulting in the majority of them being unwilling to formalize mortgage bonds
with NBS thereby making cost recovery impossible.
3.0   Lessons Leaned
We agree with the lessons spelt out in Para 8.4 on page 8 of Part I plus the following:
3.1    Marketing
3.1.1  Use of drawings to market the houses was inappropriate. During the evolution of the project
demonstration houses should have been constructed to enable the people see for themselves what
the final product would look like. This could have enabled MHC assess properly whether the
project would sell or not.
3.1.2  Lack of foresight during project formulation. The Bank did not allow MHC to construct
demonstration houses under the credit.
3.2    Contractor Built Houses
3.2.1  Contractor built houses for low income people have been a failure on grounds of both low quality
and high costs. It is not possible to build houses for low income people at affordable prices and
of acceptable quality. Caution and marketing prudence should have been exercised when
introducing new concepts in the sector such as shell and core housing units.A few on one site
should have been built to test the market rather than building over 400 in order to be seen to
make physical progress and meet expected donor disbursement targets.
3.2.2. Contractor built houses for low income people should not be considered for future urban housing
projects.



13
3.3   Self-Managed House Construction (BML)
3.3.1 The general principles for building materials loans are good. The programme allows full
community participation, offers job opporunities to local small contractors and local building
materials suppliers. No major problems for this housing delivery system have been observed.
3.3.2 Self-Managed houses construction/building materials loans should be considered in future urban
housing projects but at a manageable magnitudes at a time.
3.3.3  The Building Materials Loans system or process needs to be reviewed in order to reduce
accounting and stores pilferage.
3.4   Financing Building Materials Loans
3.4.1  MHC should take care of the technical aspects while NBS should take care of the financial
aspects. i.e. NBS should deal direct with the beneficiaries from affordability assessment to
processing of mortgages without MHC being involved in loan offers and keeping loan accounts,
and finally no accounting function for MHC.
3.4.2  The more parties are involved in the on-lending arrangements the higher the interest to be
charged to the beneficiary. Therefore, if special low rates are to be maintained funds should be
lent directly to implementing institutions.
3.5   Staffmng
3.5.1  There is need to streamline staff recruitment and training procedures in government particularly
for project units. MHC is a professional organization. No problems were encountered in the
planning, design and in the production of engineering drawings of the project. However, the
project was overestimated in terms of MHC's capacity to supervise the project during
implementation.   Shortfalls were experienced in land surveying due to shortage of
qualified/licensed land surveyors, in contract management due to lack of qualified Architects, in
stores management in respect of the BML programme and general accounting.
3.5.2  On the technical side, where MHC technical departments could not cope, it deployed the services
of consultants in various professional fields.
3.5.3  From accounting point of view, it took too long for MHC to realize the inadequacy of the
accounting personnel to handle the various aspects of the project. Corrective measures have since
been taken and the situation now appears to be under control.
4.0    Country Programme Reviews (CPRs)
4.1    The two CPRs so far jointly organized by the Government and the Bank have been useful to all
involved in the cycle of projects funded by the Bank. We hope such forum would continue to
be used for exchange of views and experiences of effective and efficient project design, appraisal,
funding, implementation and evaluation and that the recommendations made at such discussions
would be followed up and implemented by both the Borrower and the Bank.



14
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
FIRST URBAN PROJECT
(CREDIT 1528-MA)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION



15
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI - FIRST URBAN PROJECT
TABLE I
RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
PROJECT TITLE                             YEAR OF   STATUS
LOAN/CREDIT        PURPOS              APPRAISAL (% COMPLE;E   COMMENTS
Local Government   To enhance financial
Development     and administrative         1992        7               Ongoing.
Project        capacity of local
(2379-MAI)      goverrnment system.



16
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI - FIRST URBAN PROJECT
TABLE 2
PROJECT TIMETABLE
ITEM                        PLANNED DATE         REVISED DATE        ACTUAL DATE
Identification Mission           12/15/79            03/04/80              03/82
Preparation Mission              05/15/80              08/82               08/82
Appraisal Mission                11/28/83            11/28/83            11/28/83
Credit Negotiations              09/17/84            09/17/84            09/18/84
Board Approval                   11/27/84            11/27/84            11/27/84
Loan/Credit Signature                                                    03/19/85
Loan/Credit Effectiveness        07/19/85            11/19/85            11/19/85
Loan/Credit Closing              06/30/90            06/30/92            06/30/93
Account Closing                  10/31/90            10/31/92            10/31/93



17
PROJECT COMPLEION REPORT
MALAWI - FIRST URBAN PROJECT
TABLE 3
Page 1 of 2
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
AT END OF QUARTER
BANK FISCAL YEAR AND                                   APPRAISAL                    REVISED
QUARTER ENDING                                       ESIIMATES                   ESTiMATES'                 ACTUAL
FY 1985
Muxh 31, 1985                                                                        0.39
June 30, 1985                                            0.80                        0.80
FY 1986
September 30, 1985                                       1.31                        1.31
December 31, 1985                                        1.80                        1.80
March 31, 1986                                           2.30                        2.31
June 30, 1986                                            2.80                        2.80
FY 1987
September 30, 1986                                       3.50                        3.55
December 31, 1986                                        4.30                        4.30                      0.07
March 31, 1987                                           5.00                        5.11                      1.60
June 30, 1987                                            5.80                        5.90                       1.63
FY 1988
September 30, 1987                                       6.60                        6.50                       1.65
Docember 31, 1987                                        7.40                        7.10                       1.73
March 31, 1988                                           8.20                        7.70                       1.86
June 30, 1988                                            9.00                        8.30                      2.35
FY 1989
September 30, 1988                                       9.70                        8.90                      2.75
December 31, 1988                                        10.30                       9.50                      2.93
Marh 31, 1989                                            11.00                       10.04                     2.95
June 30, 1989                                            11.60                       10.60                      3.12
FY 199
September 30, 1989                                       12.30                       11.11                     3.29
December 31, 1989                                        12.90                       11.60                      3.76
March 31, 1990                                           13.60                       12.11                     4.86
June 30. 1990                                            14.20                       12.60                      5.27



18
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI - FIRST URBAN PROJECT
TABLE 3
Page 2 of 2
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
AT END OF QUARTER
BANK FISCAL YEAR AND                                     APPRAISAL                    REVISED
QUARTER ENDING                                        ESTIMATES                    ESTIMATES'                   ACTUAL
FY 1991
September 30, 1990                                        14.40                        12.81                       5.60
December 31, 1990                                          14.60                       13.00                       7.30
March 31, 1991                                             14.80                       13.21                       8.46
June 30, 1991                                              15.00                       13.40                       9.96
FY 1992
September 30, 1991                                        15.00                        13.61                      11.31
December 31, 1991                                          15.00                       13.80                      12.95
March 31, 1992                                            15.00                        14.01                      13.75
June 30, 1992                                              15.00                       14.20                      13.98
FY 1993
September 30, 1992                                                                     14.35                      14.50
December 31, 1992                                                                      14.50                      14.59
March 31, 1993                                                                         14.59                      14.62
June 30, 1993                                                                          14.70                      15.30
FY 1994
September 30, 1993                                                                                                14.93
December 31, 1993                                                                                                 14.46
Original Closing Date: June 30, 1990.
Acual Closing Date: June 30, 1993.
'A at October 30, 1989.



19
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI - FIRST URBAN PROJECT
TABLE 4
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
TARGET AT:         TARGET AT:           ACTUAL
PROJECT            PROJECT         ACHIEVEMENT
COMPONENTS                        COMPLMTION         COMPLETION
l _____________________________                       (Originual)      (Restructured)
INTERMEDIATE HOUSING AREA PROGRAM (IHA):
No. of open
serviced plot.                        230                1,490              1,139
No. of housca                        2,000               760                 611
No. of
mortgage loans                        2,000               760                611
No. of
building
loans                                                1,490              1,139
TRADITMONAL HOUSING AREA PROGRAM (THA):
No. of open
serviced plots                        500                590                515
No. of
building
materials                           500                1,190               515
loans
INSrIlUTIONAL SUPPORT PROGRAM (ISS):
No. of tudies                          2                  2                   2
No. of
progwmm                              3                   3                  3
Note: The total number of serviced plots developed do not include serviced plots located on bad land, Kameza
development which is pending resiting or open service plots reserved for community and commercial
facilities.



20
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI - FIRST URBAN PROJECT
TABLE 5
Page I of 2
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. PROJECT COSTS
APPRAISAL
ITEMS                               ESTIMATES1                          ACTUAL2
MK ('000)        US$ ('000)       MK ('000)        US$ ('000)
IHA Programme                 15,604           11,703           41,706            9,699
THA Programme                  1,118             838            11,253            2,617
ISS Programme                 1,903             1,429           14,904            3,466
Contingencies:
Physical                       877               657
Price                        4,836             3,627
TOTAL COST                   24, 338            18,254          67,863            15,782
October 1984 prices.
2 September 1993 prices.



21
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI - FIRST URBAN PROJECT
TABLE 5
Page 2 of 2
B. PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million)
SOURCE                                  PLANNED         %FINAL 
IDA                                       15.0         82.4                  14.5      91.6
NBS                                         1.3         7.2                   0.2        1.3
MHC                                         0.6         3.3                   0.5        3.5
Private Individuals
(as mortgage downpayments                 0.8          4.4                   0.1       0.6
Govermnent of Malawi                        0.5         2.7                   0.5        3.0
TOTAL
(Net of Taxes
and Duties)                               18.2        100.0                 15.8      100.0



22
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI - FIRST URBAN PROJECT
TABIE6
PROJECT RESULTS
A. DIRECT BENEFITS
APPRAISAL                       REVISED
ITEMS                                       ESTIMATES                      ESTIMATES'                     ACTUAL
Number of Beneficiaries
(IHA, THA, BMLs & Mortgage Loans)             2,730                          2,750                          2,243
After Project Restructuring
B. STUDIES
SIUDY                                PURPOSE                             STATUS                                 IMPACT
Housing Subsidies                    To evaluate budgetary                  Completed                      To be used to formulate
& Wage Policy Study                  and equity implications                in 1989.                       policy on wages,
of various options to                                                 compensation, reduction
reduce or eliminate                                                   or elimination of
housing subsidies,                                                    housing subsidies for
civil servants.
Building By-Laws Study               To develop revised                     Compleed in                    Used as a basis for
building by-laws for                   in 1990.                       revised legislation on
low cost housing                                                      building by-laws.
projects.
Urban Housing Survey                 To obtain data                         Completed                      Used to modify mix of
on urban income                        in 1988.                       housing development to
distribution and                                                      better enhance afford-
potential market                                                      ability of lower income
for house under IHA                                                   groups.
& THA properties in
Blantyre and Lilongwe.



23
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI - FIRST URBAN PROJECT
TABLE 7
Page I of 4
STATUS OF COVENANTS
COVENANTS UNDER                                                        DEADLINE FOR
CREDIT AGREEMENT                            SUBJECT                     COMPLIANCE                           STATUS
Section 2.02(b)                        Open and maintain NBS                                                 Complied with.
Special Account.
Section 2.02(c)                        Open and maintain MHC                                                 Complied with.
Special Account.
Section 3.01(b)                        Government to enter into                                              Complied with.
separate on-lending agreement.
with NBS and MHC.
Section 3.01(c)                         DLV taufer of plots                                                  Complied with;
(Part A) on a 66 yr.                                                tranfers done
minimum leasehold                                                    in 1990.
bais.
Section 3.01(d)(i)                     MHC to submit forward work                                            Complied with
plan by September 30 of                                              for fust two
each year.                                                           yeah of prmject.
Section 3.01(d)(ii)                    MHC to submit decription,                                             Complied with.
analyis of funncial
viability and unpact state-
ment of proposed investments
over US$250,000.
Section 3.01(d)(iii)                   MHC to rsrve 309  of plots                                            Complied with.
for project sites for
construction by individuals
and/or private developers.
Section 3.01(d)(iv)                    MHC to et sales priceg for                                            Pautially
IHA plots/house to:                                                  complied with;
a. achieve fuU cost recovery;                                        Periodic review
b. earn adequate retum;                                              of price  by IDA
c. meet financial obligations;                                       not carried out.
d. contribute to rerves.



24
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI - FIRST URBAN PROJECT
TABLE 7
Page 2 of 4
COVENANTS UNDER                                                       DEADLINE FOR
CREDIT AGREEMENT                            SUBJECT                    COMPLIANCE                           STATUS
Section 3.01(d)(v)                     MHC's revenues from                                                 Complied with
propery management to                                               for FY85 & FY/86;
cover the mum of: total                                             Precise amount of
operting expense. &                                                 MHC debt remains
amfbount by which debt                                              undetermined.
amortization payments
exceed depreciation
provisions.
Section 3.01(e)(i)                     NBS' total income from                                              Complied with.
operations plus
undistributed earnings
sufficient to pay
dividends and contribute
to general reserves.
Section 3.01(e)(ii)                    Periodic review of NBS                                              Partially
interest rate sucture.                                              complied with;
Reviews carried
out; no adjust-
mentx made.
Section 3 01(f)                        CarY out Housing                   By March 31, 1986.               Complied with
Subsidies & Wage Policy                                             in FY88.
Study.
Section 3.01(f)(ii)                    Submnit action progrmme            By October 31, 1986.             Submitted
and timetable for                                                   in FY89.
implementation of above
Study's recommendations.
Section 3.04(a)                        Furnish plans, specifications,                                      Complied with.
reports, constracts, construction
& procuremet schedules.
Section 3.04(b)(i)                     Monitor progress & keep                                             Complied with.
records of goods & service.



25
PROJECT COMPLMION REPORT
MALAWI - FIRST URBAN PROJECT
TABLE7
Page 3 of 4
COVENANTS UNDER                                                       DEADLINE FOR
CREDIT AGREEMENT                            SUBJECT                    COMPLIANCE                           STATUS
Section 3.04(b)(ii)                    Allow Association's                                                 Complied with.
representatives to
visit facilities &
sites and examine
records.
Section 3.04(b)(iii)                   Furnish all inforantion                                             Complied with.
requested on costs,
and benefits.
Section 3.05                           Acquistion of land for                                              Complied with.
project-related purposes.
Section 3.06                           Enforce on-lending                                                  Not complied
agreements with NBS &                                               with. Amounts
MHC.                                                                owed by NBS & MHC
not collected.
Section 4.01(a)                        Maintain records of                                                 Partially
project-related operations,                                         complied with;
resource. and expenditures                                          MHC records not
for NBS & MHC.                                                      adequately kept.
Section 4.01(b)(i)                     Maintain sepate accounts                                            Paally
for withdrawals made on the                                         complied with;
buis of statements of                                               MHC records not
expenditures.                                                       adequately kept.
Section 4.01(b)(ii)                    Retain revelant                    For I year after                 In compliance.
documentation.                     Closing Date.
Section 4.01(c)(i)                     Yearly audit of NBS & MHC                                           Partially
Special Accounts                                                    complied with;
MHC accounts for
FY92 not
submitted.



26
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI - FIRST URBAN PROJECT
TABLE 7
Page 4 of 4
COVENANTS UNDER                                                              DEADLINE FOR
CREDIT AGREEMENT                                SUBJECT                        COMPLIANCE                             STATUS
Section 4.01(d)                            NBS & MHC to maintain                                                      Partially
adequate firncial                                                          complied with;
records.                                                                   MHC records not
adequately kept.
Section 4.01(e)                            MHC to introduce an                   By December 31, 1985.                Partially
accounting mystem to                                                       complied with;
(in part) identify                                                        system not
fuincial perfomance                                                        adequately
of project development                                                     naintained.
activities.



27
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI - FIRST URBAN PROJECT
TABLE 8
Page 1 of 2
USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. STAFF INPUTS
STAGE OF
PROJECT CYCLE                                              STAFF WEEKS
Through Appraisal                                               59.4
Appraisal through
Board Approval                                                   4.8
Board Approval through
Effectiveness                                                    3.8
Supervision                                                     42.0



28
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI - FIRST URBAN PROJECT
TABLE 8
Page 1 of 2
B. MSSIONS
SrAOE OF                      NUMBER   STAFF
PROIECT                          OF                WES IN    SPECIALIZATION    PERFORMANCE  TYPES OF
CYfE          MONThJYEAR   PERSONS          FIElD        REPRELSENIFI?        RATING STAIUSe            PROBIEMS
Identification    1081              1                 1.4            EN
OZR2              5                13.0             EC, FA, EN, UR, QS
1OR2              4                16.0            EC, EN, UR, QS,
07R83              5                11.0             EC, FA, EN, UR, QS
Pre-appraisal     1183              6                1&0             EC, FA, EN, UR, QS, AR
Appras            03R84              3                 2.4            EC, FA, EN
10184              3                Z4              EC, FA, EN
Supervnuon       02R                 2                2.4             EN, EC                      1
055               1                 1.4            EN,                1
10i85               2                 2.8            EN, EC                      2                 Finl/Techi`Mana.
11185               1                 0.6            EN                          2                 Tech.
0586               2                 4.4            FA, EC                      2                 Fin./Techf/Mana.
03R87               1                 0.4            FA                          2                 FtnJMana.
06R87               4                 6.0            FA, EN, EN, QS              2                 FtnjTechdMana.
10i7                1                 1.2            FA,                         2                 Fn Tech.
07R88               5                10.0            EN, UP, FA, LR, EC          2                 Fin/TechiMana.
10189               1                 1.6             UP                         2                 FinJTechijMana.
1190               2                2.0             UP, AR                     2                  FLn/Mana.
11,91               1                1.0             UP                          3                 Fin.TechJMana.
09,92               3                6.0             EC, FA, EN                  3                 Fmn.Tech./Mana.
05,93               3                6.0             EC, FA, EN                  3                 FtnJTech./Mana.
'EN - Endineer. EC - Economi. A - FInancial Analyst, UP - Urban Planner, AR - Architect, QS -Quantity Surveyor,
LR - LAnd Registration Expert
b 1 _ ProbleM free or minor problems
2 - Moderate problems
3 - Major problems
FuL. -Fanal
Tech. -Technical
Maa. - Manageral



