Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5200-MAI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
URBAN PROJECT
October 23, 1984
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Water Supply and Urban Development Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENS.
Currency Unit   =   Malawi Kwacha (MK)
MKI.OO   =   US$0.75
US$1.00   =   .iKI.33
SVRI.00   =   US$1.01663       (August 31, 1984)
US$1.OO   =   S)RO.983642
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYNS
BCC     -    Blantyre City Council
CCDC    -    Capital City Development Corporation
DLV     -    Department of Lands, and Valuation
IDA     -    International Development Association
IRA     -    Intermediate Housing Area
LCC     -    Lilongwe City Council
MhC     -    Malawi Housing Corporation
mOWS    -    Ministry of Works and Supplies
NBS     -    New Building Society
ODA     -    Overseas Development Agency (United Kingdom)
OPC     -    Office of the President and Cabinet
SOE     -    Statement of Expenditures
THA     -    Traditional Housing Area
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Malawi           -     April 1-March 31
Malawi Hoiusing Corporation    -     January 1-December 31
New Building Society           -     February I-January 31



REPBLC OF NALANI    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
URBAN PROJECT
STAWF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Cont2nts
CREDIT AND PROJADCT SU4K&RY    ................................... i-iii
I.  SECTORAL CONTEXT                     ..............................                         1
A.   Introduction           .....................1...................... 
B. Current Policies in the Housing Sector                              . .               2
C.   Restoring  the Momentum of Housing  Development  ......... .                        4
D.  A  Phased Approach  to Housing  Subsidies                      .................    6
E. Background and Strategy for the Association's
Involvpment  ..........              ................................    9
II.   THE  PROJECr   ..............               .................................   11
A.   Project Objectives  and Rationale  .......................   11
B.   Project Components  ......  ...............................   12
C.  Detailed Project Description  ...........................   13
III.  oDST ESTINATES AND PROJECT I                    ENT ION   .......           ..........   17
A.   Project Costs           ....................         ......................   17
B.   Financing  Plan           ...................        ......................   19
C.   Flow of Funds  ...........              .        ..............................   20
D.   Implementation Schedule  ................................   21
E.   Procurement  ..             ..........................................   21
F.   Disbursements           ....................         ......................   23
G.   Legal Arrangements              .................        ....................   24
H.   Accounts  and Audit  .................                   ....................   24
I.   Project Monitoring and Coordination  ....................  25
J.   Project  Supervision  ............. .......................   26
IV.   INSTITUTIONAL AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS   ......................  26
A.  Malawi Housing Corporation  .............................   26
B.   New Building  Society                   ...................................   31
C.   Office  cf Housing  ......................................   35
V.    PROJECT JUSTIFICATION   .................                      ....................   36
A.   Market  Demand and Affordability  ........................   36
B.   Project  Benefits            ..................        .....................   37
C.   Project Risks               ..........................................   38
D.   Conclusions          ..................... .......................   39
VI.   RECOMMENDATIONS   ..........                 .................................   40
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Malawi in November-December 1983. The mission consisted of
Mr. R. Westin (Head of Mission), Ms. F. Johnson, Messrs. R. Satin and
D. Jones (IDA), and Mr. I. Wanjohi and Ms. D. Lee-Smith (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Text Tables
Table 3.1: Project Cost Summary
Table 3.2: Financing Plan
Annexes
Annex 1: Tables
Table  1:       Detailed Cost Estimates
Table  2:       Procurement Arrangements
Table  3:       Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table  4:       Malawi Housing Corporation:  Summary of Past Financial
Statements
Table  5a,b,c:  Malawi Housing Corporation:  Projected Financial
Statements for Property Development Account
Table  6:       Malawi Housing Corporation:  Projected Income Statements
for Other Activities, Net of Property Development
Account
Table  7a,b,    New Building Society:  Past and Projected Financial
c,d:      Statements
Table  8:       Affordability of Typical Housing Options
Table  9:       IHA Units as an Alternative to Institutional Housing
Table 10:       Details of Rate of Return Calculations; IHA Program
Annex 2: Charts
Chart 1:        Implementation Schedule
Chart 2:        Housing Options by Income Group
Chart 3:        Organization of the Malawi Housing Corporcttion
Chart 4:        Organization of the Office of Housing (Proposed)
Chart 5:        Organization of the Lands Division of the Department of
Lands and Valuation (Proposed)
Chart 6:        Organization of the Ministry of Works and Supplies Training
Center
Charts 7-14:    House Type Plans
Annex 3:  Terms of Reference
1. Housing Subsidies and Wage Policy Study
2. Revisions to MRC Accounting Systems
Annex 4: Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Photographs
Maps:  Malawi:     First Urban Project; IBRD No. 18004
Blantyre:   Location of Project Sites; IBRD No. 18078
Lilongwe:   Location of Project Sites; IBRD No. 18300



REPUBLIEC OF EALANI
URAN PnOJiCr
CREDIT AND PROJECr SUMARY
Borrower:        Republic of Malawi.
Beneficiaries:   The Malawi Housing Corporation and the New Building
Society.
huouat:          A development credit of SDR 14.8 mill-ion (US$15.0 million
equivalent).
Texas:           Standard.
Project Objectives and Rationale
The project will help reorient future housing development in
Malawi toward a market-based system by: (a) the development of housing
alternatives which are affordable and attractive for purchase on a
full-cost recovery basis; (b) a substantial increase in the volume of
mortgage financing and greater use of domestically-generated resources; (c)
restructuring of the Malawi Housing Corporation to play a more active role
in housing development; (d) strengthening of ancillary support activities,
including land registration; and (e) helping the Government find long-term
solutions to the pervasive system of housing subsidies. The project will
support Malawi's structural adjustment program by strengthening resource
mobilization and management in the public sector and improving cost
recovery in the social sectors.
Benefits and Risks
The project will help the Government achieve its objectives in
the housing sector of making affordable housing available to a wider range
of income groups, increasing the role of the private sector in providing
housing, and reducing the burden of housing programs on the Government.
The economy will benefit from substantial reductions in the cost of housing
as compared to current standards, greater reliance on domestic financing
and roll-over of capital funds within the housing sector, and reduced
import content of housing through changes in building standards. By
providing a viable alternative to the present system of subsidized rental
housing, the project will assist the Government in revising its
compensation policies and housing programs to a more rational basis.
Project risks concern the capability of the sector's institutions to deal
with the proposed restructuring, and uncertainties in determining housing
demand for an untested market. These risks are considered to be reasonable
because of the considerable past experience of the various institutions,
the flexibility incorporated into the project design, the commitment of the
Government to long-term refornm of the housing sector, and the basis
provided by the project for a continuing dialogue on issues affecting the
housing sector.



- ii -
On-Lending Terms for the Credit Proceeds
(a) Funds for mortgage finance will be passed to the New
Building Society in equal parts as a 25 year annuity with
interest computed on the basis of the prevailing Government
interest rate for loans to parastatals and other agencies
(currently set at 10 percent), and as a Government
subordinated loan on which no interest will accrue for the
first ten years; and
(b)  Funds for land development in  intermediate  housing areas
will be passed to the Malawi Housing Corporation as an
equal combination of debt and equity investment, with
interest on the loan portion computed on the basis of the
Government rate for lending to parastatals. Funds for the
pilot building materials loan program in -traditionalV
housing areas will be on-lent to MHC for ten years at the
Government rate. Funds for land development in traditional
housing areas will be passed to MHC as a grant.
The on-lending rate to the ultimate beneficiaries (intially 12 percent) is
consistent with the prevailing structure of interest rates in Malawi and is
expected to be positive in real terms over the project period (i.e.,
inflation is expected to average approximately 10 percent). The Government
has committed itself to maintaining positive real interest rates as part of
the structural adjustment program, and adjustments in the on-lending rates
are expected to occur as macroeconomic conditions warrant. The foreign
exchange risk for the Credit will be borne by the Government.



- iii -
Bstinated Project Cost
Local   Foreign   Total
-     US$ mi1lon1
Component
Intermediate Housing Area Program                9.6        2.1     11.7
Traditional Housing Area Program                 0.5        0.3      0.8
Institutional Support
and Studies Program                             0.5        0.9      1.4
Base Cost                                       10.6        3.3     13.9
Contingencies
Physical                                         0.5        0.2      0.7
Price                                            3.0        0.6      3.6
TOTAL NKOJECT COST                              14.1        4.1     18.2
(Including Insignificant Taxes and Duties)        -        =--    - 
Finaning Plan:
Local   Foreign   Total
----US$ million-
Source
IDA                                             10.9        4.1     15.0
NBS a/                                           1.3         --      1.3
MHC                                              0.6         -       0.6
Private individuals
(as mortgage downpayments)                       0.8        -        0.8
Government of Malawi                             0.5         -       0.5
TOTAL                                             14.1        4.1     18.2
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY                    1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991
Annual                     0.8   2.0   3.0   3.2   2.6   2.6   0.8
Cumulative                 0.8   2.8   5.8   9.0  11.6  14.2  15.0
Economic Rate of Return:  About 15 percent (weighted average for
Intermediate Housing Area program).
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 5200-MAI of                , 1984.
MaPs:     ISRD Nos. 180U4, 18078, and 18300.
a/ NBS will provide an additional amount of local funds equivalent to
US$3.1 million for long-term refinancing of residential land developed
by MHC.



I. SECTOnL CONTEXT
A. Introduction
1.01       Malawi is a small country (118,500 sq. km., of which 24,200 sq.
km. covers part of Lake Malawi) lying in southeastern Africa. With a
current estimated population of over six million people and a GNP per
capita of only US$210, Malawi is among the poorest countries in the world.
Nevertheless, Malawi has achieved an impressive record of economic growth
since independence, with real GDP increasing at an average rate of 5.5
percent per annum over 1969-79 and per capita income growing at about 3
percent per annum. Malawi's growth has been based on an outward-looking,
export-oriented strategy emphasizing agriculture and agro-based
manufacturing. Government policy has encouraged the establishment of a
market-oriented economy with the private sector as the primary engine of
growth. Moderate wage expansion, coupled with growing labor productivity
in most sectors of the economy, has helped to keep Malawian goods
competitive in international trade.
1.02       Notwithstanding these achievements, Malawi's economy,
increasingly dependent on three primary export commodities (tobacco, tea
and sugar), has been highly vulnerable to international price
fluctuatlons. Especially since 1978, deterioration in Malawi's terms of
trade and disruption to its vital transport links through Mozambique have
caused serious balance of payments problems, which the Government, assisted
by IMF standby arrangements in 1979 and late 1980 and an EFF in 1983, has
been successfully addressing. The economic constraints brought on by
Malawi's adjustment to its balance of payments problems, however, have
revealed structural weaknesses in the economy which need to be addressed to
restore medium-term growth. The Government, assisted by an IBRD loan of
US$45 million in 1981 and an IDA credit of SDR51.9 million (US$55 million
equivalent) in 1983, has begun implementing a comprehensive structural
adjustment program aimed at achieving improvements in the balance of
payments, price incentives and income policies, resource management in the
public sector, and key institutions in the economy.
1.03       Within the urban areas, Government policies affecting the
financial viability of various sectoral programs, particularly regarding
cost recovery and the provision of subsidies, are a major concern of the
structural adjustment program. Urban growth has been reasonably well
managed in Malawi, and basic services have been provided to the majority of
urban residents through the extension of nationwide programs in health,
education, water supply and housing.j/ Nevertheless, the Government has
, The urban population in 1983 comprised approximately 10 percent of
halawils total population. Approximately two-thirds of the urban
population is centered in Blantyre, the largest city (estimated
population of 250,000), and Lilongwe, the new capital (estimated
population of 130,000). Gross population densities are approximately
100 persons/ha in Blantyre and 50 persons/ha in Lilongwe, the latter of
which is comparable to the highest rural densities in the Southern
Region of Malawi.



found it increasingly difficult to maintain service levels because of the
growing constraints on both recurrent and capital budgets. One of the most
difficult areas in which the Government has tried to formulate new policies
has been in housing, both because housing benefits form a major share of
total implicit compensation levels in Malawi, thereby substantially
affecting the level of real wages, and because housing construction under
current policies constitutes a large share of Government investment costs
in sectors as diverse as agriculture, health and education.
B.  Current Policies in the Housing Sector
1.04       Housing supply in urban areas has historically been dominated by
the public sector. The Government has maintained a highly successful
sites and services program (locally called Traditional Housing
Areas-THA's), which has enabled lower income urban residents to obtain
access to basic services and construct self-help housing in a planned
setting. However, at the upper end of the housing scale, Malawi has
maintained the colonial tradition of providing subsidized housing as part
of a benefit package made available to many higher-level employees in both
the public and private sectors. The major share of such housing is owned
by the Government, either as institutional housing held by individual
ministries in connection with specific Government activities or as general
purpose pool housing held by Malawi Housing Corporation (MHC) and rented on
a sub-economic basis to the Government or to employees of statutory bodies
and private firms. These various programs provide housing for roughly
two-thirds of all urban residents, with half of the total residents
supplied by the THA program. The remaining urban housing stock is
accounted for by self-help housing constructed in unplanned housing areas
(such as Ndirande in Blantyre and Old Kwale in Lilongwe) and by formal
sector housing developed by private individuals, the latter of which
services less than 10 percent of total urban residents.
1.05       Between 1971 and 1981, MHC and the Capital City Development
Corporation (CCDC) 2/ maintained average annual growth rates of 5 percent
for permanent housing and 17 percent for the TRA program. This high volume
of THA production provided for a major share of the increase in the urban
population, which grew at an estimated annual rate of approximately 8
percent over the period. The more modest growth in the permanent housing
stock was well below the increase in the number of employees eligible for
rental housing, so that by 1983, approximately half of the civil servants
eligible for rental housing were on the waiting list. Malawi's current
budgetary constraints have since reduced the volume of both new permanent
housing and THA construction to minimal levels, further aggravating the
growing shortage of housing. Given that urban densities and the size of
the urban population are relatively low in Malawi, the stagnation in
housing development has not yet been reflected in undue growth of unplanned
housing settlements. Nevertheless, it is estimated that Malawi will need
2/ CCDC was formed to manage the construction of the new capital city of
Lilongwe. With the completion of construction on the capital, CCDC was
recently dissolved, and the main part of its housing program has been
taken over by MHC.



-3-
to restore an average annual production of at least 4,500 housing units
(including THA plots) to accommodate the expected increase in the urban
population, even allowing for multiple occupancy of plots.
1.06       The primary reasons for the decline in housing production are
the deteriorating financial health of institutions in the sector,
particularly MHC, and the high unit cost of permanent housing constructed
to standard designs. MHC is largely dependent for its revenues on rentals
charged to the Government. Because of the Governmentts own budgetary
problems, rental increases have been granted reluctantly and only after
MNC's financial situation weakened to a precarious level. In addition,
housing construction costs have increased rapidly, so that between 1973 and
1981, the cost of a house designed for a middle-level civil servant
increased by 250 percent, while MHC's average rental charge for the same
grade house increased by only 50 percent. As a result of the uneconomic
rental structure and its deteriorating financial position, MHC has been
unable to attract long-term loans from foreign and domestic sources, which
financed the major share of MHC's housing development in earlier years.  In
addition, the foreign grant funds which had been used for THA development
are becoming more difficult to obtain, in part because of the neglect of
cost recovery pricing in THA's.
1.07       The fact that housing is generally considered to be a part of
the overall compensation package makes resolution of the financial issues
facing the housing sector more difficult. Rental charges paid by employees
receiving housing are generally determined as a fixed percentage of their
income, rather than on the basis of the cost of the housing. For example,
civil servants are assessed rental charges at 10-12.5 percent of their
salaries (depending on whether the house is furnished), while rental
charges for employees of statutory bodies may be as low as 5-7.5 percent of
income. As a result of this practice, employees often pay less than half
of the rental charge assessed by MHC.  Since the employer, which is often
the Government, must cover the difference in rental payments, the
Government is understandably reluctant to increase MHC's rental charges.
In addition, because housing standards are determined by a schedule of
entitlements rather than on the basis of the rentals charged to employees,
there is considerable resistance to any changes in housing standards
designed to lower the unit cost of housing, these being viewed as a loss of
salary entitlement. Finally, as housing benefits have been immune to
inflation during a period when the real value of monetary wages eroded
significantly (for example, the real wage earnings of a civil servant at
the undersecretary level declined by over 20 percent between 1977 and
1983), the total compensation package paid to civil servants has become
unbalanced with respect to non-wage benefits, aggravating the inequalities
between civil servants receiving housing and those who do not. Because of
the decline in real earnings paid to civil servants, the Government has
been unable to implement even modest proposals to increase the share of
income taken as rental charges, the most recent of which would have
increased rental charges from 10 to 12 percent of income in combination
with an equivalent increase in wages which took place in 1983.
1.U8       In summary, it has become clear zhat the system of housing
provision which served Malawi well in the period after independence can no



-4-
longer be sustained in the current economic climate.  MHC has ceased all
new construction for the pool of general purpose subsidized rental
housing. What little construction of staff housing remains (virtually all
of which is connected with specific donor-financed projects in sectors suc.
as agriculture, health and education) is unduly expensive and represents a
substantial drain on the Government's development budget into investments
with relatively low direct productivity. Furthermore, many civil servants
have recognized the inequalities of the current system and the
disadvantages, including the loss of opportunities to accumulate capital
in the form of housing, a major source of asset creation in many
countries. Therefore, it is generally accepted that initiation of a
market-based system of housing supply is essential if Malawi is going to
revive its stagnated housing sector. What has constrained further action
until now has been uncertainty within the Government on how best to address
the joint issues of housing supply and compensation policies.
Nevertheless, it is essential for Malawi to begin to address its housing
problems in a phased and reasonable manner, before the growing housing
shortages and induced inequalities within the system of employer-provided
housing constrain many of the currently available options.
C. Restoring the Momentum of Hbousing Development
1.09       While housing development and wage policies are intimately
linked in the current system in Malawi, to a large extent the actions
necessary to address these issues can be treated separately. The
constraints on the Government's recurrent and development budget
effectively rule out any significant expansion of rental housing which is
offered on a sub-economic basis, so that future housing development will
have to be based on principles of full cost recovery and maximum use of
private investment resources. These objectives can best be achieved within
a market-oriented housing sector based on individual home ownership, rather
than a public sector rental system. While the task of reorienting the
institutions in the housing sector toward a market system is complex, it
can be achieved using principles which are wellknown and established in
other countries.
1.10       The development of a market-oriented housing sector must address
a number of constraints which result from the pervasive system of housing
subsidies. First, the institutions which are involved in residential land
development and housing construction are oriented toward housing as a
service function rather than as a commercial activity. Secondly, housing
finance has been primarily based on the use of long-term public funds,
often from foreign sources, rather than the mobilization and use of
domestic resources. The third constraint on housing development is that
the standards and design of housing which has been constructed by the
public sector are generally inappropriate for market sale, as the high cost
of materials and the excessive building specifications are unaffordable to
the majority of Malawians. Finally, ancillary support activities,
particularly the land registration system, are geared for a low volume of
activity and will need to be strengthened in order to service the higher
volume of transactions involved in a market-based housing system.



- 5 -
1.11       The Malawi Housing Corporation will play a key role in the
restructuring of the housing sector, both because it is the only agency
with a substantial stock of undeveloped land suitable for residential
development and because it has available a cadre of professionals
experierced in land and housing development.  MHC's past performance has
been satisfactory compared to most housing parastatal bodies in sub-Saharan
Africa, but it has begun to lose its experienced staff due to the decline
in its workload and its weak financial position. Moreover, the recurring
budgetary problems faced by MHC have reduced its ability to generate
internal working capital, and in the longer run, these constraints would
jeopardize MHC's ability to attract commercial financing or to roll-over
funds gained from the market sale of houses into a continuing program of
land and housing development. Finally, MHC's organizational structure and
accounting system, which are oriented toward the management of a large
stock of rental housing, do not permit an adequate level of cost accounting
to support commercially-oriented property development. Although NHC has
the technical capacity to undertake a larger program of housing
development, these institutional and financial issues will have to be
addressed in order to build an adequate base for sustaining the program in
the longer term.
1.12       Mobilization of additional domestic resources into the housing
sector will also require strenthening of the role of local housing finance
institutions. The New Building Society (NBS) is currently the only
financial institution in Malawi which specializes in the provision of
mortgage finance. NBS has played a limited role in promoting the housing
sector, financing less than 10 percent of the total stock of permanent
housing. Its current mortgage portfolio, consisting of fewer than 700
mortgages for the country as a whole, is concentrated almost exclusively in
the upper-income bracket, a market which has stagnated due to depressed
economic conditions in Malawi.  Nevertheless, NBS's potential for
mobilizing resources into the housing sector is promising, as it is
currently holding approximately 30 percent of its reserves in liquid form
and the value of deposit accounts has been increasing at an average annual
rate of over 20 percent.
1.13       Because the major share of formal sector housing has not been
subject to market pressures, there has been little incentive to modify
building standards to promote the development of low-cost housing. The
building bylaws applicable in permanent housing areas are based on UK
standards adopted by the colonial government, which are obsolete in many
instances and have been generally superceded in more developed countries.
In contrast, a wide variety of affordable housing types is available in THA
areas, ranging from traditional sun-dried mud blocks to fully-finished
permanent housing. A constraint on the development of permanent housing in
THA areas has been that plots are allocated on an annual rental basis, so
that housing built on these plots does not have adequate title security to
qualify for mortgage financing.
1.14       A basic requirement for the development of a market-based
housing supply system is an efficient system for transferring title to
urban land, both to encourage individuals to make the large investment that
housing construction requires and also to provide security for housing



-6-
finance institutions to sustain mortgage lending. Because of the low
volume of private housing sales in Malawi (the current system handles an
average of only 30 private transfers of urban residential land per month),
the land registration system has limited capacicy and caa result in delays
of up to two years for completing the transfer of title. Malawi law allows
land to be registered according to a more efficient "Torrens-type of
system ,3/ but until now only Lilongwe has implemented this system, with
the other urban areas remaining or. a cumbersome deed system. In addition,
other requirements of the current registration system, particularly the
strict requirements governing land survey, could become a bottleneck to any
significant expansion of the volume of housing sales.
1.15       In summary, the establishment of a market-based system of
housing supply will require the reorientation and/or strengthening of a
number of different activities. However, the relevant agencies are already
established in Malawi and have a substantial base of experience to draw on
in expanding the sector.  The principal requirement now is to demonstrate
that attractive and affordable housing can be produced and sold on a
financially viable basis. thereby providing the Government with a credible
alternative for moving away from the system of public rental housing.
D. A Phased Approach to Subsidized Housing
1.16       While the process of increasir.g the supply of owner-occupied
lhousing in Malawi appears feasible, the widespread availability of
subsidies on the existing stock of rental housing will continue to have a
pervasive influence on the development of the sector. Nevertheless, the
Life President of Malawi- has mandated tnat the Government must begin the
process of moving away from the system of subsidized rental housing and
ensure that every civil servant can own his own home, at the latest by the
year 2000. The development of a private housing market is considered to be
the first priority by the Government in achieving this objective, but it is
recognized that this action must be matched by a gradual restructuring of
the compensation system to encourage private home ownership and reduce the
dominance of non-wage benefits in the total compensation package. In order
to carry out this process, it is necessary to have a clear understanding of
the impact of the current subsidy system in order to identify the
Government's options in approaching the renaining issues.
1.17       Because housing subsidies largely consist of services in-kind,
there are several ways in which the subsidy burden can be measured.  If
only the direct casn outlay of the Government on housing subsidies is
considered (as represented by the difference between total rent collections
from tenants and the expenditures by Government and MF.C on debt service,
maintenance, and administration), the subsidv burden appears to be on the
3!  The Torrens system provides for the establishment of an efficient land
registry involving a Government guarantee of the particulars of
ownership. it also permits the separation of the records by geographic
locality, simplifying the process of reviewing the s_atus of anv
particular parcel.



- 7 -
order of MK3-7 million (US$2-5 million) per year.4/ The main reason for
the relatively modest size of this expenditure, which represents
approximately 1-2 percent of the Government's annual recurrent budget, is
that much of the housing stock has been fully amortized or financed on
corcessional terms through donor projects in sectors such as agriculture
and education. However, when housing subsidies are computed in economic
terms (which gives an approximate value of the income in-kind transferred
to occupants of subsidized housing), it becomes clear that housing
subsidies constitute a major component of the total implicit compensation
package received by civil servants.5/ In 1982, the economic value of
housing subsidies for civil servants occupying rental housing ranged from
an average of 160 percent of salary payments for employees at the lowest
salary grade for a particular level of housing entitlement, to 75 percent
of salary payments for employees who had reached the highest salary grade
for a particular entitlement. As a yardstick, it is estimated that if all
civil servants were housed on the basis at which the entitlement
regulations specify, the economic subsidy value would exceed MK66 million
(US$50 million) per year.61  This ten-fold difference between the economic
value of housing subsidies and the direct cash requirements for maintaining
the subsidios demonstrates that issues of employer-provided housing should
be approached primarily from the standpoint of compensation policies,
rather than as a problem affecting the housing sector alone.
1.18       Given the relatively modest direct cost to the Government of
maintaining the current level of housing subsidies, the Government is
reluctant to enact major changes in rental policies for the existing
housing stock which would depress total compensation levels further.
Nevertheless, a number of other actions are available to the Government to
limit the growth of housing subsidies and eventually to reduce housing
subsidies on the existing stock. The first requirement is to establish
private home ownership as a feasible and desirable alternative for a
widening income range of Malawians. Given the wide disparity between the
4/  Except for housing held by MHC, expenditures on staff housing are not
broken-out in ministerial budgets. The range of estimates presented
here represents alternative assumptions on debt-service and maintenance
expenditures, the latter of which appears to be generally underfunded
by most ministries.
5/  The principal adjustments necessary to derive the economic value of
housing subsidies are: (i) housing is valued at its replacement cost
rather than at historic cost; and (ii) the annual stream of rental
benefits is derived by applying the current opportunity cost of
capital, which in this case is taken to be the current mortgage terms
for owner-occupied housing.
6,  The actual economic subsidy value is lower than this amount because of
the large number of civil servants, predominately at the lower end of
the housing entitlement range, who do not occupy subsidi=ed housing.
For these employees, no allowance is provided to compensate them for
their loss of benefits, save that the 10 percent rental payments are
not deducted from their salaries.



- 8 -
housing standards affordable under an individual home ownership program and
the standards available in subsidized housing, many potential participants
in a home ownership program will choose to remain in subsidized housing if
it is available. This means that the initial demand for housing oriented
to individual ownership will consist mainly of individuals from either the
public or private sectors who are not currently provided with subsidized
rental housing, or those who wish to purchase housing as a method of
accumulating capital assets, particularly to ease the economic transition
of retirement. In the longer run and as the economic situation improves,
the Government can introduce additional measures to encourage private home
ownership, through such means as providing housing allowances or selective
wage increases to individuals who do not occupy subsidized rental housing,
by making lump-sum pension benefits available for use as housing
down-payments,7/ and increasing rental charges and wages on an
across-the-board basis.  The timing of these measures must be weighed
against their possible impact on the Government's recurrent budget, but a
gradual policy of introducing additional incentives to encourage individual
home ownership can have a substantial effect over time in lessening the
dominance of public rental housing in the sector.
1.19       The second area in which the Government can control the growth
in housing subsidies is by introducing various measures to improve the cost
control and management of the stock of Government housing. The inmmediate
concern is with the high cost of housing provided in connection with
essential development projects, such as in agriculture, health and
education. Malawi has been successful in decentralizing many Government
services to reach the rural population, and an important factor in
achieving this objective has been the willingness of the Government and
many donors to finance staff housing. Nevertheless, staff housing has
become an excessive drain on scarce development resources, as building
costs have increased rapidly and housing standards have gradually crept
upwards as a way of attracting essential staff. Clear administrative
guidelines on housing entitlements and standards can help to control this
cost escalation. Other measures which can be introduced in the longer run
include a maintenance-sharing agreement with tenants and tighter control of
the reallocation of staff housing to priority uses of the Governme_t.
1.20       The third area in which the Government must evaluate its policy
options is in regard to the equity and incentive objectives of the
compensation system and the manner in which reducing subsidies on the
existing stock of rental housing will promote or detract from these
objectives. The Government is operating under the principle that, as it
phases out the program of subsidized housing, it will compensate employees
for the subsidy that they would have received under the old system.
however, because economic housing subsidies exceed in many instances the
value of monetary wages, a simple substitution of housing subsidies for an
7/ As with most Governments, Malawi has a large unfunded pension liability
which could be partially discharged through housing benefit options.
The Government experimented briefly in 1981 with allowing civil
servants to claim pension benefits in advance in cash, but the scheme
closed quickly because of the excessive drain on the Treasury.



equivalent amount of wages is neither necessarily equitable, nor, given the
constraints on the Government's recurrent budget, is it likely to be
feasible. On the other hand, the Government does have the option of
disposing of the existing housing stock to sitting tenants at a
substantially reduced price, a policy that is equivalent to using equity in
existing housing as compensation for the value of foregone rental
subsidies.  Although divestiture of the housing stock in this manner would
allow the Government to compensate existing tenants at minimum cost to its
recurrent budget, it would lock-in the equity differentials between
employees who occupy subsidized housing and those who do not, and it would
do relatively little to promote the long-term incentive goals of the
compensation system. Clearly, there is a middle policy ground which
combines selective wage changes, gradual increases in rental charges, and
possible divestiture of parts of the Government's existing housing stock to
arrive at a compensation system that combines the Government's equity and
incentive objectives with provision for private home ownership. When the
magnitude of the task remaining is fully considered, it is clear that the
period specified by the Life President for completing the transition to
individual home ownership is little enough time to complete the process
fairly.
1.21       In summary, the task of rationalizing the existing system of
subsidized rental housing in response to a move toward private liome
ownership must be gradual and complex. Abrupt changes and/or poorly
conceived policies could have substantial detrimental impacts on morale
within the civil service and equity or budgetary concerns. The longer-term
measures mentioned above should only be viewed as options within a
continuing process of change, the timing and implementation of which needs
to be constantly reviewed and amended. Nevertheless, a program of positive
actions to initiate the process of moving to a financially viable housing
sector, combined with forward discussion and studies of housing and
compensation policies, will provide Malawi with a sound basis for meeting
the housing needs of its citizens at a reasonable cost and without undue
disruption to other sectors of the economy.
E. Background and Strategy for the Association's Involvement
1.22       The Association has given priority to the housing sector in its
first urban operation in Malawi because of the acute need to reorient
policies and practices toward the provision of affordable and financially
viable housing alternatives. The initial interest in this sector was
established during the discussions for the first structural adjustment
operation in 1981, when it was determined that Government rental policies
for subsidized housing were a contributing factor to the financial problems
of MHC and CCDC. The agreements entered into under SAL I required the
Government to prepare a program by October 31, 1981, for the introduction
of economic rentals on Government housing, a condition which later proved
to be infeasible because it did not consider the larger context of housing
subsidies in Malawi.  At the same time that discussions on housing
subsidies were being conducted under SAL I, the various sectoral divisions
of the Association were becoming increasingly concerned about the large
proportion of project costs going into the construction of staff housing in
new projects.  An extensive review of Malawi's National Rural Development



- 10 -
Program in 1981 examined the possibilities for lowering the cost of staff
housing provided through agricultural projects and concluded that only
marginal savings would be possible as long as Government policy on housing
entitlements remained unchanged. As a result of both the SAL and sectoral
concerns about housing subsidies, the Association and the Government agreed
to carry out a full review of Malawi's housing policies in February 1982.
The results of this study provided the basis for the identification and
preparation of the Urban Project. At the same time, the Government
committed itself under SAL II, which was approved by the Bank's Board of
Executive Directors on December 20, 1983, to agree on a phased program to
address housing subsidies within the context of the Urban Project.
1.23       The Association's strategy in assisting the Government address
the issues in the housing sector includes several complementary activities,
which are supported by the Bank Group's lendiug and economic and sector
work program. As stated earlier, the Government has already stopped the
provision of new rental housing, with the exception of a limited number of
staff houses provided in connection with specific development objectives.
Therefore, the first part of the Associations's strategy, which will be
supported by the Urban Project, is to assist in the establishment of a
housing market based on cost recovery principles and the mobilization of
domestic resources into the sector. The second part of the strategy
consists of an ongoing review of staff housing costs included in projects
supported by the Association and other dodors.  The Government has been
asked to confirm cost reductions of about 30 percent identified for an
agricultural project which was recently appraised, as well as complete a
longer-term study on the wider application in other sectors of the housing
cost reductions identified for the agricultural project. Finally, the
overall issues of housing subsidies and entitlements and their relation to
the compensation system in Malawi are being addressed through a combination
of project initiatives and sector work. The discussions held during the
preparation of the Urban Project succeeded in defining the basic parameters
and options faced by the Government in agreeing on a policy to reduce
housing subsidies on the existing housing stock. These sectoral
discussions form the basis for terms of reference for the Housing Subsidies
and Wage Policy Study (para. 2.12) to be financed under the Urban Project,
which will provide the Government with more detailed information on the
cost and incidence of housing subsidies. Supervision of the Urban Project
will provide a basis for maintaining these discussions as an input to the
Government's structural adjustment program.
1.24       In the urban areas in general, the Bank Group has provided
assistance for water supply, health, education and industrial development
through projects in these sectors. The Blantyre Water Supply Project (Cr.
711-MAI) is augmenting water supply to Malawi's largest city, and the
Lilongwe Water Supply Engineering Credit (Cr. 1272-MAI) is helping to
identify and prepare water supply and sanitation investments in Lilongwe,
with technical assistance being provided for testing and establishing
low-cost sanitation programs, especially for urban dwellers. A Health
Project (Cr. 1351-MAI) aims to improve the health care delivery system in
Lilongwe and Blantyre, as well as a number of semi-urban and rural areas.
Much of the Association's considerable lending for education has gone to
construction and quality improvements of educational establishments in the



- Ii -
main urban centers. With the addition of the housing sector through the
Urban Project, it is judged that the Association's total program in urban
areas is well-balanced and appropriate to the size of Malawi's urban
sector.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Rationale
2.U1       The primary objectives of the project are:
(a)  Development of Market-Based Housing Alternatives-The
project is designed to introduce a wide range of housing
options which are attractive and affordable for purchase on
a financially viable basis. Toward this end, the project
will introduce various cost saving options (such as
increased use of local materials and promotion of
self-managed housing construction) and assist in relaxing
legal and bureaucratic constraints on housing (building
standards requirements, restrictive conditions on access to
credit, etc.) in order to allow a private housing market to
develop in Malawi;
(b)  Establishment of a Financially Viable Basis for Program
Replicability--The project will assist in establishing a
housing program which is replicable based on the use of
domestic resources and institutions, first by involving the
New Building Society directly in the financing of housing
which is affordable for purchase by Malawians, secondly by
strengthening the institutional capacity of the Malawi
Housing Corporation and establishing an adequate capital
structure for MHC to sustain a continuing program of land
and housing development after the completion of the
project, and thirdly by introducing full cost recovery
pricing of housing as the basis for continuing mobilization
of funds;
(c)  Strengthening of Ancillary Functions in the Housing
Market-The project will introduce various technical
innovations and, where appropriate, provide financial
support to improve the capacity and performance of
housing-related services, such as land registration and
title transfer procedures; and
(d) Assisting the Government to Address the Remaining Issues of
Housing Subsidies within a Phased Program-- The Housing
Subsidies and Wage Policy Study is the next step in working
toward a resolution on issues concerning the existing stock
of employer-provided housing.
2.02       The rationale for IDA involvement in the project is:  (i) the
project supports the objectives of Malawi's structural adjustment program



- 12 -
to improve resource mobilization and the management of public sector
agencies and to reduce the burden of subsidies in the social sectors; and
(ii) the Bank Group's substantial experience with low-cest housing projects
in Africa gives it a comparative advantage in working with the Government
to develop realistic policies for the housing sector.
B. Project Components
2.03       The project consists of the following three programs:
(a)  Intermediate Housing Area Program (IHA)-The project will
introduce a new standard of housing development in Malawi
which is  intermediate  between the exist'ng high standard
permanent housing and the low standard THA development.
MHC will develop about 2,230 IHA plots under the project,
with mortgage financing provided through NBS for the
development of approximately 2,000 low-cost houses on these
plots based on prototype designs developed by MHC. All
land and housing development in IHA areas will be offered
to purchasers on a full cost recovery basis at prevailing
market interest rates;
(b) Traditional Housing Area Program (THA)-The project will
provide approximately 500 ThA plots in conjunction with the
mixed development of IHA and TRA areas. Plots designated
as THA will be allocated according to prevailing terms and
conditions under the THA program. In addition, MHC will
introduce principles of cost recovery pricing in THA areas
through a building materials loan program designed to
assist approximately 1,000 THA plotholders meet the cost of
building materials, particularly for roofing sheets and
poles; and
(c)  Institutional Support and Studies Program-The continuing
development of the housing sector will be supported by
several activities designed to strengthen key institutions
and/or extend policy discussions already initiated during
the preparation of the project. These activities and their
responsible agencies include:
(i)  Housing Subsidies and Wage Policy Study, under the
direction of the Ministry of Finance and the Office of
the President and Cabinet (OPC);
(ii) Small Contractors Training Program, to be carried out
through the Office of Housing within OPC and the MOWS
training branch in Lilongwe;
(iii) Land Adjudication and Registration Program, executed
by the Department of Lands and Valuation, (DLV) within
OPC;
(iv) Building By-laws Study, under the direction of the
Office of Housing; and



- 13 -
(v) Institutional Support Program, to provide technical
assistance and equipment to the Office of Housing and
MRC in support of project activities.
2.04       Allocation of the Credit Proceeds.  Based on the initial
pipeline of identif.ed projects, it is expected that the proceeds of the
IDA credit (US$15.0 million equivalent) will be distributed among the
various programs as follows:
(a) US$12.7 million equivalent (84 percent of total credit
proceeds) will be allocated to the IHA program, of which
USS2.4 million will be on-lent to MHC for land
development. The remaining US$10.3 million will be on-lent
to NBS, which will contribute an additional US$4.4 million
equivalent from its own resources to be placed as long-term
mortgage financing for IHA housing development.
(b) US$1.0 million equivalent (7 percent of total credit
proceeds) will be allocated for THA development, of which
US$0.5 million will be used for THA land development, and
US$0.5 million will be used for the building materials loan
program.
Cc) The remaining US$1.3 million equivalent (9 percent of total
credit proceeds) will be shared among the various agencies
involved in the institutional support and studies program.
C. Detailed Project Description
2.05       The physical components of the project are designed to establish
a wide range of housing options which are affordable and bridge the gap
between the current THA program and the very high standard of permanent
housing which is provided to formal sector employees. Because demand has
not been previously tested in many segments of this market, the project has
been kept flexible to respond to changes in observed demand as
implementation progresses. In addition, the project introduces a number of
innovative features which could over-tax the implementing agencies if
introduced too quickly. Therefore, the implementation schedule provides
for a phasing-in of various features, so that the agencies will be able to
introduce their staff gradually to new procedures.
IHA Development Program
2.06       Land Development.  During project preparation, MHC and CCDC
identified a forward investment program which provided for the development
of 6,720 plots in four towns over the project period. After a careful
review of all the sites, it was agreed that an indicative investment plan
of 2,730 plots (of which 82 percent would be IHA plots) constructed over
three years in two cities (Lilongwe and Blantyre) would be a more realistic
target for the first project. In order to allow MHC flexibility in
revising its investment program as experience is gained with the IHA
program, as well as ensuring that MHC's total investment program remains
within its implementation capacity, assurances were obtained at
negotiations that:



- 14 -
(a)  MHC will prepare a forward work plan by September 30
indicating their planned investment program for the coming
fiscal year and the estimated dates of construction,
anticipated cash flow and administrative requirements, for
review and comment by the Association; and
(b)  before agreeing to undertake any additional investment
project with an estimated cost in excess of US$250,000
(including projects financed from internal funds), MHC will
furnish a descr'ption and an analys's of the financial
viability of the proposed involvement to the Association,
along with a statement of the probable impact of the
proposal on the implementation of the IDA-financed project,
for review and comment.
2.07       Standards of plot servicing under the IRA program will vary
according to zoning requirements and consumer demand. A large portion of
the IHA program will be developed in areas zoned as TRA, where plots will
be provided with an on-plot water connection and an improved pit
latrine.8/ In addition, some IHA plots will be developed within areas
zoned by the local authorities for permanent housing construction, where
provision will be made for water supply within the house, piped or septic
tank sewage disposal, and an optional electricity connection.
2.08       Housing Construction.  During project preparation, both MHC and
CCDC built several model houses suitable for construction under the IHA
program and ranging in size from a simple core housing unit (36m2) intended
for construction on TEA plots to a full three-bedroom house (73m2) intended
for construction in permanent housing areas. A number of technical
modifications to local bylaws requirements have been agreed with the local
authorities and NBS in order to reduce the cost of housing construction
(e.g., thinner wall specifications, agreement for brick and stone
foundations, etc.). In order to start the IRA program as quickly as
possible, MNC will employ contractors to construct completed housing units
on two sites to be developed during the first year of project
implementation. Thereafter, MNC will reserve a portion of project sites
for construction of housing by individuals (self-managed construction) or
by private developers contracting for groups of individuals (such as
employees of a single firm). MHC will be responsible for building
inspections to ensure that houses are constructed to agreed standards and
to facilitate the release of stage payments by NBS. An initial mix of
housing types and cost targets for housing to be constructed under the
project was agreed at appraisal and will be reviewed annually during the
annual review of MHC's work program, to ensure that the project addresses a
broad range of income groups. It was confirmed at negotiations that for
all project sites (except for the Kanjedza site in Blantyre, Area 49/5/1 in
Lilongwe, and all sites designated as specifically THA), MHC will reserve a
minimum of 30 percent of the plots for construction of houses by
8/ THA areas are exempt from all building bylaws except for certain
provisions of the Public Health Act pertaining to plot layout and
coverage.



- 15 -
individuals and/or private developers, as opposed to construction by HEC
contractors.
2.09       Beneficiary Selection Criteria.   WC will pre-screen applicants
for IHA plots to ensure that a one-household one-plot policy is maintained
under the program. For applicants accepted by MHC for the IHA program, NBS
will apply standard eligibility criteria for mortgage lending; i.e.,
applicants to provide evidence of satisfactory earnings, and monthly
mortgage payments not to ecceed 25 percent of monthly income. NBS will
loan up to 75 percent of the assessed valuation of the house and land to
qualified applicants. For Malawian citizens purchasing housing for
owner-occupation, the Government will provide a guarantee for an additional
20 percent of the assessed valuation of the house and land, allowing NBS to
increase its mortgage financing percentage to 95 percent. This guarantee
arrangement has been operating satisfactorily for a number of years in
Malawi and has never had to be called, although the Government may decide
to levy a small placement charge under the IHA program in order to
establish a guarantee fund in case of default. Mortgage payments in almost
all cases will be deducted directly from salary payments by employers and
remitted to NBS, which is a common practice for contractual obligations in
Malawi. Agreement was reached during appraisal with the Accountant General
that a circular will be prepared authorizing individual ministries to
deduct NBS mortgage payments for civil servants. It was confirmed at
negotiations that DLV, which controls the registration and leasehold terms
for transfers of land in Malawi, will allow all plots demarcated under the
IHA program to be transferred on the basis of a minimum leasehold period of
66 years, in order to provide adequate title security to support mortgage
lending. NBS has also proposed some minor amendments to the Building
Societies Act in order to reduce initial delays in the title transfer
process and to simplify foreclosure procedures in the event of
non-payment. These amendments are currently being reviewed by the
Solicitor General.
THA Development Program
2.10       Applicants who do not qualify for the IHA program will be
allowed to apply for THA plots according to standard procedures. Most of
the THA plots will be developed in conjunction with IHA plots in a mixed
housing plan. A typical example of this type of development reserves all
plots along the major access roads for sale as IHA plots, while THA plots
are located on minor access roads and served by water kiosks only. An
advantage of this type of development is that it allows for a certain
degree ot cross-subsidization between IHA and THA plots, thereby improving
overall cost recovery.
2.11       The building materials loan program to be introduced by the
project will help MNC introduce the principles of cost recovery into THA
areas. In the past, only the recurrent costs of MHC's administration of
THA's have been recovered. Capital costs have typically been financed by
foreign grant funds or concessional financing (particularly by the UK
Overseas Development Agency (ODA) and the Federal Republic of Germany).
The Government is aware of the need to introduce a greater degree of cost
recovery pricing in THA areas in order to justify using loan funds to
sustain the TRA program, and other donors have supported this view.



- 16 -
Nevertheless, the Government feels that (i) substantial progress should be
made in addressing the question of subsidies on higher income housing
before full cost recovery is extended to THA areas, and (ii) provision
should be made for sharing capital costs between MHC, which develops the
sites, and the local authorities, which will eventually assume
responsibility for administering the THA areas. Until these concerns are
resolved, both the Government and I"EIC place high priority on initiating a
small loans program in THA's to assist plotholders acquire the building
materials (particularly iron roofing sheets and wooden roofing poles)
necessary to complete self-help construction. This will help fill a gap in
the housing supply system between the proposed IHA program and the existing
program of THA plots. This loan program will be implemented by MHC on a
pilot basis starting in the second year of the project, with a mandate to
identify overhead costs and cost recovery performance for any future
expansion of the program. As MHC will recover the loans from the
beneficiaries over a period of five years, while the loan from the Ministry
of Finance will be amortized over a period of ten years (para. 3.03), MHC
will be able to carry out a second round of the loan program on a revolving
fund basis using the repayments from the original loans.
Institutional Support and Studies Program
2.12       Housing Subsidies and Wage Policy Study.  This study will
examine in detail the various policy options available to the Government
for reducing housing subsidies, with particulat emphasis on quantifying the
impact of the various options on overall compensation levels and the
Government's budgetary requirements. The study will include a
consideration of Government policies toward the existing housing stock,
including the possibility for divestiture of part of the stock not required
for specifically defined purposes, and also an examination of options for
introducing cost recovery pricing for THA development. During
negotiations, the Government confirmed its agreement with the terms of
reterence for the study which had been prepared by the Association (Annex
3), and further confirmation was obtained that the Government will complete
the study by March 31, 1986, and thereafter will submit to the Association
by October 31, i986, an agreed action prograii and timetable with respect to
the recommendations of the study.
2.13       Small Contractors Training Program.  With the development of a
more consumer-oriented housing market, independent local building
contractors can be expected to take over an increasing share of residential
building activity due to their cost advantage in responding to small
contracts. Technical assistance and equipment will be provided through the
project to the Office of Housing for the establishment of a training
program specifically oriented at residential building construction, to be
implemented through the MOWS training branch in Lilongwe. In addition,
outreach support will be provided through the Office of Housing and MOWS
for such activities as simplification of contract documents, assistance in
the certification of local contractors, and negotiations for working
capitai credit facilities from local financial institutions.
2.i4       Land Registration and Adjudication Program.  The project will
provide technical assistance and equipment (including the construction of a



- 17 -
strong room in the Blantyre land registry office) for a four-year program
of land demarcation, land survey, and claims adjudication to extend the
land registration system currently used in Lilongwe to the city of
Blantyre, including (but not limited to) the areas to be developed as part
of the Urban Project.
2.15       Building By-Laws Study.  As part of the Kenya Second Urban
Project (Ln. 1550-KE/Cr. 791-KE), the Government of Kenya undertook a major
study of revisions to local authority building by-laws to promote the
development of low-cost housing. Technical assistance will be provided
under this proiect to review the recommendations of the Kenya study for
possible adoption in Malawi and to develop appropriate legislation in the
area of building bylaws. In addition, close coordination will be
maintained between the Urban Project and the low-cost sanitation study
being financed under the Lilongwe Water Supply Engineering Credit to
promote the adoption of low-cost sanitation options, ranging from improved
pit latrines to low-volume flush toilets, in future housing projects in
Malawi (para. 1.24).
2.16       Institutional Support.  Technical assistance training and
equipment will be provided to the Office of Housing in order to improve
project monitoring and housing policy formulation activities, including a
pilot survey of housing conditions in Malawi to be carried out by the
National Statistical Office, and equipment and training to improve the
mangement capability of the Office of Housing over the stock of
Government-owned houses. MHC will be provided with a limited amount of
technical assistance and equipment, as required, to extend its accounting
system in such areas as job-costing and to improve its technical capacity
to implement low-cost housing projects.
III.  COST ESTIMATES AND PROJECT INPLBMENTU TION
A. Project Costs
3.01      Total project costs are estimated at MX24.3 million (US$18.2
million), with a foreign exchange component of US$4.1 million, representing
22 percent of total project costs (see Table 3.1, Project Cost Summary;
detailed cost estimates are provided in Annex 1, Table 1). Taxes are
estimated to be MKO.7 million (US$0.5 million) or approximately 3 percent
of project costs. Base costs are in June 1984 prices. Estimated costs of
civil works are based on final engineering designs for sites included in
the first year of the implementation schedule and estimated unit costs for
subsequent sites. Preliminary site investigations and layouts have been
completed for all sites included in the project. Unit costs for house
construction are based on detailed designs for all units and actual costs
for construction of prototype units. Costs for consultancy services for
the training program for small- and medium-scale contractors are based on
an earlier pilot program undertaken in the Ministry of Labor. Costs for
the land adjudication and registration program are based on DLV's
experience with a similar program in Lilongwe. Physical contingencies,
amounting to 4 percent of total base costs, are estimated at the rate of 10



Table 3.1:  PRCU1l CCOT SUMMARY
Fercent    Fercert     Percent
MK'000                      US$'000            Foreign   Base         Total
Coponent                                    lcal  Foreign  Total   Local    Foreign  Total  Exrhange  Cost               Cost
IHA CUNmcrlN PROGRAM
(a)  Campensation                             165        0      165      124         0       124       0          1          1
(b)  Site Davelopmert                       2,349      464    2,813    1,762        348    2,110      16         15         11
(c)  Hbuse Construction                    10,311    2,315   12,626    7,733      1,736    9,469      18         68         52
9ub-total                   12,85       ,77   1-0            9,69  2,084       70 
(a) Cmpemsation                                31        0       31       23         0        23       0          -          -
(b) Slte De4elopnent                         450        89      539      337        67       404      17          3          2
(c)  BzLldiig bUtedal Loans                   192      356      548      144       267      411       65          3          2
94b,total                      67T      275    1,118      SW4        334      8        40 6W
IN'1TIUfONAL SUW     AND SDIES
(a) Homirg S&bsidies & W3ge
Eblicy Study                           127      285      412       95       214       309      70          2          2
(b) 9nall Cbntractor Tlirirg
Program                                 59      286      345       44        215      259      83          2           1
(c) Land AdjLdication and
Registation                           314       299      613      236        224      460      49          3          3
(d)  Mdldi g Bylaws Study                      0      122      122        0         92       92     100          1          -
(e)  Institutiorel  upport - OPC               65      132      197       49         99      148      67          1           1
rmtitutional Sipport - MHL             105       109      214       79        82       161      50          1          1
aub-total                      670   T1233    1,903       3ff       -97     1,429       65         10          8
TOMI BASE COST                             14,168   4,457   18,625   10,626       3,344   13,970      24        100          76
-                   _ =        _                                     Ma-ma
Fhysical (bntiigencies                  687       190      877      515        142      657      22                     4
Price Cortirgencies                   4,052       784    4,836    3,039       588    3,627       16                    20
T1YL M)JET cOars                           18,907    5,431   24,338   14,180      4,074   18,254      22                    100
(bats as -f      1984.
IMK - US$0.75



- 19 -
percent for land development, 5 percent for house construction, and 10
percent for the construction and furnishing of the land registry building.
Price contingencies for local costs are calculated on the basis of expected
increases of 12 percent in 1984, 11 percent in 1985, 10 percent in 1986 and
1987, and 9 percent thereafter. Expected increases in the foreign cost
component are based on anticipated inflation of 3.5 percent in 1984, 8
percent in 1985 and 9 percent thereafter. Overall price contingencies
total MK4.8 million (US$3.6 million) or 20 percent of base costs.
B. Financing Plan
3.02      The IDA credit will finance 85 percent of total project costs net
of taxes and duties (82 percent of gross project costs), for a credit
amount of US$15 million equivalent, covering 100 percent of foreign costs
and 77 percent of local costs. The financing plan is summarized in Table
3.2. In the event of cost changes on the project components, the
investment program for housing and/or site development will be readjusted
to remain within the total amount of financing which is available.
Table 3.2: FINANCING PLAN
(MK million)             (US$ million)
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Z
IDA                      14.6      5.4    20.0      10.9      4.1    15.0   82%
NBS*                       1.8     -        1.8      1.3      -       1.3    8%
MHC                       0.8      -        0.8      0.6      -       0.6    3%
Private Individuals **   1.0       -        1.0      0.8      -       0.8    4%
Government of Malawi      0.7      -        0.7      0.5      -       0.5    3Z
TOTAL                    18.9      5.4    24.3      14.1      4.1    18.2  100%
*   NBS will contribute an additional MK4.1 million (US$3.1 million) for
the long-term refinancing of IHA land development.
** Downpayments on mortgage loans.



- 20 -
C. Flow of Funds
3.03       IDA funds will be on-lent by the Ministry of Finance to NBS and
HEC on the following basis:
(a)  For the Intermediate Housing Area program, funds will be
on-lent as a series of sub-loans for the development of
particular sites. 9/ No repayments on principal will be
due and interest will be capitalized during the period of
site development, which is defined as three years after the
date on which construction begins on the site or until 80
percent of the developed plots have been sold to qualified
purchasers, whichever period is less. Thereafter, the
amount of the loan, including capitalized interest, will be
recovered on the following basis:
(i)  For NBS, one-half of the funds will be recovered as a
25 year annuity, with interest computed on the basis
of the Government rate ruling from time-to-time (i.e.,
the lending rate between the Reserve Bank of Malawi
and the Government currently set at 10 percent, which
is the standard rate used by the Government in lending
to statutory bodies and other agencies). The
remainder of the funds will constitute a subordinated
loan to NBS at no interest for a period of 10 years,
after which time the principal will be converted into
a 15 year annuity, with interest computed on the basis
of the Government rate ruling from time to time; and
(ii)  For NHC, one-half of the funds will be recovered as a
ten year annuity, with interest computed on the basis
of the Government rate ruling from time to time. The
remainder of the funds will constitute an equity
investment by the Government in the property
development account of HHC. Funds for the
institutional support of MHC will be advanced as a
similar combination of debt and equity investment.
(b)  For the Traditional Housing Area program, funds for the
building materials loan program will be on-lent to MHC at
the Government rate ruling from time-to-time. During the
period of the loan program (which is defined as three years
after the first loan is made or until the IDA funds for the
program are fully disbursed, whichever period is less), no
9/ During the period of site development, NBS will advance funds to MHC as
stage payments on housing under construction. Land development costs
will be financed directly by MNC using the credit proceeds from the
Ministry of Finance. At the time of sale for the completed house, the
cost of the land and housing development (including overheads, interest
during construction, and an adequate return on investment to MHC) will
be refinanced by NBS through a take-out mortgage arrangement.



- 21 -
repayments of principal will be due and interest will be
capitalized. Thereafter, the entire amount of the loan,
including capitalized interest, will be recovered as a ten
year annuity. The loans for building materials will be
recovered from the beneficiaries at an interest rate not
less than the current mortgage rate on owner-occupi.ed
residential housing, over a period of five years plus an
initial grace period of six months to a year. Funds for
THA site development (including the cost of TEA plots
developed as part of an IRA site) will be passed to MHC as
a grant.
3.04   The on-lending rate to the ultimate beneficiaries for owner-occupied
housing (initially to be 12 percent) is expected to be positive in real
terms over the project period. Domestic inflation retes as defined by
changes in the price index for low-income consumers in Blantyre were 9.6
percent in 1981, 11.8 percent in 1982, and 15.4 percent in 1983. The
underlying inflation rate in Malawi is about 10 percent, but temporary
factors (e.g., high transportation cost caused by the security crisis in
Mozambique) resulted in an abnormally high rate in 1983. The on-lending
rate to NBS and MEC is consistent with the prevailing structure of interest
rates in Malawi and is expected to be positive in the medium term. The
Government has committed itself to maintaining positive real interest rates
as part of the structural adjustment program, and it is expected that
adjustments will be made in the on-lending rate to EEC and NBS as required
by macroeconomic conditions. The Government will bear the foreign exchange
risk for the credit, which will be covered by the spread between the
service charge on the IDA credit and the on-lending rate to NBS and NEC.
D. Implementation Scbedule
3.05      The anticipated implementation schedule is shown in Chart 1,
Annex 2.  Site development and housing finance activities will both be
initiated in the first year of the project and will increase gradually
during the first three years. Most of the activities related to the
institutional support and studies components are scheduled to take place
during the first two years of the project. Based on the experience with
urban projects in other countries in East Africa, the project is expected
to be completed no later than December 31, 1990.
E. Procurement
3.06      Civil and Building Works.  The estimated cost of civil and
building works is US$15.9 million, or 87 percent of total costs. (The
procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in Annex 1, Table
2.) Contracts for site development will be small, ranging in cost from
US$188,000 to US$900,000 equivalent, and scattered in time over the project
implementation period. It would not be efficient to package contracts for
separate sites, and the experience of MHC and MOWS indicates that any
single contract of this size is unlikely to attract bidders from outside
Malawi. Therefore, MHC will follow local competitive bidding procedures
for site development, in which foreign contractors will be free to
participate. Local building procedures were reviewed during appraisal and



- 22 -
judged to be acceptable to the Association. MHC may also choose to carry
out certain minor elements of civil works by force account when employment
of a contractor is not deemed to be efficient. Prior approval by the
Association will be required for all force account activities with an
estimated value in excess of US$50,000, with the total amount of force
account construction to be undertaken by MHC under the project not to
exceed US$300,000. For housing construction, MHC is expected to tender
blocks of houses in packages aimed at encouraging the participation of
small- and medium-size local contractors, and local competitive bidding
procedures which allow for the participation of foreign contractors will be
used throughout. Tender documents for the first year's land development
and housing construction components have been reviewed by the Association
and modified by MHC to conform with IDA guidelines; they will serve as the
basis for the preparation of tender documents for subsequent sites.
Individual plotholders who elect to undertake self-managed housing
construction will be responsible for their own procurement, with MHC
inspecting the house during construction to ensure it meets agreed building
standards. A single building contract for construction of a strong room in
the Blantyre land registry office, estimated cost US$25,000 equivalent,
will be let by DLV using local competitive bidding procedures.  The
Association will review all final engineering designs for site development
and all architectural specifications for houses to be constructed by MHC
prior to the preparation of final tender documents. Approval of draft
tender documents and tender awards will be required for all civil works
contracts estimated to cost in excess of US$250,000 equivalent. IDA
supervision missions will carry out a post review of all other contract
awards and disallow disbursements for any contract awards which do not meet
IDA guidelines.
3.07      Equipment and Vehicles.  Procurement of equipment and vehicles
(.Lncluding stocks of building materials for the building materials loan
program) will total US$0.7 million equivalent, or 4 percent of total
costs. Equipment will be purchased by four different agencies, and most of
the more expensive items (survey equipment, data processing machines, etc.)
are highly specialized and cannot be packaged conveniently. Vehicles will
be purchased in lots of one or two by separate agencies, with no agency
purchasing more than two vehicles. Therefore, most equipment will be
purchased through standard Government (or MHC) procurement procedures,
which were reviewed at appraisal and found to be acceptable to the
Association. Vehicles will be procured by local shopping procedures, with
a minimum of three price quotations required. MHC will purchase building
materials in small lots for use in the building materials loan program to
minimize inventory costs and problems of pilferage, and local shopping
procedures will apply. The Association will require prior approval of
specifications for all vehicles, survey equipment, and data processing
equipment to be procured under the project.
3.08      Professional Services.  Professional services total US$1.3
million, or 7 percent of total costs. A housing census to be completed for
the Office of Housing will be implemented by the National Statistical
Of'ice, which is responsible for the design and implementation of the
national census. Surveying services are available locally from only two
licensed surveyors, and the contract for these services will be negotiated



- 23 -
directly. An adjudication officer will be recruited from overseas to
assist with the implementation of the Land Registration and Adjudication
Program for a period of two years. All other consultancy services will be
procured in accordance with the -Guidelines for the use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers."
F. DLsburse-ents
3.09      Disbursements of the IDA credit will be made on the following
basis:
(1) 95 percent of expenditures by MHC for:
(a)  site development                 (SDR2,500,000; approximately
US$2,500,000);
(b)  building materials               (SDR500,000; approximately
loans                            US$500,000);
(c)  consultant's services            (SDR200,000; approximately
US$200,000);
(2)  70 percent of disbursements           (SDR9,300,000; approximately
by NBS for mortgage loans              US$9,500,000);
(3)  100 percent of foreign expend.        (SDR1,100,000; approximately
and 80 percent of local expend.        US$1,100,000);
for the institutional support
and studies components
(4)  Initial deposit in the NBS Special  (SDR800,000; approximately
Account:                               US$800,000);
(5)   Initial deposit in the MHC Special (SDR400,000; approximately
Account:                              US$400,000).
Disbursements under categories 1(a) and 1(c) will be fully documented, save
for minor elements of civil works undertaken by MHC force account, which
will be documented by Statements of Expenditures (SOE). Disbursements
under categories 1(b), and 2, will also be on the basis of SOE.
Disbursements under category 3 will be fully documented for all payments
relating to contracts with a total value in excess of US$20,000; all other
payments will be on the basis of SOE. Agencies using SOE will retain the
documentation for such expenditures and will make it available for review
by the Association during project supervision. IDA funds will not be
disbursed for land compensation costs or for the salaries of local
counterpart staff employed under the institutional support and studies
components. Retroactive financing of up to US$25,000 will be allowed under
category 1(c) for fees incurred by MHC since March 1, 1984 in preparing
final designs for the project sites.
3.10      Two Special Accounts will be established in local currency in the
Reserve Bank of Malawi to handle project disbursements to MHC and NBS,



- 24 -
respectively. Initial deposits in the Special Accounts have been estimated
on the basis of the highest anticipated disbursements by the agencies for a
90 day period, with SDR400,000 (approximately US$400,000) provided to
establish the Special Account for disbursements to MHC under Categories
1(a), 1(b) and 1(c); and SDR800,000 (approximately US$800,000 provided to
establish the Special Account for disbursements to NBS under Category 2.
The Special Accounts are necessary to assist the two participating agencies
in keeping their working capital requirements to manageable levels. Other
methods of reducing working capital requirements, such as greater use of
direct payments to contractors by the Association (Procedure III
disbursements), cannot be used because almost all payments will be to local
contractors which require smaller and faster disbursements than would be
possible with direct payment procedures. The internal financial control
systems of both MHC and NBS were reviewed at apppraisal and found to be
satisfactory for the use of Special Accounts.  Establishment of the Special
Accounts is a condition of effectiveness for the credit (para. 6.02).
3.11      The schedule of estimated disbursements for the project is shown
in Annex 1, Table 3. The disbursement profile is consistent with the
average profile for IDA supported urban projects on a worldwide basis,
which is considered to be a reasonable approximation when there has been no
previous experience with the urban sector in a particular country. The
closing date for the project will be June 30, 1991.
G. Legal Arrangements
3.12      The Development Credit Agreement for the project will be executed
with the Government of Malawi. As a condition of credit effectiveness, the
Government will be required to execute on-lending agreements with MHC and
NBS which are acceptable to the Association, and the Special Accounts with
N'S and MHC will have been opened.
H. Accounts and Audit
3.13      During the first year of project implementation, MHC will
separately identify project-related transactions within its existing
accounting and financial reporting system. In addition, it was confirmed
at negotiations that NHC will intrcduce modifications of its accounting
system acceptable to the Association by December 31, 1985, to enable it to
provide separate accounts and linancial reports (income statements, balance
sheets, and statements of sources and uses of funds) for all land and
housing development activities undertaken for the purpose of resale to
individuals and other outside entities, including IHA. project activities,
for fiscal year 1986 and all subsequent years (para. 4.09). NHC will be
required to submit audited accounts (including separate and consolidated
accounts for the fiscal years 1986 and thereafter) to the Association
within six months of the close of its fiscal year. The audit opinion will
contain a special statement confirming that expenditures claimed under
SOE were used for the purpose for which they were provided. MHC's accounts
are audited by an independent private auditing firm of international
standard, acceptable to the Association. Technical assistance funds will
be made available if required for MHC to engage consultants and/or the
services of its auditors in completing the necessary changes to its
accounting system.



- 25 -
3.14      NBS will administer mortgage loans for the IHA program as part of
its normal lending operations, and no separate accounting system is deemed
to be necessary or desirable. Loans extended under the IHA program will be
identified separately for the purposes of NBS's auditors, to ensure that
the auditors can verify that the loans satisfy the lending criteria
established under the Development Credit Agreement and on-lending agreement
between the Government and NBS. NBS's accounts are audited by an
independent private firm of international standard, acceptable to the
Association. NBS will be required to submit audited accounts to the
Association within six months of the close of each fiscal year, including a
special statement confirming that expenditures claimed under SOE were used
for the purpose for which they were provided.
3.15      The DLV and Office of Housing will maintain separate budgetary
items for project activities implemented by them, which will be subject to
normal Government accounting and auditing procedures which are considered
by the Association to be satisfactory for this purpose.
I. Project Monitoring and Coordination
3.16      The major share of project activities will be implemented by NHC
and NBS. Several recent actions have been taken to improve communications
between these agencies, including the appointment of the General Manager of
NRC to the Board of Directors of NBS. The local authorities, particularly
Blantyre City Council (BCC) and Lilongwe City Council (LCC), will play an
advisory role to the project through their Town Planning Committees. As
has been current practice in Malawi, both BCC and LCC have agreed to accept
MHC building inspections for the purposes of bylaw regulations. As
discussions have recently been initiated by both BCC and LCC on procedures
for assuming control over THA's as they become fully developed and for
extending the property rating system into THA's, it is expected that the
local authorities will be active participants in housing sector discussions
as project implementation advances.
3.17      The Office of Housing in OPC will be responsible for overall
monitoring of project activities, including the integration of project
budgets into national budgeting procedures, MHC will be responsible for
reviewing applications for plots, houses, and building materials loans and
for proposing revisions in the housing mix during the annual scheduled
review of MHC's investment program (para. 2.06). MHC and NBS will prepare
quarterly reports within four weeks after the end of each quarter
concerning the status of project components being implemented by them.
DLV and the Office of Housing will prepare semi-annual reports on their
activities. All progress reports will be sent directly to the Association
and to the Office of Housing, which will be responsible for preparing a
project completion report for the project within six months of the close of
disbursements. The review of the recommendations of the Housing Subsidies
and Wage Policy Study, which is scheduled to take place before October 31,
1986, will also provide an opportunity for carrying out a mid-term review
of project activities with the Government, to determine any changes in
direction which may be desirable.



- 26 -
J.  Project Supervision
3.18      IDA supervision of the project will require 120 staff weeks
during the period of project implementation, based on average experience
with supervision of first projects in the urban sector in Eastern Africa.
This supervision effort is expected to be particularly concentrated during
the first three years of project implementation, when a number of new
project features will be introduced and IDA input to the review of the
various studies and sectoral discussions will be required (para. 1.23).
IV. INSTITUTIONAL AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Introductlon
4.01      The program of land and housing development contained in this
project will provide Malawi with an initial basis for establishing private
home ownership as a viable alternative to the present system of public
sector housing supply. Nevertheless, the total amount of housing to be
provided through the project will service only a portion of the expected
demand over the implementation period. Given the economic climate in
sub-Saharan Africa, it is unlikely that the Government will be able to
contribute a significant amount of funds to housing development in the
foreseeable future. Moreover, donor funds are too sporadic and have too
high an opportunity cost in the present environment to be relied on for
sustaining housing development on a continuing basis. Therefore, it is
essential that the Urban Project contain within itself the necessary
institutional and financial reforms fo': establishing a basis for sustained
housing development beyond the completion of the project. The
participation of NBS and the introduction of cost recovery pricing are
essential elements in this strategy, by providing a mechanism for
continuing mobilization of domestic funds into the housing sector. These
measures will not be sufficient, however, unless a viable basis is
established for continuing the production of affordable housing by MHC or
by other suitable developers and by ensuring that NBS will be able to
maintain an adequate growth of funds to sustain the required volume of
mortgage lending. For this reason, the institutional and financial reforms
to be carried out under the project are at least as important as the
demonstration effect of the new types of housing in building a replicable
basis for project activities.
A. Malawi Housing Corporation
4.02      The Malawi Housing Corporation was established in 1964 by the
Government of Malawi to undertake the development, construction and
management of housing and housing estates throughout Malawi on a
not-for-profit basis. MRC's charter gives it authority to engage in a
number of activities in the housing sector, including the provision of
serviced land and housing for resale purposes and the extension of
construction loans to individuals. In practice, MHC's principal activities
have been the construction and maintenance of rental housing estates and
the development of THA's. MHC's current housing stock consists of almost



- 27 -
10,000 permanent housing units, of which over half are rented to the
Government for occupation by civil servants, while the remainder are rented
to employees of statutory bodies and other private individuals. In
addition, MNC administers over 25,000 THA plots, with approximately 10,000
additional THA plots scheduled to be transferred to MHC from CCDC. As may
be expected, the problems of allocation, maintenance and administration of
this large stock of housing and THA plots constitute the major share of
MNC's activities and the principaL source of its revenues and expenditures.
Current Situation
4.03      MHC's organizational structure and financial accounting system
have developed along the lines of a public utility, as befits MHC's primary
emphasis as a property management company. Its day-to-day activities are
organized under three operating departments (Administration, Technical, and
Finance), each of which is subdivided into a number of operating sections.
The staffing of MRC, which is almost completely Malawianized, consists of
over 450 permanent staff and more than 1,000 contract workers, the latter
of which are primarily involved in direct labor activities. MNC's current
construction activities consist of the completion of a large housing estate
in Lilongwe to provide staff housing for the new international airport and
the construction of several THA areas using grant funds already provided
for this purpose by the UK Overseas Development Agency.
4.04       Between 1978 and 1983, MHC had an average annual growth rate in
revenues of 11.2 percent, while operating expenditures and interest payable
grew at rates of 15.5 and 10.4 percent, respectively.10/ (Summary
financial statements for MEC are provided in Table 4 of Annex 1.)  As a
result, MHC suffered net losses in 1982 and 1983, such that its
debt-service coverage ratio fell below 1 percent. The deterioration in
MHC's financial position was particularly pronounced between 1981 and 1982,
when large increases in local authority rates and charges and increased
allocations for repairs and maintenance led to a substantial increase in
MHC's operating expenditures. MXC's financial position is expected to
stabilize in 1984, due to a 20 percent increase in rental charges which was
granted by the Government beginning April 1, 1984. Given XBHC's low rate of
return on net fixed assets in operation (4-7 percent, even when assets are
valued on the basis of historical costs), MJC has had little capacity to
provide for replacement of existing assets or to contribute significantly
from internal sources towards capital expansion. Without a fundamental
change in MHC's financial outlook, a continuing cycle of periodic losses
and rental increases by the Government is the only foreseeable prospect.
4.05      While MHC's current financial position is weak, MHC has performed
well according to its mandate in the past, and it has developed the
10/ Immediately prior to 1978, NHC sustained substantial losses on its
rental housing stock. This was temporarily eliminated in 1978 by the
transfer of 761 existing staff houses to MHC with anomalously high
rentals and financed with a MK1O million concessional loan from the
Government, a situation that distorts many of the financial ratios in
Table 4.



- 28 -
experience and technical capacity to undertake a larger program of land and
housing construction. Nevertheless, a number of institutional factors
which are attributable to MHC's dominant concern with subsidized rental
housing could constrain the development of a fully viable and efficient
program if they are not addressed. For example, MHC's service orientation
toward management of the existing stock has contributed to inadequate
control of overhead costs. The excess demand for houses due to MHC's
sub-economic rental structure has meant that marketing considerations have
played little role in determining MHC's investment program.  Finally, as
MHC has depended primarily on long-term debt financing to develop new
housing, internal cash generation and control of working capital have not
been exploited as a means of maintaining housing construction. A shift in
MHC's institutional outlook from estate management to property development
must therefore be accompanied by a reorientation of many of MHC's
managerial and financial objectives and operating procedures to be
compatible with the more rigorous environment implied by a market-sales
approach.
4.06      On the organizational side, MBC's use of direct labor methods has
been identified as a source of hidden overheads and possible delays in
implementation. All construction under the IHA program will therefore be
carried out by independent contractors, except for minor civil works for
which normal tender procedures would not be efficient. Changes in MHC's
design procedures were also agreed during project preparation to facilitate
greater coordination of physical planning and engineering inputs.
Marketing procedures will need to be strengthened as the housing program
develops and more experience is gained with consumer response. NHC's
accounting system will also need to be enhanced with job-costing and
time-recording systems to ensure proper allocation of costs. Finally, the
shift in financing terms from direct ownership of the housing stock by MHC
to market sales and refinancing through NBS will create opportunities for
the recycling of capital funds to sustain a larger program of construction.
4.07       The management of MHC recognizes that the future prospects for
the corporation rest with the establishment of a viable financial and
organizational structure for market-based housing sales. The General
Manager is committed to having MHC assume a more dynamic role in land and
housing development, and he is familiar with the organizational and
financial changes which are required, due to his previous experience as
General Manager of CCDC before it was wound-up. At the same time, it is
recognized that provision must be made for continuing the maintenance and
administration of MHC's existing rental stock until Government policies on
rental charges and a possible housing divestiture program are established
(para. 2.12). Therefore, the strategy adopted under the project to carry
out the restructuring of MHC represents a pragmatic balancing of these
objectives by instituting a gradual separation of property development
activities from estate management concerns, to be carried out within the
overall umbrella organization of MHC.ll/ This will allow MHC to establish
'I/ A more ambitious proposal to establish a separate subsidiary company
of MHC to undertake property development was not accepted by the
Government on the grounds that it is currently reducing the number of
subsidiary companies of statutory bodies due to generally poor
financial performance.



- 29 -
separate management objectives and financial goals for the two types of
activities, while ensuring that MHC's considerable past experience in land
and housing development is fully utilized in carrying out the construction
program.
Fiuancial Strategy for MKC
4.08      The major elements of the financial strategy for MHC are the
following:
(a) Establishment of all property development activities
(exclusive of THA development) on a separate accounting
basis within MHC;
(b) Use of project financing to develop an equity base in MHC to
sustain future property development activities and assist
NHC in gaining access to commercial financing for property
development; and
Cc) Establishment of the remaining activities of MHC on a
'hreak-even' basis until Government policy is resolved
regarding the disposition of MHC's rental housing stock.
The purpose of these changes is to establish MHC's property development
activities on an independent financial basis, with a satisfactory capital
structure developed by the end of the project which will allow MHC to
continue its property development activities on a self-sustaining basis.
4.09      During the first year of the project, the modifications of MHC's
accounting system will be put into place to permit property development
activities to be established on a separate accounting basis as of January
1, 1986 (para. 3.13). It is expected that all the changes can be developed
and introduced by the financial controller and his staff, although it may
be necessary to retain the financial controller on a consultancy basis
following the expiration of his present fixed-term contract or to engage
MEC's auditors (or a comparable accounting firm) on a limited basis to
complete the changes. The major changes to be made in MHC's accounting
system, other than the separate system of accounts, is the enhancement of
MRC's costing system to ensure appropriate job-costing for individual sites
and construction activities and to permit proper allocation of overheads,
so that there will be adequate matching of costs and prices to ensure
financial viability. Terms of reference for the required changes in MRC's
accounting system are provided in Annex 3; these were reviewed at
negotiations and the schedule for their implementation confirmed.
4.10      Regarding staffing for the property development activities, the
project will be carried out initially using MHC's existing staff and
organizational structure, augmented by time recording and charge-out
arrangements for staffing, vehicles and plant as the systems are put into
place. As the property development activities expand, MHC may consider
splitting its Technical Department in order to separate maintenance
functions from properry development activities. The critical positions of
Chief Architect-Planner and Chief Engineer have proven to be difficult to



- 30 -
fill locally because of the overall shortage of such skills in Malawi.
Rather than fill these position with expatriate professionals, which would
impose high overhead costs on the fledgling housing program, MHC has chosen
to complete the first year's design program by having its staff work in
coordination with a locally based firm of professional engineers. MHC's
staffing position and internal capacity for managing the program will be
reviewed annually with the Association in conjunction with the scheduled
discussion of the forthcoming work program (para. 2.06), with the
understanding that the work program agreed at appraisal may be advanced or
delayed to match MHC's ability to implement the project.
4.11      As described in the on-lending terms for the IDA credit (para.
3.03), funds for site development under the IRA program will be advanced to
MHC as an equal combination of Government equity contribution and medium-
term debt. Projected financial statements for the property development
account are provided in Tables 5a, b, and c of Annex 1. By the end of the
project period, MRC will have established an equity base of approximately
MKI.9 million and working capital of MK3.1 million to support future
property development activities. To ensure that this financial base is
maintained, assurances were obtained at negotiations that MHC's pricing
policy for housing development undertaken for resale purposes will, under
conditions of efficient operation and at reasonable levels of capacity
utilization, permit MHC to recover its full costs for site and housing
construction, including a reasonable share of overhead costs, earn an
adequate return on capital funds invested in the project, meet its
financial obligations, and make a reasonable contribution to reservei for
the purpose of financing future investments.l2/ For purposes of
fulfilling this agreement, a target mark-up of 5 percent over all other
costs was specified in order to provide MHC with an adequate reserve fund
against risk and to generate funds for future investment.
4.12      While the arrangement for establishirg an equity base within MHC
is a sound procedure for assisting MHC to develop a continuing basis for
property development, there is a risk that fHfC's financial weakness on the
estate management side could lead to a diversion of working capital funds
to cover losses oa rental housing and consequent dissipation of the working
capital base. Table 6 in Annex 1 provides projected income statements for
MHC's estate management activities, net of the property development
account. The 20 percent increase in rentals approved by the Government for
April 1, 1984 is expected to be sufficient to return MHC to a positive
level of net income from operations. With no further increases in rental
charges, MHC should be able to maintain a positive level of net income
12/ This type of generalized pricing covenant is considered to be an
appropriate form of financial agreement for property development
activities, rather than annualized financial targets such as rate of
return on net fixed assets in operation. The crucial factors that
dictate use of a pricing covenant in this case are: (i) the
substantial lag between initiation of site construction and
realization of revenues from housing sales, and (ii) the emphasis on
recycling of working capital resources to sustain operations, rather
than investment in fixed capital assets.



- 31 -
through 1986, provided that operating expenditures increase no faster than
5 percent per year. As MHC's operating expenditures have been rising at an
average annual rate of 12.5 percent over the past five years (see Table 4,
Annex 1), achieving this level of cost control may require some deferral of
repairs and maintenance as many of MHC's other costs (such as local
authority rates and charges) are beyond its direct control. Although MHC
would return to a net loss position by 1987 under the current rental
structure, the Housing Subsidies and Wage Policy Study will have been
completed by then, providing a more rational basis for planning MHC's
future activities. In the interim period, assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Government cause MHC to take such actions, as may be
necessary for MHC to operate on an annual -break-even" basis, i.e., such
that MHC will be able to earn for each fiscal year, total revenues from its
property management and other activities, but excluding any positive net
income arising from its property development activities, which are
sufficient to cover the sum of (i) total operating expenses including
depreciation and interest, and (ii) the amount by which debt amortization
requirements exceed the provision for depreciation. The terms of reference
for the upgrading of MHC's accounting systems will also require the
consultants (or MBC) to develop satisfactory procedures for control of
working capital funds to ensure that funds are not diverted to cover
deficits on the estate management side or to finance uneconomic investment
projects. In the event that control of funds becomes a serious issue,
consideration will be given to establishing a separate bank account for
property development activities. This option was not deemed to be
practical in the initial phases of the project, however, because of the
need for MHC to fund the start-up costs of the property development
activities until housing sales begin and sufficient rollover of working
capital is established to sustain the property development account.
4.13      In summary, the financial and institutional reforms agreed for
MHC will begin the process of transforming the organization from one that
is primarily oriented toward management of a large and uneconomic fixed
capital stock, to one that is oriented toward the recycling of working
capital funds into a continuing program of land and housing development.
By the end of the project period, MHC will have established a sound
financial position for continuing with property development activities
without the necessity for repeated injections of long-term capital funds.
The responsibility for providing long-term financing to support housing
development will have been transferred to NBS, an institution which is more
suited to this task due to its ability to mobilize domestic resources. The
establishment and strengthening of these financial linkages is therefore
one of the major contributions of the project toward developing a
fully-replicable program for housing dcrelopment in Malawi.
B.  The New Building Society
4.14      The NBS is the sole building society registered in Malawi under
the Building Societies Act. It operates from a head office in the new city
center of Lilongwe, with five branch offices providing coverage of the
major urban areas of Malawi. The Government of Malawi is the principal
shareholder with 51 percent of the outstanding share capital, and the
remaining share capital is split equally between Lonrho (Malawi) Ltd. and



- 32 -
Protea Assurance Co. Ltd. of South Africa. NBS operates under the general
direction of the Reserve Bank of Malawi, and It competes directly with the
Post Office Savings Bank in attracting accounts from small depositors.
Current Situation
4.15      The past and projected financial statements of NBS are summarized
in Annex 1, Tables 7a, b, c and d. Between FY79 and FY84 13/, NBS
experienced growth rates of 21 percent in its deposit accounts and 14
percent in its mortgage lending. NBS's ability to attract new depositors,
despite more favorable tax treatment on interest paid by the Post Office
Savings Bank, is due to its emphasis on customer service and its effective
use of local language radio advertising. Nevertheless, the slower growth
in lending demand, due to the stagnation of housing sales at the upper
income levels, has resulted in excessive liquidity reserves for NBS, which
it has invested primarily in Reserve Bank stock. At the end of FY84, NBS
held over MX5 million in Government bonds and current assets, while only 61
percent of its financial assets were held in the form of mortgages. This
level of liquidity provides NBS with a good base for expanding its mortgage
lending at the middle- and-lower income levels, provided that such housing
can be made available on an affordable basis.
4.16      NBS's net profit position has been generally satisfactory, save
for a modest loss during FY82. The growth in earnings in recent years has
been due primarily to the high returns available on Government
bonds, however, rather than the strength of the mortgage portfolio. In
addition, in response to a recommendation by the IMF in 1983, the Reserve
Bank raised all deposit rates in Malawi by two percentage points without,
however, approving corresponding increases in lending rates. As a result,
the effective spread on NBS's mortgage portfolio was reduced to the point
where NBS would have sustained a substantial loss during FY84 except for
the very favorable earnings received on its Government bonds. In response
to this situation and as a condition of negotiations for the Urban Project,
the Board of NBS recently approved changes in its mortgage interest rates,
including an increase in the lending rate for owner-occupied housing from
11.75 percent to 13 percent, which is expected to be adequate to maintain a
positive level of net income on existing operations.
4.17      NBS's collection performance on mortgage repayments is good, and
enforcement procedures (including foreclosure and auctioning of properties)
are routinely applied on accounts more than three months in arrears. The
society currently operates on a simple accounting system which is no longer
adequate to handle normal growth of deposits. Therefore, the Board of NBS
has approved the purchase (using its own resources) of modern electronic
data-processing equipment, which will significantly improve NBS's capacity
to handle all accounting functions, particularly the recording of deposit
and loan repayment transactions. This equipment is expected to be
installed over the next two years and will provide sufficient capacity for
13/ NBS has a fiscal year of February 1-January 31, so that dates stated
in fiscal years refer generally to the performance in the preceding
calendar year.



- 33 -
NBS to handle the IRA mortgage program as part of its normal operations.
Given that the IHA program will increase gradually in volume as MHC
completes the various sites, it is expected that any necessary expansion of
facilities and training of new staff can be accommodated within NBS's
normal work program.
Financial Analysis
4.18       As described under the on-lending terms (para. 3.03), one-half
of the Association's funds for mortgage financing will be on-lent to NBS as
a subordinated loan for ten years with no interest accruing on the loan.
The purpose of this arrangement is to allow NBS the use of the foregone
interest payments in order to strengthen its general reserves position, so
that NBS will be able to maintain an adequate flow of mortgage financing
into the housing sector after the Association funds are fully disbursed.
At the same time, it was considered desirable to allow flexibility in the
on-lending terms to the final beneficiaries in order to establish public
acceptance of the new IRA concepts (para. 5.09). Therefore, it was agreed
at negotiations that NBS's participation in the IHA mortgage program will
be on the following basis:
(a) NBS will establish a new class of mortgage rates designed
to encourage lower- and middle-households to purchase their
own housing. This rate will be available on all property
which is (i) owner-occupied, (ii) on which the total
mortgage amount does not exceed MK15,000, and (iii) for
which the lower of cost or NBS valuation does not exceed
---X15,800. The interest rate, initially established at 12
percent, will apply to all eligible housing, including but
not limited to housing constructed under the IHA program;
(b)  Periodic reviews of NBS's interest rate structure wil  be
carried out by the Government, the Association and NBS, and
NBS will implement such changes in the interest rates as
may be mutually agreed among the three parties. The
criteria to be used in evaluating the interest rate
structure of NBS will be (i) the current profitability of
NBS's existing operations, (ii) the expected rate of return
on average equity plus the subordinated loan, and (iii; the
market demand for mortgage financing;
(c) As a management objective, NBS will seek to attain a rate
of return by the end of the project period (defined as
total income divided by the mid-year average of total
equity plus the subordinated loan) which is equal to the
Government interest rate on the annuity loan (10 percent).
This rate of return is necessary to maintain the financial
stability of NBS after the subordinated loan is converted
into an annuity; however, it is not expected that NBS will
be able to achieve this rate of return until about the time
that the IDA credit is fully disbursed. As a minimum
guarantee on NBS's profitability, it was therefore
confirmed at negotiations that NBS will take such actions



- 34 -
as may be necessary to ensure that for each fiscal year,
total income from operations, plus any undistributed
earnings which may be carried over from the previous fiscal
year, are sufficient to pay adequate dividends on share
capital and to provide a reasonable contribution to the
general reserves. For purposes of fulfilling this
obligation, a minimum target level of income of MK149,000
was specified, consisting of the maximum statutory
dividends payable on share capital (equal to 10% of the
paid-in value, or MK49,000) plus a minimum prudent level of
annual contributions to general reserves of MK100,000; and
(d) Net income from operations in excess of MU149,000 will be
distributed in the following manner. One-half of the
additional income will be a permanent contribution to the
general reserves of NBS. Tne remaining income will
constitute a contribution to a special class of reserves
(called Special Reserves), which will remain on deposit
with NBS during the life of the subordinated loan. When
the subordinated lean is converted to a 15-year annuity,
the Government wil have the option of (i) maintaining the
Special Reserves as an equity contribution to NBS, (ii)
converting the Special Reserves to a 15-year annuity on the
same terms as the subordinated loan, or (iii) retaining the
Special Reserves as non-voting share capital.
4.19      The major impact of the !HA program on NBS's financial position
will be a substantial increase in NBS's total mortgage lending, expected to
increase three-fold over the five-year project period. As a result, NBS's
portfolio position will move to a stronger dependence on mortgage lending,
wi-.h 70 percent of total income accruing from mortgage interest and 76
percent of the total portfolio invested in mortgages. The immediate effect
of the IHA program on NBS's profit position is expected to be somewhat
negative as set-up costs initially exceed income from loan placements. 14/
However, as loan disbursements increase under the IHA program, NBS should
reach the break-even point for the program by about the third year of
operations and thereafter experience sustained growth in its profit
position. By the end of the project period, NBS's average spread on its
mortgage lending is expected to be approximately 3.5 percent, which is
consistent with NBS's past earnings performance. Finally, NBS's financing
share for the IHA program, expected to be on the order of MK5.5 million
over the project implementation period, can be accommodated well within the
expected growth of deposits, with NBS's minimum average liquidity position
occurring in the fourth year of the IRA program with 18 percent of
financial assets held in non-mortgage instruments. NBS's reserve ratio is
expected to remain above 20 percent at all times during the project, well
above the minimum required reserve ratio of 15 percent established by the
141 Table 4.1 overstates the initial decline in NBS's profit position, as
NBS's total income from operations in FY1984 was strongly influenced
by high yields on Reserve Bank bonds which were due to mature in early
FY1985.



- 35 -
Reserve Bank of Malawi. In summary, under the assumptions used in these
projections, the IHA program is fully viable in financial terms and will
significantly increase the role and participation of NBS in financing new
housing development in Malawi.
4.20       NBS's reserves (including Special Reserves) are expected to
increase at an average annual rate of 18.6Z over the project period,
with most of the growth in reserves occurring during the latter three years
of the project. Combined with a strong increase in total income during the
final years of the project when the IHA loans are fully disbursed, NBS's
rate of return (as defined in para. 4.18) is expected to increase from 2.1
percent in 1985 to 9.6 percent in 1989. While tais rate is slightly below
the rate of return which will be required in order to sustain NBS's
profitability when the subordinated loan is converted to an annuity, the
growth in earnings in future years is expected to allow NBS to fully meet
its rate of return objective. As a result of the growth in reserves (plus
normal growth in deposits), NBS should be able to sustain a continuing
growth in mortgage lending, thereby complementing the financial
strengthening which will be provided to MHC. On this basis, the Urban
Project is expected to provide a sound foundation for sustaining housing
development activities beyond the end of the project period, with limited
requirements for injections of further funds from either Government or
donor sources.
C. The Office of BDusing
4.21      The Office of Housing in the Office of the President and Cabinet
will be the coordinating agency at the central Government level for project
activities. The Office of Housing is headed by the Chief Housing Officer,
who reports to the Principal Secretary (Administration) in OPC. Originally
established to supervise the allocation of staff housing and office space
within the civil service, the Office of Housing has been moving in recent
years to assume a larger role in the formulation of housing policy. During
the preparation of the Urban Project, the Office of Housing prepared a
draft policy statement on housing, which is currently being reviewed within
Government.15/ This policy statement recognizes the need for Malawi to
institute structural reforms in the housing sector and recommends, inter
alia, the following specific actions:
(a) increased emphasis on individual home ownership,
particularly through site and service type programs;
(b) expanded credit facilities to encourage home ownership and
mobilize private savings; and
(c) phasing out of rent subsidies to civil servants and their
replacement with a housing allowance system and economic
rentals on the Government-owned housing stock.
15/ "National Housing Policy (draft), prepared by the Office of the
President and Cabinet, Government of Malawi, October 1983.



- 36 -
The Office of Housing has recently reorganized its operations and expanded
its staff to support a wider program of policy support for housing
development (see Organization Chart, Annex 2). The specific activities of
the Office of Housing whIch will be assisted under the Urban Project
include a survey of housing conditions in Malawi in order to establish a
baseline for policy development and assist in formulating questions on
housing conditions to be included in the next national census, and support
for data processing equipment to assist the Office of Housing establish
better management control over the existing stock of Government staff
housing.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Market Demand and Affordability
5.01      The potential market demand for housing is constrained by the low
level of urban incomes and the pervasive nature of housing subsidies in
Malawi. The most recent survey of incomes and expendituresl6 indicated
that in 1982 approximately 80 percent of urban households earned less thar.
MK200 (US$150) per month, and over 60 percent of the urban population had a
household income of less than MKIOO (US$75) per month. Most households
rely on a single wage earner, and cash incomes are derived predominately
(80-85 percent) from wages and salaries. Housing constitutes a low average
proportion of total expenditures, with no income group spending more than
10 percent of total expenditures on housing, which doubtlessly reflects the
pervasive availability of housing subsidies in various forms. Non-cash
income accounts for 40 percent of total receipts at the lowest and highest
income groups, of which housing represents the most significant form of
income-in-kind, taking the form of squatter development at the lowest end
of the income scale and employer-provided housing at the upper end of the
scale.
5.02      In an effort to ascertain the expected demand for IHA housing,
MHC has accepted applications on the basis of several model houses
constructed in Blantyre. Several thousand applications have been received
and analyzed by NHC, but in the absence of a definite financial commitment
of the part of the applicants, these data are only indicative. For lack of
more definite information, therefore, market demand estimates have been
based on an affordability analysis.
5.03      Chart 2 in Annex 2 illustrates the range of housing options to be
made available in Malawi and their expected target group. (Table 8 in
Annex 1 provides a more detailed estimate of the income groups which can
afford to participate in the IRA program.) For contractor-built housing,
the lowest standard of IRA housing will be affordable to households at the
16/ 'Urban Income and Expenditures Survey (preliminary tabulations),
National Statistical Office, Zomba, 1982.



- 37 -
80th percentile or above of the urban income distribution. Using the
self-managed construction option, this minimum affordable level can be
extended downwards to the 75th percentile of the urban income
distribution. Below the 75th percentile and above the 30th percentile, it
is expected that households can afford a THA plot with a materials loan.
Below the 30th percentile of the urban income distribution, a bare THA plot
is the maximum housing standard which is affordabl!.
5.04      These estimates raise two questions about the impact of the
project, first about whether the IHA program will satisfy a broad enough
range of potential demand, and second about provision for the urban poor in
Malawi's housing program. Concerning the first point, it is accepted that
the IHA program has not been broadened to service as wide a range of income
groups as may be possible eventually. The reason for this decision has
been to concentrate efforts initially on the income group where the impact
of the curreut housing subsidy program is the greatest, and to introduce
project concepts such as full cost recovery on a conservative basis until
they are firmly established.  At the same time, concepts such as minimim
building standards, affordability criteria, and progressive construction
techniques will be reviewed periodically with the implementing agencies
to identify ways of broadening the reach of the project as greater public
acceptance of the concepts is achieved. Concerning provision for the urban
poor,17/ unlike many African countries, Malawi has maintained a successful
program of providing basic needs services to the urban poor through the THA
program. The THA program will be continued during the course of the
current project using grant funds which are already available from other
donors or which may be committed at a later date. At the same time, it was
agreed that the IDA financed project should not neglect the THA program due
to the emphasis on the new IHA concepts. The continued provision of a
limited number of THA plots in connection with IHA site development, as
well as the pilot program for materials loans in THA areas, is considered
to be an integral part of the project in moving toward a broad-based system
of housing supply.
L. Project Benefits
5.05      There is no doubt that the IHA housing program will be
significantly more cost effective than the housing policy it is intended to
replace. As an example of this, Table 9 in Annex 1 compares the cost of
providing housing for 2,000 families under the IRA program with the cost of
housing the same number of families according to standards established by
the civil service entitlement schedule. The difference in total costs
between the two programs would amount to over MK60 million (US$47
17/ The Association defines the absolute poor in Malawi according to an
absolute poverty criterion, with the poverty cut-off for a family of
six set at approximately US$50 per month. Approximately 40 percent of
urban households in Malawi have incomes at or below this level.



- 38 -
million). Furthermore, while the IHA housing will be provided on a full
cost recovery basis, the rental housing program would impose an annual
subsidy burden on the Government of approximately MK9. million (US$6.8
million), or MK4,500 per family per year.
5.06      Because the previous housing policies have become so uneconomic,
comparisons using entitlement standards may be misleading, as construction
of new subsidized housing has virtually ceased except for housing provided
in connection with specific development activities (much of which is
donor financed). On this basis, the major justification for the Urban
Project is that by providing a credible alternative to tne current system
of public rental housing, it establishes a rational basis for the
Government to rid itself of obsolete policies. The difficulties in making
this change after so many years of subsidized housing are well illustrated
by the complex issues involved in this project. The housing stock to be
constructed under the Urban Project will not be adequate in itself to
achieve a broad realignment of the housing sector to a market-based
system. Nevertheless, by establishing the principles of affordable housing
on a full cost recovery basis, as well as assisting the major institutions
in the sector to realign themselves to a new market perspective, the
project will provide a catalyst for completing this transformation over
time. The benefits of this change in policy are largely intangible,
comprising such factors as a more rational basis for Government
compensation policies, avoidance of serious housing shortages and possible
acceleration of slum creation, and utilization of existing experience in
housing development in a sound manner. Although these benefits of the
project are hard to quantify, there is little doubt that they will have a
substantial impact on the development of the sector.
5.07      While the intangible benefits of the project constitute the
primary justification for IDA involvement, it is helpful to have a more
tangible measure of the expected economic benefits as a benchmark to assess
the impact of the proposed investment program. In this regard, the common
measures of economic benefits for housing projects are difficult to apply
in Malawi, as information on market prices is thin and subject to
distortions by the widespread subsidy system. Table 10 in Annex 1 provides
the best available estimates of the economic returns for the project, using
reasonable estimates of the expected market rental values for IHA housing.
The economic rates of return for the various types of IHA housing are
estimated to lie in the range of 13.9 percent to 16.6 percent, with an
average value of about 15.1 percent. This estimate is consistent with the
experience of similar projects in other countries in the Region.
C. Project Risks
5.08      It must be accepted that a first project of this type will entail
a number of risks. First, there is a risk of delay in project
implementation due to the need to establish new procedures and coordination
mechanisms. All of the institutions involved in the project will undergo
substantial changes in their operations, with MHC in particular adopting a
major change in its institutional mandate. These changes are justified by
the sectoral priorities for institutional development, but they will
require a reasonable period of time for the relationships to be fully



- 39 -
defined and for smooth administrative procedures to be put into place. For
this reason, the implementation schedule for the project in the first year
has been kept light, and some of the more difficult project activities,
such as provision for self-managed housing construction, have been delayed
until the second year of implementation. Beyond this, it should be
recognized that all the project procedures are standard practices which are
well understood and tested on a worldwide basis, so that difficulties can
be quickly identified and corrective measures taken by the implementing
agencies themselves.
5.09      A second project risk concerns the possibility of slow demand for
housing due to stagnated economic conditions in Malawi. The currency
devaluation and wage constraint measures introduced as part of Malawi's
economic stabilization program have produced a decline in real wages over
the past few years.  In these circumstances, households may find it
difficult to make downpayments or commit themselves to contractual payments
required by mortgage finance. Nevertheless, the available evidence does
indicate that demand exists for the IHA type of housing if it can be
provided at an attractive price. This risk has been further diminished by
providing the housing in a wide range of housing types, with construction
carried out in limited quantities to reduce the exposure of MHC on any
particular housing type, and by introducing two classes of interest rates
for NBS mortgages to encourage lower-income households to purchase their
own housing. Finally, if market demand proves to be softer than expected,
the implementation schedule can be slowed down and the housing mix modified
to fit observed demand more closely.
5.10      A third risk faced by the project concerns the commitment of the
Government to sustain a dialogue on housing subsidies. It is recognized
that questions of housing subsidies and wage policies are highly sensitive
issues in any society. As described in Chapter 1, the Government is not
compelled by overwhelming financial reasons to eliminate the current level
of subsidized housing, and economic constraints as much as policy decisions
effectively rule out any substantial increase in the stock of subsidized
housing. In the possible situation where the Government finds itself
unable to implement the recommendations of the Housing Subsidies and Wage
Policy Study, the major result will be a continuation of the inequalities
in effective compensation levels between individuals provided with housing
and those who are not. While the Government can achieve a more equitable
and cost effective solution to its housing and wage compensation problems
by following through with the recommendations of the Housing Subsidies and
Wage Policy Study, the major objective of establishing housing supply in
Malawi on a market-based system will be largely accomplished through the
present project, independent of the results of the subsidy study. For this
reason, the strategy adopted by the project in focusing on the principal
financial and institutional constraints to greater private participation in
the housing sector represents a sound approach which is unlikely to be
compromised by any uncertainties in policy dialogue.
D. Conclusions
5.11      In summary, this project establishe3 a complex and ambitious set
of objectives for the housing sector. Not only will the project introduce



- 40 -
new standards of affordable housing and full cost recovery into a situation
where the concepts are not widely accepted, but it will also seek to
restructure the institutions and financial relationships in the housing
sector so that a fully replicable program of housing development is
achieved by the end of the project period. In justifying this approach, it
should be recognized that as much as possible, the project has been built
on concepts which are already established in Malawi. The highly successful
TRA program has achieved an acceptance of affordable housing standards at
the lower end of the housing spectrum, and both MHC and CCDC have
experimented with IRA concepts by restricting certain types of THA plots
for construction of permaneat housing. The Urban Project will link the
concept of housing finance on a commercially viable basis, which is
generally associated with high income housing financed through NBS, with
the concepts of affordable housing through the TEA program to achieve a
program which makes new options of housing choice available to a larger
group of Malawians. By bridging the gap between the two-tier system of
housing supply which has existed until now, the IHA program is expected to
achieve a wider acceptance of the new mechanisms of housing supply as the
first steps toward full development of a market-based system. Similarly,
although all the institutions involved in the project wlll be required to
make changes in their operating procedures, the changes are all logical
extensions of their current mandates and are viewed as a sound process of
achieving economic recevery in the housing sector and allowing the
institutions to continue with their operations. Finally, the extensive
sector discussions which have been held with the Government during the
preparation of the project have clarified many of the issues and encouraged
a frank discussion on the feasibility of many of the changes. The
Government officials have stated their commitment on a number of occasions
to the objectives of the project as conforming to the policy directions
which have been established by the Life President. In this situation, the
risks involved in a project of this scope are deemed to be acceptable in
comparison to the substantial benefits to be achieved.
VI. *RECOHNDATIONS
6.01      The following materials were reviewed and agreed on at
negotiations:
(a) the terms of reference for the Housing Subsidies and Wage
Policy Study (para. 2.12); and
(b) the terms of reference for the changes in MHC's accounting
system (para. 4.09).
6.02      The following agreements were confirmed at negotiations:
(a) MMN will prepare a fcrward work plan by September 30 of each
year, indicating their planned investment program for the
coming fiscal year and the estimated dates of
construction, anticipated cash flow and administrative
requirements, for review and comment by the Association
(para. 2.06);



- 41 -
(b)  before agreeing to undertake any additional Investment
project with an estimated cost in excess of US$250,000
(including projects financed from internal funds), MHC will
furnish a description of the proposal and an analysis of its
financial viability to the Association, along with a
statement of the probable impact of the proposal on the
implementation of the IDA-financed project, for review and
comment (para. 2.06);
(c) for all project sites (except for two specified sites to be
developed in the first year of project implementation and
sites designated as specifically THA), MHC will reserve a
minimum of 30 percent of the plots for construction of
houses by individuals and/or private developers (para.
2.08);
(d) DLV will permit all plots demarcated under the IRA program
to be transferred on the basis of a minimum leasehold period
of 66 years (para. 2.09);
Ce) two Special Accounts will be established in the Reserve Bank
of Malawi to handle project disbursements to MHC and NBS,
respectively, on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association (para. 3.10);
(f) NHC will introduce modifications to its accounting system by
December 31, 1985, to enable it to provide separate accounts
and financial reports (income statements, balance sheets,
and statements of sources and uses of funds) for aU land
and housing development activities undertaken for the
purpose of resale to individuals and other outside
entities, including IHA project activities, for fiscal year
1986 and all subsequent years (para. 3.13);
(g) MHC will establish prices for all housing and land
development activities undertaken for the purpose of resale
to individuals and other agencies (but excluding land
development explicitly designated as TEA), such that NBC,
under conditions of efficient operation and at reasonable
levels of capacity utilization, shall be able to recover its
full development costs for site and housing construction,
including a reasonable share of overhead costs, earn an
adequate return on capital funds invested in the project,
meet its financial obligations, and make a reasonable
contribution to general reserves for purposes of financing
future investments. MRC and the Association will, from
time-to-time, at the request of either party, exchange views
with regard to MHC's pricing policies (para. 4.11);
(h) the Government will cause MHC to take such actions, as
may be necessary to ensure that N4RC will earn for each
fiscal year total revenues from its property management and
other activities (but excluding any positive net income



- 42 -
arising from its property development activities) which are
sufficient to cover the sum of (i) total operating expenses
including depreciation and interest, and (ii) the amount by
which debt amortization requirements exceed the provision
for depreciation (para. 4.12);
Mi) the Government will cause NBS to take such actions as may be
necessary to ensure that for each fiscal year, total income
from operations, plus any undistributed earnings which may
be carried over from the previous fiscal year, is sufficient
to pay adequate dividends on share capital and to provide a
reasonable contribution to general reserves. The interest
rate structure of NBS will be reviewed periodically by the
Government, the Association and NBS, to identify any
adjustments in interest rates which may be required to meet
this condition (para. 4.18);and
(j) the Government will complete the Housing Subsidies and Wage
Policy Study by March 31, 1986, and thereafter will submit
to the Association by October 31, 1986, an agreed action
program and timetable with respect to the recommendations of
the study (para. 2.12).
6.03      The following are conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a)  the Government of Malawi shall have signed on-lending
agreements with MHC and NBS which are acceptable to the
Association (para. 3.12); and
(b)  the Special Accouxta for MHC and NBS shall have been
established (para. 3.10).
6.04      With the understanding and agreements as indicated above, the
project is suitable for an IDA credit of SDR14.8 million (US$15 million
equivalent) an standard terms. The borrower will be the Republic of
Malawi.



hALAVI FIRST URBAN PRO.PFCFI DEfAILED COSFS             LAND DEVELOPMENT AND HOIJSE CONSTRUCtION                                         PANe I Of 4
UNIT   TOTAL.           BASE COST (nid-1984)    PERCENT ...TOTAL PHYSICAL.   mTOTAL PRItCE               TOTAL COST INCLUDINC
NO. OF    COST   COSIS  PERCENT .-.-. .--- n-.=-- ,"-...- P11YB.   mCONTINOENrIESB=  -CON1INPENCIESm                rumCOKTINGENCIES.  --
UNI1S       HK    NK'UtO FOREIGN FOREIGN LOCAL   TOTAL    CONTO. FOREIGN LOCAL FO(AL FRN.   LOO.  TOIAL   FOREION  LOCAL  TOTAL
l.AND DEVELOPMENT
COMPINBATION                               185        0        0      19      IYV   taX       0      g0      20    0    A       36        0      252   252
sItE DEVEL.OPMFNT                                              7
IHA                      St1U     975      439       20X      69     371      460   SOX        9      37      46   15   115       129      113    523   63S
ITHA                    2000      971    1942        20X    393   147    2042   ID0          40      165    204   07   625       713      522   2437   2959
IPHA                     I0O    1632       163       20Z      31     136      172   10        3      14      17    8   S6        64       44      20d   252  .
IPHA wkth sewer          13n    1330       173       21X     15      147      192   IOX        4      15      IP    3   31        34       42      192   234  lb
Stsh-totat   :!73U             2716       I9Z    553    2303    2955               55     230   206  113    926        940      721   3159   4031 M
O'heAds   Roqervo;                                                                                                                                 496   496
I.-
Land DUo. l0taI                      2901        1OX    553    2499    30S2              55      250  3J5  113    B62         976      771   4107   4032
HOUSING FINANCE                                                                                                                                                1
HOUSE CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                             1
OLt.ITHA IA              500    3720    1960         22.    416    1538    1954    5X         21      77      99  100       647      755   545   2262   2907       I
bLt. ITHA ID             320    5"'0    1725         22X    396    1426    1912   5M          19      71      91  100       600     700   506   2097   2603 B
Ott. IIHA IE              so    7900       632       p2X    141      523      464    5Z        7      26      33   37       220      257   IO5    769   954
Ott. IPHA 2A              30    5570       167       22X      17      138     176    5X        2       7       9   10        59       67   49      203   252  0
Ott. IPHA 2H              30    9054       242       22X      54     200      254    5X        3      10       13   14       03       97   71      293   164  0
itt. IPHA IE              40    7900       316       22X      71     261      332    5X        4      13       17   to      109      127   92      394   476 T
Filt. IPHA (sovwer)ZA    100    7209       721       22X    161      596      7S7    52        H      30      39   15       120      134   104    745   910
Ott. IPHA (%sWeh)2Z       30    0745       262       22X      59     217      276    5Z        3      11      14    5        44       49   67      271   J36  t!
Ltw. 1IHA IA             0nn    409?    Z04A         22Z    459    1692    2150    52         23      95      107   76      503      579   557   2290   2361
Ltu. ITHA ID             240    5929    1423         22X    319    1177    1495   5S          16      59      75   53       150      403   397   1595   19713
Ltw. ITHA 3A             130    7279       946       22X    212      732      994    5X       11      39      50   35       213      266   257   1054   1312
sigh-tot.1l   2UUO    .       Lo3w0       212   2315    8549   10964               116    427   543  470   2967    3437    2900   11944 14944
O'heads , Res;erven                                                                                                                               1762   1762
PILOr LOAN l'ROORAM
E'IiIding Materiath                        soo       70X    356       159     515    5X       Is       8      26   64        51      115   418    21R   656
Admin. P. Invantory riaJt 3.                                                                                                                        3      3.1
Fi0tesny5 Fgin. li.Ld.L L040                         232   2671    97110   11379              134    4      569  S34   3010fl   3553    3139   13956 17MV5
IOIAL I AND DIv. It 11Q115INI; F IN.    13741       22X   .1!2J   11."17   144.10             19    61U5   1174  h411  .1111    45;0    4060   IRA(IA. :'"13
ZSmIn,;,,Zfl. -SI,...........arss ... ,artr-l .i.Wi5fMUSWSS&t   .SSLU.,  i*r.0.7lrUrit.r  .it..str.*.rfE. 
P1W1
0
I'-,



*Mflsr Bss..S*UUa.2t*UteUsUfl;r sinnrnlntn rrs  aflfl..nat SuLns.er _W;g, _  sssss      ss=e-ua=1z:z-ar-  :rass=Xs   r-  |   ez
HMA.AWI FIRST URRAN P8OJ1CTI DETAtllEll COSTS             INSTITUTIONAI RIIPPORI G SiliDIER                                                  Paqe 2 of 4
nuu.. ==.a 'sa .. .....3=  an S-". .4
10iAl.           fASE :COS] (mid-1904)    PERCTFNI m*TOIAl PHYSICAL-   -TOTAI PRICtu               lUIAL COST INCL.UDINO
l:OSIS  PERCENT =         t =- =          =  PHYS.   -CONTINIGENCIES-=  PI:ON1INUENCIESs            :-CONTINGENCIE8----
MKO000 O OREliHN FORFIGN IOCAI   1OTAL       rONt(. rORFI1N L.OCA. TOIAI. FRN.   LOC.  TOhIh.  rOKEIGH  LOCAL  TOIAL
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Houtsing Subsidles 6tu'dy                   400)       70X    285       127      412    OX        a       0     a    27    26         5J       312    153   465
mIIC
Institutiotait .Iepipput                    206       Su%X   115        109     214    UX        a       ni     n    n       17       24       112    IZ6   236
OPC-ASSISTANCE TO BUILDERS
Expat. Pursonnul                            200      I1OO     2(14        0      204    oX        a       a      n    25      n       25       228      0    226
LocAt P.r.onnut                              41         OX       0       44       44    OX        0       a      a    a      11       1I        0      54      54
Eqtlip. I V*  icles                          66      inox       67        0       67    DX        0       a      a    8       0        R       75       0      75
InternAt Travet & Adm,in.                    30       SOX      15        16       it    OX       0       0      n    2        4        6       17      20      37
Sub-Total             337        E3Z    286        59      345              0       0      0    35    14        49       321    74    395
OPC-OTHER
Study tours                                  30      IO0Z       31        0       31    Ox        0             0    4        0        4       34       a      34
141d. Code PV-taws Study                    120      tOO0      122        0      122    OX        0   0         0    15       0       is       137      0    137
Housin  Census                              a11       35X      26       55       94    Ox        a       a      0    p      10       12       31      65      96
Data Base Support                            30       70X      21        10       31    OX        0       0     0    2        2        a       23      it      34
Office Equip. & vehicLes                     51      IIW1X      51        0       Sl    OX        a       a      0    3       0        3       55       U      55
Sub-TotAt             311        80X    254        6S      319              0       0      0    26    11        37       280    76    356         >
Total OPC                               64U       51X    540       124      664              0       0      0    61    26        96       601    Ib0   750
DEPT. OF LANDS,VALUATION a WA7ER
LAND ADJUDICATION 6 REGISTRATION
Expat. Perrsonipl                           ISO      IOOZ    153          0      153    OX                a 0    1   32      n       ;12      184      0    114
Local Psrsonnel                              64         OX       a       68       69    OX        0       0      0    0      23       23        0      91      91
Surveying services                          200         OX       n      21      212    OX        a       n      0    n      73       73        n      205   265
Equlip. l Vwhicles                          1II       1002    113         n      113    OX        0       0     0    6        0        6 s     li       0    Ile
htdqs. I Furrit.ttiwe                        33       5nx       17       17       34   0OX        2       2     3    n        1        1       19      20      39
Runninq Expenses                              5;!     50X       16       17       33    OX        a       n     a    3        6        9       2n1    .3       42
Suh-totAl             S9U        492    P99      .514    6h3                2       2      3    41    3034      144      .t41    419   7611
TOTAl. INS1. SUPPORI h SIUDIES             1944       65X    1229      675      1903              .'      2     .1  136    172        J08     1366    H4U   ;-214
PROJECT TOTALS                            15b04        27X   4452   I1192   16333                IYO    6ht7   9711  794   4115Z    4936    54:26   IIIYII I  4JJ7
j.=:=   = :  r= l,-?-t-sr?-rr -- -r --Tr:-r:==rr=,rr n r:; rz-r =rnzn:r4r?:r. .. -. --       ''n.e' . -.t, . 'r ..urntt ?--r , r ;.-. _* s..
P) P
O 3-'



MIALI. FIRS! UPIAN PIOJICT, PHASING OF IMPLCANIAtl3O                                     LAND D<rLCNFNMl  I HOU9K  CONIIRUCIIQN                                                                    Page 3 oF 4
..................................................... I........................................................................ 0....... 
PH....... OF II.PI.K.ENTAI ION                          ......... ... COSTS INCLUINO CNII NCIS ST TEAR (.                            ............e
.3994.                 *931                9116              3997               g9o                 I9t9               I99a
1914  195$  3996       39R7   3896  3969      3110       FAn     LOC       rrN.      Loc. F'L AN.  LC.    FAN.  LOC.  .      C.    FA.        LCOt      FN.    uc.. FA                CC.
LAND KWIC9NENI
CONPINUlIQN                       23     sox 221          nx        ox   ox        ox       0        54         a       327        0       70         0         a         a        a         n        a         o        a
SITE KVELoPNINT
,HA                                ol   70X   0           0X       nx  0o        0ox        a             a    1        9         92       426        0         0        0         a        0         0         0        C
IH1ox 130   S02 so                                        ax       OX   02        OX        a         a       47        314       216     1102       221      1040       0         0        0         a         a        a
IPH                                0     131   2s1       60*       0X   OX        OX        0                           17        11       so        2         33        0         a        a         a        0         a
IP:HNltIa W Sefr                   s1     os 1s5          ox       ox   ox        0s        2         6       13        Iii        7       37         a         I'      a, n2                a o                a o
Ubstolat                                                                       3        U        107       490         S     3690       249     1172        a         a        0         0        a         a
Land Rev. Total                                                                       2        62       107       617      3US      1760       249      1172       0         0        n         a         u        o
1NCAC  LOAN 
Slt.ITHA IA                      0X          I3X  31    3J5      162   21        2X        0         n       47        193       379      736      135       912       97        406      Is        5s       14        40
lit.  ItH1   so                    o3 1XIO    352       321       tAl    22       21         a        0       44        177       1*6      664       1el      753        0        377      12        51       13        56
atI. 3I1   It                      03    IOX  J5X        JZ5      36X    21       21        0         C       14        65        61       253 1     4        276       33       19        4        19        1        20
tt.  PA 2A                        OX        3 X 201     603 * law   OX            01        0         0        4        37         9       36        30        325       5       23         0         0        0         0
IL. I tP   as                      01    It8201          601      101    OX       ox        0         C        6        21        II       55        43        363       S        3I        a         0         O        O
pit. sp-I o1 CX   IOX  201                              602       101    OX       OX        0         0        S        32        17       72        57       236       10        43        0         a        a         n
St%. 399A (tow,) 24                51.  W0I   OX          I1       Ot 02          Olt       S       St        146       592      30        123        0        0         0         a        0         a        a         0
sit. IPHA (bewr) 2                  X   6W1I is.                   nx I3   at     01        3        I1       53        213       11       45         0        0         0         a        n         a        0         a
L       "w II  3A                  IS   sal  20X         201       51   3I         II      14       53        2s1    1049         132      464       122      530       33        140       7         S0        a       33
Li.   ItA 10                       31   sox  203        20X        sx    It       31       10        37       100       730      7a         23       63       355       23       97         5        21        A        21
tw. ItH  3A                        St   WX 20X          20X        sx   3It        3        7        25       120       41        U        214       57       216      It        61         3        34        4        is
Suft-totat                                                                    43        356      E83     3376       720      3005      634      3463       336     333        46        191      sC        208
PILOT P500MA
ISmIdInq Nateriat Loans            Ox   2M2  Sat        2n        0o    ox        ox        a         a       loa       49        26       t09       119      60         C        0         0         0        a         0
Ncu*inq FIn. lFtAl                                                                         43         5        963     3626       946     3114      91.    3543         134      1321      4*        39*      *0        p0o
TOfU. LAND Ku.  & HOSING FIN.                                                                 41       220     1090      4241      1309     4074      1204     4714       Jl       1321       46       3t9        so      206
..................... .................................... ^-.- .........-.-----e........................--. -.--................ .-...... -.-S..... --.-.............-.-.---.-.--.-................. 0.....................---. ..... 
09W 2 
bh
a. 



4-4
0
-w ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
E 0 4
* .^-S".s................................ 0 |.".^.-.........................* -W*wB.ww."-=---.--0-.................................... ............................... ........................ --..... .fffi. ...........   w.%........ v. 
am        as       W^         t       ol11     ctr       t.st    DS?g I    O80C       S tZl    4191'    Otgl    U^t         99t                                                                           1|1|1       1ZW00
*........................................ S                            .            .. ................  .-.........                           ............. ..
-  as    t  9                   to, tiO in  ttoo       Oetc asall c C                                                                               en19*  01  Vs:1wwint fljowdo
6        t      LO         *S        6       6*t       26      elf        or        *u                                                                       jve 
2                  9 *                9        3         3         9        t         I       tO        sO       XOZ       Xa    SSC    XCC   X3                 *euadij 5uluunv
0        0         0        n         0        0         3         x        &1        St      20        la 0               s0 o     to   xoz  xoo             SJfltuiJ I  at piPs
O        0         0        a                  a         a OA O                       IX @O             Xa        XO       sO      XO   Xty  xre               s*131ts      S gd3mbf
If       a         9g       a         6?       a         eV       a         is        0       ma        ma       XOa       mea   Xi 2C           33          JDASneJ   1u9I%,hSSC3
lt       0         to       a         at       0         as       a         t         a       mo        la       mat    Xmu       XCZ   *ze    se                 tuitJ&d Iii
0        at        n 0      6         a                            It       0 a               xo        xo xaz meam ice xec                      Ie          1    oIthU0JS i .i*g
Ofl31M13139 O0M@hAYOWWv OtVI
Ov iO  I "OIAOfiWA'INV1ln  A* *Idt
a        a0        0 aIto                     etUI                ice       A         VI                                                                            aio totes
a        a         a        a         6         96       09       93       I         95                                                                        ltitl-q"a
0        0         0        0         a        a         a O       *        0         01      mO        to       ma        ma       ma   xmo   moD    '*1wn 1 u  tdnba *3jeoo
0        0         0        0         3         *        6         91        1        t       to        xo        mo       xo ma   et     mat l lmt              aSis*swav   %w
a        a         a        a         A        1         as        GE       9                ma        mc       mo        to     lagi  zoo  203                   *fnIsw3AOuiInof
0        a         0        a0        a         id       a         nV       a         a       %a        ta        ma       ma    %Oc    lot   ma            ihs          am  ~pis
a        a         a        0         a        eV        a        ut        a         a       ma        ma       ma        ma    t0a   mag   s0                        UJNfl apple
0        0         0        0         At     4L1         St       15        0         0                                                                         leoM-q"g
a        a         u        a         ol       *         6         U        a         a       to x       o       ma        ma     mag   mo 10          *utSpv C  iXeOAs e1W      us
a        a        0         0         0o        61       0         f        0         a       mO        XU        mO       ma    lOS    Rastom XO                 1334  * 1dt
a        a         a        a         mu                9       O0l        a         a       xm        ma        mo       to     mac    %as    tO                Ijeo*4 S .S t .i
ma11imS  01 33t1VLIStIV-320
a        a         0        0         61        93       39        Osn       et       :g      ma        ma        ma       ta     mat    mag  taC          %doddns ltuatInhisuAl
aOana                       a a9 NO  O                           got tC  C  ZI N 0  gOow       0 6Og g68                                         tO6    Arni e863    9363311 9161
.D         OJM                ss       0       "VAI    :10       InIH       001       "VI      1301      HXJA     101       "ttJ       01d    d@dl  HH*I    iW*    01s  SUI1  M81
0461 3il                           8861               1161               9961                toi1               985    ...S............ ........              ................
............ .... d-......---.--..... --.--.... --........   0ooo W) VW3A All sw M5w3 ollitn'1tilN stvo3o .... *IOO  --w .......ltFt itO  tttigtd
.....s...s. -0a) Wi I.......e -                                                                 auw.
* Jo9                                                                   30II  S LM0rhI  WHOiflhlhUfl                                          NO3CiNIUIm3 dWI AC WIIBVHId SiT3rOud NYIWIl AIAv   'INYWid
.                                                   .      .     .     .     .     .     .     ........                               .. aS3..tt.1St  ..........S0                a.........l S.Olt. tfWttSt.lS..P.S.I wnSe.



ANNEX I
- 47 -                           Table 2
Table 2:  PROCURK1ENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Procurerent Method
Not         Total
Project Element                         ICB   LCB   Other  Applicable   Cost
Civil and Building Works                     13.2     1.0       i.7a/   15.9
(11.3)  (0.9)      (1.0)   (13.2)
Professional Services                                1.3                  1.3
(1.2)               (1.2)
Building Materials,                                  0.7                  0.7
Equipment, Vehicles & Furniture                     (0.6)                (0.6)
Compensation and Incremental                                     0.3      0.3
Operating Expense                                             (0.0)    (0.0)
Total                                        13.2      0                 18.2
(11.3)  (2.7)      (1.0)   (15.0)
Eigures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
a/ Includes overhead costs and administrative charges that are recovered
as part of the total mortgage financing through the New Building
Society.



-48-                      ANNIEK1
Table 3
Table 3: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IDA Disbursenents Cumnulative
Each Semester      Disbursements
IDA      Semester      Amount       Z       Amount
FY       Ending         (US$m)              (US$m)    Z
1985     June 1985         0.8      5        0.8     5
1986      Dec 1985         1.0      7        1.8    12
June 1986         1.0      7       2.8    19
1987      Dec 1986         1.5     10        4.3    29
June 1987         1.5     10       5.8    39
1988      Dec 1987         1.6     11        7.4    49
June 1988         1.6     11       9.0    60
1989      Dec 1988         1.3      9       10.3    69
June 1989         1.3      9      11.6    77
1990      Dec 1989         1.3      9       12.9    86
June 1990         1.3      9      14.2    95
1991      Dec 1990         0.4      2       14.6    98
June 1991         0.4      2      15.0   100



-49 -                                   ANNEX 1
Table 4
Mablpe 4: M I    UGCaOTE2C 
SUKW  FDIIJrL SThTIE
1*3      la-'
rYs                     1978      1979       1980     1981 A/     Lqe    EaCIM        igb-6
Dnof sm DaEf
1em                                      IF4.18  5.137     6,132      6.6U       6.772     7.104       U.=
q4.ectqbq esrf C/
-   aLu , hgig aid Al loraa              809     1,025      1.177     1,.        L.317     1.4655     n.
- ataa aid  aig-                         609       682       900        953      1.323     1.,62      19.1?
- Iqpix  aid 1W.temrce                   297       381       556       567         9L      1,m        27.7?
- )br Wgcle  1im                         235       296       532       405         472       522      17.3Z
-Dqt^a"on                                998     1,134      1.195     1,254      1.2L      1.342       6.12
- tXber 1_                               124       267       315       368         354       376      24dm
Ie  - A1JUacoon of oedws
tD wX*In jw_zm                 (109)      (351)     (256)     (374)       (72)       (65)     -9.5
Si-coRL                               2.965     3,432      4,419     4266       5.574     6,094       S.S
qg        zx                           i,m       1,705      1,713     2.367      1.198     1.025
zeat BLblt                             947     1.0t5      1.157     1.255      1.470     1.555       U14?
lt 10                                    275       620       556      1.092       (272)     (S50)
T,W~ I SDr-                            1,38D    1.g4       1.734     2.3          832       733
use3w    of hIa1ig 'm.                    -          -         -         -         Ws6       106
hcdpta fra  1apom1 or lYer of
EBtd ,tas                              30       442       144         75        179       150
QZIKSbceval                               -          -        19                     _ 
cm. leIvd                             U,671      1.542       XW        319       3.4C0    l1I.0
loamL $s rE                        -;w       -          -       718          -
Bxed A        om.al                   11,992     2.350       961     3,972       :,612     145D
wm*L1I (hEtuLI  bezat (laae)             421       786       2Z2    (3.9)        1,841      (5lb)
New3mew of 1m                           668        702       914      1,163      1,064       995
=!!7L ;A 2,07 2A3MII  I=9
B'.L  HEr Is6
cm%vM A-met                            2,726     3.812     49,U       1.847      3,556     3,343
Lm  0ma=    it 11ab1"               11.849    2,14       3.0OM     3.360      3.29L     3,2Z2
liet   1x  eeo d4,y                   32,141    32.915    32.551    35.193      35,251    35.48
Nlt        o 1m                           -          -         -        718        612       506
lTma OM mm ;U =M  39M   M=   V. 5
chLiral Qams                             32        321       340      1.395      1.214     1.033
asezevw                                5.095     5.481     5.711     7.40        7,01      7.184
1xg-Ter las                           27,6n3    28 m      23,386    25.59       27,783    27.878
itVtwg 1eau as 2 of   1                            33%       2S        3C          1in       142
Ka ? ix  an ofvem                        272       12X        92       17X        -42        -<
iAce of lkum an 3d-of-Yeer
NM  1Ea SMaSin oetmnn                   42        5;        52        72          3Z        3Z
babt Seruice Omage                     1.37       1.53      1.40      L49        0.97       0.92
Debt a 2 of xac1 (tit   Aloi            86Z        8         1         742        772        77       _
a/ A maber of daig. in acmuczg minszoc  axe itvijad in the a--i  for 1981 a*l t_ftetcr. hb..
pcnldy affet the lalaore so  item. of ,  ch die tco  t iumpra   daia are:
(1) Ute hRICe of Io4-Cern IM   . mloaoota g t_ been rabd       che curmat pou of Ome loo,
imch hs been added to acmte  IabLl"PI; ani
(it) carrwt 1Iaties have been redi.ad by the blsLue of uzhlbgnd UK gmrt fumis bLd by ,.
QdAb hiove buen -id5 tDo Cap gzza.
BmuSe of rbme durge, pO'weh Mcm nve mc bown tcupad for the balame  &hoe item co avoid erroiam
J-pewdm.
b/ hvav   CaIt llrg.d.ly of rags redwblae fro tems of tm_   lat y ItC,
Cl Prelidmry eo zini   wer w4ailable to the iLsaion  for toral re,m aid qpeittig etoriuir u    for 1983,
btc the brk-dows of mpauditure L to paxcicubar catq;od.m  w_ Ica  vLlAble ec    for depredation ard
I   o     - psa3ble. herefore, the eszjmtaa for irdivI&uA  mctc   of opeczt egcwzditure In 1953 am
deri from an allJcatirn of oq2Edilturu bsal on awve grouch ag.
d/ FxeI aala in opentiml are wlud uncder the  latodcal cost cowaucon. sWe for certsin te_ ocher tcan
bW-1rg. udch lxve bw reaalui.
e/ N  dqLluo is caugod on fredied or 1ss_held laid. All otder fuxS ameBa an d,zepnai an a
etzaci&t-Un baja. udth lualig aOd other buiLdP dxG oiate  mr a 40-7r tem.



-50-                           ANNEX 1
Table 5
Page 1 of 4
Table 5a: NALAWI HOUSING CORPORATION
PROJECTED INCOKE STATEKENTS
(Property Development Account)
(K'OOO)
1984     1985     1986      1987
Calculation of Cost of Sales
Balance b/f (Beginning of Year)
Works in Progress                         -        202    1,336    1,069
Cost During Year
Design and Construction Costs            202    3,106    6,038    3,087
Interest During Construction              -        145      305      162
TOTAL COSTS                     202    3,453    7,679    4,318
Less c/f (End of Year)
Works in Progress                      202    1,336    1,069        -
COST OF SALES                    -     2,117    6,610    4,318
-                           m
Income Statement
Sales                                       -     2,299    7,156    4,746
Less: Cost of Sales                       -      2,117    6,610    4,318
Gross Income from Sales                     -      -  182     5
Less:  Overhead Expenses                  37       143      250       70
Net Income before Interest                 T7)                2 96     358
Less:  Interest                           -        -         22       73
Net Income                                 T7)        39     Q24       285
Transfers to Reserves                        (37)       39      274      285



-51 -                          ANNEX 1
Table 5
Page 2 of 4
Table 5b: MALAWI HOUSING CORPORATION
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS
(Property Development Account)
(K'OOO)
1984     1985     1986     1987
Assets
Works in Progress                          202    1,336    1,069        -
Cash                                        -       483    1,795    3,055
TOTAL ASSETS                        202    1,819    2,864    3,055
Liabilities and Equity
Short-Term Debt
NBS Housing Stage Payments                -     1,090      809
GOM Land Development Payments            192      234      247
MHC Land Development Payments             10       12        13       _
Medium-Term Debt (Gov't of Malawi)          -       222      734    1,197
TOTAL LIABILITIES                   202    1,558    1,803    1,197
Equity Contributions
Goverrnent of Malawi                      -       222      748    1,260
Malawi Housing Corporation                37       37        37       37
Reserves                                 (37)       2      276       561
TOTAL EQUITY                         -       261    1,061    1,858
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY        202    1,819    2,864    3,055
Ratio
Medium-Term Debt/Equity                     -       .85       .69      .64
Return on Total Assets                      -      2%      10z       12%



- 52 -                     ANNEX 1
Table 5
Page 3 of 4
Table 5 c: MAIAWI HOUSING CORPORATION
PROJECTED NET CHANGES IN SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS
(Property Development Account)
(K'OOO)
1984     1985     1986      1987
Sources
Net Income before Interest                 (37)       39      296      358
Loans (net changes in end-of-yer balance)
Short-Term
NBS Stage Payments                       -    1,090      (281)    (809)
GQI Land Payments                      192        42       13     (247)
NEC land Payments                        10        2        1       (13)
Medi um-Term
Iucreases in Loans                       -      222       526      511
Less:  Payments of Principal             -        -       (14)     (48)
Equity ContributiLons
Government of Malawi                     -       222      526      512
Malawi Housing Corporation              37         -        -        -
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS           202    1,617    1,067       264
Uses
Inventories (net change in end-of-year
balance)
Works in Progress                        202    1,134      (267)  (1,069)
Interest Payments                            -         -       22       73
Increase (Decrease) in Working Capital
Cash                                       -       483    1,312    1,260
TOTAL USES OF FUNDS              202    1,617    1,067       264



-53-                            ANNEX 1
Notes on Tables 5a, b, c: MALAWI HOUSTNG CORPORATION              Table 5
PROJECTED FINANCIAL STATEKENTS          Page 4 of 4
Property Development Account
A. Assumed Development and Sales Patterns
Type of                Assumed Development
Site                          Construction                    Pattern
Kanjedza; Blantyre          130 IPHA plots and          All construction and
houses, with sewer          sales in 1985
Area 49/5/1; Lilongwe       170 ITHA plots and          All construction and
houses                      sales in 1985
Area 49/5/2; Lilongwe      695 ITHA plots and           20 percent of
700 ITHA (Llw) houses       construction in 1985
and 80 percent in
1986; all sales in
1986
Chimwankunda; Phase 1      340 ITHA and 100 IPHA        80 percent of
Blantyre                 plots; 300 ITHA and          construction in 1986
100 IPHA houses             and 20 percent in
1987; 80 percent of
sales in 1986 and 20
percent in 1987
Chimwankunda; Phase 2      510 ITHA plots and           20 percent of
Blantyre                 400 ITHA houses              construction in 1986
and 80 percent in
1987; all sales in
1987
Other Site                 285 ITHA plots and           20 percent of
200 ITHA houses             construction in 1986
and 80 percent in
1987; all sales in
1987
B. Assumptions
1.  Costing and pricing information is provided in Table 8.  Design and
administration fees equal to 10 percent of the cost of the land and
housing construction are assumed to be accrued in the year prior to
when construction commences.
2. Only the effect of the IHA program is shown in the projected financial
statements. It is anticipated that as funds become available from the
IRA program (particularly in 1986 and thereafter), MUC will initiate
construction on additional sites, rather than allowing funds to
accumulate as cash.
3. It is assumed that ARC will provide space and equipment for the
property development activities on a lease or rental basis, so no fixed
assets are shown in the projections.
4.  It is assumed that MHC will cover the net loss incurred in the first
year of the project, by means of an equity investment in the property
development account.



- 54 -                        ANNEXI
Table 6
Table 6: MALAWI HOUSING CORPORATION
PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENTS
(Net of Property Development Account)
(K'OOO)
1983          1984        1985      1986        1987
Actual
Revenue                  7,104         7,830      8,035     8,035       8,035
Operati Dg Expenditures
- Net Recurrent Exp.   4,752         5,349       5,616     5,896       6,191
- Depreciation          1,342         1,264      1,294      1,322      1,346
Operating Income         1,005         1,217      1,125        817        498
Interest Payable       1,555          953         873       799         734
Net Income                (550)          264        252         18       (236)
Notes
8/  Revenue forecast based on 20 percent rental increase becoming effective
on April 1, 1984, no increases thereafter.
b/  Net recurrent expenditures based on M1C budgeted increases for 1984 and
5 percent growth thereafter.
c, Depreciation based on MRC estimates.
d/  Interest payable based on MHC loan schedule.



- 55-                                         ANNEXI
Table 7
Page 1 of 6
'bI 7(a): MY BUILDING SC3I1RY: BMSr AND 1DX1    & E SIE1
(l1wrludig tdsion fwr Suodttsd  can)
WEUm  LDOIN  S1CIETY I98'
Am   .6 FIl                              FCilALS FISChA  YEAR EWING JWE 39                            IETIECrl
mu  SEEr                        t7a   JS      19n     ig1l   1582   1963   1934   suptions  IS5   1916   1967   19B    1989
r nrs
ast,"nk & others               29     576   1222   148    353   13        1351       -19I      1258   1158  l2w    9S1   8a
surry debtrs   stock             3      7     26     26      65    234    23        1LI%   234       3      234    234    234
total         29e    585    251   1426   3681   157    1584                 14     1384   1264   1184   1884
PORTFOiLIO
L;R6
loans-short term                 e      8      3      8       8    3      1263      ILMs  1411   152   178   1978   266
loanss-alaw zovt.                e45                                       45       iLIS      56      54     68     66     72
total           a       8      8      8      8      9    1328               1462   1687   1768   1944  2139
wr-occ. Iclass 19)          5845   2898   2333   2394   2533   2951   3156          LWe  3489   381   3976   *294   437
resl-occ.  Class 2'              8   2143   2391   2941   3474   4772   6647         L.6   727    7753   9373  5343   9767
cinrcia' (Class 3e               8   1264   14l8   150   1231    954    SW    no remt    848    PA    64M          be    84
oner-O. iClass 1A               8      8              8      it     8       a   estimted   169    718   7452  1349  1558
total        5845   5495   6231   68W   7239   867s  26643                 1I616  1299   2641  2756  392
WGT aOs * T-9ILLS             25.4   1574   1123   112   1127   3938   3931    iterate   448   2           4548   4695   6543
crIL  DRTPIO             6623   7x6s   7254   7968   8365  23845  15962               17567  1355  26957  345  39518
FIEO Z OTTlR ABTS
freemold tand  bldgs.         214    418   ss    97    1574   24    154              5      5        4    1545   1545   1545
fu,miture & fittv-qs            17     3e     63      79    186   IS      IV?                187    187   17    17    17
c .muters                       8ea Ie8                                                        n 9  IUeIN    1IX
equipmnt                                9      2      52 5Y          65     S9                65      79    8s       99  199
vehicles                         8     17     41    41       29     29      46                51      61     71     51      81
sub-total              231    7is    6a   1158   1763   173   1767                   2872   2892   1922   1962   19*2
Ies depreciation                 8     22     34      56     71     77      78               136    144    164    223    26a
ET FIXED PSETS         232    452    646   189    1692   1673   1697                 1766   1748   1728   1679   1674
rUP LlUETS            7144   sin6   ?158  148  '13a8  16296  15183                  2es8  22588  299a  37VW   42268
=    -= 5=    -- e =
LIRBILITIES I E53IT1
CIMENT LIABILITIES
SAMDRYCEITDRS   PRWIE.           81     64      75     78     25    125    158    same         158    158    158    158    258
EPOS!TS OF SlERS
pass bool savirgs              877    S81  219l   1299   1738   2371   2782        i.25M   3478   4347   54   672   8498
fiwed  tem                    23e   279s   373   3459   4725   5941   5833          fixed   SN    S        58      6S    568
investwent counts            2ss   2938   3318 u 465   568    61se   8484          1.18   9332  266  1122  1-           13664
tVt.al deposits       6e38   6768   7574  S923   26E6  :447e  ;7899                 18618  28413  2526  25e13   7954
LONS TERM LIABILITIES
l Q1.-.a                         8      t             8       8      8      8          39%    66    251 268 84693  5454
sdford. Ioar.                    d      8      8         e       e      e              355   66    251  268   4693 5454
tral :loas               6       e      6      8       a      e      8                132    583  5226   9386 2 9
TATL LIABIL'TIES                6119   6r2   7649   832  12289  14595 IS   7249              1892  21066  27892  351  39I32
share capital                  *3s  .49    *48    496    496    43*    *16                   '98    498    438    418    458
RESERYESS
capital reolnatin                e    2      E561    2S:    a.6   197    139        f:xed    239    139    139    139    139
germeal resu-.s                58     6ee    la    8ee    888   288   :182                      126 28    1327   1668   2162
spectal fserves                  e      8      8       8      8      6       9                 e       8     27   268      I5
total resus            sea    84    961  l25l   256l   119-    139           :.eud   1239   2339   1492   1954   2672
M;1STAllUTED  PlOFfS              35     4      5       a 28   19 ;     4   385                197      94     94     94     94
,|ilL  ESflfl                   28!5  133'  IU5;2   579   i569   1781   193                   1926   192;  2e76   25E    3255
:crLt - tIT  I L:,:L [TIES       :4    5:e6   9158  18488  13658  126  15183                20818  22988  25968  3787  4268
e      e      2      e       e      8      8                  8       8      1      a      8



-56-                                                     ANEX I
Table 7
Page 2 of 6
Table 7(b): NUf BJIIMG S(CIMY,: BST AND DJDIED IkCUE AMD
E;IfCIRFS SxlEw
(Iu1xUMrg Iavilon for Stbozdivted Imm)
DKE RO EX30hMTE SMATBUi
ISOE                                   1971   1s"    1931   3192   1963   19SA                133   1916   1517   1511   1989
DOR EWS" m:
MR  muEm15                                                                            .6w    13     129    123    111    12
NEGIS
m      (CQass 131                                                               13.0     el7  461    4 51             S Dl
rmtal- a.   (Clan 2)                                                                15.175  [16    1176   1273   1372   1451
comeia   (Clasw 3)                                                                  16.5    139    139    19    139    139
vnwrca    (Class IA 1                                                               12.65    11      51    413   12    1746
SU-lul                            Sl     733    g5i   I2I   1164   143                  1665  I      2396   3299   394
amgtts                                133    167    216    a6      621    14       135.61   632    731    735    63    543
short two loa                           I      I      I       3      3     51       156 5239    233    253    278    336
Sub total       6e6    897   1144   1339   179e  245                  2536   2791   3315   4271   339
en61                                     37     56     65    112    22    216         16       235    261 2217  316    34
FEES O FPEI                               4      9      12      2     55     49       I6=       54     519    65    72       79
COMISSIONS                                a      7      9      1s     12     11      IL       12      13     15    16       is
a3mR IQCO                                 6      6              1      2      1       36.65      1      1             1      2
1TO. INPCE    735    96    1233   1434   2666   2745                  249   15    31M'  4786   5637
B E1)9I!1IE
'ewE5r foaD tu:
MEOSITS
pass bmi 58n 5                                                                      11.75 336    421   525    657    El
,IBM  twi                                                                           3.715   742    741    746    746    746
wst  m          i                                                                  t2 251 1%91  I    L6         1452  mm
tota   fw dEposits     463    34      767  1316   1321   1763                2169   236 23     6  2349   3159
Ioui(1II                                I      I      3      I       I      a      1.611       3     16    143    365    537
sub totaw       463    34    767   3116  1323   1763                  2173   2376   27Z9   3214   3666
staff salar5s                          64    163    345   1t1    231    284          1. 13    321    363    413    463    523
othEr                                  51    147    165    2a    359    3S2         1.13    49    462    522    593    667
sub total       115    251    313    469    59      646                733    825    932   1453   3119
DEPEICIaTION                              4     15     26      22     24     29                 36     38     at     39      44
TOT  EX9OI3I             5B2    812   11I3   1447   1934  2435                 291    33    3761   '3u7   496
MOW FRID sT1ONn               153    157    127    -13    152    337                  11     16    172    481    737
NON'-(~-DCL INC;E                *      2      i      3     93      33                33      3e     31     33     33
TUTu ICf                 153    159    127    -18    245    348                  41     46    282    511    767
UOB ElI6B.BT. ;:ID              35     46     56     25       8     14               335 : 97        94     94     94
CW1T PROFIT                      a      a      I      6       a      I                 3                       
STMC   JJSTg                     a      a      I *            a      I                                              a 3  3  3  6
WAtL1LE FOR DISTR1tUirz        189    199    m7      ;1    263    354                316    243    296    614    VA
;Cprrl      s                    e      e a    a              e a                      e 0        a          d a 
DIVID1                          49     49     49       3    49      *9                .9      49     49     49     49
T qW  EP MSEX  REVES           1as    Is     16       a    256       3               163    363    127    281   49
TRUER TD SEL Ra         S        I      a      I      i       a      I                 a       3     27    161    339
W0 6. E5MM    M aCZYFOW    46          5e     28      18     14    335                :97     94     94     94     94



- 57 -
Tfbe 7(c): NEIW EJUIIIE S:Y:  WWDS                                             - ;  D               ANNEX 1
-SES    i AM                                         Table 7
(Irlazzg Pvs               for'IuhDImte  I=*                                      Page  3  of  6
Mm    OF FUlS                 IS1O          1987  1is     1989
TOL DaE                      41  46  2Mf  511  767
iEINIIm                      36      38     41     39    *4
MT OWiMT                   76  84  243  S    81
Icin    IN DEW5ITS
pS  booksaviis            6X     869   1897   13B   1691
fiud  two                 -33      0       I      6       I
innstmnt accouts          848    933   1827   1129   W2
total dpa:ts          1511   1*3   2113   28    29*
lE SIN MIChOUII
INA loan                    66    IN    2357   -         761
subord. loan                 66    185   2357    -        761
total borvings         132    371   4714   417    1523
CK CAPITAL INCWISE            I       I      I      I       6
TOTAL     Iso         1721 Z 57   77    7           274
APtlrtfl N  OF FIl
PROW      FIXD   SSETS        15      23      3     -II     46
DS IN ORTE PM  10
Coo . t(Clm  13)            2      273    24    318    343
rental- Om  (Class 23       532     74    626    675    723
comrcial (Clam 1)                    I      a      I       I
oanr-cc. (cas  la           189    529   6734    957   2175
total loars            973   1376   7649   69*5   3242
CDIhS IN LW                 133    146    161    177    194
PAWhONTF DIVIDENDS           49      49     49     49      49
irTAL APDLICATIW5   12M    1591   7878   7161   3525
A N   TO BE FMWD              459    666   -86       47   1748
C-OQ IN IET S,-%ING CAPITAL
CASH                  -i     -ib    -10    -in    -10s
c- sm                           a       a      a       *1 
Da& IN 1ING6S
OF GOfT. BWS                  559    766   -708    147   184
MAcEM-Dols                              6      8     



- 58 -                                  ANNEX 1
Table 7
Page 4 of 6
hble 7(d):  NW BUIIDING SOCIEY:   Mr AM) 1l.V                  FWCIAL
R;FRFaM LMMODS
(Inclidiig Provision for Sibordirtel Ian)
FINWCIA PERFOWUJE INDICATORS
OPERATIONAL INDICATORS              1979  1988  1981  1982  1983  1984                1985  1986  1987  1998  1989
TOTAL INCOIE AS % RIER. 10T1L ASSETS  9.6%  11.2%  12.5%  11.9%  13.9%  15.5%         14.7%  14.9%  14.6%  14.3%  14.2%
ADNIN. EXPENsE % VE. TOTAL ASES  1.5%  2.9%  3.2%   3.4%   3.9%   3.6%                 3.6%  3.8%  3.5%   3.1%   3.0%
FIMVCIIL EXP. % MVER. TOTAL ASSETS  6.1%  A63%   7.8%   8.4%  8.8%   9.9%             189%  1L8%  10.3%  9.6%   9.2%
LOUM  INE AS % AYR. LOAN PORTFOLIO I 5%  12.6%  14.3%  14.5%  14.6%  14.8%           15.8%  14.9%  14.3%  13.7%  13.5%
COST OF FNWS    OF AE  E FUNDS      7.3%   7.6%   9.4%   9.7%   9.9%  11.2%           12.0%  11.9%  11.1%  1.3%  1lO.%
SPREAD  T.(LOAI INCOE-COS OF FWU   3.3%   4.9%   5.8%   4.8%   4.7%  3.6%              2.9%   3.0%  3.1%  3.4%   3.5%
SPAD TaTAL(INT.INCE-COST OF FUND  2.8%   4.9%  5.7%   6.3%   6.8%   5.9%              3.0%  3.8%   3.3%   3.7%   18%
TOTAL INTST EARIED AS % OF INCOIE  93.3%  92.6%  93.0%  91.3%  85.9%  89.9%           85.%  85.7%  87.4%  89.2%  90.3%
NORTB.INTEREST EAMI  AS % (F INCE 75.6%  75.3%  75.4%  71.2%  55.8%  52.0%            5&.5%  56.2%  61.9%  68.9%  69.9%
BOND INTEREST EARED AS % OF INCOC   17.7%  17.2%  17.6%  20.1%  38.%  34.3%           21.4%  22.5%  19.0%  14.5%  15.0%
PROFITIBILITY INDICATORS
PRAFIT ON OPERS. AS % AVERAE EOUITY  13.0%  11.1%  8.2%  -8.8%   9.3%  16.9%           8.6%  L.8%   8.6%  288%  25.4%
PROFIT IN OPERS. PRE INT.AS % ASSETS  8.1%   8.1%   9.1%   8.3%   9.8%  11.7%         16.9%  18.9%  11.6%  11.6%  11.1%
DIVIDENDS AS % OPERATIONAL PROFITS   32.0%  31.2%  38.6%  6.O%  32.2%  16.6%         454.3% 310.7%  28.4%  10.2%   6.7%
DIVIDENDS AS % PAID IN SFPRE CAPITAL  18.0S% 16.6  16.6%   0.0%  18.8%  16.6%         16.8%  18.S% 16.8%  18.6%  10.0%
DIVIDENDS AS % IF WER. EQIUITY      4.2%   3.5%   3.2%   8.0%   .0%   2.7%             5.1S  2.5%   2.5%   2.1%   1.7%
FINACIAL STRUCTURE INDICATORS
CURRENT RATIO EASSETS/LIABiLITIES1  9.1  16.7  18.3  144.0  12.6  18.6                 9.9   9.2   8.6   7.9   7.2
ITTPL DEBT/EUITY (INC. SUIB. LAN)    5.1   5.1   5.6   7.7   8.6   8.9                 9.8  11.8  13.4  13.6  12.0
LN  TRM DDBTIEQUITY MIC. SLB. L[PN)     0 .0 0.8 0.8   8.8   8.8   Q.8                L.1   8.3   2.5   3.7   3.4
DEBT/TOTAL ASSETS (INC. SUB LORI)   883   8.83   L.64  9.88  8.89  6.89              8.98   6.91  6.93  6.93  0.92
TT?AL DEBT'EGUITY WiPOUT SUB. LOAN)   5.1   5.;   5.6   7.7   B.6   6.9                9.8   L8.  12.2  11.8  I3
LNE TRM DEBT/EQIUITY tirOUT SUBI LOAN)  8.0   6.0   0.0   0.0 8 .0   0.0               .0    .I   1.3   1.8   1.7
DEPT/TOTAL ASSETS :lt0Wr SU2 LOM)   8.83  0.8E   8.84  6.88  0.89  8.89              0.98   0.90  0.84   D.8O  0.79
DEPOSITS/DEBT+EUITY                 0.83  8.83  6.65  6.88  0. 89  0.90               8.90  6. 89  6.76  6.68  0.66
RESERVE RATIO                       .32  0.32  8.30  Q.35  0.39  6.35                Q. 2  6.32  0.29  6.25  0.25
MIDUY RATIO                         :.e:   1.96  1.86  2.32  2.40  2.03               1.65  1.55   1.24  6.93  C.87
.14JIDITY RATIO          a.28  8.28  6 .27, Q,3a  0.36   634                          0. 31  8.31  8.25  0.18  0.18
DT5A6ES:POPT.+MJRR. PSSETS         Q7c  08.2   0.73  0.68  0.59  8.61                 0.61   8.61   0.73  6.78  0.76
arr DM MAG (E(4X
MMB SIB. LLAN)                    L3.0  l11.       8.3Z  0.62  15.02 18.72          2.1   2-2    5.92  8.6K   9.62



-59                                   ANNEX 1
Table 7
Page 5 of 6
Notes on Tables 7a,b,c,d; New Building Society: Financial Projections
A. Assumed Growth Patterns in Financial Projections
Balance Sheet Items
Assets
Cash, Bank Deposits, and Other Current Assets ., ........ -MKIOO,OOO p.a.
Sundry Debtors and Stock .......  Constant
Short-term Loans .. ......... ........ .***.*..  me......... +10% pa.
Loans to Malawi Govermnent .......   .....................  +10% p a.
Mortgages - Residential Owner (Class 1A)   .............. Assumed
Residential Owner (Class IB)   .............. + 8X p.a.
Residential Rented ......... .. ... .......... .   8% pa.
Comnercial Property         .........          Constant
Government Bonds and Stock       ...........................  Derived*
Fixed and Other Assets .  ...............................  Assumed
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities ........................ *...*..... .  Constant
Deposit Accounts - Pass-book savings        ..................  25Z pea.
Fixed-term Savings see      ...............***  Constant
Investment Accounts .............. ....... .me.  IOZ pa.
Long-term Debt (IHA Direct)       ...........................  35% of Class IA
Mortgages
(IRA Subordinated Loan) ................ 35Z of Class LA
Mortgages
Income Statement Items
Rents, Fees and Fines, Commissions, and Other Income .... +10% pea.
Staff Salaries ....*...................................  +13% pea.
Other Operational Costs *...........                         +13% pea.
Non-Operational Income ........  Constant
Dividends ........................6.................   Fixed
Transfer to General Reserves .........     ...................  Derived
Transfer to Special Reserves .........     ...................  Derived
Holdings of Govermnent bonds and stock are the balancing item in
deriving the financial forecasts.



ANNEX 1
-60 -                                   Table 7
Page 6 of 6
B. Interest Rates on Deposits and Investments
Income Items
Bank Deposits                                               9%
Mortgages-Residential Owner (Class 1A)          ....   12%
Residential Owner (Class IB) ....               13Z
Residential Rented ...................          15.75%
Commercial   ...                         .   16.5%
Government Bonds and Stock ....                            15%
Loans (Short-term and Government) ................... 15%
Expense Items
Deposits - Pass book savings              ....    10.75%
Fixed-term savings. sessees.eessee         e .....  12.75Z
Investment accounts           ..        e.     12.25%
Long-term debt (IHA Direct Loan) ........-..........   10%
(IHA Subordinated Loan) .............. Nil.
C. Definitions of Financial Indicators
(computed as mid-year averages)
Reserve Ratio - (Current Assets + Government Bonds
and Stock) / Total Deposits
Quick Ratio - (Current Assets + Government Bonds and
Stock) / Pass-book Savings
Liquidity Ratio - (Current Assets + Government Bonds and
Stock) I (Current Assets + Portfolio)
Rate of Return - Total Net Income/(Total Equity and
Subordinated Loans)



Uble B: A")LpAL1L  Lb WILAL HkUb1M  MWc ('.N3)
ltoWmI C i                                    F   nVirarcial ari hAdministra tive t                                                s lot              -  o
larl          IbIta  1/        PrCase ollolal    6      t-tOI    LMt t Utrig    Airsttu aon     ibtAotal   hnxgae tow&t   h..tly                      urkn
L3uveloimn    Ca.tiUcuon   Few b/             (1+203)    _bmtauon C/               ) a/        (5e)         S5t a (*7)   _Fy            e/  WJyar t/  pL3azIo    WJymr            4ual1au
()    (2)              (3)           (4)             (5                6)(7
Blamtyre LIM
U A   UVLP Ladce                        971         j,70               75          4,7bb            23'              1,251            , 4W          5,942            b S        3,16W             15      2178             22
ID  Uth VIP latidne                    971          5,39J              75          8,43b            322             1,69W            2,U2           ,05              90         4,S74             U      2,970             IS
IE vth setpC LariL 6
later In hue                        2,221          7,9)             2iO        134321             Slb              4,7U9           3,223         12,M              144         ,SZ   las UI 10 to3am                      It
blare        6
bnyri. IH1 
A wth etctd 
wer In hue                          2,428          5,710             220         8,YIB            417              2,191           2.bW          10,4M             316        5,561   lam thin lU       3,871             11
; 4Ut sepLic tadn &
wter In hLme                        2,428          8,US4             22U         10,702           535              2,IN            3, 144        13,144            157        7,531  I1  thin 10        4.984  lea  dun Il
LE %th sqtic tank &
wter In hIuse                       2,428          7,SDOU            22          30,548           527              2, 769          :1,29         13,132            149         7,047   l1t Un IU        4,S911           3U 
A^ Ath scaer cixn:tton
wtaer In t,me & alectricity         2,513          5,tQ2            40           7,155           3AN               2.U3b           2,424          9,b?1           IUI         5,10t             IU      3,591             L5
2a .dth soer commrtion
tear In htse & electrity            2,51J          7,6bW             2a)        10,44U            5W               2,713u          At t)        1[4*A              145        6,, WA   lm  Eun IU       kG4,              10
rA Wi ;thrip    t ri ne                971          4,1)92             75          5,1Ls            257             1,349            1,bOA6         b,46            I71         J,J95             IS      2,3A4            lb
IU'4th Vi lat rtnm                      971          5,9g9             75          b,975            349             3,83             4, IUW         8,M7             97          6b35             10      3,f3             11
3% Aith  ept3c tark, wter
in hDuae & electriClLy              2,319          1,279             m           9,018            491              2,577            Jtu          124,A42           137        6,554  Lta  thn 10        4,56b             11
r lilaes profemionl (am.
I/   *Pvodmtely St of plot dtvelopwmm  osts.
"I ltkcgi  as i 54 of catitd axt ,  bhad on asapUon of 349 on linAu  Mte IriM LbVer.nwt ot IWai to ftL.
/  (Fhplcal Uht + Iertent kidrg (lntrtUtiun) s 25,
F/ 1b1  on an iter  taLe of LA per annm  laymole over 25 y-rb.
T/ AuiAUj that mrtee spenis 25 of In re on hliisg.
!' Nuirg  a 32 mving an cpital cost.
co
c0 



Table 9: DR UNITS AS ALUMM VES TO IWMtUI(MIAL HOW DIG: 0QU1AThE COS
tppralcimte        TApe ard O,st of
Income of          Otion IiividuEl                Total Cast
ND. of                                 O,st        Hxul ld            wuld be  rtitled to                  ixtitutiorul
Urdts                                  Per Unita/ Affordi!M Optioir/    t/         Co.tb/      DIA Urits   Units           Ilffere
(MK)      (MK per anna)                               (MK'OOO)    (MK'JO0)          (MK'OOO)
500         1A ith VIP Latrlne           5,520         2,260            D         29,250         2,760      14,630            11,870
320         ID with VIP.latrine          7,360         3,550            c         47,500         2,360      15,200            12,840
80         IE ith septic tank &
iter in owe              10,750         5,180            C         47,500           860       3,800             2,940
30         2k ith septic tank &
ater in lhwe              8,390         4,032            C         47,50U           250       1,430             1,1il
30         ZB wLth septic tank &
eter in house            10,010         4,800            C         47,5l)           300       1,430             1,130
40         ]E with septic tank &
waterinhoue              10,750         5,180            C         47,510           430       1,900             1,470
100        3A. with sewr comection
ater in bouse &
ele:tdCity                7,450         3,600            C        47,500           750        4,750             4,000
30         25 with sevar connetion
later in house &                                                                                                        N
electricity              10,190         4,900            C         47,500           310       1,430             1,120
LLa
500         IA wIth VIP latrinr          5,930         2,830            D         29,250         2,970      14,630            11,660
240         ID with VIP latrine          7,960         3,840            C        47,500          1,910      11,400             9,490
130         ID with septic tark
mter in house &
electricity              10,300         4,940            C         47,500         1,340       6,180             4,840
_=
2000                                                                                            14,240      76,780            62,540
S/ ee Ikble. 8 for breIl1owi of cot elmenuts and affordaiLlity amlyuis.
M(WS ct guide for Stazaid }buse lpa:  WlM4 to Mbrch 1984.
%C H



Table 10: DETAILS OF RATE OF RETURN CALCULATIONS
(IHA Program)
Fa timated
Type of House            No. to be       Initial Capital a/          Monthly Net bERR
Constructed           Cost (MK)           Rental Value (MK)                   l
1.  Bln. LA with VIP              500                 5,520                    70                  15.O
2.  Bln. ID with VIP              320                 7,360                    100                 16.1
3.  Bln. 1E with septic
tank                        80                 10,750                   140                  15.4
4.  Bln. 2A with septic
tank                         30                 8,390                   100                  14.0
5.  Bln. 2B with septic
tank                         30                10,200                   140                 16.3
6.  Bln. IE with sewer
tank                         40                10,010                   140                 16.6
7.  Bln. 2A with sewer            100                 7,450                    100                 15.9
8.  Bin. 2B with sewer             30                10,190                    140                 16.3
9.  LUw IA with VIP               500                 5,930                     70                 13.9
10.  Llw 1D with VIP               240                 7,960                    100                 14.8
11. Llw ID with septic
tank                        130                10,300                   140                  16.1
Weighted Avg. ERR - 15.1
Notes
a/ Capital costs include all costs for housing and site development, including interest during
construction, relevant overhead costs, and an adequate profit margin for the developing agency.
Taxes are considered to be insignificant. The shadow prices of all inputs, including those purchased
with foreign exchange, are assumed to be equal to the nominal price.
t'/  $he incremental benefits of the project are assumed to be incorporated in the estimated monthly net           H
rental value for the housing. Benefits are estimated on the basis of current market rental prices
for similar types of housing in THA's in Lilongwe and Blantyre.  Current utility charges and
estimated recurrent maintenance costs have been deducted from gross rental values to arrive at net
benefits. Housing has an estimated life-time of thirty years. No adjustment has been made for
changes in market prices due to increased supply, as it is assumed that growth in demand will be
sufficient to maintain real prices at least at their current level,



-64 -                                                  ANNEX 2
Chart 1
MALAUI                                                Page 1 of 3
FIRST URBAN PROJECT
Pot Deveiopmint and House Consftuctlon Schedule
w  9s            I                       1967              19i               19W9             19 0
Qu-               1          -2                 2  3             2 3         1  2341   23 41  2 34
mowiFH PLOf oROPm4           (                                                        t
1313
keoA~~I5~am1        (CA)  wmIMa
Aea 4015 Pt   I            (IDA) t  |I95 * I
AtoQjPm2                (CA)                          mitm m_a __  
I     I                                                      I
ohrcrvO   PaDm-. I34 l(CA)I
51
(,  ,s ,,,,,,,L 5s~~~~~~I                          _                                 I,
OuW1'"mAVO wm kosIe 2      (IDA)                                                         12T -   nl  i51i-   
TO be Dole                                                        ln (      I)  I   I  s
o beDetsmwle              (t&*C)                     rjI    lo  IIi *                        I   I
IHA PLOXDEI.PW4T                                                          I
Ch.COA              (~ODA) BVIIII
ISO
C     -    C     a     (ODA)                           350 |lllt|      j7 t          tt   
'm_C9                     1OD) (IDA)
HO!SECONSMU0IN
Xicoraz                    (CDA)  eLtiIEliI
I   170~ 
A   4191t/Conitot I        (CA) ||,   I t           *    i|__1          _- m
11 j ,ll III~~~~~~.                                i   1 I            
AMCo 49/5 Con,oCt 2        (IDA)            Cn I    al                                   I
(M 05Coht3               [CA) 
C-17*,Orkujldo Car*m= 3    (IDA)                                    ml II    hU                  CO
O.mnwanik.n~co,daC~oCr     (CA)                                      a I:ullE  ILJHfn  hmI
i           I                      ) litd ii
OwHc&I mus,g              (IDA)                                                   -m m - m                                                    - -
EVW   PrlrmvDesign                             (iDA)   FIncocing Piovas DY IDA
SecffxkxvDssgn              (~~~ODA)   FInanCin PXWIOdi DV ODA
imhlCcritroct Pieoaatmn/TendWmi;          (tAlC)   Foxinang PlOVidi by talC
COnsfu?.OnC                                    Friwcin SOu.  Notm YS vdinTidom                           *   Br-2&



-65-                           ANEX 2
Chart 1
Page 2 of 3
.4 =
-IC
.              -C
r
is 3
-2             _
a       -~~~~~~~~~~
7     : =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
_            -_ _-      
_             q -      -    -      _ 
.C --           -                      _ _
_  4       - -_  _-             
I  _- _    _   _--
a  -  _~~~~~~~L
9x q    1- - -----
- =____
.4  -    X     -                  ,,tSi2
_ e-           -                X4XI1-



IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE, ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
Year      1974           1975           1976            M97            197            1979           196            196I           192            1963           11964
Quoilel 2 1341 3 1 34 2 4 2 41 3 1 34 2 4 2 413T3
OIP-SiIE iNfRASTRUCIuRE
Trunki Srpym, A I&ffxoarV       EsfirrKIIad             l
0OKiction Plodis
ACIUoJ               INS  U  U      U        mU 
Trunkr Sewos E zteKson~ of
Sewage froalrrnlponi 6ki 
AcCess Roo(As  B              ,iril                    sleI  II is~M              E      W      E
YIE PREPARATION. SWRMCING II
ICORE UNII CONSIMR10I,O1
p'ho$0 1  Mi3 oIu               Esrr~2nd tfxl                I
AfLxi 2.3 Actual                                                III in
Auto 4?'ActuxI                               11.1I  111.1111                1    i mm  m   UU                 em        
Atei  I 4Actual                                 ili                                                                                    ** m
MATERIAL LOANSAro 2E3Actalo 
COMMUNtry FACAWUIACILES
School I Acluni~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                    
IaIIICunfLwACtuA(I                         IIm   II   rnImm    u
IECHNICAL ASSISANCE                                                                              ij
AFaIIQ    UnrI                   siralod                         5 W         W  i     J~ 
&k')ndv,ivjIsIrnaltd                                           1f        W      i      d     E       ' '             
111RAWA   tSchrocaI AslisIome
* mAplottoos ConsIrr.cIKn ot iIosoc Dwell,ngsni                   Conshucrion                                                                     Wi1d Bonk - 2633



MALAWI
FIRST URBAN PROJECT
Housing Optlons by Income Group
ico
IHA MOITGAGE
OR IHA TENAWT
80-                           ---- - - - - --- - ---- -Lo !    ------- - - - - -
70  -
THA PLOT WITH
MATERILL LOAN OR
50                                                                                                           11IWIRATEN.AN
40  -
b
30
20  -
PLOT
10
O                         100                     200                      300                      400
Household Income| (M.K per month)
EstIrnated                                 Estimoted
Min. In-orne                               Mln. Income
for Afording                            for IHA Matgage
Matedal Loon                                                                                            Wodd 8ank-26397            rtX



-68-                               ANNIE 2
Chart 3
II       I



MALAWI
FIRST URBAN PROJECT
Organization of the Office of Housing (Proposed)
|Controller d |
Hou*g
I
DetContr Ie
of Housin
r.
Housing RogCh                                      Houes cich &  Housing
(Ru  &      )              Tranng                 Rnae eo
Furelonm
- Policy Fouloubtlon
- Supe on d Rsearch & Dement Efft
-  Promtlon d Applid Resesch & DeveWlopnt Effots
-          dmotiondApplid Rearch toA d  hlrotmin h8Ikng Materl
- Idenfcation d Pobe Sources d Frndg
- Mofntosig & Ekalo
- HouogV
- Manooament d Gomment HouiWn Stodc
Woa  Bar*-258M
ICU,
Pi p
JSrt



MALAWI
FIRST URBAN PROJECT
Organization of the Lands DMslon of the
Depaitment of Lands and Valuation (Proposed)
ec   St Continr O
nsPnpL LandS & Water
I                        I~~~~~~
Controller ot
Lcands & Voluallon
ILand AdminestrNthnn                                  V Re luotion & Estate|
ERanch                                         tFanogemoent         a-anCh                                      O
Deputy Cornmissioner                                  Deputy Commissiloner
( Lands)                                        (valuotion sewvieq)
|Land Regishoatbn        Ded Reitrto                  Esat Mooennauto  eto
Principal Lands          Principol Lands             Pdrincipal Estates      Pdrnc4pal Valuation
Registrar                 Officef                     Officef                  CEilcer
Regkmnl OrgaNization
Southern                  Centrol Region                                       
Region                   Northern Regobn                                                        rt
I.n 
Worb Bonk-25862



MALAYA
FIRST URBAN PROJECT
Organizatlon of Mlnistt of Wooks and Supplies Training Center
I                       .1 
CNelanical             liMing                 LcI                                   Go a   ast caion h              Wot
I  I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~O 
Drns    MotorVei*i        adto       edig     Rehbgrain      lijang   Electria     outhe0     Central  ~,en    oOffc            AppanienH  Acounh
Maintenance   EIect,Ibrs                & Aik                             Reionor   Regbi    Regobn        SeMbeu   Ciercnenc
Aprelkce                            Conilnn                                                                            Co
Wo   ~256M1
0s%



-72                                         ANEX 2
Chart 7
l                                l
I    ~    f,~hJlen ea            I
I                                I
IE                               I
Bsc*ooukmK          IM A
. .         -             l
House Type IA(36 m2)
Total              Total
Coo                ost
M.K                MYK
Plot d kn'd with bsic house. water
sardpe on the pot &VP firlne            4690              5SOb
sdm Water Connectlon
(paVable to water board)             60               1ID
Thi Is a mlrrum chageoiy Cots maov be hiher dependhV frotm how  *ithe auhorts haem to bu  the s9lcs Io lhs plot.
Wal so*-2586M



-73                                             ANNEX 2
-                        Chart 8
I                                  I
Iuke chen  ea 
1-- ---1
I                                  I
I                                  I
Bedroom
uving Roorn
WIoloom                      A            .
I                                                    ;
I                                                    i
L                                          --_-
House Type 1 B (36 m2)
_91ntb               Ulogwe
Total                Totld
COs                  Cost
MX                   M.K
Plot of land cimh basic house. water
standppe on the plot & VIP kladne       4410                 4755
Bdua Wkter Connection
(payable to water board)             60                  100-
's Is a mirnmum choge onlyr. Costs rmay be higher depending fom how rm the outhodies have to brin the 3eM  to the plot.
WoUhd Bank-25865



-74-                                          ANNEX 2
Chart 9
r                                   I
I                                   I
Future Kitchen Area
II
I     -                             I
I                                   I
I                                   I
1' '              1~~            ~          ~~~~~~~St.j
Bedroom  L i:
LUing Room                      h
B edvoom
House Type IC (47 m2)
Blantre                  Lioraowe
Total                    Total
Cost                     Cost
Rot cf land with basic house. waterM                             M
stondPipe on the plot & VIP latTine     5920                     6415
Extra Water Connection
(payable to water barard)            60                      100
This is a minimum charge ony Costs may be hgher depending from how for the authorities ha-e to bring the service to the pbt.
Wodd Bank-25866



-75-                                           ANNEX 2
Chart 10
LMng Roorn
I\ Bedwom
Howe Type ID (58 rn2)
Total                   Total
Cosd                    Cost
.K.K                    MK
PlOt od land with basic howe. wter
nppe on the plot& VIP latne           6360                    690)
kicluding cold water hilstltn In
the hoie. luh tIOIt & spft tCik       7460                    755
xluin elctricity tas well             7810                    8270
Ed=   aterConnecton
(payble to water board)            60                     100'
Wctricfty C onn
(payale to ESCOM)                  B5'                     98-
ihIs Is a minimuLn charge only. Costs mWa be higher depedig from how far the authortie hav to bdng the serce to the plot.
Wold Bonk-25867



-76-                                            ANNEX 2
Chart 11
Yad
-'
Be moom.
Howe Type IE (71 m2)                   Tal                   Total
Cost                  Cost
Rlo of kind with bodc hot:se. ludIng
wterm tarm*otn te plot
&VPkloWs                                 7740                  8420
iudwg cold wate huoBalon In
the hoe ftsh toe & septic tor            91A                   9845
IrcludngeleatlctyIaswel                    95                 10260
Extrar %%kwC;onrocon
(pavbe to water board)                60         *00
EbMeWdlV Conrcone
(paabe to ESCOM)                      85'                   98'
*T Iisa mnWmn chage or*. Ccds may be hhr depenoing  howfr nte ao      te he to bdng he evce othe plt.
Wid Ear*-25868



-77                                               ANNEK 2
- - - - _______                           Chart 12
ur L---ii                     II                   I I
1 2                 1 t        
LMngRoom                 BedrI
Hous Type 2A(A3 m2)
Total                   Total
cost                    Cost
KK                      M.K
Plot d land hd Inldza wth basc
houwe ctudong cdd Wate Istomllaian          9580
& flush tol cowected to swr|
WCx*x*oelectlcttcs w9l                      9930
Plt d and whth basIc house Icbng
water sandipe oltside rhe houe &            7940                     7225
VPlbmhe
kvdng cold wtwer hslcbott hIn
1he hole. flush toibt & sepitc tor*                                  9
INcluc  elct atwey                         106as                     9"w
E waler _cn
(pYable to water bocxd)                  0 100
Eectvcify Connecdbon
(pabeto SCOM)                            F. 
S&A Charge
(pAable monthly to BCC for              1.6
Kronedo sfts only)
'M      s     b a minum charge only. Cost ma be  gherdependg from howr for the autttttes have to bdIng the  .vlc 1th.t plot.
Uk Bddk-25M9



-78-                                          ANNEX 2
Chart 13
Cocodng
wc~~~kh
Hal
II~~~~~~~~~~~
Uvr- Romn
Bednmom          Bedwmm
Houe Type 2B (73 m2)
Bkon                      logw
Total                   Total
cos                      Cos
MK.             I       hL
Plot of ld hi Kasjedzo wittx bcic
ho4 se I rndng cold W    hgalbctlon
& flush toa connected' o sower                9_80
hxddng exlerksy as well                       9930                     _
Plot of bnd with basic hoLse Inducng
cold water Insalltion &
flush tbletwh septic onk                     103aO                    10825
wicudIngGeecttclty as well                   10730                    11240
(payab  towater board)                     60                     100
Ek brltv Connebton
(pab10e to  OM)                            8S9
(payable nthly to BC for
Kanedzo site only)                        1.60
'1hls hisminmmchade only. CAfs rry be hIgher deendng =  how tor theauthoelsham to bngthe  m tothe pbot.
Wodd Barik-25870



-79-                                       ANNEX 2
Chart 14
lmh
Beckaom                         Bdo
Houe Type 3A (65 rn2)
Tokd                   Total
Cos                    Cost
?tK                    MK
Pot d lond with basc hse. wer
standpe on the plot &VP  ene              6565                    6590
hCdudhg cold wter IWdllallon In
the he fh tolle & septic tarn             7665                    7545
hdkxudV eMcucy as well                    8015                    796O
EWa Vkt rConnectn                                        1
(poaybletowatrIbd)                                            100'
(payable to BOOM)
*7hbs ls rrmnImKm dxx&only. Coss rmov be hIgher dependrxgfrn howfar te uotlMha  tobdng the3Ace o theplot.
World Bar*-25871



- 80 -                        ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 6
A L A W I
UR.E PROJECT
BOUSIN SUBSIDIES AND WAGE POLICY STUDY
Terms of Reference
I. Objectives of the Stud,
1.        The Goveriment has maintained a variety of programs since
Independence to provide civil servants and employees of statutory bodies
with public housing at subsidized rentals. Due to the large housing stock
made available by NRC and because of the willingness of donors to include
housing as part of various development projects, the Government has been
able to provide a majority of Civil Servants with high quality rental
accommodations. However, a number of considerations have made it apparent
that continuation of the policy of providing subsidized housing is no
longer in the best interests of the Goverrment or the civil service
establishment:
(a) New staff housing has increased substantially in cost and
represents a substantial drain on scarce development funds
into investments with low direct productivity;
(b)  With the movement of the Govermnent to Lilongwe in the late
1970s, the construction of new housing has not kept. up with
the demand, with the result that a large number of civil
servants in Lilongwe, primarily at the lower grades, are not
provided with Goverment rental housing. The difficulties of
obtaining staff housing are a constraint on locating new
activities in Lilongwe and Blantyre and rotating civil
servants to new positions;
(c)  Considering the total compensation package made available to
civil servants, the real value of monetary wage& has
deteriorated as prices have risen faster than wage increases.
This has led to a situation where housing benefits constitute
a disproportionate share of total compensation, exceeding in
many cases the value of monetary wage payments;_/
, In 1982, the economic value of housing subsidies for civil servants
occupying rental housing was estimated to average 160 percent of salary
payments for employees at the lowest salary grade for a particular
level of housing entitlement, to 75 percent of salary payments for
employees who had reached the highest salary grade for a particular
entitlement. As a yardstick, it is roughly estimated that if all civil
servants were housed on the basis at which the entitlement regulations
specify, the total economic subsidy would exceed MK66 million per
anmm .



- 81 -                            ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 6
(d) As the housing stock ages, maintenance problems are
becoming more important, and the limited availability of
maintenance funds is contributing to the deterioration of
Mlawi Housing Corporation and Governuent-owned houses.
Because financial constraints will almost certainly prevent
MUC and the Goverment from providing an adequate level of
maintenance, sharing of the maintenance responsibility with
the tenants may be required to preserve this capital asset for
future use;
(e) Ihe pLcovision of subsidized rental housing provides no
opportunity for civil servants to accumulate capital assets in
the form of housing. As a result, many civil servants suffer
a substantial reduction in their standard of living at
retirement, when they lose their housing entitlement. At the
same time, the Goverrment is facing an increasing unfunded
pension liability for Civil Servants, which could be partially
discharged by allowing Civil Servants go purchase their
houses;
(f) Finally, the depressing economic effect of housing subsidies
has constrained the development of a private housing market
(other than self-help housing in THA areas), contributing to
the present stagnation of new housing construction, increasing
crowding in existing housing areas and development of new
squatter settlements.
2.        The First Urban Project is designed to assist the Government
develop a market-based system of housing supply, and thereby allow the
Goverruent to reduce its commitments for employer-provided housing to the
minimum level consistent with ongoing development priorities. At the same
time, it is recognized that changes in the system of rent subsidies and
employer-provided housing will affect the level and structure of public
sector compensation, with corresponding implications for the equity and
incentive structure of wage policies. The Housing Subsidies and Wage
Policy Study will provide the Goverrnent with the information necessary to
evaluate the budgetary and equity implications of the various options to
reduce housing subsidies, in order to assist in reaching a final decision
on this important issue.
II. Structure of the Study
3.         The study will include three separate areas of investigation
which are necessary to evaluate the various options for reducing housing
subsidies. These areas include:
(a) The incidence of housing subsidies and the equity
implications for those who receive subsidized housing and
those who do not;
(b) Financial implications of measures to reduce housing
subsidies, including budgetary implications of compensating
wage adjustments to offset the elimination of housing
subsidies, rental policies for staff housing retained by the



- 82 -                             ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 6
Government, pricing of the public housing stock intended for
divestiture (including affordability implications) and cost
recovery pricing for THA's.
(c) Administrative implications for implementing the various
policies, including procedures for valuation and transfer of
title for public housing intended for divestiture,
determination of policies regarding the continued provision
of housing essential for Government purposes and
recommendations for phasing down the estate management
activities of MRC in a gradual fashion.
4.        It is expected that the study can be completed in approximately
nine to twelve months, followed by a review period for the Government to
discuss the results and agree on policy directions. A possible second
phase of the study mould be concerned with completing arrangements for
actual implementation of the policies and may include such activities as
valuation of the housing stock slated for divestiture and/or other
activities recommended by the initial study. The Government may choose to
tender the second phase of the study on a separate basis, after having
established its own internal arrangements for administration of the new
housing policies.
III.  Detai1ed Description of Study Areas
5.        Incidence of Housing Subsidies.  The availability of subsidized
housing is a major factor in determining the effective level of
compensation to a civil servant. Therefore, the analysis of the effects of
moving from the present system of employer-provided housing must begin with
a clear understanding of the current distribution of housing subsidies.
Since Government policies on housing subsidies may also affect the housing
practices of statutory bodies, it is important that information be obtained
for both CLvil Servants and employees of Etatutory bodies, a total of
approximately 70,000 established posts.
6.        The existing system of record keeping does not permit an analysis
of the incidence of housing subsidies, as personnel and housing matters are
treated separately and the required information is maintained in a number
of different agencies. Fortunately, for purposes of guiding public policy,
it is sufficient to have reliable information on the aggregate distribution
of housing subsidies, rather than data for individual public sector
employees. The attachment to this TOR provides a description of a sample
survey procedure that would provide the required information, including:
(a) the approximate number and salary distribution of employees
currently provided with subsidized housing;
(b) whether or not the provision of such housing is essential to
the performance of the duties of the individual;
(c) the number and salary distribution of employees that are not
currently provided with subsidized housing; and



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 6
- 83 -
(d) comparative information on the actual distribution of housing
costs and housing standards between groups of employees.
This information will permit the calculation of the financial impact of the
various policies described in the next section, both in terms of effective
housing and compensation levels and the aggregate implications for the
Government budget.
7.        Financial Implications of Policy' Changes.  It is assumed that
Government policies to reduce housing subsidies will include a combination
of some or all of the following actions:
(a) wage adjustments, not necessarily linked to rental increases,
to compensate individuals for the loss of housing subsidies,
except for individuals who choose to take their compensation
in the form of a discount on the sale of public housing;
(b) increased rental charges and delegacion of maintenance
responsibility on the remaining public housing stock, with a
possibility of exceptions to these charges for housing
required for specific purposes and/or for civil servants
approaching retirement who do not have adequate time
remaining to purchase their housing;
(c) possibilities for providing discounts on the sale of public
housing for sitting tenants and/or civil servants to
compensate them for foregoing rental subsidies on their
housing. For Civil Servants, an additional option may be to
allow lump-sum pension benefits to be brought forward as a
down payment on the housing, to reduce the cost of servicing
the mortgage;
(d) divestiture of public housing not required for specific
development purposes, at a price at least adequate to cover
the remaining debt-service costs and which does not
discriminate unfairly between various purchasers;
(e) review and clarification of housing entitlements for civil
servants required to occupy Government housing in connection
with the performance of their duties;
(f) gradual introduction of cost recovery principles in
Traditional Housing Areas to improve the financial viability
of the THA. program and support improved maintenance and other
public services.
8.        Each of these possible actions has important implications for
such issues as the quality of housing provided to individuals and its
affordability, the impact on the Government's capital and recurrent budget
for providing housing and compensatory wage increases, and the financial
viability and prospects for MHC's permanent housing and THA programs.
Clearly, the Government will be faced in the final instance with some
difficult choices, such as between che desire to imorove equity through
selective wage increases versus constraints on expansion of the recurrent



-84 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 6
budget. It is not the purpose of the Housing Subsidies and Wage Policy
Study to make definite recommendations on the combination of policy actions
to be implemented, but rather the study will provide information to policy
makers on the financial implications of the various actions and their
impact on reducing housing subsidies and changing effective compensation
levels within the civil service.
9.        Based on the analysis of the incidence of housing subsidies
described above and additional information on housing costs to be obtained
from MHC, this portion of the study will provide an analysis of the impact
of the proposed actions on:
(a) individual civil servants and their effective compensation
levels and housing affordability;
(b) the Government's recurrent and/or capital budget; and
(c) MHC's financial position.
Specific areas to be considered include:
(a) the pricing of housing for possible divestiture;
(b) quantification of possible discoi1nts for sitting tenants
and/or civil servants;
Cc) treatment of lump-sum pension benefits as a possible
down payment on housing;
(d) rental policies on the renaining public housing stock;
(e) possible measures to shift partial responsibility for
maintenance costs to tenants of public housing; and
(f) establishment of THA plot charges.
To assist in the final policy formulation stage, it will be necessary to
describe in detail several indicative packages of policy actions and their
total impact on the Government's budgetary obligations and effective
compensation levels within the civil service, for review by the Government
decision makers. Unless instructed otherwise, the study team will assume
that the prevailing grade distribution and salary structure of the civil
service will continue to apply, except for specific adjustments required to
compensate for the elimination of housing subsidies.
10.       Administration of Housing Policies.  In order to make a final
decision on policies to reduce housing subsidies, the Government will need
information on the administrative requirements for implementing the
policies, including the cost of administration, staffing, and institutional
requirements, and indicative timetables for completing the various
actions. This section of the study should attempt to define the general
administrative requirements of the various actions and the cptions
available for implementing them, without going into excessive detail prior
to the choice of the final actions to be implemented.



-85-                           ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 6
11.       The following areas will be given particular attention during the
study:
(a) revision of Goverrment regulations on the provision of
housing in connection with specific job requirements,
and maintenance sharing arrangements with tenants of
Government housing;
(b) administrative requirements of possible divestiture policies,
including arrangements for valuation of individual houses In
order to adjust sale prices for age and condition of the
house, requirements for processing of the title transfer
including completion of survey and title registration
procedures, procedures for allocating individual houses among
applicants, options for the administration of mortgage
payments (e.g., through a Goverrmnent agency or on a contract
agreement with the New Building Society), and implications
for the staffing and organization of MNC as a result of the
divestiture policies; and
(c) arrangements for development and administration of
Traditional Housing Areas, including the respective roles of
NHC and the local authorities, and cost-sharing arrangements
for THA's, including the gradual introduction of property tax
rating.
IV.  Conduct and Timetable for the Study
12.       Ihe Housing Subsidies and Wage Policy Study will require
technical inputs from a team of analysts, which should include financial
analysts and/or economists for the conduct of the sample survey and the
analysis of the financial implications of the various policies. In
addition, it may be necessary to have at least one individual who is
familiar with real estate management practices to advise on the
administrative implications of the possible actions. Because each of the
three areas of investigation described above has important linkages to the
others, it is deemed best that a single study team manage the entire
effort.
13.       The following timetable has been established for completing the
study:
September 1984 - Review of draft TOR during negotiations of
the Urban Project and final agreement on scope of study.
October - December 1984 - Preparation of shortlist of
possible study teams and finalization of TOR.
January - March 1985 - Submission of proposals and selection
of study team.
April 1985 - March 1986 - Conduct of study and preparation of
final report.
April - October 1986 - Review of study by Government and
agreement on action program and timetable for implementation.
November 1986 and thereafter - Implementation of agreed
policy changes.



- 86 -
ANNEX 3
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 2
sURVEY OF PUBLIC SECTO- BOUSING PROVISION
I. Sapling Frame and' Samplng Xrocedure
1.        The underlying population to be sampled should consist of all
employees occupying established posts in the Goverinent and statutory
bodies, Since unclassified workers are hired on a temporary basis and are
not eligible for Government housing, there is no need to include them in
the survey. Given that the lists of established posts are more readily
available than the lists of actual employees, it is suggested that the
former be used as the sampling frame. Vacancy rates will be generated as a
by-product of the exercise and should be used as adjustment factors in
subsequent calculations involving the wage bill and so on.
2.        The aim of the sample design should be to obtain robust estimates
for both the number of public sector employees who are provided with
housing and those who are not. Thus it is suggested that a stratified
random sample be used, where the stratification is intended to
differentiate between population groups with varying proportions being
provided with housing, in which distinction is also made between
institutional and pool housing. Ihe sampling fractions can vary across
strata depending on the size of the underlying population and the expected
variation in characteristics related to housing within each stratum.  The
following classifications would therefore be used in the stratification:
(a) Civil Service or statutory body: the information is needed
for these two groups separately.
(b) some classification which separates employees into those who
are eligible for institutional housing and those who are
not. (This probably involves a combination of occupation,
ministry and location).
(c) urban/rural location, assuming the classification in (b) does
not coincide with an urban/rural breakdown.
(d) salary grade, given that the likelihood of an employee being
provided with housing is positively related to the level of
salary.
It is not obvious whether or not it is necessary to survey all the four
major categories implied by (b) and (c), and the matter should be discussed
with those who are knowledgeable on the subject before a final decision is
made. At a minimum, those in urban areas who are eligible for MHC housing
should definitely be sampled, since this is the group with the highest
proportion of individuals not provided with Government housing benefits.



-87-                          ANNEX 3
Attachment I
Page 2 of 2
II. SureyF  I.m:rommt
3.       In drawing up the survey instrument, the following information
should be collected from each individual occupying an established post in
the sample.
(a) Name
(b) Address of residence
(c) Title
(d) Ministry or statutory body
(e) Location of work
(f) Salary grade
(g) Actual salary
(h) Age
(i) Sex
(j) Years in public service
(k) Whether or not qualified for irstitutional
housing.
(1) ikximum grade of housing allowed
(a) Whether or not provided with Goverrment or MHC
housing,
If get Goverment                       If do not get Goverrment housing
housing     -                        Rent House         Own House
Whether instititional                  Rent from whom     Specify nearest
or pool                                                 class and type
of house
Class and type of                      Class and type
house                                  of house
Whether furnished                      Whether furnished  Mortgage payment
Rent paid to                                               (or some
Government                           Monthly rent paid   estimate of
price of house)
Ever been provided wLtb Government
housing?
Yes                No
We-n               Men on waiting
list?
Why no longer      Yes       No
housed?
Since    Why
when?    not?
Still on
witing
list?



- 88 -
ANNEX 3
AttacVw--=Ft
NALAWI
FIRST URBAN PROJECT
Enhancement of Malawi Housing Corporation Accounting Systems
Terms of Reference
Ihe establishment of the property development activities of
Malawi Housing Corporation on a separate account basis within the
corporation will require some enhancement of the existing accounting
systems. In particular, the following changes will be required:
(a) provision for separate accounts (income statements, balance
sheets, and statements of sources and uses of funds) to cover all
property development activities undertaken by MRC for purposes of
resale to individuals and other outside agencies, to take effect
as of January 1, 1986;
(b) development of appropriate systems of job-costing, including a
stratified coding system, time-recording for staffing, plant and
vehicles, and appropriate allocation of overheads;
Cc)   manufacturing and trading account" procedures, including
adjustments for unsold properties and work in progress to
facilitate the matching of costs and sale prices;
(d) arrangements for the timely replacement of existing computers
with adequate and appropriate equipment, to include more flexible
capability for forecasting and modeling;
Ce) preparation of written chart-of-accounts and accounting manual;
and
(f)  consideration of measures to ensure proper management of liquid
funds within the property development account, so that funds are
available as required and are not used for purposes other than
for property development.



- 89 -
ANNEX 4
MALAWI
First Urban Project
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
(Document Number 109.224)
Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector or Sub-Sector.
A. Housing Situation in the Traditional Housing Estates in Blantyre
and Mzuzu. MBC. 3/79
B. Land Tenure in Nalawi. OPC. 1978
C. Housing as a Form of Compensation for Civil Servants in Malawi.
Lindaur, D. (Consultant) and Meesook, 0. IBRD. 4/84.
D. Physical Standards and Affordability (Draft Chapter for Malawi
Housing Sector Report). IBRD. 1983.
E. Study Report on Development of Small-Scale Construction
Enterprises in ?hlawi. International Labour Office, Management
Development Branch.  Geneva. 1983
F. Estimate of Urban Housing Stock and Subsidies. (Draft Chapter
for Malawi Housing Sector Report). IBRD. 1983
Selected reports and studies relating to the project.
G. Back-to-Office Reports.  Project Preparation and Appraisal
missions. Wanjobi, I.G. (Consultant Engineer) 8/83 & 2/84
Lee-Smith D. (Consultant, Architect/Planner). 2/84 (3 Vols.)
H. Aide-Memoire. Project Appraisal Mlsslon. IBRD. 12/83.
I. Physical Standards and Affordability: The Urban Housing Market
in Malawi. (Draft Chapter for Malawi Housing Sector Report)
IBRD. 1983.
J. Report on Requirements for Cadastral Records. Barr, D.
(Consultant) 8/83.
Implementation Volumes
K. Volume I: Ihe Physical Program
1. Housing Demand
2. Housing Prototypes and Standards
3. land Development and House Construction Program
4. Pilot Roof Loan Program
5. MHC Implementation Capacity
6. Implementation Schedule
L. Volume II: Institutional Support and Studies
1. Land Adjudication and Registration
2. Training Program for Small- and Mediumr-scale Residential
Building Contractors.
3. Draft Terms of Reference for Building By-laws Study.
4. Draft Terms of Reference for Housing Survey.



q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     -              
WR-ws' ~~~~~~~~~~--.-
1                              2.
t~~~         ~ -R             ,                       V   ;   
=-M  -...}-    -  - --         F       
_-,^-ers -'nv    -.B
- - se  ~~~~~ se: -
_~~~~~~*-          ,                    x
6                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7



-F --
-_,i-          -      -        
1                                                                   2.
-~                        .. -.#-',
A.                                                                  4.
.>~  @        e                                      ' -_use Type iA                 Ventilolec Improved
Pit. Latrines
2            10
-                          =    ;i               2 cuse av:> 13               d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 House 7,i:e 2A.
_Hcu5e t'     10
-. T-KrrCh.ren 3:o_Ck      7 House  Tv,e 23
L3- ~ ~ ~        -
. _ _h.       -                                             _                      _
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA
-             ^ -                   4,                                                  :ors3cr:k-25a76-     7



I B RD 18004
r                       ,_3:-                                                                                                     3e           -        j   E 1
z_/       Ys                                  E <~~~rz             FIRST URBAN PROJECT
\~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IM URU <    ; i           lr          au   CEPSTEltSI
\    \_   3   z  ... O ....... |0              PRIFOP L URSA  tE'IE AS
/ W i t. _ ..... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 .... THIN UR S"  EERS AF42 TON
/                  ' j             S   O            \                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-dA- AU A5S
/        i   >                    q'~~~~~~~.LWAI
-AlAicesf                                                 
-  S--s                  * C~~~~~~~LFULU
A   F                    1aSL~~~~~~~~
)j   1    v                                        --~V- 
c--  ~          ~           f 
It--                                   o    .           .0       so 
I & - S T_ __I_ _e r.                  \                          )       } v         _--           i~~~~~~~~'0
___Co_                                    !                         5       1          -"'_l'q-     /;- VILE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~,0._--  -ILO*TE5*
6,~~~~~~ _0  __e  go                                  r             10                    *      _\ 



i,RD 1807
\   31'  30'  1                                                                                                     M AV 19U4
--T, * N Z AN ! A  ,                                                    MA LAWI
N  \    -t    ;w1'                                                   FIRST URBAN  PROJECT
LOCATION OF PROJECT SITES: BLANTYRE
N'.
Z2 , t 2"jrC**o\ 
31.  3C      3ar 
1LOZM310UC '\~  \                   _                          J
A ~ ~~~~~~~H
:'2A-w '),< MOzAM_IO
<\                G                jo-                         q             (                 ''_\
r0we       & cp.          - S/                    -c
Ep _ - j'
A~~~~~~~~~
A~~~
f ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --                                             OVETERS>:\ 
\~A~                                            A *I^::7H:s1PHA            3
~~~ s                                                                                       -  CiNAG
/    _    |sz o:..er. - 40v1'OA.fl$ 05-                                                         .-. - *
ea' r.e                         C                                          )     
/  - : _o qr.c ,c te-s / i~~~K 
{      e=   _| C .~.o~onO  8Onoe                             /                                      3 -__O r  E~
_  cofes! 2es-es ~~~~~~~~~0                       C COe pc  



'                                                      MALAWI
FIRST URBAN PROJECT
LOCATION OF PROJECT SITES: LILONGWE
(                                       \' 4?,,p{>.>/.,/jR                                       S       Project Sites
LAND USE
L i  [   H _]i lgh Densirty Tradirtonal Hlousing
,        ] F9High Density Permanent Housing
' \ L . ... 1                                     [Medium Density Housing
\  [..    ] Low Density Housing
\  Z  ~/Z/z  Industrial Areas
/I; '] 'Commercial Areas
Il.llSlIlilIU  Civic Areas
'.7.~] ,rOpen Space / Parks / Forest
K.       -\j~ /                     \                LOther Public Use
\  \   .)/ .  "                -    -  City Boundary
_.~     1        /              -            Primary Distributor Roads
LUMBADZI            -         Railway
Rivers
) ,.2                            I ternOli               n<lt    \                         ---   International Boundaries
|   (  <   R   i/   KILOMEIFRS t;  S                        5,
)                                        \~~~~~~~~~~~- ~~~~~MILFS                                     4  



.itli~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l,r A-,  J-
I1 , 0                                             S                                  [                                c }Z,                                                           KNA-A
// / it,                                                          3MbWDZt                                         A M B
ff". ftre01-is .}11111 Is . e'hdsblv  ^ t,w 11he S lolllse ot rl! it?kA wigt lillA .71k rle Intel hrilIEII        //       / /\\                                                                                                       /Z 
w Il.if? v! Co<lp to(lltn f1,e donoricaltB,O)tsns wO ltfs  1do1 It", t,hwix}.1ne?s Slt?WlX On lhbs  (l;a1so n0lt       mg                                                                                                                                   -  \r 
Coo tJI Ncpwl .StLIlN  Jt xlyl t {lel't.y of IiVri okm,!InIiolSlil  1?1 acctY)fince o/ sllCh fkA.loiS \ . _e



