Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Reput N.. P-3894-hAI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP!ENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 14.8 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR AN
URBAN PROJECT
;
November 2, 1984
I TI& dnumeutb a uikddisibdba. md may be =ad by MedpkU mliy ina th puifeue of
du&sOld.E julf. ts camluis my aet .eheuwI. be dbehaud -khsu Woul Bank ah.umwkde..



-r BIYS
Curreacy UnJits                                   al aal  acha (BK) and
Tamibala
USl.00                                          NK 1.33
mg 1.00                                          US$0.75
IVRIAIS  AND AC15M
BCC   -      Blantyre City Council
CCDC  -      Capital City Developmet Corporation
DLV    -     Department of Lands and Valuation
IHA    -     Intermediate Housing Area
LCC    -       Liongte City Council
IEC    -      al avi Housing Corporation
mwOs  -      Ministr7 of Works and Supplies
NBS    -     New Building Society
OPC   -      Office of the President and Cabinet
T7H    -     Tfraditional Housing Area
PTSZL  WAS,
Government of Malawi          -      April I-March 31
Malawi Housing Corpora.ion    -      January 1-December 31
New Building Society          -      February 1-January 31



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
DEPUBIC OF YALAV
UNBAR PROJBCr
CEDIT   D MMPROJE   SUNmKY
Borrower:                 Republic of Malawi.
Amount:                   SDR 14.8 million (US$15.0 million
equivalent).
Terms:                    Standard.
Beneficiaries:            Malawi Housing Corporation (MHC) and
New Bailding Society (NBS).
Onlending Terms:          To MHC - for 10 years at the prevailing
Government interest rate for loans to
parastatals (currently 10 percent); plus
funds on equity and grant terms.
To NBS - for 25 years at the prevailing
Government interest rate for loans to
parastatals, with one-half of the funds to be
subordinated for ten years with no interest
charged.
The onlending rate to the ultimate
beneficiaries (initially 12 percent) is
consistent with the prevailing interest rate
structure in Walawi and is expected to be
positive in real terms during the project
period.
Purpose:                  The project would help reorient future
housing development in Malawi toward a
market-based system by: (a) introducing a
new standard of housing development
intermediate between the existing high-cost
permanent housing and traditional structures;
(b) expanding greatly the use of private
mortgage funds to provide financing for such
housing; (c) restructuring the Malawi Haousing
Corporation to play a more active role hu
market-oriented housing development; and {d)
helping the Government find long-term
solutions to the pervasive problem of housing
subsidies. The project would also provide
financing for Malavi's low-cost traditional
housing area program, and technical
assistance to assist in removing legal and
technical bottlenecks to low-cost housing
development.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Benefits:                The project would help the Government achieve
itr objective of making affordable housing
available on a full cost-recovery basis to a
wider range of income groups. The economy
would benefit from substantial reductions in
unit costs of housing compared with current
standards, and by a diminished burden on the
Government's budget through greater use of
private funds for housing finance. Also, the
project would demonstrate viable alternatives
to subsidized housing, the phasing out of
which would be addressed through the
project's technical assistance.
Risks:                   Risks concern the capability of the sector's
institutions to deal with the proposed
restructuring and uncertainties as regards
housing demand. These risks would be
obviated by the considerable experience of
the sector's institutions, the flexibility of
project design to respond to changes in
demand , the commitment of the Government to
long-term reform, and the continuing dialogue
between the Government and Bank on some of
the underlying issues.
Estimated Cost:                                          USS Million
Local Foreign   Total
1.  Intermediate Housing Area Program                9.6     2.1      11.7
2. Traditional Housing Area Program                  0.5     0.3       0.8
3.  Institutional Support and Studies                0.5     0.9       1.4
Base Cost                                     10.6     3.3      13.9
4.  Physical Contingencies                           0.5     0.2       0.7
5.  Price Contingencies                              3.0     0.6       3.6
Total Project Cost
(Including Insignificant Taxes and Duties)   14.1      4.1      18.2



- iii -
USS Million
Financing Plan:                                    Local  Foreign   Total
IDA                    10.9     4.1     15.0
NBS al                  1.3      -        1.3
-HC                     0.6      -       0.6
Private Individuals b/  0.8      -       0.8
Government              0.5      -       0.5
14.1     4.1     18.2
Estimated          IDA Fiscal Year   85    86   87   88   89   90  91
Disbursements:
Annual         0.8   2.0  3.0  3.2  2.6  2.6  0.8
Cumulative     0.8   2.8  5.8  9.0 11.6 14.2 15.0
Economic Rate of
Return:              About 15 percent (weighted average for the main
component for intermediate area housing).
Appraisal Report:    No. 52G0-MAI, dated October 17, 1984.
Map:                IBRD No. 18004.
a/ NBS will provide an additional amount of local funds equivalent to
US$3.1 million for long-term refinancing of residential land developed
by MHC.
b/ In form of mortgage downpayments.



IWr MJATION&L DEvO        ASSOCIaON
REPORT AND RECOUMEDATIOW OF TRE PRESIDENT
TO TEe EXECUTrVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF NATAANI
FOR AN URBAN PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recomuendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Malawi for SDR 16.8 million (US$15.0 million
equivalent) for an urban project. The credit would be on standard IDA
terms.
PART I - TE. ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled -Malawi: Growth and Structural Change, A Basic
Reportx (Report No. 3082a-MAI) dated February 8, 1982, was circulated to
the Executive Directors on March 9, 1982. Annexes to the report were
distributed oan June 26, 1981. Annex I contains the basic country data.
3.        Malawi is a small (118,500 sq km), densely-populated (about 6.6
million people in 1983) landlocked country in southeastern Africa. Its
main assets are moderately fertile soils, good water resources and a
climate favorable to crop production. Unlike its neighbors, Halawi has no
3'nown substantial mineral resources.
S.        Although Malawi has a GNP per capita of only US$210 and has been
identified by the United Nations as one of the world's poorest countries,
its progress since independence in 1964, measured against its natural
resources, has been significant. Up until 1979 there was mostly steady
growth. In 1980 and i98l major economic difficulties were encountered, but
a recovery appears to have begun in 1982 and 1983. GDP at constant prices
grew at an average annual rate of 6 percent between 1964 and 1979. During
the same period, real growth of estate agriculture and manufacturing
exceeded 10 percent per annum and export volume grew at 4.5 percent per
annum. A steadily increasing investment rate (rising from 9 percent of GDP
at independence to 33 percent in 1979) has been supported by heavy inflows
of official and private external capita-l as well as by a significant
increase in domestic savings (from virtually nil in 1964 to 14 percent of
GDP in 1979).
5.        Malawi's past development success has been due largely to the
realistic and purposeful policies of the Government. Public investment has
been intended primarily to support private initiative in the directly
productive sectors by providing infrastructure, public uw'1ities and
support services. The Government has emphasized smallholder agriculture,
as about 90 percent of the population lives in the rural areas and depends-
on agriculture for its livelihood. The Government has thus undertaken a



number of integrated rural development projects and, in the late 1970s,
enbarked on the National Rural Development Program (NRDP), an ambitious
20-year program for extending services to smallholders countrywide. The
Government's decision to emphasize directly productive sectors and
infrastructure has resulted in.relatively slower development of social
services. Over the past 10 years, 7 percent of the Government's
development budget has been spent on health, education and community
development, compared to 22 percent on natural resources and 39 percent on
communication.
6.        Malawi's economy is heavily dependent on three primary commodity
exports (tobacco, tea, and sugar) and is highly vulnerable to international
price fluctuations. Since 1974, there have been periodic balance of
payments problems of increasing severity due primarily to (a) rapid
escalation in import prices, particularly of fuel and intermediate and
capital goods; (b) cyclical swings in export prices of cobacco, sugar and
tea; and (c) significantly higher costs of transport for exports and
imports owing to rising ocean freight charges, port congestion in
l4ozambique, and disruptions of overland transport.
7.        While the Government successfully steered the economy through
balance of payments crises in the past, the deterioration in the balance of
payments since 1978 has been less manageable. For reasons mostly outside
Malawi's control, the deficits in both the trade and non-factor services
grew rapidly until 1980. Between 1977-80 Malawi's terms of trade fell by
40 percent. While export prices declined by 16 percent (due mainly to
falling tea and tobacco prices), import prices rose by 39 percent, partly
because of the steep increase in prices of petroleum products. The
petroleum import bill more than doubled, raising its share in total imports
from 8.5 percent in 1977 to more than 16 percent in 1983. In 1980 and
1981!, agricultural production suffered from recurring drought, reducing
export volumes and necessitating large imports of maize, a commodity in
which Malawi had been self-sufficient during most of the 1970s. Finally,
disruptions of the rail transport system through Mozambique have forced
Malawi to use more costly alternative routes as principal means of
transport for exports and imports. As a result of these developments
Malawi's current account deficit deteriorated sharply. From an annual
average of about 8-9 percent of GDP in the mid-1970s, it rose to 18 percent
in 1978 and 23 percent in 1979 before falling to 19 percent in 1980, 12
percent in 1981, 8.3 percent in 1982 and 11.5 percent in 1983. Capital
inflows did not cover current account deficits and foreign exchange
reserves fell from the equivalent of over five months of imports to less
than two months between 1977-83.
8.        Malawi's fiscal position also seriously deteriorated.  From
independence through 1977/78, government expenditures and revenues expanded
roughly in line with the increases in GDP, and deficits rarely exceeded
eight or nine percent of GDP. In the past four years, expenditure growth
has outstripped the increase in revenues and the share of government
deficits in GDP averaged 15.6 percent in 1978-81. The underlying cause of
these deficits was the increase in government expenditure to around 35
percent of GDP compared to an average 26 percent for the previous six
years. Increases in domestic borrowing, mainly from the monetary system,



-3-
and in foreign borrowing, partly, on commercial terms, were required to
finance the rising budget deficits. Inflationary pressures grew and prices
rose at an average rate of 13 percent per annum in the first four years of
the 1980s, well above the average of 9 percent from 1973-79.
9.        Because of the Government's limited ability to mobilize
resources, the appreciable expansion of Malawi's development program over
the past decade has been financed in large part by increased public capital
inflows. The net contribution from foreign official sources to the
financing of public investment increased from US$17 million in FY68, to
about US$105 million in FY82, of which about US$48 million were grants.
However, borrowing on commercial terms accounted for about 50 percent of
total borrowing from 1979-81.
10.       The Government and the ITF agreed to a new standby program for
SDR 22 million in August 1982. A first phase of a multi-year stabilization
effort, the program aimed at reducing both the balance of payments current
account deficit and the budgetary deficit. As part of the program, the
Government devalued the kwacha against the SDR by 15 percent in April
1982. The other performance criteria involved phased ceilings on net
domestic assets of the banking system and on net credit to the Government
and a limit on government external commercial borrowing. The standby was
implemented satisfactorily, and the Government and the IMF concluded a new
multi-year program, and a three year Extended Fund Facility was approved in
September 1983 and has been implemented successfully so far. As part of
the Extended Fund Facility, the Government devalued the kwacha against the
SDR by 12 percent in September 1983 and switched to a basket of currencies
on January 1984.
11.       These measures are complemented by a medium-tern structural
adjustment program on which the Government enbarked in 1981.  The program's
principal objectives are to diversify Malawi's export base, encourage
efficient import substitution, adjust income policies, improve the public
sector's financial performance and strengthen economic planning and
monitoring. The Bank's first structural adjustment loan for US$45 million
was made in June 1981. After initial difficulties, good progress was made
in Implementing the Government's adjustment program: additional funds were
allocated to the agricultural sector, agricultural prices were adjusted,
public utility tariffs increased and the budget for 1982-83 was trimmed,
with sufficient resources provided for major development sectors.  The
second tranche was released in April 1982. However, during 1982 the
country's efforts were set back by increased disruption of the traditional
transport routes and continued depressed demand for Malawi's export
products. Nevertheless, the country was able to hold its current account
deficit to 11.3 percent of GDP in 1983, reduce the budgetary deficit for
FY1983 to 9 percent of GDP, and meet its IMF standby borrowing ceilings.
GDP growth recovered to 2.6 percent, and 4.4 percent, respectively in 1982
and 1983. External grants and net capital inflow continued to fall and
despite a rescheduling of its external debt, net asset transfers have
fallen sharply since 1980. Malawi's economic perforoance and
creditworthiness are expected to continue to improve in the medium term if
the structural adjustment program is implemented successfully, the external
transport and terms of trade conditions do not deteriorate further, and the
fall in foreign asset flows is reversed.



-4-
12.       In December 1983, a second structural adjustment operation was
approved by the Board. The program supported by SAL II builds on the
progress made under SAL I and strengthens areas not covered in the first
program or where implementation was not completely satisfactory.
Implementation of SAL II has gone well in many facets such as the
strengthening of agricultural marketing, setting agricultural prices, the
price liberalizarion program, budgetary allocations, revenue measures and
development of an estate credit project. However, there have been some
delays in developing a rationalization plan for Press Holdings, projecting
revenues and expenditures, and developing a three year investment program.
It has also been necessary to revise the 1984/85 development budget. When
these steps have been taken the second tranche will be released.
13.       By the end of 1983, Halawi's external public debt outstanding and
disbursed totalled US$705 million. In late 1982, Malawi rescheduled both
its official and commercial debts. Otherwise its debt servicing, including
repayments to the IMF, would have amounted to over US$130 million,
equivalent to over 40 percent of exports of-goods and services. This
compares to a level of about 10 percent in the mid-1970s. A second year of
rescheduling was agreed to in October of 1983, keeping the debt service
ratio to 26.7 percent in 1983. Although the Government has indicated that
it will not be asking for any further rescheduling, the debt service ratio
is expected to remain at 25-30 percent over the next few years.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALALI
14.       Over the past 18 years. Malawi has received 31 IDA credits and
one Specia-l Fund credit totalling about US$414 million and seven Bank loans
totalling US$93 mlllion, of which two were on third window terms. -Of the
Bank Group assistance, some US$123 million (24 percent) was for
agriculture. US$108 million (21 percent) for education, US$114 million (22
percent) for roads, US$100 million (20 percent) for structural adjustment,
US$39 million (8 percent) for power, US$11 million (2 percent) for water,
and the balance of US$12.0 million (2 percent) for health, development
finance and technical assistance. The first Bank loan to Malawi was made
on third window terms in June 1976 and the first standard Bank loan in
April 1977. The most recent operations were a US$13.1 million equivalent
credit, a US$13.8 million equivalent Special Fund credit and a US$18.0
million loan for a fifth highways project; a US$55.0 million equivalent
credit for a second structural adjustment project and a US$1.5 million
equivalent credit for a related technical assistance project. IFC's
-investment in Malawi consists of a loan of US$10.8 million for a textile
mill, another of US$9.9 million for a sugar mill, a US$0.6 million equity
investment in the Investment and Development Bank of Malawi (5nDEBANK) and
a US$2.0 million loan to Malawi Motels Limited fof tourism. A US$300,000
equity investment and a loan of US$1.9 million for the production of
ethanol from molasses were approved in July 1980, and a US$0.5 million
equity subscription and US$1.8 million loan investment in the Viphya
PlywoodS and Allied lndustries United were approved in August 1984. A
Suumary Statement of Bank Group Operations is provided in Annex II.



15.       During the next five years, Bank Group assistance to Malawi will
continue to be designed to help Malawi restructure its economy, especially
to help improve agricultural productivity and the efficiency and
effectiveness of public and private enterprises. To-wards this end. the
second structural adjustment and related technical assistance projects will
continue to improve incentives for smallholders, increase efficiency in the
productive sectors, better mobilize and manage resources and improve
development administration and the capacity for policy formulation. A
third structural adjustment project is planned for FY86. Further
investments in agriculture, transportation, education, health/population,
power and water supply are contemplated as well as a second line of credit
to INDEBANK. The Bank Group's economic and sector work will build on the
previous studies (e.g. basic economic report, sector work on energy, health
and NRDP by focusing on five high priority areas which will, over the
medium term, help Malawi improve its economic performance: (a) agricultural
productivity; (b) external transport; (c) public sector management; (d)
industrial productivity; and (e) development of Malawi's human resource
potential by addressing the problems of population growth and the cost
effectiveness of the social sectors.
External Debt
16.       The Bank Group's share of Malawi's external debt (disbursed and
outstanding) at the end of 1982 was about 36 percent (IBRD: 11 percent,
IDA: 25 percent), and its share in debt service was about nine percent.
Because Malawi is one of the least developed countries, many other donors
give aid on grant terms. Other major donors have been the United Kingdom,
the Federal Republic of Germany, the European Economic Community and the
African Development Bank.
Disbursements
17.       Disbursements of the Bank Group loans and credits in Halawi
generally have kept close to schedule and compare favorably with other
countries in the region and even on a Bank-wide basis. During the period
FY80-83, the disbursement rate on loans and credits to Malawi (excluding
the effect of non-project lending) averaged about 28 percent per annum,
significantly higher than the Eastern Africa Regional average of 19 percent
and the Bank-wide average of about 21 percent.
Project Implementation
18.       Overall, implementation of Bank projects continues to be good.
However, the third NRDP project has recently been classified as a problem
project-the first ever in Malawi--due to inadequate budget provision,
fertilizer shortage and lack of marketing and input infrastructure.
Implementation and disbursements are 50 percent of appraisal estimates.
The Government has agreed to reassess its FY84 development budget so that
it can allocate sufficient budgetary resources for the project, to commence
construction of marketing and input facilities and to ensur. timely
delivery of fertilizer. With these corrective actions, the project is
expected to regain lost momentum.
.                      _   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-6-
PART III- TME  OUSING S%CWO%
Urban Background
19.       The urban population of Malawi in 1983 comprised approximately 10
percent of the total population of about 6.6 million. About two-thirds of
the urban population is concentrated in Blantyre, the largest city
(estimated population of 250,000), and Lilongwe, the new capital (estimated
population of 130,000). Urban growth has been reasonably well managed, and
basic services have been provided to the majority of urban residents
through the extension of nation-wide sectoral programs in health,
education, water supply and housing. Despite this good record of providing
for growth, the Government has found it increasingly difficult to maintain
service levels because of the growing constraints on both recurrent and
capital budgets. As a result, cost recovery policies in the social sectors
and improvements in the management of statutory bodies have become
important elements of the Government's structural adjustment policies. One
of the most difficult areas in which the Government has tried to formulate
new policies has been in housing, both because housing benefits form a
major share of total implicit compensation levels in Malawi, thereby
substantially affecting the level of real wages, and because housing
construction under current policies constitutes a large share of Government
investment costs in sectors as diverse as agriculture, health and
education.
Housing Development
20.       Housing supply in Malawi has historically been dominated by the
Government, with less than 10 percent of the urban population financing
their own houses through formal market sources. The Government has
maintained a highly successful sites-and-services program (based on
Traditional Housing Areas - THA's), which has enabled lower income urbat
residents, amounting to about half of the population, to construct
self-help housing in a planned setting. However, at the upper end of the
housing scale, Malawi has maintained the colonial tradition of providing
subsidized housing as part of a benefit package made available to many
higher-level employees in the public and private sectors. The major- share
of such housing is owned by the Government, either as institutional housing
held by individual ministries or as general purpose pool housing owned by
Malawi Housing Corporation (MHC) (para. 22) and rented on a sub-economic
basis to the Government or to employees of statutory bodies and private
firms.
21.       Between 1971 and 1981, an average annual growth rate of 17
percent was maintained for traditional housing'plots and 5 percent for
permanent housing. This high volume of traditional housing production
provided for a major share of the increase in the urban population, which
grew at an estimated annual rate of approximately eight percent over the
period. The more mDdest growth in the permanent housing stock was well
below the increase in the number of employees eligible for rental housing,
so that, by 1983, approximately half of the civil servants eligible for



-7-
rental housing were on the waiting list. Halawi's current budgetary
constraints have since reduced all types of housing construction to minimum
levels, thus aggravating the shortages. Given that urban densities and the
size of the urban population are relatively low in Malawi, the stagnation
in nousing development has not yet been reflected in undue growth of
unplanned housing settlements. Nevertheless, it is estimated that Nalawi
will need to restore an average annual production of at least 4,500 housing
units (including traditional housing plots) to accommodate the expected
increase in the urban population, even allowing for multiple occupancy of
plots.
22.       The main institutions in the sector are:  the Malawi Housing
Corporation (MHC) and Lhe New Building Society (NBS).  The Malawi Housing
Corporation is a statutory body established in 1964 to undertake the
development, construction and management of housing and housing estates
throughout Malawi on a non-profit basis. MHC's charter gives it authority
to engage in a number of activities in the housing sector, including the
provision of serviced land and housing for resale and the extension of
construction loans to individuals. In practice, MHC has been mainly
involved in the construction and maintenance of rental housing estates and
the development of Traditional Housing Areas. The corporation 's current
housing stock consists of almost 10,000 permanent nousing units, of which
over half are rented to the Government for occupation by civil servants,
while the remainder are rented to employees of statutory bodies and private
individuals. In addition, MRC administers over 25,000 THA plots, with
10.000 additional such plots scheduled to be transferred to MaC from the
recently dissolved Capital City Development Corporation, which was formed
to manage the construction of the capital city of Lilongwe.
23.       MHC's organizational structure and financial accounting system
have developed along the lines of a public utility, in keeping with NHC's
primary emphasis as a property management company. It is organized with
three uperating Departments (Administration, Technical and Finance), each
of which is sub-divided into a number of operating sections. The
corporation, which is almost completely Malawianized, is8 staffed by over
450 permanent employees and more than 1,000 contract workers, the latter
being primarily involved in direct labor.
24.       MHC is largely dependent for its revenues on rentals charged to
the Government. Because of the Government's own budgetary problems, rental
increases have been granted reluctantly and only after MHC' s financial
situation weakened to a precarious position. In addition, housing
construction costs have increased much more rapidly than average inflation,
so that, between 1973 and 1981, the cost of a house designed for a
middle-level civil servant increased by 250 percent, while MaC's average
rental charge for the same grade house 'ncreased by only 50 percent. As a
result of this uneconomic rental structure, MNC.made a net loss in 1982 and
its debt-service ratio fell below 1.0. The situation worsened in 1983 and
the first part of 1984, although a 20 percent increase in rental charges
approved by the Government for April 1984 is expected to stabilize MHC's
financial situation temporarily. However, without a fundamental change in
MHC's financial outlook, a continuing cycle of periodic losses and
inadequate rental increases by the Government is the only foreseeable
prospect.



-8-
25.       Despite HaC's recent financial problems, the corporation has
performed well in fulfilling its mandate in the past, and has developed the
experience and tecbnical capacity to undertake a larger and more dynamic
program of land and housing de-relopment. MNC's future prospects as a
property development coapanz clearly rest with the establishment of a
viable financial and organizational structure for market-based housing
sales.  This will require a nmber of organizational and financial
changes. For example, the excess demand for houses due to HEC's
sub-economic rental structure has meant that marketing considerations have
been min4- l in determining the corporation's investment program.
Moreover, as MEC has depended primarily on long-term debt financing to
develop new housing, internal cash generation and control of working
capital have not been exploited as a means of maintainiag housing
construction. Finally, MNC needs to strengthen its management of
construction, as the use of direct labor has been identified as a source of
hidden overheads and possible delays.
26.       The New Building Society.  The New Building Society (NBS) is the
sole registered building society in Malavi. It is based in Lilongwe, with
five branch offices providing coverage of the major urban areas. The
Government is the principal shareholder with 51 percent of the outstanding
share capital, and the remaining share capital is split equally between
Lonrho (Malawi) Ltd. and Protea Assurance Co. Ltd. of South Africa.  The
society operates under the general direction of the Reserve Bank of Malavi,
and it competes directly with the Post Office Savings Bank in attracting
accounts from smaUl depositors. NBS has played a limited role in the
sector up to now, financing less than 10 percent of the total stock of
housing. Its current mortgage portfolio, consisting of fewer than 700
mortgages for the country as a whole, is concentrated almost exclusively in
the upper-income bracket, a market which has stagnated due to depressed
economic conditions in Malawi. Nevertheless, NBS's potential for
mobilizing resources for the housing sector is promising.  Between FY79 and
Fv-84, NBS experienced growth rates of 21 percent in its deposit accounts
and 14 percent in its mortgage lending. The society's ability to attract
new depositors, despite more favorable tax treatment on interest paid by
the Post Office Savings Bank, is due to its emphasis on customer service
and its effective use of advertising. Nevertheless, the slow-down in
growth of lending demand due to the stagnation of housing sales at the
upper income levels has resulted in the society holding excessive liquid
funds, which it has invested primarily in Reserve Bank stock. At the end
of FY84, NBS held about US$3.75 million equivalent in Government bonds and
current assets, while only 67 percent of its financial assets were held in
the form of mortgages. This level of liquidity provides NBS with a good
financial base for expanding its mortgage lending at the middle and lower
income levels, provided that such bousing can be made available on an
affordable basis.
27.       Although NBS's net profit position has been generally
satisfactory, growth in earnings since 1982 has been due primarily to the
high returns on Government bonds, rather than the strength of its mortgage
portfolio. In addition, in response to a recommendation by the INF in
1983, the Reserve Bank raised all deposit rates in Malawi by two percentage



-9-
points but did not approve corresponding increases in lending rates. As a
result, the effective spread on NBS's mortgage portfolio was reduced to the
point where NBS would have sustained a loss during FY84 without its
investment earnings. In response to this situation, the Board of NBS
recently approved changes ikn its mortgage lending rates, including an
increase in the lending rate for owner-occupied housing from 11.75 percent
to 13 percent, which are expected to be adequate to maintain a position
level of net income on existing operations.
Subsidized Housing
28.       The fact that housing is generally considered to be a part of the
overall compensation package in Malawi makes it more difficult to resolve
the financial problems facing the housing sector, particularly those of
MHC. -Rental charges paid by employees receiving housaing are generally
determined as a fixed percentage of their income, rather than on the basis
of the cost of the housing. For example, civil servants are assessed
rental charges at 10-12j percent of their salaries, while rental charges
for employees of statutory bodies may be as low as 5-7f percent of income.
As a result of this practice, employees often pay less than half of the
rental charge assessed by MHC. Since the employer, which is often the
Government, must cover the difference in rental payments, the Government is
normally reluctant to increase MHC's rental charges. Another implication
of the system of rentals is that there is considerable resistance to any
changes in housing standards designed to lower the unit cost of housing,
which are viewed as a loss of salary entitlement.  Finally, as housing
benefits have been immune to inflation during a period when the real value
of monetary wages eroded significantly, the total compensation package paid
to civil servants has become unbalanced with respect to non-wage benefits,
aggravating the inequalities between civil servants receiving housing and
those who do not.
29.       If only the direct cash outlay of the Government on housing
subsidies is considered (as represented by the difference between total
rent collections from tenants and the expenditures by Government and MHC on
debt service, maintenance and administration), the subsidy burden appears
to be about USS2-5 million pet year. The main reason for the relatively
modest size of this expenditure, which represents about 1-2 percent of the
Government's anntal recurrent budget, is that much of the housing stock has
been fully amortized or financed on concessional terms through donor
projects in various sectors. However, when housing subsidies are computed
in economic terms (which gives an approximate value of the income in-kind
transferred to occupants of subsidized housing), housing subsidies are seen
to constitute a major component of the total implicit compensation
package. In 1982, the economic value of housing subsidies received by
civil servants occupying rental housing ranged from an average of 75-160
percent of salary payments. As a yardstick, it is estimated that if *11
civil servants were housed on the basis of the approved entitlement, the
economic subsidy value would exceed USS50 million r..;r year.
30.       The Government is aware of the need to approach the subsidy
problem at three Levels:  (i) by establishing private home ownership as a
feasible and desirable alternative for a larger share of urban residents;



- 10 -
(ii) by improving cost-control and management of the existing stock of
Government housing; and (iii) by addressing the role of housing benefits in
the overall compensation system. Because implicit housing subsidies often
exceed the value of monetary wages, a simple substitution of wage -ncreases
for housing subsidies would be neither feasible nor necessarily equitable.
Therefore, a course needs to be explored that would limit the growth of
subsidies by providing incentives for private home ownership and by
reducing the unit cost of new housing units, while at the same time
addressing the subsidies on the existing housing stock through
modifications of wage and rental policies and possible divestiture of
part of the Government's existing bousing stock. These measures would help
the Government gradually reduce the linkage between housing benefits and
compensation policies in order to achieve a compensation system which
combines the Government's equity and incentive objectives with provision
for private home ownership.
Future Sector Policies
31.       The President of Malawi has mandated that the Government must
begin the process of moving away from the system of subsidized rental
housing and ensure that every civil servant can own his own home by the end
of the century. In the framework of the ongoing structural adjustment
operation, the Government has formally notified the Bank of its intent to
ellliinate or minimize housing subsidies. Moreover, the Office of Housing
in the Office of the President and Cabinet has recently prepared a draft
policy statement that recognizes the need for Malawi to institute
structural reforms in the housing sector and recommends:
(a)  increased emphasis on individual home ownership,
particularly through sites-and-services type program_;
(b) expanded credit facilities to encourage bome ownership
and mobilization of private savings; and
(c) phasing out of rent subsidies to civil servants and
their replacement with a housing allowance system and
economic rentals on the Government-owned housing stock.
The development of a private housing market is considered by the Government
to be the first priority in implementing this policy, in order to provide a
credible alternative to the current system of rental housing. The Malawi
Hous±ng Corporation has ceased the construction of new housing for the pool
of general purpose subsidized rental housing. What little construction of
staff housing remains (vi;tually all of which is connected with specific
donor-flnanced projects in such sectors as agriculture, health and
education) is best dealt with on a technical basis in an effort to minimize
construction costs. Therefore, initiation of a market-based system of
housing supply is essential if Malawi is going to revive its stagnated
housing sector. Parallel to these efforts to restore housing construction,
the Government plans to continue its successful program of
sites-and-services and traditional housing development, which has attracted
substantial external assistance.



- 1' -
Bank Role and Strategy
32.       The Bank has given priority to the housing sector in its first
urban operation because of the acute need to reorient policies and
practices toward the provision of affordable and financially viable housing
alternatives. The Bank has proposed to the Government that the problem
should be dealt with at two levels. First, the essential elements required
to establish a market-based system of housing supply would be introduced
through the Urban Project. Also, interim reductions would be achieved in
the unit cost of staff houses for projects proposed for financing by the
Bank Group in various other sectors.  In this respect, the Government has
been asked to confirm cost reductions of about 30 percent identified for
agricultural projects that have been appraised. These reductions are
expected to be applied for all Bank-financed projects. Secondly,
longer-term financial and sectoral reforms would be sought through an
investigation of ways of phasing out housing as an integral part of
employee compensation, through a study to be included in the Urban
Project. The latter study is consistent with the agreements reached under
the Second Structural Adjustment Project, which requires the subsidy issue
to be addressed in the context of the proposed urban project.
33.       In the urban areas in general, the Bank Group has provided
assistance for water supply, health, education and industrial development
through projects in these sectors. The Blantyre Water Supply Project (IDA
Credit of US$7.0 million, approved June 1977) is agumenting water supply to
Malawi's largest city, and an IDA-financed engineering credit is helping to
identify and prepare water supply and sanitation investments in Lilongwe,
with technical assistauce being provided for testing and establishing
low-cost sanitation programs, especially for urban dwellers. A health
project (IDA Credit of USS6.8 million, approved August 1983) aims to
improve the health care delivery system in Lilongwe and Blantyre, as well
as a number of semi-urban and rural areas. Much of the Bank's considerable
lending for education has gone to construction and quality improvements of
educational establishments in the main urban centers. With the addition of
the housing sector through the proposed urban project, it is judged that
the Bank's total program in urban areas is well-balanced and appropriate to
the size of Malawi's urban sector.
i
PARr IV - T'HE PROJECT
34.       The proposed project is based on a Bank review in 1982 of
Malawi's housing policies, and is linked to the ongoing dialogue on housing
subsidies and costs within the framework of the Bank's structural
adjustment operations and overall lending and sector work (para. 32).
Negotiations were held in Washing:on, D.C. between September 17-21, 1984.
The Malawi delegation was led by Mr. J. R. Phiri, Undersecretary, Ministry
of Finance. Annex III contains Supplementary Project Data.



- 12 -
Project Objectives
35.       The project would help reorient future hDusing development in
Halawi toward a market-based system by almost tripling the availability of
mortgage finance, introducing a new affordable standard of permanent
housing, and restructuring key institutions to play a more dynamic role in
land and housing development. The project seeks to enhance the bousing
sector's viability and financial independence by encouraging greater use of
private funds for bousing finance, reducing housing costs and standards,
expanding the use of small contractors and self-help construction,
and introducing full cost recovery for housing constructed under the
project. Thus, the project would give direct support to some of the
essential objectives of Malawi's ongoing structural adjustment program,
which aims in part to enhance cost recovery in the social sectors and
improve the financial performance of public sector agencies. The project
would also help the Government investigate ways of phasing out subsidies oa
the existing housing stock and reducing the linkage between housing
benefits and total compensation policies. Parallel to these goals, the
project would further expand and strengthen Malawi's successful program for
low-cost traditional housing.
Project Description
36.       The project would provide for:
(a) development of 2,230 plots and mortgage financing for
2,000 low-cost houses at a standard intermediate
between the present high-cost permanent housing and the
basic traditional structures;
(b) development of 500 plots in traditional housing areas
and building materials loans for 1,000 plotholders; and
(c) institutional support and technical assistance for
reviewing housing subsidies and wage policies;
training of local contractors; land adjudication and
registration; building by-laws legislation; and project
implementation.
Detailed Features
37.       Intermediate Housing Area Program.  Through this program, the
Halawi Housing Corporation (paras. 22 to 25) would develop plots for
intermediate standard housing, while the New Building Society (paras. 26
and 27) would provide mortgage financing for the development of houses
baspd on low-cost designs prepared by MHC. All land and housing in
intermediate areas would be offered on a full cost recovery basis and
financed at prevailing market interest rates. To start the program
promptly, MHC will employ contractors to construct core housing units on
two sites to be developed during the first year of project implementation.
Thereafter, MHC will reserve a portion of project sites for self-managed
construcEion of housing by individuals or by private developers contracting
for groups of individuals (such as employees of a single firm). NHC would



- 13 -
be responsible for building inspections to ensure that houses are
constructed to agreed standards. An initial mIx of housing types and cost
targets for housing to be constructed under the project has been agreed
with MHC and will be reviewed annually to ensure that the project addresses
a broad range of income groups.  For all project sites subsequent to the
initial sites mentioned above, MRC would reserve a minimum of 30 percent of
plots for housing construction by individuals or private developers, as
opposed to construction by MHC contractors (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.01 (d) (iii)).
38.       NHC would pre-screen applicants for plots to ensure that a
one-household one-plot policy is maintained under the program. The
New Building Society would apply standard eligibility criteria for mortgage
lending; i.e., applicants would provide evidence of satisfactory earnings,
and monthly mortgage payments should not exceed 25 percent of monthly
income. The society would loan up to 75 percent of the assessed valuation
of the house and land to qualified applicants. For Malawian citizens
purchasing housing for owner-occupation, the Government would provide a
guarantee for an additional 20 percent of the assessed valuation of the
house and land, allowing the New Building Society to increase its mortgage
financing percentage to 95 percent. This arrangement has been operating
satisfactorily for a number of years in Malawi and the guarantee has never
had to be envoked, although the Government may decide to levy a small
placement charge under the program to establish a guarantee fund in case of
default. Mortgage payments in almost aLl cases will be deducted directly
from salary payments by employers and remitted to NBS, which is a common
practice for contractual obligations in Malawi. The Department of Lands
and Valuation, which controls the registration and leasehold terms for
transfers of land in Malawi, will allow all plots demarcated under the
intermediate housing area program to be transferred on the basis of a
minimum leasehold period of 66 years, in order to provide adequate title
security to support morgage lending (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.01 (c)).
39.       Traditional Housing Area Program.  The project would also develop
a limited number of plots for traditional housing, which would be allocated
according to the prevailing criteria for the ongoing traditional housing
area program.  Most of the plots would be developed in conjunction with
intermediate housing area plots in a mixed housing plan. A typical example
of this type of development reserves all plots along the major access roads
for sale as intermediate housing plots, while traditional housing plots are
located on minor access roads and served by water kiosks only.
40.       In addition, a building materials loan program would be
introduced by the Malawi Housing Corporation, to serve about 1,000
traditional plotholders.  The initiation of the loan scheme on a pilot
basis will help MHC introduce the principles of cost-recovery into the
traditional housing area program. In the past, only the recurrent costs
fnr ,YRC's administration of traditional housing have been recovered, while
capital costs have been covered by external grants or concessional loan
funds. The study on housing subsidies proposed in the project (para. 41)
will include a consideration of options for broader introduction of cost
recovery principles into traditional housing areas.



- 14 -
41.       Institutional Support and Technical Assistance.  The continuing
development of the housing sector would be supported by several activities
designed to strengthen key institutions and address policy issues. The
specific components are:
(a) A Housing Subsidies and Wage Policy Study would examine
ways of reducing housing subsidies, with particular
emphasis on quantifying the impact of the various
options on overall employee compensation levels and the
Government's budgetary requirements. The study
would include a consideration of Government policies
toward the existing housing stock, including the
possibility for divestiture of part of the stock not
required for specifically defined purposes, and an
examination of the options for establishing cost
recovery pricing in traditional housing areas (para.
40). The Government has agreed to the terms of
reference for the study as prepared by the Bank; to
complete the study by March 31, 1986; and submit to the
Association by October 31, 1986, an action program and
timetable for implementing the study's agzeed
recommendations (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.01 (f)).
gb)  Small Contractors Training Program.  Technical
assistance and equipment would be provided for the
establishaent of a training program specifically aimed
at small local contractors involved in residential
building construction, to assist them in meeting the
building requirements for the intermediate standard
housing and to compete effectively in this market.
(c) Land Registration and Adjudication Program.  Technical
assistance and equipment would be provided for a
four year program of land demarcation, land survey, and
claims adjudication to extend the land registration
system currently used in Lilongwe to the city of
Blantyre, including areas to be developed through the
project.
(d) Building By-Laws Study.  Technical assistance would be
provided to review the recommendations of a
Bank-financed study in Kenya on streamlining building
by-laws for low-cost housing, to determine whether the
proposals can be adopted in Malawi.
(e) Project Implementation Assistance. Technical
assistance and equipment would be provided to the
Office of Housing (para. 45): (i) to improve project
monitoring and housing policy formulation, including a
pilot survey of housing conditions in Malawi; and vii)



- 15 -
to improve the ability of the Office of Housing to
oversee the management of the stock of Government-owned
housing.  IdHC would be provided with a limited amount
of technical assistance and equipment to enhance its
accounting system and improve its techaical capacity to
implement low-cost housing projects.
Costs and Financing
42.       The project's total costs, including contingencies, are estimated
at US$18.2 million, of which US$4.1 million (or 22 percent) are foreign
costs. Taxes are estimated to be US$0.5 million, or about three percent of
total costs. Capital costs of civil works, including costs of site
preparation, account for 87 percent of total costs, professional services
for 7 percent, equipment and vehicles for 4 percent, and Land compensation
costs (which are all locally financed) for the remaining 2 percent. Base
costs are estimated in June 1984 prices. Estimated costs of civil works
are based on final engineering designs for sites to be developed in the
project's first year and estimated unit costs for subsequent sites. Unit
costs for house construction are based on detailed designs for all units
and actual costs for construction of prototype units. Physical
corringencies are estimated at the rate of 10 percent for land development,
5 percent for house construction, and 10 percent for the extension of a
land registry building. Price contingencies for local costs are calculated
on the basis of expected increases of 12 percent in 1984, 11 percent in
1985, 10 percent in 1986 and 1987, and 9 percent thereafter. Expected
increases in the foreign cost component are based on anticipated inflation
of 3.5 percent in 1984, 8 percent in 1985 and 9 percent thereafter.
43.       The IDA credit would provide all the required external funding of
US$4.1 million. Local costs of US$14.1 million would be financed by TDA
(US$10.9 million), the New Building Society (US$1.3 million), the Malawi
Housing Corporation (US$0.6 million), the mortgage downpayments of private
individuals (US$0.8 million) and the Government (US$0.5 million). NBS
would also provide an additional amount of local funds equivaleat to US$3.1
million for long-term refinancing of residential land developed by MHC.
Onlending Terms
44.       For the New Building Society, funds totaling US$10.3 miliion for
mortgage finance will be passed on by the Government in equal parts (i) as
a 25 year annuity loan with interest computed on the basis of the
prevailing Government interest rate for loans to parastatals and other
agencies (currently set at 10 percent); and (ii) as a Government
subordinated loan on which no interest will accrue for the first ten
years. For the Malawi Housing Corporation, funds totaling US$2.4 million
for land development in intermediate housing areas would be passed as an
equal combination of debt and equity investment by the Government, with
interest on the loan portion equal to the prevailing interest rate charged
by the Government for loans to parastatals. Funds totaling US$0.5 million
for the pilot building materials loan program in traditional housing areas
would be onlent to NHC at the interest rate charged by the Government to



- 16 -
parastatals. Funds of US$0.5 million for land development in traditional
housing areas will be passed to NMC as a grant. The NBS mortgage interest
rate for the ultimate beneficiaries would be 12 percent per annum, which is
a preferential rate charged to owner-occupiers who borrow less than
US$11,250 for homes costing less than US$11,850 (NBS's interest rates for
larger properties and properties not occupied by the owner range from 13 to
16.5 percent). Inflation is projected to average about 10 percent during
the project implementation period, so the interest rate to be charged by
NBS to the ultimate beneficiaries is expected to be positive in real terms
over the project period.  NBS's rate structure is consistent with the
general structure of interest rates in Malawi, and the onlending terms to
NBS and MHC will provide an adequate spread to maintain the profitability
of the mortgage lending program. The Government has committed itself to
maintaining positive real interest rates as part of its structural
adjustment program, and adjustments in the onlending rates are expected to
occur as macroeconomic conditions warrant. The foreign exchange risk for
the credit would be borne by the Government.
Project Execution
45.       The Office of Housing in the Office of the President and Cabinet
(OPC) will be the coordinating agency in the Government for project
activities. It is headed by the Chief Housing Officer, who reports
o the Principal Secretary (Administration) in the OPC. Given the enhanced
status of the Office of Housing and the role assigned to it in policy
formulation, its coordinating role in the project is appropriate.
Implementation Role of Key Institutions
46.       The involvement of the Malawi Housing Corporation and the New
Building Society in the development of market-oriented housing through the
project will require adjustments to the organizational and financial
policies of these institutions, which are sulmmarized as follows.
47.       Malawi Housing Corporation.  NHC proposes to reorient its
managerial and financial objectives and procedures away from estate
management toward property development activities. Planned adjustments to
MHC's financial strategy involve:  (a) establishment of property
development activities (except for traditional housing development) on a
separate accounting basis; (b) use of project financing to develop an
equity base te sustain future property development activities and assist
MHC in gaining access to commercial financing for such development; and (c)
establishment of the corporation's remaining activicies, particularly
estate management, on a break-even basis until Government policy is
resolved regarding divestiture of the rental housing stock. During the
first year of the project, MRC would modify its accounting system so that
separate accounts can be established for the property development
activities by December 31, 1985 (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 4.01 (e)). It is expected that these changes can be introduced by
the financial controller and his staff, although it may be necessary to
retain the financial controller on a consultancy basis following the
termination of his present fixed-term contract or to engage MHC's auditors



- 17 -
(or a comparable accounting firm) on a limited basis to complete the
changes. As funds for site development for intermediate housing would be
advanced to MHC partially as a Government equity investment, MHC would
develop an equity base of about US$1.4 million equivalent and working
capital equivalent to about US$2.3 million by the end of the project period
to support future property development. MHC's pricing policy for
intermediate housing would enable the Corporation to recover its full
development costs for site and housing construction, including a reasonable
share of overhead costs, earn an adequate return on capital funds invested
in the project, meet its financial obligations, and make a reasonable
contribution to reserves for the purpose of financing future investments
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01 (d) (iv)). Also, the
Government would cause MHC to take such actions as may be necessary to
break-even on its estate management operations (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.01 (d) (v)). These agreements are considered to be
the minimum actions necessary to ensure that MHC establishes a viable
financial position for continuing with property development activities
beyond the end of the project. Finally, before agreeing to undertake any
additional investment project with an estimated cost in excess of
US$250,000, including projects financed from internal funds, MHC would
furnish a description of the proposal and an analysis of its financial
viability for the Association's review, along with a statement of the
probable impact of the proposal on the implementation of the project (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01 (d) (ii)).
48.       Regarding changes in MHC's organizational structure, the project
would be carried out initially using existing arrangements, with the
addition of time-recording and charge-out systems to ensure appropriate
allocation of overhead charges. As MHC's property development activities
expand, MHC may consider splitting its technical department to deal with
the two separate functions. The critical positions of Chief
Architect-Planner and Chief Engineer have proven difficult to fill with
adequately-qualified Malawians. Rather than fill these positions with
expatriates, which would impose high overhead costs on the fledgling
housing program, MHC has chosen to complete the first year's design work
with the help of a locally-based firm of professional engineers. MHC's
staffing position and capacity for managing the program would be reviewed
annually with the Association in conjunction with a review that would take
place of MHC's work program (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.01 (d) (i)), and the planned implementation schedule would be revised
accordingly.
49.       New Building Society. The main impact on NBS of the intermediate
housing program would be to help increase total mortgage lending by about
190 percent over the five-year project period. As a result, NBS's
portfolio position would move to a stronger dependence on mortgage lending,
with 72 percent of total income accruing from mortgage interest and 84
percent of the total portfolio invested in mortgages, as compared to 52
percent and 66 percent respectively during FY84 (para. 26). The
on-lending terms to NBS (para. 44) will significantly improve the impact of
the Intermediate Housing Area program by improving the marketability of
low-income housing through the introduction of a new class of mortgage
interest rates on low-cost housing; strengthen the income position of



- 18 -
NBS and provide for a greater margin of safety on the new operations; and
establish a strong financial basis for NBS to take over responsibility for
providing adequate mortgage financing to sustain housing production beyond
the end of the IDA-financed project. NBS has agreed to maintain a minimum
level of income sufficient to cover (in combination with any profits
brought forward from the previous fiscal year) the maximum statutory
dividends payable on share capital (currently about US$37,000 equivalent)
plus a minimum prudent contribution to general reserves, expected to be
about US$75,000 equivalent. NBS's interest rates will be reviewed
periodically with the Government and the Association so that agreed
adjustments can be made to obtain the above targets (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.01 (e)). It is forecast that, by the end of
the project's five years, NBS would achieve total reserves of about US$2.0
million, providing a satisfactory capital structure for the continued
growth of mortgage lending. Finally, NBS's financing share of the
intermediate housing program, which will be US$4.4 million over the project
implementation period, is expected to be accommodated well within the
assumed growth of deposits.
Procurement
50.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
USS Millions
Not        Total
Project Element                    ICB    LCB    Other   Applicable       Cost
Civil and Building Works                 13.2       1.0         1.7       15.9
(11.6)    (0.9)       (1.0)      (13.2)
Professional Services                               1.3                    1.3
(1.2)                  (1.2)
Building Materials, Equipment,                      0.7                    0.7
Vehicles and Furniture                          (0.6)                   (0.6)
Compensation and Incremental                                   0.3         0.3
Operating Expense                                           (0.0)       (0.0)
Total                                    13.2       3.0         2.0       18.2
(11.3)    (2.7)       (1.0)     (15.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
All contract awards would be made according to Bank guidelines. Site
development would be contracted by MHC through local competitive bidding,
in which foreign contractors are eligible to participate. Local bidding
procedures have been reviewed by the Association and judged to be
acceptable. MHC may also choose to carry out certain minor civil works by
force account, when hire of a contractor is not deemed to be efficient,
although approval by the Association would be required for all force



- 19 -
account activities with a value in excess of US$50,000, with the total
amount of force account construction to be undertaken by MHC under the
project not to exceed US$300,00. For bousing construction, MHC is expected
to tender hlocks of houses in packages aimed at encouraging the
participation of small and medium-size local contractors, and local
competitive bidding procedures, which allow for the participation of
foreign contractors, would be used throughout.  Individual plot-holders who
elect to undertake self-managed housing construction would be responsible
for their own procurement, with MHC inspecting the house during
construction to ensure it meets agreed building standards.  The portion of
civil and building works indicated in the table as "not applicable' for
procurement includes various overhead charges and other costs included in
the sales price of the housing, which would be refinanced by NBS in the
mortgage loan. A single building contract for construction of a
strong-room in the Blantyre land registry office, estimated to cost
US$25,000 equivalent, would be awarded through local competitive bidding.
The Association will review all final engineering designs for site
development and all architectural specifications for houses to be
constructed by MHC prior to the preparation of final tender documents.
Approval of draft tender documents and tender awards would be required for
all civil works contracts estimated to cost in excess of US$250,000
equivalent. Equipment would be purchased through standard Government (or
-RC) procurement procedures, which are acceptable to the Association.
Vehicles would be procured by local shopping procedures, with a miniirum of
three price quotations required. The Association would require prior
approval of specifications for all vehicles, survey equipment and data
processing equipment to be procured under the project. Surveying services
are available locally from only two licensed surveyors, so the contract for
these services would be negotiated directly. All other consultancy
services would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines. Total
consultancy services would amount to 69 man-months.
Disbursement
51.       Disbursements would be for:  (i) 95 percent of total expenditures
for MHC's site development (US$2.5 million), building materials loan
program (USS500,000) and consultants' services (US$200,000); (ii) 70
percent of disbursements for mortgage loans by NBS (US$9.5 million); and
(iii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local
expenditures for institutional support and studies (US$1.l million).
Disbursements for site develovment and consultants' services for NBC would
be fully documented, except for work done by force account which would be
on the basis of statements of expenditures. Disbursements for consultants'
services under the institutional support and studies program will be fully
documented for all payments relating to contracts with a total value in
excess of USS20,000; all other disbursements will be on the basis of
statements of expenditures. Disbursements for all remaining categories
will be on the basis of statements of expenditures, which is appropriate
for a program oriented mainly toward small mortgage loans. As a condition
of loan effectiveness, two Special Accounts on terms acceptable to the
Association would be established in the Reserve Bank of Malawi to provide
for disbursements by NMC (initial deposit: US$400,000) and by NBS (initial



- 20 -
deposit: US$800,000) (draft Development Credit Aggreement, Section 2.02 (b)
and (c)). Retroactive financing of up to US$25,000 will be allowed for
fees incurred by MHC since Harch 1, 1984 for engineering design fees and
other services. The closing date for the project will be June 30, 1991.
Monitoring and Evaluation
52.       The Office of Housing would be responsible for overall monitoring
of project activities, including the integration of project budgets i3tc
national budgeting procedures. MHC would be responsible for rev'iewing
applications for plots, houses, and building materials loans and fro
proposing revisions in the housing mix, to be reviewed annually witn the
Association.  MHC and NBS would prepare quarterly reports wirnin four weeics
after the end of each quarter concerning the status of pr1aect components
being implemented by them. The Department of Lands and Valuation and the
Office of Housing would prepare sem$ annual reports on their activities.
All progress reports would be sent directly to the Association and w tie
Office of Housing, which would be responsible for preparing a project
completion report within six months of the close of disbursements.
Blantyre City Council and Lilongwe City Council would play an advisory role
to the project through their Town Planning Committees. As has been past
practice in Malawi, Blantyre and Lilongwe City Councils have agreed to
accept MHC building inspections for the purposes of by-laws regulation.
Accounts and Audits
53.      MNC would be required to submit audited accounts (including
separate and consolidated accounts for the fiscal years 1986 and
thereafter) to v e Association within six months of the close of its fiscal
year (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.01 (d)(iv)). MHC's
accounts are audited by an independent private auditing firm of
international standard, acceptable to the Association. Technical
assistance funds would be made available if required for MNC to engage
consultants and/or the services of its auditors in completing the agreed
changes to its accounting system. NBS would administer wrtgage loans for
the intermediate housing area program as part of its normal lending
operations, and no separate accounting system is considered necessary.
Loans extended under the intermediate housing program would be identified
separately for the purposes of NBS's auditors, to ensure that the auditors
can verify that the loans satisfy lending criteria established under the
Development Credit Agreement and the onlending agreement between the
Government and NBS. NBS's accounts are audited by an independent private
auditing firm of international standard, acceptable to the Association.
NBS would be required to submit audited accounts to the Association within
six months of the close of each fiscal year (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 4.01 (d)(iv)). The Department of Lands and Valuation
and the Office of Rousing would maintain separate budgetary items for
project activities implemented by them, which would be subject to :orual
Government accounting and auditing procedures which are considered to be
satisfactory by the Association.



- 21 -
Market Demand and Affordability
54.       The potential market demand for housing is constrained by the low
level of urban incomes and the pervasive nature of housing subsidies.
Nevertheless, a preliminary announcement of the intermediate housing
program by MHC produced several thousand applications, which indicates that
the demand will be forthcoming if the price of the housing is attractive.
An affordability analysis based on NBS's lending criteria (para. 38)
indicates that the intermediate housing program would be affordable to
households above the 75th percentile of the urban income distribution.
While this limits the potential market for housing, it covers the income
group where the impact of the current housing subsidy program is the
greatest. Households which do not meet the criteria for NBS mortgage
lending would be eligible for the traditional housing program, which, with
the provision of a building materials loan, would be affordable to
households above the 30th precentile of the urban income distribution.
Benefits
55.       The main benefits of the project would be derived from the
initiatives to establish a market-based system of housing supply as a
viable alternative to the current system of public rental housing. By
significantly increasing the participation of the New Building Society in
providing mortgage financing for low-cost housing development, the project
would begin to shift the emphasis in housing financing from Government
sources to domestic savings. By introducing an affordable standard of
housing, the project would reduce the capital costs of responding to
increasing demand for housing. It is projected, for example, that the cost
of providing housing for 2,000 families under the intermediate housing
program would be approximately US$47.0 million less than the cost of
providing the same amount of housing based on the existing civil service
entitlement schedule, in addition to having a much higher cost-recovery
factor. In helping to remove such anomalies from the housing sector, it is
expected that resources would be freed to maintain replicability of
project-supported programs and the further development of the Government's
successful program for traditional housing. As a result of the Bank's
assistance, the institutions in the housing sector would undertake
structural changes in their managerial objectives and financial policies to
enable them to play a mDre dynamic role in the development of
financially-viable housing. In the complex and politically sensitive
sphere of housing subsidies, the project would help the Government explore
ways of reducing the linkages between housing subsidies and compensation
policies in order to draw up a program for future actions. IDA involvement
with the project is justified on the grounds that the project's objectives
directly support the Bank Group's ongoing structural adjustment operations
to improve resource mobilization and management of public sector agencies
and reduce the burden of subsidies in the social sectors.
56.       An economic rate of return has been calculated for the
intermediate housing program on the basis of imputed market rental values
for similar housing in Malawi. The ERR is estimated to be in the range of
14 percent to 16 percent, with an average value of about 15 percent. This
estimate is consistent with the experience of similar projects in other
countries in the Region.



- 22 -
Risks
57.      The major risks of the project relate to:  (i) difficulties in
establishing new procedures and coordinating mechanisas to handle project
activities, particularly by MEC; (ii) the possibility of weak demand for
housing due to depressed economic conditions in Malawi and the previously
untested nature of many segments of the housing market; and (iii) the
continuing commitment of the Government to maintain structural change in
tbe housing sector. Offsetting these risks are: Ca) the considerable
experience of the implementing agencies in the housing sector; (b) the
flexibility of the project design, which allows the agencies to respond to
changes in demend; and (c) the stated policies of the Governmnt in support
of structural chaage in the housing sector, and the framework provided by
the project for a continuing policy dialogue. Given the substantial
benefits expected from the project in reviving Malawi's housing sector on a
financially-sound basis, the risks are considered to be reasoable.
PART V - LEGAL INST IWrS AND AUMTHR
58.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Bank and the
Republic of Malawi, and the Report of the Coumittee provided for in Article
III, Secticn 4Ciii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
59.      Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of
Annex III of the report.
60.      1 am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - lON
61.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
By Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 2, 1984



- 23 -                                             Annex I
T AB  L E  3k                                     Page  1 of  6
HALEd?                 -SOCIAL  sOICATS DOATA SIEET
HALEdTiL                              IEUESIC   COL'S C(ZIUD ASBAES) /a
lOST                (=ST REEW  ESTIRAT) lb
RECE:T     LOW IfCE  AFRIC           HIDLE  hu
196zn !    i97,o     ESTIEnqAT       soC:m aF sJaAA       anIsa S. OF SAM
Ara mTRAs SQ. -)
THTAL                                118.5      t18.5       XI.5                  _
Malca.tTRAL                           37.9       39.5        41.6
Ca      c*I  cas)                        50.0       70.0       210.0             249.1                 1112-9
1MC   1OSOI    PEIt CUT
(ELnOQANS OF OIL EZCiVALES-)           ..       35.0        *6.0              62.8                  529.0
WUATfl -S   VITAL  :ELSTZC
POPCTaST5.D -YEAR CWCSAIDS)        3s9z9.0    .513.0       6452.0                 .
L*AS POPLIAT10S (Z OF TOTAL)           4.4        5.4         9.6              19.2                   29.7
PUPIaATIOS POJECTIONSS
POPCrLrr.os is YEAR 2000 (!IL)                             11_7
STA7IOSAXY POPa.TIos (sILL)                                47.9
POP2LtA-`OS ! sS 1.9
PUJPCLAT.OS DENsIT
PEA Sj. Fm.                         28.9       38.1        52.7              32.5                   55.8
PEA S,_ 301. AGRI. LAND            90.2      114-3       150.0             119.2                  111.5
PoPaLaIOs AGE sTLaCnL (C)
0-iL -RS                           45.5       46.8        47.0              45.6                   45.4
'5:- --Ss                           SZ1.       50-A        49.3             5S-5                    51t7
.5 AND ABOVE                         2.4        2.4         3-6               2.9                    2.9
-jP`:EALTl_x CAOSJTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                                2.4        z.8         3.0               2.8                    2.8
:RMAS                                4.5        6.6         7-a               1.2                    5.2
CREDE BIRTH RATE (PER  ROt'S)         !6.1       56.1        56.z              48.6                   47.0
CRaGn'E DEATH RATE (PER THOIS)        27-.       23.2        22.9              11.7                   15.2
CROSS REPKOD1CTXTIOS RATLE             3-L         34         3-3               3.2                    3.2
FA.-!LLT PLAINsSC
ACCFFTORS. ':CAL (THO.S)
L'SES CZ OF MARSRED iE_ .                        _ .....
FO SD ASITRMOS
,SW8 OF FOOD PROD- PER CALPITA
(1969-73 T00)                         90.0       910         99.0              85.8                   91.6
Efk CAPITA SCPPLY OF
CALORIES (S OF PEQC:IRYEITS)        95.0      100.0        94.0              86.4                   98.2
PRors:xs (caAms PER DAY)            65.0       72.0        65.0              19.9                  56.7
OF _MICh ANLTS. 4a5 POLSE         14_0       19.0        19_0 Ic           18-3                   17.0
CiILL (ACES 1-L) DEATH RATE           58.0       42.0        29.0              23.8                   18.7
I 1FE EXPECT- X- blT- (YEAS)          36-5       40,:        "-                48.4                   51.7
ISFA.X. HURT. RATE (?ER tHOES)       206.0      L73.0       137.0             L17.5                 102.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WTER (EPOF)
TOTAL                                 ..         ..        33.0 Id           21.8                   35.6
:A                                    ..         ..        70.0 IC           61.5                   54.1
ftzflL                                ..         ._        29.071            t1.2                   27.3
ACCESS : EXRaFA DISPOSAL
T OF PopcLiATO)
ErAt .L                                           .                          32.0
Z3Sa                                 ._         __         1-50 td          69.2
ECRAI.                                -.-        ._.__-                      21.8                     .
POFC-IATIuS PER PHYSICIAN          35250.0   38430.0    10950.0 Ie          27477.8                11942 3
POP. PER StUSIEC PERSON            12940.0 /f 9050.0       38300 oic         3396.2                 224s.9
POP. PER hOSPITAL BED
STOAL                              870.0      650.0       740.0 Ie         1069.0                  986.9
IRBAS                              120.0 if  1O6.0        8a0. 7-           395.2                  368.7
RLRAL                             1310.0 o    90 0w.o    14O0O IC          3094.0                 4012.1
AI:lSSOS PER HOSPITAL BED                .       32.1        39.0 Il                                    ..
AvERACE S LZE OF HOCSEHOLD
TOTAL
15A84                                 -.        3.1 I-
KLRAC                                 *         5.0 o
AVERAGE SO. OF PERSOSS/ROOC
::I7AL''                                         '''''---
'155IAS                               ..        1.7 /h
II AL                                 .-    .        _ _     _-                    
ACCESS TO ELECT. ( OF TWhELLINCS)
TorAL                                 .
LIAS                                  ..       16.0 La                         .       
K3VAL..                                           .



- 24 -                                        Annex I
TABLE k                                        Page 2 of 6
ALAU                   -SOCIAL INDICATORS :XA SHEET
MALAWI                               Re C GwROUPs (OSIETED AvERAGES) 
OST                (NOST RECT  ESTIrATE) lb
RECEE1r       L0  INCOME AFRrA DLE ENCORE
196IEd    1970f-    ES.lMATE/gb      sonr OF SAHARA      AFlICA S. OF SAHARA
ADJUSTED EXROLLmE  RATIOS
PlENARY:  TOTAL                       --      36.0        62.0             6942                   91.0
.F-L£                      __       45.0       73.0              78.8                  90.5
FEHALE                     __       26.0       51.0              57.6                  73.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     1.0      20          4.0              13.1                  17.4
MALE                      1.0        3_0        5.0              176                  23.7
FEMALE                    0.3        1.0        2.0               8.3                  14.8
OWCATIONAL CZ OF SECHODY)            23.6        2_9         4.9              7.2                    5.3
Pt IL-TEACR  RATIO
PRIART                             41.0       44.0        65.0             46.1                   38.6
SECO!.DART                          14.0      16.0        21.0             25.9                   24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (-)                 __      22. I/     25.0             44.3                   35.6
PASSENGEE CARS/TRDUSASD POP            1.9       2.2         2.6 /L            3.8                  20_7
RAIO RECEIVERSITHOUSA.D POP           21.6      23_5        45.6             41.9                  100.8
TV RECEIVERS/ITRUSAND POP              1_8        __          ..              2.0                   18.5
ENSPAPUR (-DAILY GENERAL
1-_XST-) CIRaIATIOS
PER   USAD POPULATION                _           .         53 /c            5.4                   17_2
CISL%-A AMCAL ATAENW.NcECAPITA        0.3         _,         0-3 /It          1.4                    0.3
LAO  IOCE
TOl LAOR FORCE (THOUS)              1570.0    1981.0      2656_0
FE!ALE (PERCENT)                   38.7       38.1        37.1             36.5                   33.8
AGRICULTURE (PERC5T)               92.0       89.0        86.0             77.4                   57.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  3.0        4.0         5-0              9.8                   17.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               45.9      43.9        41.2             41.0                   36.3
MALE                                57.5      55.3        52.5              52.1                  47.6
FEMALE                              34_B      32.9        30.2             30.2                   Z5.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0       1.1         1.2              1.2                    1.4
rcSU DIS7DIBOTIOR
PERCENT OF PILIVATE rNCOME
RECEIVED ai
HIGHEST  : OF HOQ1i%OLDS            __       32.6          .
HIGHEST 20_ OF HO3SEftWDS             _       50.6 /        _
6EST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS                        10Q4_ 
L0N6EST 40' OF HOUSElOLDS                     21.5 7        _
P09111r  sT
ESTIMAIED ABSOLUTE POVeM  INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                __         ,_       123.0 /c          1b8.3                 525.3
RMtAL                                 .         __        99.0 7T          90.8                  Z49.0
ESTIMATED RELArTVE POVERY INCOME
LEVEL ;SS PER CAPITA)
URBAS                                ,,         _,        b5.0 Ic         107.7                  477.4
RURAL                                _.         ..        52.0 7r          65.0                  186.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUtE
POVERTY INClOE LE'EL (Z)
URSB_ .                                         _         25.0 /c          34.7
RlRAL                                 -         .-        85.0 7&          65.4                     .
WT AVAILABULE
NoT APPLICABLE
NOT r E S
/a  The group awraes for each Indicator are popu1ztion-eighted arithmetlc weans. C"erage of countries   ng the
Indicators depends on avallabillty of data and is not unifotu.
/b   Unless otherwLse noted. -ta for 1960- refer to any year betwen 1959 and 1961; -Dnt for L970- between t969 and
1971; and data for -bat Recent Estlmte- between 1980 and 1982.
/c  1977; Id 1976; /e 1979; /f 1962; LL 1967; lh 1972: /1 1966, African population only; Li 1978;  k I 975.
JUNE. 1984



- 25 -                                                                      AINEX I
twt-l"aft m sm~~                                               Page of 3 of  6
-  2......    - -  23  2* -      O r.n--.~.    22  -   1      076-                              .202    82 1t   -ft"2 W2  222 "01-   Cb222  -l2-L
s*322   21   2..22222822 10 2? .922.n  r2.  7.1  ~2i4. 2.2  2.22  112.  229.  .C  2 'l22  ~       21222232 .22-..12.2Z
.nfl.2I.   8224  a.2. - C-        -I22..-2  att          2.  .n.   ~2....    .m n.122122  -222           22                                      2.02
inns  2..s... . ~        ~            -L-   -1        2U2. tit"p.    .Il.-P2..2.2.2   .22t -12222
- ?.12.1...S 2.2222   nd*222  342f4. 22t . 192.22i.2  221.   1.  2*21212  2122.122
~1iY.  22.2  222.                                                                   2-2MY2 &-      .2.-r  -2222    Nom.1.2.422   721192272
.t.12..2- 2.1a.'f 2222.2.12  a.422   2222222 _r 3.22..223                             22      t 223422272.2222   ~..  3222 
In 2222.  222.22222 ~222224224*.2     2422 2.?..;2922                    1.222 22.li.2It
27*e  222  i..2292.22.--1.8. -L2. - 41*   225.2                                                                                 2.22    P..2. 22(2.21
2222.       .f..  4222~  22232.222.220.21  ..it.  *41
1.2  .112122  - 2-02  212-..2an.2223.2222.                         223422i 212   C22. 29t2                     2.242.Z ..93222
P2.2  .     12_2  -. 12.-2 ...1.. ..    -   -  2.4-.r 2.22.I                                         I22122  .12 ?-. 4.12 .21- .22  2111 .2222-.t L220232
913  22424*20272*        t- 22422            L
22121472=  21128.222211221% ~ ~ ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       LIM-1 
.21p -    k L. 22-22            ;S3    L 942.3   2,321  .   240.1
-                                                                                   .21   82-4I.2.. 2. 12...   -*..  .    _.22.*2   .2 .2
222    on .2.2  72 -C ---  P =222  2.222227               --222 21                   -12,2..221.2212  222                           232211
2.22.   a2222  2.-222 21 .12.11  12.2  .222.. 2  2*.2              2"IL2   222
12.?  .in 212 -2.22p222.2  2.L22.   22 Wq y*   t22.2.221221221  1.1212  4t- 2.. -                                             1.21  12          212 
- 1.    2. .2222                 ~ ...-.11       .2.21                        2.1..28-.2                      2-.-C..1....2                  
12 S2212  223t                22-2.27122222112   .1222                                  22222  2  2  22       21  1221122   2  22222. 2   29212
1.22   0  .122-.52v22.2224.   -.:   1221 7212217 22242222.2222.: .1.222  1112   02242  24. 2.-2
3222222.  12223.2..22.  .9.2222.122  .2212. 2 132.                         Ip..222M22422  1722   292  2  2.12.282   2
C   2212      422  22 12.2   2.~.2  ....2212.22   2222.22222.-.1222.22, .122222.12  V!2222
.410d  1I2  2*21* 122221.21   ...i222                     2222   .2.222                                232222121.                2222212221
2-2.   2...2c22..222l282  122  .1.22  212  22                                    22..a1  2222  -122   22  a   221  -            .9      .1 o2.2
2*1.      2*  12222  121..2  .22127  .2  22..1.2.22   ....                        4.213212.12222.222  .2.22.2M    212._21W.12-22-"-22
~p?2 .C 22322   .2   222222422.22. 222 2-121.22.*22...ti.P122..2   .222                                                               2   22222   .
2.2         dim-.  .2.-R%     222222   t...t2a Uu22.w    222..93  2I  22  .12.1122l41    1.   1



- 26 -
PW4 of 6
CW AL a        65RM     - (C-3,    u
M2M- ~a3si nmzc
Pqu ffZ at                         fC)
198           1979      198      SI8       -m      195             19&r  198      1985   1W       198
Q:   domric wooV                MU2.,         5'        0.      .0.3       2.6      4               33   3.4      3.7    3.        4.1
Aolmwmg                        4M.1         9.2      -5.4      3.6       5.9      3.2             3.2   3.4    3.6    3.7        3.8
1i3ti7                         223.1        2.8       0.7    -4.8      -3.7    11.0               3.2   3.8    4.0    4.4        4.8
s.gulam                        Sf6.2        L0       71.5    -2.2        2.0      2.3             3.2   2.4    3.6    3.8        4.1
CONFAVC100             l11t0.2       -2.2       4.1    -2.-6      4.1      6.4              9.4  4.86    2.1    2.3        2.5
Q%  fr,9CIMI                     302.8       IL.I    -253    -17.7       --LI     13.2            -16.2  5i7      5.3    5.5       5.7
Evorca of S Ws                    508        19.7      24.0   -.15.8     .4.8      9.0              9.8   6.4    4.7    4.8        48
1zgaf GUS                    356.3        1.      -10.    -10.4    -11.3        6.5            10.4  -3.2     1.5    1.6       L7
-m   -I-? mml -                   53.        50.3    -26.8       4.       56.    -47.5             -      -              --
GOP OnlW  C1979.100)                    100.0    131.     13.0     159.      174             191.4 2jQ.5   2aL4  245.6    264.
-       umwvenaAbnd)                      1.22    1.23     1.119     0.95      0.81            0 0.7 0.750   0.73  0.7M0      0.75
ci f O at .4N*t Price GO                              I       uuuML UICCU   CZ)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c                                 d                                        ac q wtow   - Prem
9m    1=    19    1                   V79.U0   V 8).85    1919QW
Graki do.  n3c !                                 10.0  100.01O   10.                                     5.6         2.9        4.1
AUIIMLIM          37.5   39.6   41-7  41.2                               5.8          3.9       3.8
_hb-T                        5D19.4   17.    16.5   17.1                                               4.7         2.4        4.7
SGviL                                           43.1   43.0  4L.8   41.7                               5.9         2.5        4.1
oXWEvtfm                                        S84    M.    92.3   87.2                                 5.0         4.5        2.8
QC~u 1magtm                                       31.6   25.9   169   M0.3                               4.3        --2.4       5.8
cm                                          .8   30F9   V.0 2D.0                                  8.7         1i         4.8
lrg   (aS                                        50.9   4-.7   38.    3L4                                3.2         2.4        2.4
cm= niwtlul .inX                                12.5   13.4    -      -                                -           -M-
as : of I
19071   1975/76  IO8U   19.Z/p4
c -                                                        15.5     16.5    18.2    17.8
Qartug   lnwm                                                     16.5    1.4    19.1       17.4
1 -).ap d145ia                                             1.1   4 .7    L0   47.
Q                                 85A   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~               ~~                   ~~~ ~~~~1159 L38.2 &aD  4W5 2.
19n  3    .9 8    19S Z  L 5-.
Go? pieh zate, )                                            5.8     3.2      4.3
OW  mr C1tu path ewte (I.)                                  1.9      0.3     1.5
Enna e        t xc            (1)                          612      2.0      2.8
mm esc6.4                                                           8.O      g.8
.hqlzuA   v _   1a6. 0.1    10.4                                             0.4
rgwt a tldcIty                                            -0.2      0        .8 0.6
af GoIDDaS                                                                                         - I
'ef Ar. a  e 1 5J p.2i4.
Eastern Afrlca legian
October 24. 1984



- 27 -
PAg 5 of 6
Powla"m   : 6S - C                 r)&4M dusw5)
or P r Cria:  W3 - Cw
A- h 1 
Amo Qut eM  CZ)
(at c       19 D
rilo  M!S           k          culfven
r,ALCatclr                           at COzr  Pt1})
1963        1979          1961   19Q1   1963                   19FB   1985     1966   1W    198
EX;ERSU llWE
5adwLs  %x                                Z2.72      29.    Z .9  -14.2   -9.4    6.2                    7.5    6.7    4-5    4.6    4.7
P:cy                                          L28       32.0   17.3  -13.7   -7.1    85                     7.9    7.0    4.6    4.6    4.7
!4malfacmzes                                  9.4        f8   137.8    0.0  -27.3  -21                      4.0    4.0   4S      4.5    5.0
?kzchmmle- s                                   328          0.1   -9.7  -17.1  -1I8.     0.1                   3.9    2.4    2.9    3.0    L2
Food                                            5       17.5   35.0   57.2  46.3  -H1.4                    9.5   -2.5    0.8    1.0    1.3
Petralem                                     50.6       27.3  -6.6   -5.0  -M.8    1.7                     2.6    2.7    2.8    2.9    3.1
1 :b-l   Ard OWL.-                  65.6      -33.0   119  -51.3  -16.9   -LS                     4.6    5.9    5.S    5.7    5.9
at im                                       201.1        6.5  -24.5  --64   -L6    2.5                      3.5    1.6    .2    2.3    Z.3
PRZDS (198-1MO)
:   prim I-                                    -          -9.9    3.1   29.9    9.9  -84                      8.6    4.0   102    8.9    8.9
er luke Ldc                                    -           14.0   21.8   16.9    7.6    9.9                   .2    7.2    9.1    9.4    9.4
m=   f cEr  hrt                                 -         -2Q.9  -15.1   11.1    2.2  -16.7                   6.2   -3.0    i0   -0.5    0.4
C of riezd s  1    (I)                                  E   A       r I  (2)
6sr cure  ri)                                           ( at awca  mg7 Fro)
1975   1960   I985   1950                                  1975-60     1918)5    1985.0
Expors                                      100  100   100.0  100.0                                        9.6       -.l         4.7
PC MUY                                    92.6   89.7   89.8   89.5                                     8.3        3.U8       4.6
_kmzfactuxm                                7.4   10.3   10.2   10.5                                    17.8       -3.5         5.2
hiWts                                        MOQ0  100.0  1M00  1.0                                      -1.4        -6.0        3.2
Food                                       4.9    7.3    6.5    6.1                                    -0.9      -13.0         1.7
Ferolem                                    9.1   13.9   15.6   15.5                                     8.3       -46          3.0
addNWY az: %qpmt                          24.5   34.4   20.7   23.4                                     1.0       42.8         5.8
Othwr                                     6IL5   44..4   57.2   55.G                                   -4.5        -1.3        2.4
Shue of Tak iith                 g9re of True  th                     S9re of Trde ith
b                                                      L-durla1 Coitles (t)             Iep   cm=res (2)                   C;taI Supam 011        e  11(2)
!970     1975     1980           1970      1975    1960            1970         1975          1980
DDE' tF 1RRIE
Exqors                                       65.3   7662     69.0            11.3      10.3     7.0            23.4         13.5          24.0
PUr.                                        -      -        -               -        -      -                 -            -            -
IEots                                       56.7   64.8     75.0           24.2       14.5     6.0            19.0         20.7         19.0
L/ bxjd.s otbg&elp   =w,js
Eastern Africa Region
October 24. 1984



-28 -
Page 6 of 6
!hpq,ai      : 642 (NQd-II. I       )
GW  Pr cq    : tEM1-(LW
-  D W   F5.   FL arL  MS r
(1i  mu     at amuz      )
Akbml
1979   198)   1981  19X   1983                          1981   195   1986   1987   199
BUA> F PAOIS
FP     of aets i atb d  vd               274.1   3.6  38S.  32.6  277.8                            314.0  307.6  3918  453.7  66LI
a whc .'hrd1  fob                       222.4  5845  257.7  24.26  212.6                          2482  211  317.1  361.   53L0
orta of pd s    inzwim                   5Z.SS  55.6  5X.5  404.3  419.6                          653.5  481.4  56  583.4    29
OE '6uidid- !R  ardb   fob.             309,-  342.9  283.   2160  209.n                         222.1  243.8  273.6  301.5  430.4
Ma t   f                                 -C.. -_4   -1.5   -87   .9.9                             -0.8  41.6  .44   43.2  -i6.2
CQwren:a t- i                           -251.8 -M4 -59.2 -04 -151.7                               -150.3 -1U7.4 -154.2 -159 -151.0
Pdaam  Fztr                                -~ -'                                                     -         -   -      -      
OffidaL gras dd                           46.6  50.1   46.3   36.3  29.5                            35.0  42.0  50.0   53.5  65.5
.YtS IX1 (Mt)                             96.8  1L2   87.8   43.5  37.7                             27.4  26.9   83.3   75.2  10465
Olffdl                                   8L.8  99.1   72.3  58.6   49.9                           5L9   55.3  104.5  81.2  119.7
Prtwve                                  15.0   D.1   15.5  -151    -2                           -31.5  -30.4  -21.2  -9.0   15.2
f;-  r                                    97.1   42.1   40.1  -0.7   3.2                            77.9   85.5  30.4   33.0  -4.7
aine  e1 z(eves- - tzrzm)                 11.3  1&O  -15.0   31.3  46.3                             10.0 -O.0  -9L5   -6.   -12.3
Lara load   e                             64.5   71.5  49.0   22.7   19.8                            9.8   16.8  24.3   331   68.1
tf 'Ad- Cd                               -      -      -      -      -                             -       -      -      -      -
Rem I   as    I rts                        17    1.5    1.2   0.7    0.6                             0.2    0.4 Q.5   0.7   1.0
EEL  CAPUL AM Mr
4k   Iin M.9  ZI.3  173.5  109.5  9i.0                                                              112.7  I1.1  187.9  1EO.1  2525
Offlal Qmn                               46.6   50.1   46.3   36.3  29.5                          35.0  42.0  50.0   53.5  65.5
_omajami lom                             43.1   60.5   46.1   4.8  48.9                           49.0  4L3   55.1   63.3  87.6
-C                                     16.8   17.7   11.6   5.4   1.8                            5.9   6.2   10.0  12.1   16.1
Mk                                     14.4   15.1   21.0   27.1  32.3                           2L2   30.8  35.9   41.1   57.0
Odih-                                  11.9   27.8   13.5  10.3  14.8                            14.8   11.3   9.2   10.1   14.4
_-Cmmhuial 8MZ                            .2  1007   81.1   3Q4   17.6                             2.7   2.  82d       63.3   99.4
n.tidalPrt^eii                          8.9   2a2    3.4    1.2   6.7                             5.3    Li   12.3  15.3  M0.1
IBRD                                   12.8    7.6   26.8   21.0    1.5                          1.0   10.6   5LS   227   31.9
otr z1ti1aterat                         5.1    6.9    3.0   0.7    2.0                           16.1   3.5   6.3   9.6   19.8
55.4   57.9   47.9   7.6   7.3                            6.3   7.6   11.8   1.6  27.6
acenlDeb,: 
DEbct lusead1x  ad D    tused          718.5  638.8  726.6  770.1  8)7.8                         835.2  860.0  93.3 1318.6 1356.0
OffidAl                               547.1  413.4  485.6  56.2  59661                          652.9  7182  81L.7  896.9 1213.5
Private                               171.4  225.4  240.9  225.9  213.7                         182.2  151.8  13D.6  121.6  140.5
Ehd1abursnd Deb                         171.4  171.2  203.8  I8.  225.6                           263.3  335.6  412.0  528i  747.8
rual Send PaMfza                        -43.5  -67.6  -I8.8  -61.7  -5L3                          -81.9  -91.3 -103.4 401.8 434.6
Interet                               -24.3  -34.6  .49.3  -32.0  -29.6                        -30.6  -33.2  40.1  -37.9  -51.0
2F  a    ad RYp:dh                    -6.0   -6.6  -13.5  -19.9  -26.7                         -27.6  -25.9  -34.2  -37.2  -31.9
Psymits as   Eport                       15.9   19.1   25.4   20.4  21.0                          25.8   26.3   25.9  22.4  20.1
ALNC birlert Face an ne laws C)            8.3    5.    6.6   4.0   2.4                              84    L4    7.3   7.5    8.4
OffidaL
Priute
A-ra  Paturit' of v IA  (Years)           18.4  23.3   29.9   30.7  27.7                            22.2   22.2   26.3  25.7   Z2.4
PriZte
As : of Debt Outstanding
at End of December 31. 1983
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
ifaturitLes due wichin 5 .ears                    29.0
YaturitLes due within 10 years                    44.1
Incerest itructure of debt outstanadng
Interest due vwthLn first year                     3.6
Eastern Africa Region
October 24. 1984



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1984)
Bank
incl.
Loan or                                                            Third                   Un-
Credit No.    Year    Borrower          Purpose                   Window    IDA         disbursed
Four loans and 16 credits have been fully disbursed                 71.20   131.63
711-HAI      1977    Malawi            Water Supply                          7.00        0.92
16LO-HAI      1978    INDEBANK          First DFC                   3.00                  0.24
857-MAI       1978    Republic of      National Rural
Malawi            Development
Program I                           22.00       5.32
91O--AI      1979       -              Education III                        14.50        2.62
992-HAI       1980                     National Rural
Development
Program II                          13.80       6.24
1099-MAI      1981                      Highway IV                           33,00a       5.76
1123-MAI      1981                      Education IV                         41,00b     20.22
2027-MAI      1981                      Technical Assistance         1.00                 0.19
1183-MAI      1981                      National Rural Development
Program III                         7.30c      4.89
1272-MAI      1982                      Lilongwe Water Supply
Eng. Project                        4,00d      2.48
1330-MAI      1983                      Fifth Education Project              34.00      32.85
1343-MAI      1983                      NRDP IV                              10.60       10.24
1351-MAI      1983                      Health Project                        6.80        6.70
1352-MAI      1983       -              Smallholder Fertilizer                5.00        1.75
1423-MAI      1984       -              Fifth Highway                        13.10        0.00
1427-MAI      1984       -              Structural Adjustment II             55.00       27.49
1428-MAI      1984       -              Technical Assistance II               1.50       0.00
2363-MAI      1984       -              Fifth Highway               18.00                 0.00
TOTAL                                                93.20   400.23
6                   of which has been repaid                              2.56     4.56
amount sold
of which repaid
TUTAL now held by Bank and IDA1                      90.64   395.67
TOTAL undisbursed                                     0.43   127.48      127.91
a Credit of SDR 25.9 million.
b Credit of SDR 32.2 million.
c Credit of SDR 6.5 million.
d Credit of SDR 3.6 million.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. IFC INVESTMENT IN MALAWI
September 30, 1984
Total
Investment                            Type of                           Held    Undis-
Number     Year   Obligor             Business   Equity   Loan  Total  by IFC  bursed
(US$ Million)
326-MAI    1976   David Whitehead    Textiles       -     10.8  10.8    4.7       -
& Sons (Malavi)
TLmited
362-MAI    1977   Dwangwa             Sugar         -      9.9   9.9    8.8       -
Sugar Corpora-
tion Limited
434-MAI    1978   Investment and      Development  0.6      -    0.6    0.6       -
Development        Finance
Bank of Malawi     Company
502-MAI    1979   Malawi              Tourism       -      2.0   2.0    2.0      1.6
Hotels
TLmited
542-HAI    1980   Ethanol Company    Manufactur-
Limited of         ing Alcohol
Malawi             from
Molasses      0.3   1.9    2.2    2.1       -
TOTALS     0.9  24.6   25.5   18.2      1.6
.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
URBAN PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.    Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 34 months.
(b) First presentation to Bank: July 1982.
(c)  Appraisal mission:  November/December 1983.
Cd) Negotiations: September 1984.
Ce) Planned Date of Effectiveness: April 1, 1985.
I_. Special IDA Implementation Action:
None.
_II. Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness
(i) Special Accounts to be established (para. 51).
(b)  Other Special Conditions
Ci)    Annual reviev of Malawi Housing Corporation's (MEC)
housing program and staffing (paras. 37 and 48).
(ii)    Proportion of building plots reserved for private
developers (para. 37).
(iii)   Adequacy of leasehold (para. 38).
(iv)    Government to submit agreed action program and
timetable with respect to recommendations of
Housing Subsidies and Wage Policy Study (para.41).
(v)    MHC to establish separate accounts for property
development activities (para. 47).



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(vi)   MHC and NBS to maintain satisfactory financial
position (paras. 47 and 49).
(vii)  MNC to review proposals for further investments in
excess of US$250,000 with the Association (para.
47).
4



18RD 18004
r  ]F   /'-                 V                                                                Ue NE linE
MALAWI
FIRST URBAN PROJECT
OCklI.b                 Q     P *  tUINL UKEA ENTERS
f        0   OT 70I  _   Em UEUM CDTERS A5 TOS
f                        < w            / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~M .                   mMERD
I   J                       e                    k           _._ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NlT^TeLS LUaRE
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FTN*IIA SOUOU.E
1/                              \0   /SX,9u                                     &  wns
Z    A   M        B   A          JLNOUK 
Z    M                                                        \ j.M O Z A M  B   Q U E
e fh. Wi M..
- ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ h                                  JW
'  -S _,.f flC4;.  <!
I--E
-                    ~~     ~~0 20  4       0     S       0
~~__ ............ _ . ~~r                              .~,. OUE, . S
I         M        so      120 _40        [E __I



