Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19104
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
MICROENTERPRISE PROJECT
(LOAN 3318 -PAK)
March 10, 1999
Finance and Private Sector Development
South Asian Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
(annual average)
Rs. Per US $1.00      US $ Per Rs. 1.00
1987                 17.399                 0.0574
1988                 18.003                 0.0555
1989                 20.541                 0.0486
1990                 21.707                 0.0460
1991                 23.801                 0.0420
1992                 25.083                 0.0390
1993                 28.107                 0.0355
1994                 30.567                 0.0327
1995                 31.430                 0.0316
1996                '36.09                  0.0277
1997                 38.89                  0.0257
1998                 45.38                  0.0220
ABBREVIATIONS
ABL                    Allied Bank Limited
ADI                    AlFalah Development Institute
ADB                    Asian Development Bank
AKRSP                  Agha Khan Rural Support Program
BEL                    Bankers Equity
BUSTI                  Basic Urban Services for Katchi Abadies
BRSP                   Balochistan Rural Support Program
FSAL                   Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
FSDIP                  Financial Sector Deepening & Intermediation Project
GON                    Government of Netherlands
GOP                    Government of Pakistan
HBL                    Habib Bank Limited
IBRD                   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
NCB                    Nationalized Commercial Bank
NLC                    Network Leasing Company
NLG                    Netherlands Guilder
NGO                    Non Governmental Organization
OLP                    Orix Leasing Pakistan
OPP                    Orangi Pilot Project
PNGO                   Participating NGO
PLC                    Participating Leasing Company
PILCORP                Pakistan Industrial Leasing Corporation
PICL                   Pakistan Industrial and Commercial Leasing
PFI                    Participating Financial Institution
SBP                    State Bank of Pakistan
TA                     Technical Assistance
FISCAL YEARS
GOP and BEL            = July I to June 30
OLP, PILCORP, PICL and NLC   -January 1 to December 31
Vice President:                    Ms. Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:                  Mr. Sadiq Ahmed
Sector Manager:                    Ms. Marilou Uy
Team Leader:                       Mr. Joseph Pernia
Task Manager:                     Mr. Mudassir Khan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
MIROENTERPRISE PROJECT
(LOAN 3318-PAK)
Page No.
PREFACE               TABLE OF CONTENTS
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                            i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A        Introduction                                                        1
B        Statement/Evaluation of Objectives                                  1
C        Achievement Of Objectives                                           3
D        Major Factors Affecting The Project                                 8
E        Project Sustainability                                              8
F        Bank's Performance                                                  9
G        Borrower's Performance                                              9
H       Assessment of Outcome                                                10
I        Follow-up Operations                                                10
J        Main Lessons Learned                                                11
PART Il: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1  Summary Of Assessments                                     13
Table 2  Related Bank Loans/Credits                                 14
Table 3  Project Timetable                                          15
Table 4   Loan/Grant Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated And Actual    16
Table 5  Key Indicators For Project Implementation                  17
Table 6  Key Indicators For Project Operation                       18
Table 7  Studies Included in Project                                19
Table 8A Project Costs                                              20
Table 8B Project Financing                                          20
Table 9   Economic Costs and Benefits                               21
Table 10  Status of Main Legal Covenants                            21
Table 11  Compliance With Operational Manual Statements            .22
Table 12  Bank Resources: Staff Input                               22
Table 13  Bank Resources: Missions                                  23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be
disclosed without world Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
Annex I    Lease Disbursement                                              24
Annex li   Lease Characteristics                                           25
Annex IlIl  Geographical & Sub-sectoral Distribution of leases financed    26
Annex IV   Type of assets leased                                           27
Annex V    Lease Disbursement to Women Sponsors                            28
Annex VI  PLC's Recovery Performance                                       29
Annex VII  PLC's cost of leasing operation as percentage of amount disbursed  29
Annex VIII Dutch Grant: Sub-loan disbursement                              30
Annex IX   Dutch Grant: Sub-sectoral Distribution                          31
Annex X    Dutch Grant: Recovery Performance                               32
Annex XI   Dutch Grant: Women sponsors financed                            32
Annex XII  Dutch Grant: Disbursement Summary                               33
Annex XIII Dutch Grant: Sub-loan terms                                     34
Annex XIV  Examples of project impact on microenterprises                  35
Annex XV   Project's impact on PLC's portfolio                             36
APPENDIX
Appendix A  ICR Mission Aide-Memoire                                       37
Appendix B  Project Review From Borrowers Perspective                      41



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
Microenterprise Project
(Ln 3318-PAK)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Microenterprise Project
(Ln.3318) in the amount of US $ 26 million IBRD Loan and DFL 4.8 million Dutch Grant for
sub projects and technical assistance approved on April 23, 1991 and made effective on April 30,
1992. The project closed as originally scheduled on June 30,1998. Final transaction under the
Loan took place on October 31, 1998 with total disbursement of US$25.97 million and
cancellation of US$0.03 million. Final transaction under the Dutch Grant took place on May 5,
1998, with total disbursement of DFL 4.8 million utilizing the Grant fully.
The ICR was prepared by Mudassir Khan (Task Leader), Shideh Hadian ( Operations
Officer) and Ainul Hassan Qureshi (Consultant), and reviewed by Joseph Pernia (Team Leader),
Finance and Private Sector Development, Abid Hasan, Principal Operations Officer, Islamabad
Office, Rie Hiraoka (SASHP) and peer reviewers Joselito Gallardo (FSD) and Carlos Cuevas
(AFTP1).
Preparation of this ICR was begun after the Bank's final supervision/completion mission
in May, 1998 by collecting data from the concerned institutions. It is based on Staff Appraisal
Report, Loan Agreement, Supervision Reports and other material in the project files. The
borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing the data on different components
of the project, commenting on the draft ICR and preparing independent evaluation which is
included as Appendix to the ICR. Co-financier -Netherlands Government, also, contributed by
reviewing and commenting on the draft ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
MICROENTEREPRISE PROJECT
(LOAN 3318-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY'
Introduction
1.    The Bank's earlier projects in small, medium and large scale industry had assisted Pakistan
through loans and credits for the development of industrial and services sectors. These projects,
however, did not address the needs of the growing microenterprise sub-sector. The Microenterprise
Project was, therefore, designed as a pilot to provide support and focused on critical constraints
being faced by this sub-sector. The Project attempted to build experience by associating with the
private sector institutions already having direct business relations with microenterprises including
NGOs and leasing companies for strengthening their business capacity and for reaching a larger
constituency in the sub-sector (para 1).
Project Objectives
2.    The Microenterprise Project was designed to provide credit, through formal financial sector,
to the micro and small scale entrepreneurs for their capital investment and to assist this sector, in
particular women entrepreneurs to improve their living conditions by engaging in income generating
activities. The specific project objectives were: a) to strengthen the capacity of participating
institutions in delivering financial and technical/social services to microenterprises; b) to assist these
institutions to deliver their services to a larger constituency of microenterprises; c) to broaden the
menu of financial instruments available for microenterprises in the upper stratum, by promoting the
initiative to market leasing to sub-contractors of small-scale businesses; d) to catalyze NGOs'
financial, technical and social support services for microenterprises in the lower stratum; e) to
demonstrate the replicability of the NGOs and leasing initiatives to others, including the commercial
banks who could potentially see microenterprises in the middle to upper stratum as a promising
market niche; f) to demonstrate the creditworthiness of microenterprises, including and particularly
women, at market prices and practices; and g) to promote the development of businesses owned and
operated by women.
3.    Under the project, US$ 26.0 million equivalent, was on-lent by GOP, administered by
Bankers Equity Limited (BEL) as the apex institution, to the Participating Leasing Companies
(PLCs), at a variable interest rate including foreign exchange risk cover fee and GOP's
administrative charges. The PLCs financed productive assets, at prevailing market rates, of
established and profitable micro and small enterprises (MSEs); however, for women entrepreneurs,
start-up projects were also eligible to encourage their participation in development activities. The
Bank Loan was co-financed by Government of Netherlands (GON) for a total of NLG 4.8 million
(US$ 2.8 million equivalent) grant. The grant was allocated for: (i) NGOs as seed capital for their
revolving credit operations (NLG 2.8 million or US$ 1.6 million equivalent): and (ii) institutional
Provides cross reference to paragraphs from Part I of ICR.
i



capacity building of NGOs through staff training and adapting and upgrading their credit procedures
and supervision information system (NLG 2.0 million or US$ 1.2 million equivalent).
Implementation Experience
4.    The project was approved by the Board in April 1991 and became effective almost a year
later. The delay was due to lack of familiarity of participating institutions with GOP and Bank
procedures and additionally GOP had to devise new procedures for participation by the private
sector, particularly NGOs.
5.    Initially, the loan was made to one leasing company Orix Leasing Pakistan (OLP). In 1995
two more leasing companies, Pakistan Industrial Leasing Corporation (PILCORP) and Pakistan
Industrial and Commercial Leasing (PICL), which had also started leasing to micro-enterprises were
appraised by the Bank and started participation under the project. In May 1997, Network Leasing
Corporation Limited (NLCL) was also appraised and selected to participate in the project. With four
PLCs participating in the project, the Loan was fully disbursed (para 8).
6.    Performance of BEL as administrator of the project was satisfactory, except that they did not
perform some of the responsibilities originally assigned (para 10). BEL carried out a check on
eligibility criteria on refinance applications forwarded by the PLCs to the Bank for clearance and
reimbursement. It maintained the Special Account and handled disbursements to the PLCs in
addition to collecting repayments from PLCs for the GOP account. BEL, also, helped the Bank in
monitoring continued eligibility for participation of the PLCs in the Project. Finally, BEL provided
third party guarantees to GOP for repayment of the Loan funds on lent to PLCs in accordance with
participation agreements.
7.    The PLCs' performance during project implementation remained satisfactory. Loan recovery
by PLCs, on average, was 95 percent (para 7 & 11), which is highly satisfactory. The PLCs took
concrete measures to build their institutional capacity to meet the needs of the MSEs and the Bank's
requirements (para 11), financing about 2900 leases (para 9). It is estimated that nearly 2 jobs were
created per lease on average resulting in investment per job of about US$ 5,000. In case of NLCL
which caters mainly to the microenterprise sector, investment per job was only about US$ 1,000. In
the process PLC's also strengthened their capacity for lending to MSEs and their portfolio in micro
and small scale sector considerably expanded during the project implementation and now accounts
for about 20% of their total lease portfolio.
8.    Implementation of Dutch Grant Component - NLG 2.8 million of the Dutch Grant was
originally allocated to four NGOs as revolving fund for their credit operations to remain financially
self-sustaining. The participating NGOs (PNGOs) comprising Agha Khan Rural Support Program
(AKRSP), Orangi Pilot Project (OPP), Basic Urban Services for Katchi Abadies (BUSTI) and
AlFlah Development Institute (ADI) made short/medium term loans to micro and small
establishments at prevailing market rates for income generating activities. In 1994, ADI was
disqualified due to non compliance with minimum participation criteria (para 13). In 1995,
Balochistan Rural Support Program (BRSP) was appraised and found eligible to participate in the
project (para 13). Due to higher demand for sub-loans, the Grant was reallocated increasing the
sub-loan component to NLG 4.25 million and reducing the TA to 0.55 million (para 13). The
ii



PNGOs utilized the entire allocation on first come first served basis and provided sub-loans to about
7,000 micro entrepreneurs, and creating estimated 10,000 new jobs. The recoveries were 90-94%
except BRSP (para 13, 14). The TA was utilized for capacity building of BUSTI and two studies
comprising a sector study and evaluation of participating institutions performance (para 16). Finally,
based on satisfactory experience under the project, the Bank has decided to continue association with
NGOs on a larger scale by participating in the upcoming Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund.
Results and Performance
9.    The project outcome is satisfactory. All objectives (para 2) have been achieved by
successful participation of leasing companies and NGOs in providing access to credit to the MSE
sector, particularly, microenterprises as described below:
Objective (a): The PLCs strengthened their capacity for delivering the required financial
services by adopting measures which included (i) creating a cell to carry out research in the
microenterprise sector through collaboration with NGOs, (ii) established of new microenterprise
departments, (iii) translation of lease documents and materials into local language - Urdu, (iv)
development of credit appraisal and monitoring systems for micro and small enterprises, (v)
development of marketing strategy and techniques for better servicing of the sector and expanding
their outreach, and (vi) staff training. The capacity for delivering technical/social advisory services
to microenterprises was strengthened by engaging consultants for field work, and associating their
own staff for training. Under the project, services for development of marketing, accounting and
management skills were also provided to the enterprises (para 11). Increased lending to MSEs
together with satisfactory repayment performance confirms successful delivery of the extension
services envisaged under the project objectives.
Objective (b): Before participation in the project, the PLCs were catering to the needs of
microenterprises to a very modest extent. The Bank Loan assisted the participating institutions to
reach a much larger constituency of microenterprises which financed 1275 leases amounting to 44%
of the total under the Loan (para 9). PICL and PILCORP started leasing to the microenterprise
sector based on demonstrated success of OLP under the project and NLCL was set up primarily to
catering to this sector and financed two and a half times more micro leases compared with SSIs.
Also, the Loan has been advanced to the PLCs for 10 years while the average lease life is three
years, permitting roll over of these funds and project impact by more than three times (para 9).
Objective (c): The consultants engaged by the PLCs helped in identification of sub-
contractors of small scale businesses and explained the advantages of lease financing. Leasing
proved to be a viable financing mechanism increasing access to capital assets for this sector.
Achievement of the project objective is confirmed by the PLCs' financing not only about 2900 leases
under the project but increasing their overall MSE lease portfolio by about 100% in amount. In case
of three of the PLCs, their overall MSE lease portfolio increased by about four times in number (para
11).
Objective (d): PNGOs considerably increased their outreach and catered to the financing
needs of about 7,000 sub-borrowers under the project. In addition, PNGOs further played a catalyst
role by associating with and training other NGOs and CDOs (Community Development
111



Organizations), including funding, technical and other support services to microenterprises (para 15).
The PNGO, also, utilized services of agents and technical experts for support services. Finally, the
sub-loans provided by the PNGOs were instrumental in extending highly significant benefits to the
lower stratum communities (para 17).
Objective (e): Based on the experience of OLP, three more leasing companies joined as
PLCs during project implementation, one of which - NLCL was established primarily for leasing to
microenterprises. As a result, PLC's outreach significantly increased in this sector. Based on
demonstrated credit worthiness of microenterprises at market rates and practices (para 9,11,12) as
envisaged under the project objectives, some commercial banks have not only expressed interest in
participation in future projects but have started lending to microenterprises on a pilot scale.
Furthermore, TA provided to BUSTI helped establish it as a successful lender to microenterprises.
Based on demonstration of lending to micro- enterprises as promising, many other NGOs started
microcredit operations, Kashf being notable among them was setup solely for this purpose.
Objective a): Utilization of a substantial share of the Loan and full utilization of the sub-loan
component of the Grant funds by microenterprises, including women entrepreneurs at market prices
and practices, together with satisfactory repayment performance demonstrates their credit worthiness
(para 9, 11, 12). Performance of women entrepreneurs who established new businesses under the
project was, also, satisfactory indicating achievement of the project objective.
Objective (g): About 7% of the total lease contracts were for women entrepreneurs. In fact,
three of the PLCs increased their lending to women entrepreneurs three times under the project,
while, the fourth only started lending to them to a significant extent under the project (para 9). The
PNGOs also, lent about a quarter of the sub-loan funds to women entrepreneurs of which 309 were
new enterprises (para 14). The project objective is considered to have been met, particularly, in
view of conditions prevailing in Pakistan.
10.   Based on successful outcome of the pilot project, GOP has requested the Bank for a follow
up project with a larger allocation for broader geographical coverage (Appendix A para 15 and
Appendix B). The Bank is considering a follow up project for MSEs based on the lessons learned
under the pilot project (para 25).
Borrower and Bank Performance
11.   Performance of GOP and the Bank was satisfactory in identification, design, appraisal and
implementation of the project. Although there had been three Bank supported Small Scale Industries
projects in Pakistan, it was the first effort to reach microenterprises. As a pilot project, it was
decided to cater only to successful ongoing businesses and select intermediaries which already had
some exposure to microenterprises. Similar eligibility criteria were applied to selection of NGOs for
participation. The pilot was successful as evident from the benefits to MSE sector under the project
and of the intermediaries. Allowing new women entrepreneurs to be eligible under the project also
proved successful and demonstrated viability of women entrepreneurs. Finally, the Bank could have
supervised the project more frequently during mid phase of the project when there was a slow down
(para 7, 22).
iv



12.   GOP's readiness to on-lend to private sector intermediaries directly for the first time made
the project possible. GOP procedures, nevertheless, caused a delay of about one year in the Loan
becoming effective after Board approval (para 23). Its requirement of a third party guarantee from
public sector financial institutions for the PLCs could have been relaxed which would have allowed
induction of additional PLCs earlier in the project. Financial covenants were met generally on time.
The study on performance evaluation of the PLCs required under the project was delayed by about
two years, and therefore, its recommendations could not be used for possible restructuring of the
project at mid-term. However, these recommendations would be beneficial for future activities in
the sector (para 25).
Lessons Learned
13.   Main lessons learned from implementation of the Project are as follows:
-      The project has demonstrated that financing of microenterprises is sustainable.
-     MSE sector can be developed successfully by providing financing at market rates and
without subsidies.
-      MSE entrepreneurs performance concerning repayment of loans is satisfactory and better
than recoveries from medium-large scale industry.
-     Leasing is a viable option for medium-termn credit. Leasing companies, however, are
constrained by availability of term funds. This underlines the need for developing medium -
long term fixed income securities market.
-     NGOs have played an effective role in meeting funding needs of microenterprises. To
further improve they should develop suitable credit programs that meet the differing needs of
various MSE sectors.
-     Women can play their due role in development of MSEs provided credit is made available.
-     Private sector financial institutions have proved to be effective intermediaries in
development of the MSE sector.
-     Prudent selection of financial intermediaries is key to project success.
-      Clear identification of the target sector's characteristics, including information on businesses
and their operations, employment and funding needs along with linkages with other sectors
should be part of design of future proJects.
-     Poverty reduction is vital for eradication of child labor and a practical concerted role can be
played by NGOs. Microenterprise projects have a great potential for poverty alleviation,
however, use of child labor at the expense of their education needs to be specifically
discouraged and adequate precautionary measures taken in future.
v



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
MIROENTERPRISE PROJECT
(LOAN 3318-PAK)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction
1.         The project was the first assistance by the Bank to microenterprises in Pakistan. It was
designed to focus on critical constraints being faced by the sector and as a pilot project attempted to
build experience by associating with institutions in Pakistan already having some direct business
relations with the microenterprise sub-sector. As a start an emerging leasing company was selected
for the upper stratum i.e. the group composed mostly of profitable and technologically more
sophisticated businesses and NGOs for the lower stratum i.e. group comprising mainly the
disadvantaged having compelling social as well as financial needs. It also, complemented GOP's
reforms and liberalization efforts and recognized the fact that the earlier small scale industries
projects had failed to reach the microenterprise sub-sector. Attempts to include commercial banks
for the upper stratum were abandoned during appraisal due to their lack of experience of catering to
this sub-sector which was judged inappropriate for a pilot project. Nevertheless, it was envisaged
that the project would induce some business interest in lending to this sub-sector in the banking
system by way of demonstrated replicability and hence promoting closer integration between formal
and informal financial markets.
B. Statement I Evaluation Of Objectives
2.    Project Objectives - Microenterprise project was designed to provide credit, through formal
financial sector, to the micro and small scale entrepreneurs for their capital investment and to assist
this sector, in particular, women entrepreneurs to improve their living conditions by engaging in
income generating activities. The specific project objectives were to:
a) strengthen the capacity of participating institutions in delivering financial and
technical/social services to microenterprises;
b) assist these institutions to deliver their services to a larger constituency of
microenterprises;
c) broaden the menu of financial instruments available for microenterprises in the upper
stratum, by promoting the initiative to market leasing to sub-contractors of small-scale
businesses;
d) catalyze NGOs' financial, technical and social support services for microenterprises in the
lower stratum;
e) demonstrate the replicability of the NGOs and leasing initiatives to others, including the
commercial banks who could potentially see microenterprises in the middle to upper
stratum as a promising market niche;
1



f)demonstrate the creditworthiness of microenterprises, including and particularly women, at
market prices and practices; and
g) promote the development of businesses owned and operated by women.
3.    Microenterprise project of US$ 26.0 million was on-lent by GOP, administered by Bankers
Equity Limited (BEL) as the apex institution, to the Participating Leasing Companies (PLCs) at a
variable interest rate including foreign exchange risk cover fee and GOP's administrative charges.
The PLCs financed, at prevailing market lease rates, the lease contracts of established and
operational micro and small enterprises (MSEs). To encourage women's participation in
development activities, start up firms were financed for eligible women entrepreneurs. The Bank
loan was co-financed by Government of Netherlands (GON) for a total of NLG 4.8 million (US$ 2.8
million equivalent) grant. The GON grant was allocated for: (i) NGOs as seed capital for their
revolving credit operations (NLG 2.8 million or US$ 1.6 million equivalent): and (ii) institutional
capacity building of NGOs through staff training and adapting and upgrading their credit procedures
and supervision information system (NLG 2.0 million or US$ 1.2 million equivalent).
4.    Evaluation of Objectives - The Microenterprise Project, which was the first assistance to the
informal or unregulated sector by the Bank for Pakistan, was a pilot effort and aimed at addressing
the needs of the microenterprise sub-sector. The previous Bank lending to small scale industries
(Table 2) had assisted the industrial and services units in the formal sector and did not address the
needs of the growing microenterprise sub-sector. A microenterprise, under the project, was defined
as a manufacturing, commercial or service enterprise employing less than 10 workerss without any
definite limiting asset size. This sub-sector was somewhat neglected and had very little or no access
to the formal financial sector. Preparation of Microenterprise project was in line with the
Government of Pakistan's (GOP) socio-economic development policy and was an integral part of the
Bank's assistance strategy for the country. It coincided with the GOP's reforms in the financial
sector at the time and the Bank's support through the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL,
prepared in 1989). The financial sector liberalization was also not sufficient to address the needs of
micro sub-sector for investment funds. The project, therefore, proposed innovative lending
techniques and instruments which facilitated access of the microenterprises to the short/medium
term funds, through NGOs and leasing companies. The choice of leasing for opening up access of
MSEs to medium term financing for equipment from the formal financial sector was made as MSEs
were considered having financially viable and high cash flow oriented operations but lacked formal
financial records and adequate collateral requirements. Furthermore, in case of leasing ownership
of the asset remains with the PLC and as a result lower equity investment is required by the lessee.
5.    Participation of NGOs and private leasing companies (emerging sector) as financial
intermediaries in the project ensured access of microenterpreneurs in lower and upper stratum to
financial, technical and social support in accordance with GOP's objective of promoting the private
sector participation in development activities and poverty alleviation initiatives in the country.
Microenterprise project also promoted women's involvement in social and economic development by
allowing them to borrow for start up firms not otherwise allowed under the project. Bank
involvement was important and instrumental in: (i) providing funds for capital investment otherwise
unavailable through formal financial sector; (ii) ensuring sustainable development of new
instruments, approaches, and transfer of the best international practices/experiences in
microenterprise lending; and (iii) stimulating other donors in supporting microentrprise sector.
2



C. Achievement of Objectives
6.    The project objectives were achieved satisfactorily. The direct benefit of the project has
been poverty alleviation, sustained income generation, reduced under-employment and increased
productive opportunities, particularly for women. Successful participation of leasing companies
provided access to credit to the micro and small enterprise (MSE) sector.
7.    Implementation of the Bank Loan Component - The loan component was implemented
satisfactorily and achieved its development objectives. The project made significant contribution to
promoting leasing as an alternative to capital investment in the MSE sector, generating employment,
and supporting income generating activities for large number of microentrepreneurs. Initially, the
loan was on-lent to one private leasing company- Orix Leasing Pakistan (OLP) which was the only
eligible institution at appraisal in 1990. Until March 1996, only US$ 9.2 million of the total loan
amount was utilized since the effectiveness of the project in April 1992. While OLP performed well
in expanding the leasing facility to microenterprises, due to escalation of law and order problem in
1995-1996, the loan utilization was not as projected at appraisal. In 1995 two more leasing
companies, namely Pakistan Industrial Leasing Corporation (PILCORP) and Pakistan Industrial and
Commercial Leasing (PICL) expressed interest to participate in the project based on demonstrated
success of lease financing to the MSE sector by OLP. Although they were appraised by the Bank
and found eligible to participate in the project, PILCORP and PICL started utilizing the loan funds in
June and August 1996, respectively. The delay in their participation was mainly due to cumbersome
procedures imposed on them by BEL for providing third party guarantee to GOP (para 10). As a
result of participation of these two leasing companies, disbursements increased substantially and by
April 1997, reached US$ 16.4 million, an increase of US$ 7.2 million (78%) over a period of 13
months.
8.    In May 1997, Network Leasing Corporation Limited (NLCL) was also appraised and
selected to participate in the project. With four PLCs participating in the project and improved
political and economic conditions, the utilization of the Loan component substantially improved. In
view of turnaround of project implementation the Bank, based on the request of BEL and PLCs,
extended the original deadline for submission of lease finance applications to the Bank from June 30,
1997 to March 31, 1998. The project closing date of June 30, 1998 remained unchanged based on
the fact that lease finance applications were for reimbursement of expenditures already incurred by
the PLCs, thus allowing sufficient time for disbursement by the Bank. The US$ 26 million Loan was
fully committed by March 31, 1998 and subsequently disbursed with cancellation of US$ 30,000 due
to exchange rate fluctuation.
9.    The Bank Loan financed about 2,900 leases. Of these, about 44 % by number and 25% by
amount were for capital formation of microenterprises and 56 % and 75% respectively for small
scale industrial units (Annex I). Although, more funds were disbursed to SSIs compared with
microenterprises, project's outcome is satisfactory as three of the PLCs which were lending to
microenterprise only on nominal basis earlier, established themselves as lenders to microenterprises
under the project (para 11). The fourth PLC (NLCL), which was set up primarily for catering to the
needs of MSEs based on the demonstrated success of OLP under the project, financed two and a half
3



times more microenterprise leases compared with SSIs. Also, the Loan has been advanced to the
PLCs for 10 years while lease maturity has been about three years, permitting roll over of these
funds and increasing project impact more than three times. OLP, the first and the largest PLC in the
project, financed 73 percent of leases by number and 70 percent of those by amount. The average
lease comprised Rs 370,000, being about Rs. 180,000 in micro sub-sector and Rs. 440,000 in small
scale sub-sector. It is estimated that nearly 2 jobs were created per lease on average resulting in
investment per job of about US$ 5,000 (Annex II). In case of NLCL which caters mainly to the
microenterprise sub-sector, investment per job was only about US$ 1,000. About 50% leases were
for sole proprietorships and 30% for private limited companies and of the total 45% were for plant
and machinery, 31% for office equipment and 23% for commercial vehicles (Annex IV).
Geographical distribution of leases financed included about 48% in the province of Sind, 42% in
Punjab and the remainder in NWFP (Annex III). None were financed in Balochistan due to lack of
demand and also, there being no branch office of any of the PLCs located in the province. PLC's
proactively provided financing to women entrepreneurs including new/startup businesses which was
earlier not their usual lending practice. Promotion of businesses owned and operated by women was
specifically included in project design. About 7% of the total leases financed benefited women
entrepreneurs (Annex V). The project objective in this regard is considered to have been achieved as
NLCL and PICL increased their lending to women MSEs by about three times, while, PILCORP
only started to lend them to a significant extent under the project (Annex XV). OLP, also, based on
their experience under the project, doubled their lending to women enterpreneurs during the project
cycle. Lease finance facility to MSE entrepreneurs had an immense impact on businesses and lives
of the sub-borrowers under the project and some real life examples reflecting contribution of the
project towards achievement of its objectives, are provided in Annex XIV.
10.   BEL's performance as administrator of the project, was generally satisfactory. Although, a
few tasks originally assigned to BEL, including monitoring of technical assistance component and
submission of routine progress reports on project implementation were not performed. PLC's
applications for refinance were routed to the Bank through BEL which carried out a check on
eligibility. BEL maintained the Special Account, handled disbursements to the PLCs and collected
repayments from PLCs for crediting to the GOP account and for record keeping established a
computerised data base. BEL also helped the Bank in monitoring continued eligibility for
participation of the PLCs in the Project. Furthermore, BEL provided third party guarantees to GOP
for repayment of the Loan funds. Finally, according to GOP, BEL has not deposited in GOP
account, the repayments it collected from PLCs.
11.   The PLCs' Performance in implementation of the Loan component has been satisfactory
throughout the project. Their procurement and disbursement procedures were satisfactory. Loan
recovery rate for micro and small scale sub-leases, on average, was 95%, which is highly satisfactory
(Annex VI) considering they were on lent to the PLCs by GOP under participation agreements with
each of the PLCs as well as the law and order situation in the country since 1995. It is significant
that almost 90% of the remaining 5% is, also, not lost by the leasing companies and is recovered
with some delay. The assets being in the name of the PLC are recovered more easily, generally,
without recourse to the courts and are also insured. Furthermore, PLCs, also, offer insurance which
in case of lessee's death not only ensure PLC's repayments but enable lessee's family to retain the
asset. Orix Leasing Corporation, the first PLC, participating in the project started leasing in
4



September 1992 and took several measures to build its institutional capacity to meet the needs of the
MSEs and the Bank's requirements under this project. These measures included (i) creating a special
cell to carry out research in informal sector through collaboration with the NGOs; (ii) creating a new
microenterprise department in Karachi; (iii) translating lease documents and materials into Urdu,
Pakistan's national language; (iv) developing a separate credit system for microenterprises and small
scale clients which usually lack accurate financial accounts for ensuring proper appraisal, monitoring
and recoveries; and (v) improving marketing techniques to better serving this sector and expanding
the outreach. PLCs joining the project later also took similar measures. The technical advisory
services to microenterprises were delivered through engaging consultants for field work for
identifying potentially promising enterprises and helping them to improve their marketing,
accounting and management skills. PLC's own specialized staff also worked closely with the sub-
borrowers and their increased lending to micro and small enterprises togetherwith satisfactory
repayment performance confirms successful delivery of the extension services envisaged under the
project objectives. In the process PLC's also strengthened their capacity for lending to MSEs and
their portfolio in micro and small scale sector considerably expanded during the project
implementation and now accounts for about 20% of their total lease portfolio. Considering that
NLCL was established exclusively for leasing to micro and small enterprises followed by its
participation in the project significantly increased PLCs outreach in the MSE sector as envisaged
under the project objectives. PLC's overall MSE portfolio increased by an average of about four
times in number except OLP where it was about 50%, and by about 100% for all in amount during
project implementation (Annex XV).
12.   Pakistan Industrial Leasing Corporation (PILCORP) and Pakistan Industrial and
Commercial Leasing (PICL) also performed satisfactorily and took measures similar to OLP for
catering to the MSE sector. PILCORP opened a branch in Peshawar and setup a representative
office in Quetta to study the market and estimate possible demand prior to starting operations there.
PICL was the second largest user of funds and had the advantage of their commercial bank branches
in various parts of the country for their outreach. NLCL, joined towards the tail end of the project,
but performed very well for the micro sub-sector as they had been setup with a charter to cater
primarily to microenterprises.
13.   Implementation of Dutch Grant Component: NLG 2.8 million under the Dutch Grant sub-
loan component was initially allocated to four NGOs as grant for their revolving fund credit
operation, to become financially self-sustaining. The participating NGOs (PNGOs) comprising
Agha Khan Rural Support Program (AKRSP), Orangi Pilot Project (OPP), Basic Urban Services for
Katchi Abadies (BUSTI) and AlFlah Development Institute (ADI) were to make short term loans to
micro and small enterprises of the lower stratum at the prevailing market rates and bear the credit
risk. In 1994 ADI, after utilising a small amount, failed organizationally due to inadequate attention
by its board of directors and was disqualified from further participation for non compliance with the
minimum participation criteria. In 1995, Balochistan Rural Support Program (BRSP) was appraised
and found eligible to participate in the project. However, the formalities for participation took about
a year and BRSP started its grant utilization in 1996. The reasons for delay included unfamiliarity of
BRSP with GOP's procedures for participation in projects and difficulties arising out of distant
location of BRSP headquarters (Quetta). By end of 1995, the allocation for sub-loans were fully
committed with over-commitment of NLG 0.2 while only 30 percent of TA component of NLG 2.0
million was utilized. The 1996 review mission, after consulting with the PNGOs and the GON,
5



concluded that demand for sub-loan was much higher than for TA and recommended that unutilized
TA allocation be reallocated to the sub-loan component. Thus , the allocation for sub-loans to
PNGOs was increased to NLG 4.25 million and the entire Grant was fully utilized (Annex XII).
14.   The PNGOs utilized the sub-loan component for on-lending to about 7,000 micro-
entrepreneurs for income generating activities of which about 1,500 were women - 309 being new
start-up projects. This represented about a quarter of total lending which is considered satisfactory
in meeting project objectives of promoting women entrepreneurs (para 9). Employment generated
under the component is estimated at about 10,000. About 55% of the sub-loans were utilized for
trading and 16% for livestock (Annex IX). As against the SAR requirement of at least 60% for
financing sub-projects below $700, the project achieved a much higher proportion of about 90% for
sub-loans under Rs.25,000 (Annex XIII). The recoveries were 85-100, while most of the remainder
is also being recovered with some delay, except BRSP which faced deterioration due to internal
changes after withdrawal of their main sponsor-GTZ of Germany. Its collection ratio dropped to
only about 42%. The Netherlands Government, while, commenting on the draft ICR, expressed
concern over BRSP's situation. BRSP, have now advised that poor recoveries are due to drought
and crop diseases and while their recovery ratio has improved to 47%, they are making concerted
efforts to recover the remaining overdues and will even resort to legal action if necessary. Finally,
satisfactory repayment performance of most of the sub-loans to lower stratum indicates achievement
of the project objective of demonstrating credit worthiness of microenterprises at market prices and
practices (Annex X).
15.   AKRSP had the major share utilizing about 38% of the Grant for about 4,800 sub-loans in
the northern areas (Annex VIII). These sub-loans amounting to NLG 1.8 million were channeled to
the rural community for purposes of agriculture, live stock and trading. AKRSP's credit program
traditionally was based on village/women's (v/wo) organizations allowing autonomy in financial
management. Under the terms v/wo members are required to contribute to the collective savings
according to their financial capacity. This pool of savings serves as collateral for obtaining credit for
the members and has brought about a change in culture in the area and financial independence for
the people. OPP utilized NLG 0.56 million for sub-loans primarily in Orangi, Karachi, however,
their operations over the years also expanded to other provinces. OPP through its innovative
approach considerably increased its outreach in a cost effective and efficient manner by associating
with 41 NGOs / Community Development Organizations (CDOs) and 53 groups formed by its
agents, which are now replicating OPP's program. The catalyst role played by OPP, not only for
increasing its outreach in quantum but also in extending technical and other support services to the
lower stratum of microenterprises by training other NGOs met project objectives highly
satisfactorily. BUSTI utilized NLG 1.5 million for sub-loans to sub-borrowers in both rural and
urban Sind advancing loans to about 1,100 borrowers with a split of 80/20 between rural and urban
communities, with 55% of the loans to female entrepreneurs. In this process BUSTI spread itself
somewhat thin in capacity to efficiently monitor distant rural areas and there is need to build
additional capacity for the expanded operations. BUSTI has additionally contributed to the society
by employing qualified and dedicated female staff which have provided effective assistance in the
development of women entrepreneurs in the field through technical and marketing advice as
envisaged under the project objectives, and by providing training to the upcoming young university
students in this field. BRSP became a PNGO in late 1996 and was only able to utilize NLG 0.28
million under the project. BRSP follows almost a similar program as AKRSP i.e. credit through self
6



help organizations comprising of village/women organizations and village specialist associations, a
model which is based on savings of the communities and tied to the credit program. BRSP,
however, faced substantial problems and deterioration of its portfolio after withdrawal of GTZ in
1997, which happened subsequent to Bank having disbursed the Dutch Grant. It is imperative for
BRSP's survival and recovery of its outstanding loans that its management be strengthened and
support is provided to fill the gap created by GTZ's withdrawal.
16.   A total of NLG 0.55 million were utilized for TA, of which NLG 0.36 million was utilized
for an assessment study of microenterprise sub-sector and for evaluation study of participating
institutions performance, NLG 0.04 million by AKRSP for apricots preservation research and NLG
0.16 million by BUSTI for institutional development and MIS (Annex XII). The sector assessment
was somewhat delayed and was completed in 1995, its outcome was disseminated to GOP for
purposes of guidance in sectoral polices concerning growth of the microenterprise sub-sector and
making adjustments in policies and practices of the formal financial sector as well as in preparation
of trade and industry policy reforms. The performance evaluation required to be conducted at mid-
term for possible restructuring and incorporating the lessons learnt to improve project design was
delayed by two years and was carried out about eight months before closing. Therefore, the
recommendations could not be used to restructure the project as envisaged and it is expected that
they would be utilized for future activities in this sector. BUSTI benefited greatly from consultancy
assistance under the TA and introduced sub-project appraisal and account keeping techniques
transforming it from a welfare organization to an active lender to microenterprises for productive
purposes with satisfactory recovery performance. The consultant who helped BUSTI, was not
successful in introducing an MIS at BEL for monitoring PNGO's lending operations as provided
under the project due to coordination problems between BEL and the PNGOs and lack of funding for
equipment.
17.   PNGOs carried out extremely valuable work in their areas (both rural and urban) in terms of
providing credit to the microenterpreneurs, promoting self reliance, bringing awareness and
providing the necessary linkages and their sub-borrowers benefited significantly under the project.
The PNGOs also derived considerable benefits in improving and developing their institutional
structure, operations, outreach and enhanced their capacity to deliver microcredit. For AKRSP, OPP
and BRSP, which were already established, the project provided additionality, while for BUSTI,
which was not involved in microenterprise lending earlier, increased its outreach in the micro sector
significantly. Some examples of project impact which were observed by Bank missions during field
visits to sub-borrowers are provided in Annex XIV. PNGOs have played an important role in
reducing poverty in their respective communities which has also helped in reducing incidence of
child labor. Families living below subsistence level resort to getting help from their children in their
efforts to earn a living. NGOs role needs to be enhanced at a broader level in eradicating child labor
from the country. It is important for the NGOs as they have close relationship with communities in
the lower stratum where child labor still continues. Encouraging development of microenterprises
opened greater avenues for employment thus improving incomes and lesser dependence on children.
7



D. Major Factors Affecting the Project
18.   The project was implemented satisfactorily without any major problem.
An important feature of project design comprised clear identification of the target sector's
characteristics, including information on businesses and their operations, employment and funding
needs alongwith linkages with other sectors which was a key to achieving project objectives. There
were, however some factors (para 7, 13 and 23) that delayed the utilization of the Bank's loan
component and the institutional development component under the Dutch Grant and are analysed in
the following para.
19 (a). Factors Not Generally Under Implementing Agencies Control: As mentioned in para.7,
OLP was the only leasing company participating in the project from the project effectiveness (April
1992) until mid-1996. In addition, the law and order situation that deteriorated in the country in
early 1995, slowed down the business activities and therefore utilization of the loan funds.
(b) Factors Subject to ImplementingAgencies Control: The project was the Bank's first
operation catering to microenterprises and as a pilot was based on selected existing leasing
institutions and NGOs as financial intermediaries for channeling funds to the MSE sector.
Administrative arrangements and building the capacity of these institutions to meet the MSEs'
demand was more of a learning process for the Bank and the concerned institutions (PLCs, PNGOs,
and BEL as Apex). Therefore, the procedures and formalities for appraising and finalizing the
participation agreements of NGOs (BRSP) and leasing companies (PICL and PILCORP) that joined
the project in 1996 took longer than expected (para 7, 13). Disqualification of ADI in 1994 due to
non-compliance with the participation criteria (para. 13) also affected the utilization of the Grant
component. In addition, the fact that second hand/used equipment were not allowed to be financed
under the project limited the use of the loan component to those entrepreneurs who could afford new
machinery and equipment. This was, also, the major concern of the PLCs, because micro and small
scale businesses generally preferred and at times could only afford second hand/reconditioned
machinery available at substantially lower cost.
E. Project Sustainability
20    Micro and Small Scale Financing: Development of the micro and small scale enterprises is
an integral part of the GOP's private sector development strategy and its trade policy. The
experience of the Micro project and previous SME projects in Pakistan shows that these sectors can
play vital role in enhancing exports, developing the economy through employment generation and
improving the income status of population at large. In a recent plan to boost exports, the GOP is to
launch a comprehensive program for the SME sector by providing special facilities to them and
enhancing the incentive system in order to improve and increase the production and exports from
this sector. The government's commitment to further integrate these two sectors into the economy as
well as the growing interest in the leasing industry to build up their capacity to finance the medium
term investment projects in the micro and small scale sector suggest that the impact of the
Microenterprise Project would be sustainable (para 9, 11).
8



21.   Participating Institutions: The Microenterprise project had significant impact on facilitating
the access of the MSEs to investment funds through introduction of new financing instruments in
the formal financial sector. The project was successful in improving the operations of the PLCs and
PNGOs, strengthening their financing activities/credit operations, and adding focus on the emerging
MSE sector. These participating institutions took several important measures to improve their
operations and portfolio in this sector (para 11). These benefits are likely to be sustained in the long
term as the PLCs have experienced that financing the MSE sector is in fact a profitable business
activity and could be their market niche. The financial performance (profitability and loan
collection performance) of the PLCs and the PNGOs and their increased lending activities in this
sector during the life of the project were instrumental to the successful implementation of the
project. The PLCs substantially broadened their geographical coverage and outreach during the life
of the project and new leasing institutions, such as Network Leasing Corporation, were established
in past few years which primarily cater to the micro and small enterprise sector.
F. Bank's Performance
22    Bank's performance has been satisfactory. Although the Bank had three Small Scale
Industries projects in Pakistan, it was the first effort to reach microenterprises. As a pilot project, it
was decided at appraisal to cater only to successful ongoing businesses and select intermediaries
which already had some, even though limited exposure to microenterprises. The participating
institutions were also required to have, as a corporate policy, lending to microenterprises and
provided for expansion into this market in their business plans. Therefore, the project started with
participation of only one leasing company. Additional leasing companies joined during project
implementation having met the conditions of participation. Similar eligibility criteria were applied
to selection of NGOs for participation. This strategy paid off as evident from the benefits to MSE
sector under the project and of the intermediaries which operated successfully with high recovery
ratios. Also, allowing new women entrepreneurs to be eligible under the project has been successful
in demonstrating viability of their business efforts. Finally, the Bank could have supervised the
project more frequently during mid phase of the project when there was a slow down and, also, could
have arranged for speedier appraisal of potential leasing companies for participation.
G. Borrower's Performance
23.   Borrower's performance has also been satisfactory. Its readiness to on-lend to private sector
intermediaries directly for the first time made the project possible. The formalities, nevertheless,
caused a delay of about one year in the Loan becoming effective. GOP, therefore, needs to
streamline its procedures to avoid delays in project effectiveness and implementation. Its
requirement of third party guarantee from a public sector financial institution for the PLCs was
unnecessary. Financial covenants were met, generally on time. GOP, also, carried out reforms of
the financial system covering the legal, tax ,accounting and regulatory environment including
specific actions to help the leasing sector by allowing them access to Banking Tribunals for loan
recovery and avoidance of double taxation concerning sales tax. Evaluation study on performance
of the PLCs was delayed by about two years, and, therefore, its recommendations to restructure the
project for improving project design at mid-term as envisaged could not be achieved. BEL's
9



performance as an administrator and Apex under the project on behalf of the Government was
generally satisfactory although a few tasks assigned to BEL were not performed (para 10).
H. Assessment of Outcome
24.   The project is rated high with regard to outcome. Project objectives were achieved even
though it was the bank's first intervention in the microenterprise sector on pilot basis. The
beneficiaries and the intermediaries performed well in contrast to the experience under the SSI
projects. MSE has been demonstrated to be a viable sector for financing by formal sector financial
institutions. This includes women sponsors of MSEs and, particularly, microenterprises for which
no specific targets were laid under the project. However, in view of socioeconomic conditions in the
country, over 20% of total lending under the Dutch Grant going to women entrepreneurs (Annex XI)
is viewed as satisfactory for meeting project objectives. This, together with arrangement of the
technical and other advisory services extended by the PNGOs and the PLCs to their sub- borrowers
is considered a satisfactory outcome of the project with regard to strengthening their capacity and
outreach (para 9, 14, 15). Thus, avenues for financing at a lower cost as compared with the informal
sources of finance have opened up. There are now four leasing companies catering to this sector for
meeting their medium term needs for capital, while, at the start of the project there was only one
which had just started to entertain microenterprises. The PLCs having built up their capacity for
lending to the MSEs and expanded their outreach (para 11) under the project intend to continue to
cater to this sector even though the volumes are likely to be reduced due to constraints in term
finance available to the leasing companies. In view of the achievements the project performance is
considered satisfactory.
I. Follow up Operations
25.   Based on success of the pilot microenterprise project, GOP, PLCs, PNGOs, MSE
beneficiaries and, also, some other financial institutions have requested for a follow up project.
MSE sector is important for socio-economic reasons and accounts for about 38% of the employment
in the country and 13% of manufacturing value added. It has extensive linkages with larger industry
through sub-contracting. The scope for growth is therefore substantial. The pilot project
demonstrated that such assistance to MSEs does not require subsidies. The sector growth, however,
is constrained due to limited access to credit for capital investment, including permanent working
capital. The reasons are collateral requirements and small size of their operations. Leasing
companies are the only financial institutions providing significant medium term lending to this setor
for fixed investment. Furthermore, under the project the PLCs have developed expertise for
providing financing to MSEs, however, the resource constraints remain. While, intermediaries and
the beneficiaries performed well under the pilot project, any follow up project would need to address
the resource constraints faced by the leasing companies catering to this sector on a longer term basis.
Based on successful outcome of the pilot project, GOP has requested the Bank for a follow up
project with a larger allocation for broader geographical coverage (Appendix A para 15 and
Appendix B). The Bank is considering a follow up project for MSEs which will be based on the
lessons learned under the pilot project. The project will address the need of medium/ long term
funds for the MSEs through expansion of private financial intermediaries for development of the
10



sector. With regard to NGOs, the Bank's association under the pilot project has helped in
understanding their methodology for sub-project appraisal, loan sanctioning, monitoring and
supervision. Based on satisfactory experience under the project, the Bank has decided to continue
this association on a larger scale by participating in the upcoming Poverty Alleviation Fund.
J. Main Lessons Learned
26.   The project has demonstrated that financing of microenterprises is sustainable as they
expanded their operations and increased their incomes through leasing of equipment under the
project. This is, also, evident from their timely repayment of the installments to the leasing
companies and the fact that about 300 lessees were repeat. This contrasts with repayment
performance of large industries where recoveries are often a problem. Similar was the performnance
of the PNGO's sub-borrowers. They expanded their businesses, improved their turnover and repaid
their loans to the PNGOs and in the process generated employment. This as a result improved their
quality of life which evidently they would make all efforts to sustain.
27.   The PLCs, also, found that lending to the MSEs was viable. They have made suitable
changes in their procedures for making it easier to deal with MSEs whose financial statements
usually fall short of the standard requirements for industries. Additionally, PLCs utilised consultant
services to provide technical and management advice to microenterpreneurs. In fact, their portfolio
now comprises of microenterprises to the extent of 20% and they have indicated that financing to
this sub-sector will continue indicating sustainability of funding for the MSEs. This, also,
represents significant increase in their outreach in the MSE sector under the project in accordance
with the project objectives, which with the exception of NLCL, was only modest when they joined
as PLCs. The PLCs intention to continue financing MSEs is, however, likely to be on a smaller
scale as they are constrained by availability of medium term funds from the market. Therefore, there
is a need to develop a market for medium term funds which would support accelerated development
of the MSE sub-sector and may be addressed through a follow up project.
28.   NGOs play a useful role in meeting funding requirements of microenterprises. Their
operations are sustainable as their recoveries were about 90%. The Government and the banks,
however, need to encourage their intermediary role for MSEs. It has, also, been demonstrated that
NGOs focusing on welfare activities could play a significant role in alleviating poverty by
developing their credit operations. As PNGOs, they increased their outreach to microenterprise sub-
sector substantially, compared with limited lending before their participation and thus meeting the
project objectives.
29.   MSEs sponsored by women operated successfully under the project. Both PLCs and PNGOs
had satisfactory recoveries even from their start-up projects. Women entrepreneurs under the project
proved to be a credible risk which can play a significant development role as the PLCs and PNGOs
success in promoting women microenterprises would encourage other lending institutions to
disregard any reservation they may have had in dealing with them.
11



30.    Careful selection of financial intermediaries is key to project success. Private sector
financial institutions can be relied upon to perform intermediaries role satisfactorily as a better
alternative to public sector institutions.
31.    Clear identification of the target sector's characteristics, including information on businesses
and their operations, employment and funding needs alongwith linkages with other sectors at the
appraisal stage is of great importance for achieving project objectives.
32.    Child labor should be discouraged and phased out, however, the underlying causes need to
be addressed as families living below subsistence level resort to getting help from their children in
their efforts to earn a living. Microenterprise projects have a great potential for poverty alleviation,
however, use of child labour at the expense of their education needs to be specifically discouraged
and adequate precautionary measures taken in future. NGOs, based on their closer relationship with
communities can play an effective role in poverty reduction and eradication of child labor.
12



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.   Achievement of              Substantial     Partial       Negligible       Not applicable
Objectives
Macroeconomics policies        ()            ()             ()                (1)
Sector Policies               (/)            ()             ()                 ()
Capital Market Policies        ()            ()             ()                (X)
Financial Objectives          (v)            0              ()                 ()
Institutional Development     (v)            0              ()                 ()
Physical Objectives            ()            ()             ()
Poverty Reduction             (X)            ()             ()                 (
Gender Concerns                ()           (/)             ()                 0
Other Social Objectives        ()           (v)             ()                 0
Environmental objectives       ()            ()             ()                (/)
Public sector management       ()            ()             ()                (1)
Private sector development    (X)            ()             ()                 ()
Other - Employment            (/)            ()             ()                 ()
Generation
B.    Project Sustainability        Likely              Unlikely                 Uncertain
(v")                 ()                        ()
Bank Performance          Satisfactory          Satisfactory               Deficient
Identification                 ()                   (1)                       ()
Preparation assistance         ()                   (v)                       ()
Appraisal                      ()                   (/)                       ()
Supervision                    ()                   (/)                       0
D.    Borrower performance         Highly             Satisfactory               Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                    ()                  (v)                        ( )
Implementation                 ()                   (1)                       0
Covenant Compliance            ()                   (I)                       ( )
Operation (if applicable)      ()                   ()                        ()
E.    Assessment of outcome        Highly      Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory       Highly
satisfactory                                    Unsatisfactory
0)           (1)              ( )                ( )
13



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                  Purpose                       Year of     Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
1. First Industrial   To help GOP improve the credit delivery system   2/84  Closed
Investment Credit   and focus on the institutional restructuring of      on
(I IC-I) Loan 2830/   PICIC and IDBP.                                    12/31/90
Credit 1439-Pak)
2. Second Industrial   To assist GOP develop the capital market,  1/86       Closed
Investment Credit  improve credit delivery for industrial finance and    on
(IIC-II) Loan 2648/  continue institution building for PFIs.              12/31/92
Credit 1646-PAK)                                             .                    l
3. Second Small       To promote investments in promising SSI sub-   6/84    Closed
Scale Industry    sectors and improve productivity of existing SSI       on
Project (SSI-Il)  units.                                                 6/30/92
Credit 1499-Pak
4. Third Small        To build on the first two SSI projects and  6/87       Closed
Industries Project.  continue supporting the objectives of increasing    on
Loan 2839-PAK     the contribution of SSls to employment
generation, production and exports, while,             12/31/95
providing funds for technology and productivity
upgradation of SSls.
5. Third Industrial   To assist in meeting the objectives of increasing  1/89  Closed
Investment Project  the role of private sector and accelerating the      on
(IIC-III) Loan    growth of capital markets, through institution         6/30/95
building and policy changes
6. Financial Sector    To assist the GOP in financial sector reforms:    3/89  Closed
Adjustment Loan    gearing credit allocation to market signals,           on
(FSAL) Loan 3029-  improving health and efficiency of banking            6/30/92
Pak               system, and creating more efficient Government
debt system.
Following Operations  To provide term finance for all economic   11/94       Closing
1. Financial Sector    activities; to continue and expand the reform    date is
1. Financial Sector   process started under FSAL; and to support             12/31/99
Deepening and     GOP's strategy for macroeconomic and financial
Intermediation    setrefml
Project (FSDIP)   sector reform.
Loan 3808-PAK
2. Banking Sector     To assist GOP in banking sector reforms: Legal 12/98   Closed
Adjustment Loan    reforms for loan recovery, SBP's autonomy and          3/ 31/98
improving banking supervision, market reforms
and privatisation of financial institutions.
14



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle           Date planned          Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification                        1988                 July 1988
Preparation                           March 1989           October 1989
Appraisal                             June 1990            June 1990
Negotiations                          Nov. 1990            February 4, 1991
Letter of development policy (if applicable)   NA          NA
Board presentation                    January 1991         April 23, 1991
Signing                               June 1991            June 28, 1991
Effectiveness                         September 1991       April 30, 1992
First tranche release (if applicable)  NA                  NA
Midterm review (if applicable)        NA                   NA
Second (and third) tranche release (if  NA                 NA
applicable)
Project completion                    June 30, 1997        March 31, 1998
Loan/Credit closing                   June 30. 1998        June 30, 1998
15



Table 4: Loan/Grant Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
US$ Million
FY93   FY94       FY95      FY96   FY97       FY98
Appraisal       0.8     6.2       16.4      22.1    24.9      26.0
estimate I/
Actual "        2.0     6.0       7.9       12.6    17.8      25.97
Actual as % of  250     97        48        57      71        99.88
estimate
Grant-Actual 2'  0.4    1.0       1.7       3.1     4.7       4.8
NLG Million
" Loan component.
21 Netherlands Grant component. Disbursements were not estimated at Appraisal.
Date of final disbursement:  Loan: October 31, 1998
Grant: May 5,1998
16



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key implementation
indicators in
SAR/President's Report             Estimated                     Actual
1. Development of PLCs         Utilization of a total of US$  100% of the Loan
capacity for lending to     26.0 million for increasing  disbursed (see table 4);.
microenterprises             investment in
microenterprise sector
2. PLCs satisfactory financial                              Average collection
performance including        Collection ratio to remain  achieved 94%
compliance with the         satisfactory (above 90%)
eligibility criteria under the
project.
3. Demonstrate credit          Profitable utilisation of the    . Most beneficiaries utilised
worthiness of                credit and expansion of     the credit well, increased
microenterpreneurs          their businesses.            their incomes and
expanded their
businesses. Their
repayment of loans was
timely
4. Demonstrate replicability of    More FIs starting to lend to  Other leasing companies
lending to microenterprises  microenterprises            started lending to
to others                                                 microenterprises and the
PLCs increased from one
at start to four
II. Modified indicators     NA                           NA
Ill. Other indicators (if   NA                           NA
applicable)            I
17



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key operating indicators in     Estimated                    Actual
SAR/President's Report                                                        l
1. NGOs performance on    Managing revolving      Three of the NGOs have been
capacity building      funds                   managing well, while, one NGO
due to set back explained in the
text, is now taking steps to
improve its operations.
Improving NGO          Lending operations improved,
lending operations     particularly, of the NGO which
received major technical
assistance
Advanced NGOs to       One advanced PNGO assisted non
assist other PNGOs     participating NGOs nationwide to
improve their operations. Such
assistance could not, however, be
arranged for the PNGOs
II. Modified indicators (if    NA               NA
applicable)                                                                  l
Ill. Modified indicators for   NA               NA
future operation (if
applicable).
18



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                   Purpose                     Status                        Impact
1. Small and         Update and analyze changes in  The study was carried out    Findings of the study will be
Microenterprises    the sector policy environment   satisfactorily        discussed with GOP during
Sector Assessment  and microenterprises                                   preparation of follow up project in an
Study             performance. Based on                                   effort to improve microenterprise
findings of the study, GOP and                         sector policy environment.
the Bank to take actions as
appropriate.
2. Performance       Evaluate performance of the  The study was delayed and   Due to the delay, its conclusions
Evaluation Study    PCIs and project           completed about a year     became available too late in the
accomplishments in the light of  before project closing,  project cycle. The recommendations,
project objectives two years                           therefore, could not be used for
after project effectiveness.                           amending the project mid term as
Adjust project design based on                         envisaged at appraisal. However,
the recommendations of the                             these are now being used for
study                                                  preparing follow up project.
19



Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$ M)   Actualllatest estimate (US$ M)
Item             Local      Foreign              Local    Foreign
Costs      Costs      Total    Costs     Costs      Total
1. Lease Investment        7.8        26.0       33.8     3.5       26.0      29.5
2. Sub-loans (Dutch                    1.7       1.7        -       2.47      2.47
Grant)
3. Technical Assistance     -          1.1       1.1        -       0.33      0.33
TOTAL                      7.8        28.8       36.6      3.5      28.8       32.3
Note: Actual Rupee costs converted to US$ based on average exchange rate during the utilization
period
Table 8B: Project Financing
._____________________     Appraisal estimate (US$ M)    Actual/latest estimate (US$ M)
Source                    Local      Foreign              Local    Foreign
Costs      Costs      Total    Costs     Costs      Total
IBRD Loan                  0.0        26.0       26.0               26.0      26.0
Netherlands Govt.                      2.8       2.8       -         2.8       2.8
Private Sector             7.8          -        7.8       3.5        -        3.5
TOTAL                      7.8        28.8       36.6      3.5      28.8       32.3
20



Table 9. Economic Costs and Benefits
Expost data regarding FRR and ERR are not available for the sub-projects
Table 10: Status of Main Legal Covenants
Agree  Section   Covenant  Presen    Original    Revised     Description of covenant    Comment
ment              type        t     fulfillment  fulfillment                             s
status    date       date
Loan   4.01(a)  Accounting  C       Througho              PLCs, and BEL to maintain
ut the                procedures and records
project life         adequate to monitor the
operations and expenditures
of the project
Loan   4.01(b)  Accounting  C       6 months              PLCs to have the records of   There
Audit               after each            financial statements and BEL   were
FY                   for special account in      some
accordance with sound      minor
accounting practice applied    delays
by independent auditors;
Loan   4.02     Financial    C      Through               PLCs Debt/ Equity ratio not to
the project           exceed 10 to 1
life
Loan   4.03     Financial    C      Annually
PLCs Debt Service Coverage
not to fall below 1.25
C = Complied with     CD = Complied with after delay  CP = Complied with partially
21



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There was no incidence of non compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle           Actual staff Weeks
1. Through appraisal                                      142
2. Appraisal - Board                                       45
3. Supervision                                            127
4. ICR                                                     11
Total                           325
22



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions "'
Stages of     Month/   No. of   Days  Specialized                                        Types of
Project Cycle    Year   Persons    in    staff skills            Performance              Problems
Field  represented                                                 l
Implementation   Development
Status          Impact
Identification and    10/89  10     30     Financial    Project brief
preparation                                Economist   prepared
Informal
sector/NGO
specialist                                                  l
Appraisal          4/91         4      20  Financial,    Project Appraised                HBL was
through Board                              Economist,                                     appraised as a
approval                                   Informal                                       participating
sector /NGO                                   bank.
specialist                                    However, it
withdrew just
before
conclusion of
project
Appraisal
Board approval     4/92         2       5                Project declared
through                                                 effective
effectiveness
Supervision        1/92         4       8               The entire loan of  The
01/93         2      7                US$ 26 million    development
utilised         objectives met
8/94         2      8
02/95         4     20
6/96         2     17
5/97         3     22
12/97         2     12
Completion         5/98         4      17  Satisfactory   Satisfactory
1/ The Microenterprise missions were, during the first three years, combined with those of other Bank's
intermediation operations. No record is available as how the time/number of staff was split between the projects.
Therefore, time for supervision missions spent on Microenterprise project has been estimated.
23



IBRD Loan
Lease Disbursement
Annex - I
IBRD Refinance                                 No. Of Leases                                           Amount - Rs. Million                      Amount in US$
Micro     % of     Small      % of      Sub-      % of     Micro     % of      Small     % of      Sub-       % of               million
sub total   Scale   sub total   total    Total             sub total   Scale   sub total   total     Total
Orix Leasing Pakistan Ltd.             859     40.77      1248     59.23     2107       73.2   147.52      22.82    499.00     77.18    646.52      70.0              18.19
(OLP)
Pakistan Ind. Leasing                   58     29.15       141     70.85       199       6.9   21.878      18.28     97.78     81.72    119.66      11.0               2.86
(PILCORP)
Pak. Ind.& Comm. Leasing               105     49.07       109     50.93      214        7.4    45.79      33.69     90.11     66.31    135.90      13.0               3.37
(PICL)
Network Leasing                        253     70.67       105     29.33      358       12.5    32.40      46.29     37.60     53.71     70.00       6.0               1.55
(NLCL)                                I_I
TOTAL                                1275    44.30       1603    55.70    2878   100.00   247.59    25.4           724.5    74.53   972.08   100.00                  25.97
24



IBRD LOAN
LEASE CHARACTERSTICS
Annex - II
OLP             PILCORP                PICL               NLCL               TOTAL
Particulars       Numbers Rupees  Numbers  Rupees  Numbers  Rupees  Numbers  Rupees  Numbers  Rupees
(Million)           (Million)          (Million)           (Million)           (Million)
Lease Financed by IBRD        2107  646.52         199  119.656       214   135.900        358    70.000      2878  972.076
Total Amount Advanced by      2107   713.55              132.916             138.030              72.000           1056.496
PLCs                                                                          ..                                       .
Total Investment (including    2107   713.55             145.153             151.150              77.800           1087.653
down payment)
Average Size of Lease          2107    0.339               0.668               0.700,              0.201      2107    0.477
Average Size of refinanace     2107    0.307               0.601               0.635               0.196      2107    0.435
No. of Jobs created           3000                 271                 275                1902                5450
Average No. of jobs per lease                     1.362               1.29               5.313                  1.9 
Investment per_job                      0.24               0.536               0.550               0.041     _          0.2
Leases in Arrears               215    12.79        12    2.32          17     2.680         3     0.030       247   17.820
Leases under litigation          39    12.18         1    1.270                             Nil       Nil       40    13.45
Leases repossessed               10__    3.60        1    0.15_          1    0.240         Nil       Nil       12    3.990
Leases re-scheduled               2     1.80        Nil      NilL                           Nil       Nil        2      1.80
Leases for new projects -        93    31.80        Nil      Nil         5     3.300        16    3.110        114   38.210
women
Leases for existing projects -                      13    6.469         16   16.870         61    12.040        90   35.379
women                                                               _
Note: Jobs created under OLP leases are ICR mission's best estimates
25



IBRD LOAN
GEOGRAPHICAL AND SUB-SECTORAL DISTRIBUTION OF LEASES FINANCED
(Rs. Million)
Consolidated
Annexure III
Punjab        Sind          NWFP          Balochistan      Total
No. Amoun   No. Amount   No. Amoun    No.   Amount  No. Amount
Steel & Engineering               151  65.796  101  26.664      5    1.89      0         0 257   94.35
Other Services(incl. schools)     170  73.206  265  58.706    67   14.66       0         0 502 146.572
Trading                           143  44.403  159   32.19    60   13.36       0         0 362  89.953
Professional Services             135  52.097  124  30.633    41   8.384       0         0 300 91.114
Garment, Jute & Allied             75  31.336   97   53.19      2   0.397      0         0  174  84.923
Food & Allied                     82   58.62   84   29.27    11    5.03        0         0  177  92.92
Medical Services                  103  38.353  161  44.999    45   11.62       0         0 309 94.972
Textile & Allied                   51  32.075   27  19.247      0       0      0         0   78 51.322
Paper, Board & Printing            30   14.42  114   36.09      6    2.54      0         0  150   53.05
Chemical & Pharmaceutical          50  25.551   57   26.63    18    7.96       0         0  125 60.141
Consumer Goods                     26   12.05   47   19.88    23   10.83       0         0   96  42.76
Leather & Trading                  76  23.726   10    2.48      0       0      0         0   86 26.206
Construction                       22   10.86   15   12.22      2   0.482      0         0   39 23.562
Transport & Communication          19   9.319   41   37.62      1    0.15      0         0   61 47.089
Miscellaneous Goods               42  15.624   40    6.98       1   0.129      0        0  83 22.733
Synthetic and Rayon                 9    4.71    3   0.841      5    1.89      0         0   17  7.441
Financial Institutions              0       0   10    5.84      1   0.099      0        0   11  5.939
Ceramics                           10    4.29    2    1.46      1    0.33      0        0   13   6.08
Fuel & Energy                       1   0.579    0       0      0       0      0        0    1  0.579
Cables, Electric & Electronics     15    6.51   21    6.06      1   .007       0        0   37   12.64
TOTAL                            1210 523.525 1378    451   290  79.821        0        0 2878 1054.35
26



IBRD LOAN
TYPE OF ASSETS LEASED
Annexure IV
ORIX                  PILCORP                    PICL                     NLCL                 Consolidated
Category        No. of    Amount in    No. of    Amount in    No. of    Amount in         No. of    Amount in      No. of    Amount in
Leases    Rs. million    Leases   Rs. Million    Leases    Rs. million    Leases    Rs. million    Leases   Rs. million
Machinery &          861       368.67          63      61.667          62         65.01        302         58.09       1288      553.437
Plant
Commercial           501       198.68          77        33.72         53         42.84         35         10.28        666       285.52
Vehicle
Office               745        146.2          59      24.268          90          32.6         11          1.06        905      204.128
Equipment
Others                                                                  9          10.7         10          0.57          19        11.27
TOTAL               2107       713.55         199     119.655         205        151.15        358            70       2869    1054.355
27



IBRD LOAN
LEASE REFINANCE TO WOMEN SPONSORS
Annexure V
IBRD Refinance                  No. Of Leases            Amount Rs million
Micro     Small   Sub-total   Micro      Small   Sub-total
Orix Leasing Pakistan Ltd.      28        65         93      5.12      23.50     28.62
(OLP)
Pakistan Ind. Leasing
(PILCORP)                        2        11         13     1.038       5.43      6.47
Pak. Ind.& Comm. Leasing
(PICL)                           6        15         21      1.64      18.02     19.66
Network Leasing                 58        19         77     10.10       5.10     15.20
(NLCL)                               I_I
TOTAL                          94       110        2041 1 7.898   52.051  69.949
28



IBRD LOAN
RECOVERY PERFORMANCE
Annexure VI
PLCs                         Micro      Small         Overall
Orix Leasing Pakistan Ltd.     95.37        97.67           97.17
(ORIX)
Pakistan Ind. Leasing Corp.    77.89        96.56           91.64
(PILCORP)
Pak. Ind. & Comm. Leasing      95.00        92.00           93.00
(PIC L)__                     _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _   __ _ _ _ _  _ _
Network Leasing Corp Ltd.      98.00        98.00           98.00
i(NLCL)                    I
COST OF LEASING OPERATION AS
PERCENTAGE OF AMOUNT DISBURSED
_Annexure VII
PLC           | Micro    Small   Overall   Interest rate
|__________________________  |   Lease  Scale  Average    charged
Orix Leasing Pakistan Ltd.                      18.50              22.0
(ORIX)
Pakistan Ind. Leasing Corp.   18.95    18.72    18.76              25.3
(PILCORP)
Pak. Ind. & Comm. Leasing     20.00    19.75    20.00              24.0
(P IC L )                __________   ________         __________________
Network Leasing Corp Ltd.                       19.00              23.0
,(NLCL)                  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _    __ _ _ __29
29



DUTCH GRANT                                             ANNEX VIII
Sub-loan Disbursement Analysis
PNGO                                           NO OF SUB-LOANS                                 AMOUNT (Rs. Million)
Under    % of    Above    % of   Sub-   % of    Under    % of    Above    % of  Sub- % of
Rs.25,000 Sub-total Rs.25,000 Sub-total Total  Total  Rs.25,000 Sub-total Rs.25,000 Sub-total Total Total
Orangi Pilot Project (OPP)          642      91.5      60      8.5   702   10.0        7.1    79.6       1.8    20.4  9.0  9.0
Basic Urban Services (BUSTI)        1019    74.1      357    25.9  1376   19.7         19.5    62.2     11.9    37.8 31.4 31.6
Balochistan Rural Supp. Prog. (BRSP)  36     38.7      57    61.3    93    1.3          0.4     6.6      6.1    93.4  6.5  6.6
Agha Khan Rural Supp. Prog. (AKRSP)  4626    95.8     202      4.2  4828   69.0        45.7    87.2      6.7    12.8 52.4 52.8
TOTAL      6323     90.3      676      9.7  6999    100       72.8    73.3      26.5    26.7 99.3  100
30



ANNEX - IX
DUTCH GRANT
SUB-SECTORAL DISTRIBUTION
(Rs. Million)
OPP            BUSTI          AKRSP            BRSP            Total            Total
Disbursed       Disbursed       Disbursed       Disbursed       Disbursed
Sub-sector    No.   Amount   No.   Amount   No.   Amount   No.   Amount   No.   Amount % of Total % of Total
No   Amount
Trading           536      6.4    472    10.8   2797    31.7       0.0     0.0   3805    48.8    54.4    49.2
Livestock          48      0.8    214      4.9    811      7.5     73      4.4   1146    17.6    16.4    17.8
Farming             9      0.2    158      3.6    253      2.9     15      1.6    435      8.3     6.2      8.3
Textile/Leather    35      0.5    185      4.2    490      5.0     0.0     0.0    710      9.7    10.1      9.8
Stitching          74      1.1     44      1.0     55      0.4     0.0     0.0    173      2.5     2.5      2.5
Others              0      0.0    303      6.9    422      4.9      5      0.5    730    12.3    10.4      12.4
Total         702     9.0   1376    31.4   4828    52.4        93    6.53    6999    99.3    100       100
31



ANNEX-X
DUTCH GRANT
RECOVERY PERFORMANCE
PNGO                       % Collection
OPP                                                       85
AKRSP                                                    100
BRSP                                                      42
BUSTI                                                     91
Average                   901
ANNEX-XI
DUTCH GRANT
NUMBER OF WOMEN SPONSORS FINANCED
PNGO            Existing Projects    New Projects   Sub-total      % of Total
OPP                                   175               0           175               25
AKRSP                                 271             305           576               12
BRSP                                   27               4            31               33
BUSTI                                 705               0           705               51
Total                       1178             309           1487              21
32



ANNEX-XII
DUTCH GRANT
Disbursement Summary
NLG Million
Technical
PNGO               Sub-Loans          Assistance           Total
OPP                                    0.56             0.00                0.56
AKRSP                                   1.80            0.04                 1.83
BRSP                                   0.28             0.00                0.28
BUSTI                                  1.56             0.16                 1.71
ADI                                    0.06             0.00                 0.06
BEL                                    0.00             0.36                 0.36
Total                         4.25             0.55                4.80
33



ANNEX - Xill
DUTCH GRANT
ANALYSIS OF DATA BY SUB-LOAN TERMS
SUB-LOAN AMOUNT, VALUE OF TOTAL ASSETS
Sub-Projects           Percentage
Maturity Date of Sub-Loans
Upto 6 months                                                3099                 44.3
6 months - 1 years                                           2521                 36.0
1 - 2 years                                                  1379                 19.7
Total                    6999                100.0
Amount of Sub-Loan
Up to Rs.10,000                                              3931                 56.2
Rs 10,000 - 25,000                                           2423                 34.6
Above Rs 25,000                                               645                  9.2
Total                    6999                  100
OPP did not provide information on maturities. Maturities of 6 months to 1 year has been assumed.
34



Annex XIV
Some Examples of the Project's impact on microenterprises
A small owner operated tire shop engaged in tire changing and repairing had only vulcanizing
facilities and tire handling was done manually. The lease finance under the project enabled the proprietor
to install machines based on new technology for vulcanizing. Additionally, he installed equipment for
wheel alignment and balancing. With the expansion and technology upgrading his turnover grew by over
200% and the proprietor was planning to set up another shop based on the additional profits thus
generated. Second example is lease finance extended to fishermen which was utilized for acquiring boats
and fishing nets. Before this facility, the village fishermen were dependent on money lenders for their
credit needs at exploitative rates. At times the sub-borrower and his family not able to repay, ended up in
a lifelong bondage. The lease finance facility under the project enabled the fishermen to avail credit at
reasonable rates and therefore they were not only able to service their debt but increase their income.
The benefits were shared by a number of people who participate in the catch. A third example of
comprises a food packaging which utilized lease finance for acquiring a milk chilling unit and a tomato
ketchup packaging unit. This unit which started as a small milk and yogurt shop now supplies milk, yogurt
and tomato ketchup to leading hotels and restaurants in Karachi. Finally, a small enterprise engaged in
manufacture of gaskets for automobiles including cars, trucks, tractors and motorcycles was producing
manually. The proprietor, through the lease finance facility acquired small machines which increased
production three times besides reducing wastage. A small print shop of audio cassette covers through
lease of computers more then doubled its sales due to improved quality, colors and graphics. In addition,
provided jobs to qualified computer operators.
Various women entrepreneurs benefited from lease finance. These women who previously could
not borrow through banks to start businesses not only succeeded in starting their own clinics, salons,
boutiques, stitching units, etc. but also provided employment to women workers. Thus, the project played
a significant role in expanding the business volumes of microenterprises through equipment leasing.
Concerning the impact of the GON Grant, examples include eight members of a village
organisation (VO) in Balochistan receiving assistance under the project for agricultural inputs (insecticide
and fertiliser) for fruit orchard expecting to increase their income ten fold, a community in a remote area
opening a shop for supplying agricultural inputs to small local farmers thus avoiding transport problems,
ladies engaged in making agar batties for use in local functions, setting up stitching and embroidery
facilities employing mostly female labour and a woman sponsor setting up a cottage manufacturing
facility.
35



Annex -XV
Project's Impact on PLCs Portfolio
(Rs. In million)
Total            MSE          MSE Portfoio           Women MSEs Financed
Year         Portfolio        Portfoios     Under the Project      Total       Under the Project
Rs     Nos      Rs      Nos      Rs  |Nos          Rs      Nos      Rs  |   Nos
Network Leasing
1996       146      249     103     229       -        -        21      46       -         -
1997        163     544     130     531      23       119       27      108      5        25
1998       252    1000    202       983      47       239       42      97       11       52
PILCORP
1994       926      145      24      25       -        -        0.7      1       -         -
1995       681      191      30      54      11        18       2        6      0.4        1
1996/97      862     303      67      111      22       39       2.5      4      2.2        4
1997/98      500     351      134     196      71       120      6.6      13     3.5        7
1998/99      130     177      66      129      15       22        4       7      0.3        1
PICL
1994/95      262     120      65      58       -         -       15       11      -         -
1995/96      140     110      38      54       11       24       15       10     0.6        3
1996/97      204     226      71      131      59       82       24      31       9         9
1997/98      248     312      124     219      66      108       22      28       10        9
ORIX LEASING
1991       473      801     206      726      -        -
1992       658      975     242      788     39        11
1993       718    1005    282        874     68       263
1994       1026    1276    332    1064    112         410
1995       1462    1632    486    1417    123         371
1996       1852    1607    537    1304    136         391
1997       1638    1514    532    1148    127         373
1998       1337    1463    496    1116    143         288
Note: In case of Orix Leasing the numbers include medium enterprise leases as further segregation was
not available for the overall portfolio.
36



Appendix A
Final
Pakistan
Microenterprise Project (Ln. 3318 - PAK)
Final Supervision/lmplementation Completion Mission
April 18 - May 16,1998
Aide Memoire
A.    Introduction
1.    A mission comprising Mudassir Khan, Shideh Hadian, Humaira Qureshi (Bank Staff) and Ainul
Hassan Qureshi (Consultant) visited the participating institutions from April 18 - May 16, 1998, for
Microenterprise Project's final supervision and preparation of Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
The mission met with the Participating Leasing Companies (PLCs), Participating NGOs (PNGOs); other
financial institutions; Bankers Equity Limited (BEL), Economic Affairs Division and the Ministry of Finance.
The mission would like to thank all the officials of the agencies and institutions for their cooperation and
the courtesies extended to mission members.
B.    Project Components and Objectives
2.    The Microenterprise Project closing on June 30, 1998, was designed to provide small scale and
microenterprises with direct access to formal sources of credit, developing capacity of the leasing
companies and NGOs to deliver credit to this sector, provide technical and business support services to
microenterpreneurs and demonstrating their credit worthiness, and promoting development of businesses
owned and operated by women. The project included a loan component of US$ 26 million for equipment
lease finance by the PLCs for the small and microenterprise sector and a grant of US$ 2.8 million
equivalent by Government of Netherlands for sub-loans to microenterprises through PNGOs and technical
assistance.
C.    Status of Loan Component of US$ 26 million for lease financing to small and
microenterpreneurs through PLCs
4.     Performance of individual PLCs for implementation of the Loan component was presented in
detail in the Aide Memoirs of May and December 1997. The loan component was satisfactorily utilized
with substantial impact on development of micro and small industrial sector and leasing companies for
catering to this sector. By March 31, 1998, US$ 24.3 million had been disbursed while lease finance
applications for amounts of about $3 million i.e. $1.3 million more than the remaining funds were received.
The remaining funds will be committed on first come first serve basis and applications over and above
$1.7 million will be returned. Disbursement as of November 1997, was US$ 21.8 million, indicating the
PLCs effective utilization of the credit component (US$ 4.2 million in four months). Utilization of project
funds by the PLCs are provided in Table 1 below.
37



Table 1- PLCs Utilization of the Loan Component
No. of Sub-Loans                 Sub-Loan Amounts (Rs.
mil)
Micro  Small  Total  Of              Micro   Small    Total Av. Lease
Which:                                 size (Rs. M)
by
Women
Orix          865    1267   2132        93        149.20   518.80   5025.00     0.31
PICL           99     94      193       18         43.70    73.44    521.14     0.61
PILCORP       58      141    199        3          22.87   102.24    526.11     0.63
NLCL          270     109    379        77         35.00    42.00    77.00      0.20
Total:        1292   1611   2903       191        250.77   736.48   6149.25     0.34
% of total    44.5    55.5   100       6.6         25.40    74.60    100.00
5.    The PLCs' performance in the implementation of the credit component has been satisfactory
throughout the project. They provided lease finance to about 3,000 sub-projects of which 55% were small
and 45% micro businesses. The average size of the total leases by all the PLCs was about Rs. 340,000
comprised of average for micro of Rs. 194,000 and that for small of Rs. 460,000. Orix was the largest
participant with 67 percent of the lease finances by amount and 73 percent by number. About 200 women
availed lease finance facility under the project of which 70% were for existing and 30% for new
businesses. The average recoveries have been about 95%, with about 92% for micro and 96% for the
small sector.
6.    Sector wise distribution of PLC's leases financed included about 50 percent for plant &
machinery, 28 percent for office equipment, and 22 percent for commercial vehicles. The distribution of
PLCs portfolio included businesses in trading, engineering, medical services, garments, chemical &
pharmaceutical, food and textiles. While the PLCs operated mainly in urban centers they covered a wide
range of investments for a variety of business entities including proprietorships, partnerships and limited
companies.
7.    The three PLCs - Orix, PILCORP and PICL started their leasing to micro and small sector under
the project and their portfolio for this sector over the project implementation period considerably expanded
and now accounts for about 20% of their total lease portfolio. The availability of term funding specifically
for this sector encouraged Orix and subsequently other PLCs to commit resources which included
strengthening of their staff, engaging specialized sector experts and using linkages provided by NGOs, for
catering to this sector. Good repayment performance encouraged other leasing companies to enter this
market and as a result access to credit for the sector improved. Entrepreneurs that availed lease finance
under the project benefited extensively in many respects including multiple increase in income levels,
growth of businesses and sustainability. This helped most entrepreneurs towards improving living
standards, providing education to their children, and creating employment opportunities in their
communities, which became evident in mission's interactions with the beneficiaries over the project
period. Detailed discussion on project performance and benefits will be provided in the ICR.
D.    Status of Dutch Grant Component of NLG 4.8 million for sub-loans to microenterpreneurs
through PNGOs and Technical Assistance
38



8.    Performance of individual PNGOs for implementation of the TA component was presented in
detail in the May 1997 Aide Memoire. The Dutch Grant of NLG 4.8 million was fully utilized by PNGOs as
of February 1997. Of the total Dutch Grant, NLG 4.1 were utilized for sub-loans and the remaining NLG
0.7 million for technical assistance. Analysis of disbursements by the PNGOs for sub-loans is provided in
Table 2 below.
Table 2 - PNGOs Utilization
Number of Sub-Loans                   Sub-loan Amounts (Rs. mil)
Under Rs  Above Rs   Total   of which:   Under Rs  Above Rs   Total
25,000     25,000           by Women   25,000       25,000
AKRSP        4,626       202     4,828      576         45.67       6.72    52.39
BUSTI        1,019       357     1,376      705         19.52      11.87    31.39
OPP           642         60      702       175          7.12       1.83     8.95
BRSP           36        57        93       31           0.43       6.10     6.53
Total:       6,323       676     6,999   1,487          72.74      26.52    99.26
9.    The PNGOs provided finance to about 7,000 microenterpreneurs for income generating activities
under the project, covering all areas in Pakistan. About 1,500 women entrepreneurs availed finance
through the PNGOs for income generating activities. The project helped the PNGOs in building their
capacity to deliver microcredit and in increasing their outreach. PNGOs were provided grant funds to help
build a revolving credit facility for their long term sustainability. Except in the case of AlFlah Development
Institute (ADI) which failed organizationally due to inadequate attention by their board of directors, all the
other PNGOs and their sub-borrowers benefited significantly under the project. The socio-economic
conditions of the sub-borrowers improved considerably with better and increased access to formal
sources of credit and a significant number of borrowers benefited from training for skills development.
Based on evidence available to the mission from its field visits, it is felt that these improvements are
largely sustainable. These aspects will, however, be reviewed more closely in the ICR.
10.   The recoveries of the PNGOs were 90-94 % except for BRSP where recoveries deteriorated due
to internal changes and rumors of winding up after withdrawal of GTZ of Germany. This, however, is now
changing as a new Chief Executive has been appointed by the Government in early 1998. The mission
was informed by the new BRSP manager that new funding from Dutch Government and Asian
Development Bank might be forthcoming.
11.   Technical Assistance The TA component was only utilized up to about NLG 0.7 million as
against original allocation of NLG 1.6 million, due to lack of demand and low priority assigned to it by the
implementing agencies. The remaining NLG 0.9 million were, therefore, reallocated for sub-loans.
Utilization of TA was NLG 0.26 million by BUSTI for setting up of systems for lending operations, NLG
0.04 million by AKRSP for enterprise development and about NLG 0.11 million for development of MIS for
the NGOs .The remaining NLG 0.25 million were used for conducting the two studies required under the
project i.e. the sector assessment study and performance evaluation. While, the sector assessment study
which recorded and analyzed changes in microenterprise performance and its competitiveness and sector
environment including applicable government policy framework had been completed earlier in 1995, the
performance evaluation study was completed for the PLCs and PNGOs separately, after a long delay in
March, 1998. The purpose of the study was to review participating institutions and their clients'
performance at mid term to enable needed changes in the project to be made for the remaining period.
Due to the delay, the original objective could not be met and therefore the results will be utilized for any
future assistance in the sector. The study concluded that the implementation performance under the
project was satisfactory and that the project impact was substantial. The findings are summarized in
following para:
39



(a)    Evaluation report on the PNGOs indicates that the PNGOs were vigilant in recoveries and the
Grant funds are being recycled. This has strengthened the PNGOs by increasing their resource base. In
case of BUSTI, the TA provided under the project successfully helped them convert from a welfare
oriented organization to an NGO which now supports businesses engaged in productive activities. The
report noted inadequacies of information on the performance of the PNGOs clients and suggested a
standard format for monitoring and evaluation of the economic and social benefits derived from the
project. Finally, the report suggested that linkage of NGOs with the formal sector i.e. commercial banks
would speed up channeling of resources to the MSE sector.
(b)    The evaluation report on the PLCs performance suggested that to support the MSE sector,
supplementing leasing assistance with working capital loans, project financing for new small
entrepreneurs and training in business management including marketing should be considered. It, also,
commented that PLCs could have used NGOsl CBOs to extend their outreach in the sector. Finally, it
recommended greater efforts by the PLCs for assisting women entrepreneurs through developing market
linkages and providing management training.
E.    ICR
12.   The mission during the supervision collected information on project performance for preparation
of the ICR, scheduled to be completed by December 31, 1998. During the wrap-up the Government
agreed to providing its contribution by June 30, 1998, which will be attached as an annexure to the ICR
document.
F.    Follow-up Project
13.   The pilot Microenterprise project was appraised in 1991 providing a credit line of $26 million to
leasing companies for MSEs already operating profitably to meet their additional equipment needs. To
encourage women entrepreneurs, they were made eligible for leasing equipment even for new projects.
The funds were passed on by GOP to the leasing companies after adding on service charges and forex
cover fee which was, also, in line with the market rate at the time. Under this project, performance of the
intermediaries as well as the beneficiaries has been commendable (as discussed in Sections 'C' & 'D')
with recovery rates being above 95%.
14.    MSE sector is important for socio-economic reasons and accounts for about 38% of the
employment and about 13% of manufacturing value added. It has extensive linkages with larger industry
through sub-contracting. The scope for growth is substantiai as in Korea its share in manufacturing value
added was about 35% and Japan about 52%. It has the potential for economic growth without any need
for subsidies. The sector growth, however, is constrained due to limited access to credit for capital
investment. Furthermore, for working capital needs, their access is limited due to collateral requirements
and small size of their operations. Leasing companies are the only financial institutions doing significant
medium term lending to this sector for fixed investment. Under the project the PLCs have developed
expertise for providing financing, however, the resource constraints remain, particularly for the smaller
leasing companies. For this reason and further broadening the coverage, PLCs emphasized the need for
continuing the Bank's assistance and support.
15.    Based on GOP's request conveyed at December 1997 supervision, the mission
discussed relevant issues for the follow up project with the PLCs, other financial institutions including
leasing companies and commercial banks. As the availability of medium/ long term funds from private
sector resources remains a constraint, there was strong demand for continued Bank assistance for further
development of the MSE sector. The issue of foreign exchange risk cover for on-lending under the
possible follow up project, however, remains to be addressed.. The mission during the wrap-up discussed
and agreed to further review and continue working with the Government for an appropriate mechanism to
minimize this risk.
40



Appendix B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
MICROENTERPRISE PROJECT
(Ln.No.3318-PAK)
Evaluation Report By the Government
Microenterprise Project amounting to US $ 26 million was approved on April, 1991 and became effective
on April 30, 1992. The loan was closed on October 31, 1998 for all practical purposes and amount
equivalent to about United States dollars thirty two thousand remained unutilized and therefore, cancelled.
Project Objectives
*    To strengthen the capacity of participating institutions in delivering financial, as well as technical
services to microenterprises;
*    To assist these institutions to deliver their services to a larger network of microenterprises;
*    To broaden the menu of financial instruments available for microenterprises in the upper stratum,
by promoting the initiative to market leasing to sub-contractors of small scale businesses;
    To catalyze NGOs financial, technical and social support services for microenterprises in the lower
stratum;
-    To demonstrate the replicability of the NGOs' and leasing companies initiatives to others, including
commercial banks who could potentially see microenterprises in the upper stratum as a promising
market niche;
*    To demonstrate the creditworthiness of microenterpreneurs, including and particularly women.
*    To promote the development of business owned and operated by women.
The microsector in Pakistan some times referred to as the informal or unregulated sector has become the
most vibrant and high growth area in the economy of Pakistan today. Through this loan, the Govemment
played a significant role in the development of microsector of the economy. The microsector mainly
comprised of family businesses with an average of 5 to 10 workers and the only source of financing to
them were family and friends. The main obstacle this sector faces is the access to the availability of credit.
;the primary financing need for the microsector is short term loans, for purchasing the material and
equipment. Under the microsector most of the financing came from the informal sector. The terms and
conditions of formal loans are collateral requirements, maturities, and interest rates which vary widely
according to the risk under the microsector clients.
To encourage formal financial institutions to provide funds to small and microenterprise, Government of
Pakistan has extended a loan obtained from The world Bank for on-lending to different leasing companies
for onward credit in the form of lease financing to the micro and small sector was set in such a manner to
cover the wide range of micro and small customers, the most important aspect is the recovery rate come
to around 95%. It is expected that this remarkable rate will encourage other leasing companies to invest in
this sector. Analysis of the implementation progress reveals an important aspect; that none of the
authorized leasing companies had written that there is a large market to be capture in this province.
Achievement of Objectives
The objectives of the project were achieved to a great extent with the help of World Bank appraisal and
implementation mission from time to time providing useful guidelines for the successful implementation of
the project.
41



Micro sector enterprises (MSE) is important for socio-economic reasons and accounts for about
approximately 80% of the employment. The sector growth is constrained due to limited access to credit
for capital investment. Furthermore, for working capital needs, their access is limited due to collateral
requirement and small size of their operation. Leasing companies are the only financial institutions doing
significantly medium term lending to this sector for fixed investment. Under the project PLCs have
developed expertise for providing financing, however, the resource constraints remain for small leasing
companies. The PLCs had delivered their service to a larger constituency of micro enterprises by writing
leases in Sind, Punjab, and NWFP. Under the project larger part of asset leased were machinery and
Plant, which has also created employment opportunities. The PLCs have also taken steps to promote the
development of business owned and operated by women entrepreneurs. At micro level, the participating
institution gained sufficient experience and benefited in terms of increased business activity with improved
methods and skills.
Recommendationslobservations
In view of the substantial achievement of objectives of this project is recommended that GOP should
pursue the approval of ;Micro Enterprise Project-lI, possibly with a large allocation, in the new project
funds distribution may be ensured evenly to all geographical parts of the country, in the project under
consideration the Province ;of Balochistan, AJK and Northern Areas did not use a penny as the PLCs
focus was over in the major cities and densely populated areas.
The cost of funds under the project was around 15% whereas the end borrowers was changed @22-24%
per annum which means a spread of 7% - 8% to the intermediaries (PLCs). The cost of funds was
subsidized by the Government by providing exchange risk cover but the subsidy could not give benefit to
end borrowers who were given the funds again at the market rate. In the next project it may be ensured
that either there is no subsidy from the government or the subsidy is passed on to the end borrowers.
The experience of appointment of BEL as administrator in this project has not been very encouraging as
its performance regarding collection of the money from the PLCs and depositing it with the Government
was very discouraging. The BEL collected the money from the PLCs but did not deposit it with the
Government.
There is an essential requirements for the capacity building of Investment Wing of the finance Division to
monitor, coordinate and timely follow-up the disbursement and repayment of the loans. In the new project
the requirement ;may be gauged and needs be catered for.
The world bank initially qualified to OLC as participating leasing company in the loan which did not use
much amount of loan in the initial period. Subsequently on the insistence of GOP the World Bank
qualified 4 more leasing companies but the Bank took more than usual time in completing the evaluation
regarding new PLCs. The world Bank may also try to streamline its procedure in this regard.
42



