Document of
The World Bank                                   L
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A M4             3   3                          i Report No. 9070-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
MICROENTERPRISE PROJECT
MARCH 28, 1991
Industry, Trade and Finance Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Rupee (Rs)   -   100 paisa
Currency Unit   -   Rupee (Rs)
US$1.00   -  Rs 22.00 (November 1990)
Rs 1.00   -   US$0.0455
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADI      -  Alfalah Development Institute
ADB      -  Asian Development Bank
AFIC     -  Asian Finance and Investment Corporation Limited
AKRSP    -  Agha Khan Rural Support Program
BEL      -  Bankers' Equity Limited
BUSTI    -  Basic Urban Services for Katchi Abadies
DFI      -  Development Finance Institution
f.       -  Florins (Guilders)
FSAL     -  Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GNL      -  Government of the Netherlands
GOP      -  Government of Pakistan
IDBP     -   Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
NCBs     -  National Commercial Banks
NDLC     -  National Development Leasing Corporation
NGOs     -  Non-Government Organizations
OLP      -  Orix Leasing Pakistan Limited
OPP      -  Orangi Pilot Project
PLC      -  Participating Leasing Companies
SBFC     -  Small Business Finance Corporation
SBP      -  State Bank of Pakistan
SHMI     -  Small and Household-based Manufacturing Industries
SICs     -  Provincial Small Industry Corporations
SOEs     -  Statement of Expenditures
Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PARISTAN
MICROENTERPRISE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Chapter                                                               g
PROJECT SUMMARY ............ ..                                              i
I.    INTP.ODUCTION  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 1
II.   ECONOMIC AND SECTORAL FRAMEWORK . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
A.  The Industrial Sector .....................   4
B.  The Bank's Industrial Assistance Strategy . . . . . . . . . . .  5
C.  The Financial Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
D.  The Bank's Assistance Strategy for the Financial Sector . . . .  7
III. THE MICROENTERPRISE SUBSECTOR.                                         8
A. Characteristics and Performance.                                   8
B. Microenterprise Financing .10
C. Support Services .15
D.  Development Approach to the Microenterprise Subsector . . . . . 17
IV.   PROJECT RATIONALE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
V. THE PROJECT .                                                            19
A. Project Objectives .19
B. Project Scope and Description .19
C.  Project Costs and Financing Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
D.  Credit Component  .........  ...  ..  ...  ...  ..   .  21
E.  Technical Assistance Component  .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  27
VI.   THE PROPOSED LOAN ............  ....  ....  ....   .  29
A.  Amounts and Allocations of Funds  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
B.  Terms and Conditions  .......  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .   .  29
C.  Administrative Procedures ......  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .   .  31
D.  Environmental Issues  .......  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .   .  33
E.    Co-financing  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    33
VII.  BENEFITS AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
A. Benefits ......... . ....                                         34
B. Risks.. ..  34
VIII. AGREEMENTS. CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
A.  Agreements and Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
B.    Recommendation     .  r  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ANNEXES                                                     PAGELN'J.
ANNEX  1:  Key Data for Small-Scale/Informal Sector Nanufacturing. . . . . 37
ANNEX  2:  Description of the Informal System of Credit for
Microenterprises.    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 39
ANNEX  3:  The Agha Khan Rural Support Program. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .43
ANNEX 4:  The Orangi Pilot Project. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
ANNEX  5:  Basic Urban Services for Katchi Abadies. . . . . . . . . . . . .48
ANNEX 6:  Alfalah Development Institute. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50
ANNEX  7:  Draft Policy and Strategy Statement for NGOs under the
Microenterprise Project. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .52
ANNEX  8:  The Leasing Industry. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
ANNEX 9:  Orix Leasing Company Limited (OLP). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
ANNEX 10:  Draft Policies and Strategy Statement of OLP. . . . . . . . . . 79
ANNEX 11:  Terms of Reference for the NGOs External Consultants. . . . . . 86
ANNEX 12:  Assessment Study of the Microenterprise Sector. . . . . . . . . 87
ANNEX 13:  Projected Disbursements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .90
ANNEX 14:  Documents Available in the Project Implementation File (PIF). . 91



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
MICROENTERPRISE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries:           Non-government organizations (NGOs), initially
including Agha Khan Rural Support Program, Orangi
Pilot Project, Basic Urban Services for Katchi
Abadies, and Alfalah Development Institute; private
leasing companies, initially including Orix Leasing
Pakistan Ltd. (OLP); established and viable micro-
and small-scale enterprises as well as start-up
microenterprises owned and operated by women, in
manufacturing, commerce and services.
Amount:                  US$26.0 million equivalent.
Co-Financing:            US$2.8 million equivalent (f4.8 million) grant from
the Government of the Netherlands.
Terms:                   Twenty years, including a five-year grace period, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
On-lending Terms:        The Government of Pakistan will pass on the
Netherlands' funds as grants to the participating
NGOs to enable them to build a revolving fund as
self-sustaining financing programs. (Participation
in the proposed Project is open to any interested
NGOs that meet the eligibility criteria.) The NGOs
will on-lend the proceeds of the grants as short-
term loans to microenterprises for working capital
and purchase of tools. The NGOs will charge
prevailing market rates (currently about 15-22
percent per year), sufficient to cover each NGO's
opportunity cost of funds, administrative costs, and
provision for losses, and to generate net annual
surplus for growth.
The Government will on-lend Bank loan through the
administrating institution (Bankers Equity Limited)
to OLP and other eligible leasing companies at a
variable rate adjusted periodically at the same
frequency as the Bank's rate. The on-lending rate to
OLP and other eligible leasing companies would
include the Bank's prevailing interest rate plus the
prevailing fee for the foreign exchange risk coverage
as determined by the State Bank of Pakistan and a
fixed spread of 0.75 percent per annum (which is
composed of 0.25 percent per annum representing the



- ii -
average commitment fees incurred by the Government
over the life of the loan, and a 0.50 percent per
annum for administration cost to BEL). In view of
the fact that small and micro-entrepreneurs do not
possess means to hedge against the foreign exchange
risk, the Government will bear that risk. OLP and
other leasing companies would also provide to the
Government a guarantee from a suitable third party.
OLP and other eligibl-, leasing companies will finance
equipment lease contracts for small and micro-
entrepreneurs. The OLP and other eligible leasing
companies will charge prevailing rates in the leasing
market (effective yields for lease contracts
presently average about 23 percent per year). OLP
and other eligible leasing companies would repay
their loans over 10 years, including a grace period
of 3 years.
Estimated Costs:         Sub-loans, Leases and Equity            US$35.47 million
Technical Assistance                        1.13 million
Total                                  US$36.60 million
Financing Plan:          IBRD                                    US$26.00 million
Government of the Netherlands               2.80 million
Private Sector Equity                       7.80 million
Total                                  US$36.60 million
Estimated                                       Bank Fiscal Year
Disbursement:                          FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97
Annual     US$0.8   5.4  10.2   5.7   2.8   1.1 mill.
Cumulative US$0.8   6.2  16.4  22.1  24.9  26.0 mill.
Percentage    3.0  24.0  63.0  85.0  96.0 100.0 X
Economic Rate
of Return:               Not applicable
Staff ARpraisal
Regort:                  Report No. 9070-PAK
Egg:                     IBRD 16248R1



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
MICB )ENTERPRISE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01        Microenterprises in Pakistan -- sometimes referred to as the
informal or unregulated sector -- consist of enterprises with less than 10
workers, which are legally not required to register under the Factories Act.
In manufacturing, they account for about a third of the sector's total value
added and employ about 70 percent of its work force. Output and employment of
the microenterprise subsector have grown faster than those for the economy as
a whole. Microenterprises are mainly family businesses -- mostly household-
based units -- with an average of two to three employees. They operate in
unregulated and competitive markets characterized by free entry and exit, and
many engage extensively in sub-contracting activities. They rely largely on
indigenous resources, and use labor-intensive and adapted technology with
skills mostly acquired outside formal schooling. In household-based units, a
large number of part-time and piece-rate workers are women, on contract for
larger factories or middlemen. The subsector also contains self-employed
women, in such businesses as tailors, leather working, traditional cosmetics,
and print shops. Lastly, the subsector nas historically been an important
point of re-entry by migrant workers returning from the Middle-East -- an
aspect that takes on an added significance in Pakistan today.
1.02        The microenterprise subsector has become an essential element in
the economic and social development strategy of the Government of Pakistan
(GOP). This recognition has first emerged explicitly along with an increasing
concern about the economy's capacity to absorb the growing labor force. The
Seventh Plan (FY89-93) thus recognized the high labor intensities and strong
intersectoral linkages of microenterprises, and sets as part of the plan
objectives promotion of these enterprises in both urban and rural areas.
There is also an increasing interest in microenterprises in the context of
addressing poverty alleviation without excessive fiscal burden, by making
better use of private sector initiatives and market mechanisms. In
contemplating the objective of outward-oriented structural adjustment and
further industrial and trade policy liberalization, the GOP is also concerned
about the possible adjustment costs imposed on the socially and economically
disadvantaged. Lastly, as the GOP makes progress in reforming the financial
sector, there is a rising awareness of the sector's market duality (formal vs.
informal) and the corresponding institutional constraints limiting access to
credit by those such as microenterprises who must resort to informal means of
financing. It has been recognized that while current policy reforms are
necessary, they are not sufficient in lifting this particular aspect of
financial repression; providing such credit access demands some fundamental
change -- innovation in lending techniques and instruments among the formal
sector's financial institutions.
1.03        Thus, addressing the needs of the microenterprise subsector has
become an increasingly important part of the development strategy of Pakistan.



- 2-
The proposed Project is the first assistance to microenterprises by the Bank
for Pakistan, and forms an integral part of the Bank's country and sector
assistance strategy in the medium term. In initiating such an assistance,
relevant international experiences have been brought to bear. Among them,
important lessons are: that the provision of access to formal credit (a
primary developmental constraint to microenterprises everywhere including
Pakistan) not only corrects distortions and imperfections in the financial
markets, but also generates high social returns; that these effort will be
misdirected unless the credit is provided at market prices; and that the
social returns will be greater if such efforts are accompanied by technical
assistance to aid business development and by social services to make it
possible for women (who are populous members of the subsector) to shift from
under-employment conditions to more productive work. In reflecting these
international experiences in the project design, the proposed Project limits
its scope as a pilot, by focusing on those private-sector initiatives that are
present or emerging in Pakistan's non-government organizations (NGOs) and
leasing industry.
1.04        The proposed Project is co-financed by the Government of the
Netherlands (GNL) and will provide funds for the following components: (i)
grants by the GNL (US$1.67 million) initially to four NGOs as seed capital for
their revolving credit operations, providing short-term loans at market rates
to established and operational microenterprises (except for female micro-
entrepreneurs for whom new entrants are eligible) for working capital and
tools, which are to become financially self-sustaining at the completion of
the proposed Project; (ii) the Bank loan (US$26 million) initially to one
private leasing company for medium-term equipment lease contracts to both
small-scale businesses and microenterprises, supporting the company's
strategic marketing plan to utilize existing sub-contracting business
arrangements between small and microenterprises, and finance at prevailing
market lease rates those lease contracts of established and operational small-
scale and microenterprises; and (iii) a technical assistance component
(US$1.13 million), co-financed by the GNL, for (a) training NGOs' staff and
adapting their credit procedures and supervision information systems, to
enable expansion of their credit and support service programs, (b) providing
technical business support services to microentrepreneurs on a demand-driven
basis, with the NGOs and the leasing companies as implementing agencies, (c)
conducting an impact assessment study to be completed in two years after the
project effectiveness, no later than December 31, 1992, and (d) conducting
regular supervision and monitoring missions and a performance evaluation of
participating institutions to be completed in two years after the
effectiveness of the project, no later than October 31, 1993.
1.05        This report is organized as follows.  Section II provides the
economic and sectoral framework. Section III describes the microenterprise
subsector and reviews its characteristics, performance, financing patterns and
support service needs. Section IV presents the rationale for Bank
involvement. Section V discusses the proposed Project, its objectives and
scope, the project costs and financing plan as well as the sub-loan and the
technical assistance components. Section VI reviews the loan, describes terms
and conditions, administrative procedures including the environmental issues



and finally, the co-financing. 4ection VII discusses benefits and risks of
the proposed Project. The final section presents the agreement, conditions
and recommendations.
II. ECONOMIC AND SECTORAL FRAMEWORK
2.01        In the 1980s, the overall growth record of Pakistan was strong
relative to many other developing countries. During the Sixth Plan period
(FY84-88), real GDP growth averaged about 6.5 percent per annum. The growth
of agricultural value added averaged 3.7 percent, despite crop failures in
FY84 and FY87, and manufacturing value added grew at a respectable 7.7 percent
per annum. The service sector achieved an annual average growth rate of 7.1
percent. Inflation was moderate, dropping from 9.3 percent over the previous
plan period to an annual average rate of 5 percent.
2.02        However, the growth in the 1980s masked worsening macroeconomic
balances. Fiscal performance deteriorated significantly up to FY88,
reflecting the lack of a comprehensive tax reform and the continued rapid
growth in expenditures. The consolidated federal and provincial budget
deficit increased from 5.3 percent of GDP in the early 1980s to 8.6 percent of
GDP in FY88. The vulnerability of the external balance was also evident; the
current account deficit reached 4.1 percent of GDP in FY88, well above the 3.3
percent annual average experienced in the 1980s.
2.03        In FY89, the GOP adopted a three-year adjustment program, which
the Bank and the IMF formally endorsed.1'/ This program began in July 1988,
when the GOP announced a significant package of fiscal, financial, trade and
other structural reforms along with the FY89 budget. The program was designed
to: (i) strengthen the fiscal balance through a comprehensive revenue
generation and expenditure control/rationalization effort; and (ii) renew the
structural reforms in the areas of financial as well as trade and industrial
policies.
2.04        In FY90, a number of key economic indicators depict a generally
favorable picture -- GDP grew at about 5.2 percent, inflation declined to 6
percent (from over 10 percent in FY89), and the external current account
deficit fell to 4 percent of GNP (from 4.6 percent of GNP in FY89). Inflation
has accelerated since May 1990, however, primarily due to expansionary credit
policies, and has reached an annual rate of 11.6 percent in September 1990.
Reflecting a slow progress in structural reforms especially those that
increase the domestic tax base and reduce the excessive revenue dependence on
trade taxes, the fiscal deficit planned under the FY91 budget (6.2 percent of
GDP) remains large compared to what was originally targeted (5.5 percent of
GDP) at the outset of the adjustment program. Such a fiscal condition is
compatible neither with containing inflation to programmed levels, nor with
1 The World Bank, Second-Year Policy Framework Paper, 1989/90 to
1991/92, November 29, 1989.



- 4-
improving the country's precarious external reserve position. In addition,
prospects for macroeconomic stability has become more uncertain in the near
term, as Pakistan faced a "political crisis" coinciding with the Gulf crisis,
resulting in an exceptionally slow adjustment response to the terms-of-trade
shock.
A. The Industrial Sector
2.05        Since the late seventies, the GOP has assigned a lead role in
industrial development to the private sector. It has reduced its investment
in public sector enterprises and has allowed the private sector to invest in
areas that were reserved to public enterprises. As a result, private
industrial investment grew by an average of 17.5 percent per annum during
FY79-FY86. The private sector, which in FY79 accounted for only slightly over
a quarter of manufacturing investment, increased its share to more than three-
quarters in the late 1980s. Public enterprises, however, remain dominant in a
number of capital-intensive activities, such as cement, fertilizers, basic
chemicals, petroleum, steel, motor vehicles and heavy engineering.
2.06        The Government's industrial development strategy in the eighties
has been to encourage the private sector to increase its export orientation.
Critical outcomes envisaged were increased growth through higher productivity
and an export base that is more diversified and less vulnerable to external
shocks. Implementing this strategy requires substantial deregulation of
investment activities, financial liberalization to enable efficient resource
shifts, trade liberalization to reduce anti-export bias, and removal of
infrastructural bottlenecks. Significant progress has been made in the area
of industrial deregulation, which has reduced the extent of the state monopoly
over import activities and opened domestic trade in several major commodities
to the private sector. Further deregulation is needed to remove the vestige
of the past, however, in a number of policies unnecessarily restricting entry,
operations, and exit.  The financial sector reforms Are now being implemented
with the Bank support, progress of which has been slower than originally
anticipated (see Sections C and D). A first important step has been taken in
trade policy reform with most of non-tariff barriers removed, but tariff
reforms have been limited and a major liberalization program is presently in
the planning stage. Lastly, large infrastructural bottlenecks continue to
plague productivity of all economic activities.
2.07        Deregulation, accompanied by trade reforms, is important for the
formal sector to allocate resources with ease to the best possible use. It is
also an important element in the expansion of microenterprises, which are in
the informal sector. As in other countries, many microenterprises in Pakistan
choose to stay small to avoid what they see as excessive government
interventions and stringent industrial regulations. Deregulation, which
reduces the benefits of staying small (e.g. lower tax liabilities and ease of
entry and exit) relative to its costs (e.g. lack of access to imports,
technology, and credit), is an important step toward encouraging the growth of
microenterprises to their optimal size.



2.08        The GOP has recognized the role that microenterprises can play in
this adjustment process. Because microenterprises are exceedingly flexible
and because of the subsector's free entry and exit, they respond quickly to
chan.ing relative prices.  Their positive response to adjustment measures
would translate into an increase in output, productivity, income and
employment, and thus help to mitigate the social cost of the macroeconomic and
structural adjustment program. As experienced by other countries, and in
Pakistan as well, microenterprises are not limited to using low-technology
production process nor to supplying only the domestic markets. Indeed, they
are frequently an important source of quick export response to outward-
oriented adjustment policies.
B. The Bank's Industrial Assistance Strat2gy
2.09        The Bank's strategy in the industrial sector is designed to
support that of the Government, to raise industry's international
competitiveness as fast as possible. Within this context, the Bank is
supporting adjustments in policies governing industrial regulation, financial
markets and institutions, and international trade, according to a sequenced
strategy (see Section D for detailed discussion on the Bank's assistance
strategy in the financial sector). These sectoral reforms, which reduce
distorted incentives to the private sector and phase out direct control over
investment and employment, have been designed and would have to be implemented
in the context of an appropriate macroeconomic framework. Many of these
reforms are incorporated in the Government's Policy Framework Paper, which the
Bank and the IMF have supported. The financial sector reforms are being
assisted by the ongoing Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL, para. 2.17).
Medium-term programs on the final phase of industrial deregulation, the first
phase (in terms of trade taxes as opposed to non-tariff barriers) of trade
reform, and the second phase of financial liberalization are being discussed
with the GOP, where the Bank may support the balance-of-payments costs and
macroeconomic framework associated with implementing such reforms.
2.10        The Bank is also assisting the GOP in preparing a technology
development strategy and policy to help the industrial sector achieve and
maintain its competitive position in the marketplace. This effort is expected
to become crucial once the economy turns increasingly open to foreign
competition at home and abroad. Future project lending are to provide funds
for investment with special emphasis on privatization and corporate
restructuring assistance. In anticipation of the need to mitigate social
costs of adjustment in the informal sector, the proposed Project would further
the Bank's sectoral assistance strategy by demonstrating one approach to
mitigate such costs, which at the same time promotes the poverty alleviation
objectives without imposing additional fiscal burden.
C. The Financial Sector
2.11        The formal financial sector comprises a large number and variety
of institutions. There are 5 state-owned banks, 19 foreign private banks and
4 specialized banks in the banking system. In the non-bank system, there are
a number of state-owned development finance institutions, the Government



-6-
savings bureaus, the national post office savings sc1ame, private leasing and
investment finance companies, two stock exchanges, open-end and close-end
mutual funds, insurance companies and pension funds. Competition, however, is
limited: the sector is dominated by the banking system and the non-bank
system remains small.
2.12        The banking system is concentrated in the five state-owned, or
nationalized commercial banks (NCBs). The five NCBs account for 85 percent of
the assets, 90 percent of the deposits, 70 percent of the advances and 73
percent of the capital and reserve funds of the commercial banking system.
This market concentration and the dominance of the public sector have limited
price competition. There are also serious institutional weaknesses in the
state-owned banking system. The NCBs are undercapitalized and carry
significant amounts of non-performing loans as a result of non-banking
considerations and non-productive interference in lending decisions, which in
turn affect the quality of credit analyses, risk management, and loan recovery
system. Such weaknesses culminate in various non-competitive behaviors and
banking practices, and have not been conducive to the development of an
efficient system.
2.13        In the mid-1980s, the GOP decided to "Islamize" the financial
sector. Currently, some lending and all deposit rates are set on a profit- or
loss-sharing basis. Lending rates for investment credits are no longer
subject to a ceiling, and short-term loans may carry rates of between 10 to 20
percent. Deposit rates are determined retroactively twice a year on the basis
of the banks' profitability during the preceding six months. As a result,
most lending and time deposit rates have remained significantly positive in
real terms since the early 1980s.
2.14        While the Islamization has brought about a significant
liberalization in interest rates, the financial market remains segmented due
mainly to two factors. First, as instruments of monetary and investment
policy, overall credit ceilings, mandatory credit targets and preferential
credit programs administer credit flows through the state-owned banking
system. Second, the Government's domestic debt continues to dominate the
f,nancial sector in a manner that distorts the rate structure. With the
rising fiscal deficit, the Government's debt has grown rapidly (from 25
percent of GDP in FY81 to 42.3 percent in FY89), financed in highly segmented
markets: On the one hand, commercial banks are required to hold government
papers for liquidity reserve requirements, and insurance companies and pension
funds are required to invest in such papers at low rates; yet, on the other
hand, the Government pays very high rates on the national savings schemes for
the non-bank public by exempting their earnings from income taxes.
2.15        Thus, dominance of banking system in the formal financial sector,
market concentration and public sector dominance in that system, institutional
weaknesses in state-owned banks, conduct of monetary cum investment policies,
and distortionary management of government papers have all restricted adequate
development of price competition. Partly because of the limited competition,
small borrowers such as microenterprises have been "crowded out" from the
formal financial sector, as indicated by a wide gap between the formal and



informal interest rates and by the existence of growing informal financial
markets despite high and inefficient prices in such markets. The proposed
Project assists the Government's effort to begin narrowing this gap, in the
context of the on-going reform program addressing the above problems in the
formal financial sector.
D. The Bank's Assistance StrateRv for the Financial Sector
2.16        The Bank's strategy for the financial sector is to assist the
Government's effort to make it more market-oriented and thus better able to
support structural adjustments in the real sector. Pakistan needs a financial
system that can allocate cred4t efficiently to growth sectors, provide
restructuring services, and finance the costs of adjustment. To achieve such
a system, the Bank is assisting the GOP to design and implement measures that
will broaden and deepen the financial markets and thereby support an expansio&
of private investment and savings. The Bank assistance is in two overlapping
phases. The first phase focuses on the creation of a strong banking system
and market-based credit allocation prices, as well as market-oriented
management of the Government's domestic debt and money supply. The secon
Dbase is planned to focus on the non-bank sector of the financial system and
help its development.
2.17        The Bank has been assisting the GOP to implement the strategy's
first phase through a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL). The adjustment
program is to:
i     Improve government debt management by introducing an auction
system for government debt and reducing taxation on the financial
sector with a concomitant reduction in the fiscal deficit as a
macroeconomic condition;
*     reduce segmentation by raising concessional interest rates and
limiting directed credit schemes;
*     strengthen the banking system by enforcing new prudential
regulations, improving bank supervision, bank restructuring and
institution building; and
*     increase competition by allowing entry of private domestic banks
(privatization of the NCBs and development of the capital
markets).
Since its effectiveness (July 1989), frequent changes of the Government and
corresponding reassignments in the senior management of the NCBs have slowed
down the reform's progress. Yet the FSAL-supported program has helped the GOP
to maintain its reform agenda intact, and provided a clear framework within
which to prevent policy reversals.
2.18        These reforms are to be deepened by succeeding operations in the
financial sector. Sectoral adjustment loan(s) would continue to support
future reforms with appropriate macroeconomic framework, combined



- 8 -
strategically with financial intermediation operations (including the proposed
one), to assist the "supply response" of financial institutions themselves to
new regulatory regimes and market conditions. The proposed Project -- albeit
as a pilot -- is thus an integral part of the Bank's medium-term assistance
strategy in the financial sector: It focuses on those private-sector
initiatives present (NGOs) or emerging (leasing) in the non-bank system today,
and sets out to strengthen the business capacity of such institutions to reach
a larger constituency of microenterprises. As such, this "pilot" Project
would begin adding kindle to price competition, easing access to credit at
market prices, and inducing some business interest in lending to micro-
enterprises in the banking system by way of a demonstrated replicability at
first and competitive pressure subsequently. Altogether, they comprise
important part of the steps that would promote closer integration between the
formal and informal financial markets in the long run.
III. THE MICROENTERPRISE SUBSECTOR
A.  Characteristics and Performance
3.01        The microenterprise subsector is mainly comprised of family
businesses with an average of two to three employees. They operate in
unregulated and competitive markets characterized by free entry and exit.
They rely predominantly on indigenous resources, and use labor-intensive and
adapted technology with skills mostly acquired outside the formal schooling
system. These enterprises are also able to mobilize resources from the
informal financial sector. Historically, the subsector has been an important
point of re-entry by migrant workers returning from the Middle-East -- an
aspect that takes on an added significance in Pakistan today.
3.02        The Government's benign neglect of microenterprises has permitted
the subsector to grow largely unencumbered by the numerous regulations that
have constrained the dynamism of larger enterprises in the formal sector. The
Surveys of Small and Household-based Manufacturing Industries (SHMI) conducted
in 1976/77 and 1983/84 show that the microenterprise subsector is one of the
fastest growing in the economy. (Annex 1 presents the basic data for the
subsector, based on the 1983/84 SHMI.) Between the two survey periods, the
subsector's value added increased by over 100 percent, and its employment rose
by an estimated 80 percent. Three manufacturing activities dominated the
subsector during the 1980s: food and beverages, textiles and leather, and
metal products. Together, these activities accounted for 69 percent of the
total number of firms in urban areas, 75 percent of the fixed assets, 69
percent of the employmer.t, and 70 percent of the value added of the
microenterprise subsector. Among the three, food processing was the most
important, accounting for about a fifth of the value added and employment of
the subsector. Wood, minerals and metal working were also important in rural
areas in terms of total value added.
3.03        The SHMI data also depict extensive linkages between
microenterprises and larger industrial firms in urban areas, as well as
between them and the agricultural sector in rural villages. In urban areas,



-9-
subcontracting accounted for about a fifth of the subsector's total value
added and about a third in rural areas. Subcontracting in urban areas played.
an important part in household-based textile production, wood-working, and
metal work, while such activities were mostly in food processing in rural
areas.
3.04        The Surveys also document that with the extent of subcontracting
activities and the predominance of household-based units, a large number of
part-time and piece-rate workers are present in the subsector. In household-
based units, in particular, the majority of these workers are women on
contract for factories or middlemen. The subsector also includes a number of
self-employed female entrepreneurs. These women entrepreneurs are in such
businesses as tailors, leather working, nurseries, traditional cosmetics (e.g.
henna, mendi, surma), and small print shops.
3.05        Microenterprises vary considerablv, however, in terms of their
economic activities, levels of employment and fixed assets, technological
complexity and sophistication, productivity, and profitability. Although the
spectrum is extremely wide, these enterprises can be classified into the
following three principal groups:
EnterRrises in the Lower Stratum.  This group is composed mainly
of the borderline subsistence or marginally profitable businesses.
It represents business efforts of disadvantaged individuals who
are -- while not the poorest of the poor -- at the fringe of the
economy but are trying to integrate into the productive economy.
This group also has the largest concentration of women workers and
entrepreneurs. It includes such businesses as barber shops,
repair shops (e.g. bicycles, sewing machines, shoes), bakeries,
and traditional cosmetics, soap and candle making, embroidery,
book binding, etc.
Enterprises in the Middle Stratum.  This group represents the bulk
of microenterprises that are interested in expansion, and also
contains female workers and entrepreneurs. In this broad middle
range are financially viable and relatively stable family
businesses, which include such activities as repair shops (e.g.
motor cycles, TVs, watches, fans), carpet weaving, rug making,
sporting goods (e.g. soccer balls and cricket bats), flat cloth
products, and small brass, copper and stainless steel products
(e.g. cutlery), furniture making, shoe making, marble products,
plastic toys and household goods, etc.
*     Enterprises in the Upper Stratum.  This group is composed mostly
of profitable and technologically more sophisticated businesses,
with the potential to "graduate" into the small-scale end of the
formal sector. The group include such business activities as
small surgical instruments, simple electric appliances (e.g.
fans), assembly of appliances (e.g. washing machines, gas cookers,
heaters), chemical detergent, iron gate and grill making, hand



- 10 -
tools, and light engineering (e.g. spare parts for bicycle,
automotive components).
3.06        Regardless of the stratum to which they belong, there are two
important characteristics common to all microentrepreneurs operating in the
informal sector. One is that they have extremely limited access to
institutionalized sources of credit. The other is that they lack access to
appropriate business support services. Without access to credit, the losses
that microentrepreneurs can bear become disproportionately smaller than those
that can be managed by larger operators. Consequently, entrepreneurs in the
informal sector must continually protect themselves against risk by
establishing semi-permanent relations with suppliers and buyers, frequently at
the expense of profits. Such "captive" relationships in turn restrict sources
of business services and information. Combined, these factors tend to result
inter alia in lower incomes than what would otherwise be feasible for these
enterprises.
B. Microentergrise Financing
3.07        The primary obstacle to microenterprise development is
insufficient capital, specifically, a problem of access to credit rather than
of ability to pay the cost of such credit. The primary financing need for
most microenterprises is short-term loans for purchasing raw material,
supplies, and/or tools and small equipment. Based on the 1983/84 SHMI survey,
urban microenterprises invested RsIl.8 billion (US$540 million) in working
capital and Rs440 million (US$20 million) in additions or replacements of
fixed assets. During the same period, rural microenterprises invested Rs2.4
billion (US$110 million) in working capital and Rsl2O million (US$5.5 million)
in additions/replacement of fixed assets. According to a survey cenducted as
part of the proposed Project, only 2 percent of microenterprise financing came
from the formal institutions, mainly for working capital.
3.08        The informal financial markets currently provide for most of the
financial needs of microentrepreneurs. Family and friends are important
sources of finance in the form of subordinated debt, while seed capital is
usually from the savings of the owner-operator. The other informal financing
sources consist of: suppliers' credits in the form of trade credits; buyers'
advances in cash or in raw material and supplies; moneylenders; various
"committee" systems pooling membership savings for loans; and an elaborate
system of Rarchis or a promissory note system. (See Annex 2 for a detailed
discussion of the informal system of credit for microenterprises.) The
striking difference between the formal and informal sector is the costs of
interest. While interest rates in the formal sector vary between 10 and 17
percent per annum at present, interest rates in the informal sector can range
between 2 and 4 percent ver month, resulting in effective annual rates
somewhere between 27 and 60 percent. (In the case of moneylenders, financing
consumption as well as production activities, effective rates average around
75 percent per year.) Terms and conditions of such loans -- collateral
requirements, maturities, amortization arrangements, and interest rates --
vary widely according to the risk, financial instruments, and specific
business activities or particular borrowers.



- 11 -
3.09        To encourage formal financial institutions to provide funds to
small and microenterprises, the Government sets mandatory credit targets for
small businesses in the NCBs, and advances loans through two specialized
financial institutions -- the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP)
and the Small Business Finance Corporation (SBFC). Very little of these
loans, however, actually reaches microenterprises (paras. 3.15-3.17). Minimum
limits for qualification set by these lending institutions (e.g. fixed asset
size) exceed the level feasible for most microenterprises, thus, limiting
their access to formal creditors. This problem is especially true of IDBP and
SBFC, which cater largely to urban areas. Moreover, most of SBFC's rapidly
expanding loan disbursements go to the self-employed in professional
occupations, mainly medical doctors, dentists and engineers.
3.10        While no regulatory constraints exist with regard to providing
commercial credit to female entrepreneurs, the majority of such women in
Pakistan are not viable clients in the eyes of formal financial institutions.
There are a number of reasons for this problem. To list a few, women
particularly in the lower stratum of the subsector wear the "purdah." This
cultural practice makes them invisible, and makes it difficult for them to
conduct business transactions in public places including banks. Although not
prohibited under legal codes, women in Pakistan do not generally hold title to
real or financial assets that belong to them. This social practice makes it
difficult for them to provide collateral required by formal financial
institutions. Lack of basic education is also more severe among women than
men in Pakistan, which inter alia makes it even more problematic for women to
communicate effectively with bankers and to prepare financial and other
business documents.2/
Microenterprises in the Lower Stratum
3.11        Financing needs for microenterprises in the lower stratum are
modest credit facilities (Rsl5,000, or about US$700, on average) for short-
term loans to purchase raw material and small tools. In Pakistan, as in many
other countries, non-government organizations (NGOs) have been the principal
provider of institutional credit (as well as support services) to
microenterprises in the lower stratum.
3.12        There are 5,000 registered NGOs in Pakistan, of which 43 have the
organizational and managerial capacity to operate at either the national,
provincial or city levels. Most NGOs undertake a combination of activities
aimed at raising the standard of living of their target groups -- mainly very
poor communities -- by providing health care, upgraded sanitation, better
nutrition, education, family planning and vocational training. In so doing,
many of them support income-generating activities, but only as the appendage
to their social objectives rather than as self-sustaining credit programs.
Most economic activities are perceived not so much as a means to achieve
I The World Bank, "Women in Pakistan: An Economic and Social Strategy",
1989.



- 12 -
economic self-reliance, but as activities to generate temporary income support
or relief for the target population.
3.13        Thus, economically viable enterprises and entrepreneurial talents,
with the potential to realize high returns with small loans, do not
necessarily belong to the regular constituency of the majority of NGOs in
Pakistan. There are, however, several NGOs in the country (Agha Khan Rural
Support Program, Orangi Pilot Project, Basic Urban Services for Katchi
Abadies, and Alfalah Development Institute), which have sufficiently strong
basis to operate a credit program where issues of economic sustainability and
replication are considered in the planning of their activities (paras. 5.09-
5.13).
3.14        These NGOs constitute a potentially vital channel through which
financial resources can be provided to the lower-stratum microenterprises,
because of their intimate knowledge of the community and capacity to establish
a direct relation with future borrowers. Credit methodologies used by the
NGOs are fundamentally based on the principle of community risk-sharing.
While specific methods vary among different NGOs, they are variations on
systems of collective savings and borrowing. (See Annex 3, for an example of
such methods used by the Agha Khan Rural Support Program.) NGOs' credit
methodologies are inherently flexible, closely identified with the needs of
the target groups, and based on close client contacts. These methodologies
maximize borrower convenience and reduce the risk of borrower failure because
of: limited application formalities; localized disbursements and collections;
substitution of the traditional collateral (required in the formal banking
system) by creditworthiness assessments and character reference of borrowers;
and use of various peer-support systems to encourage timely loan repayment and
to recover arrears. Lastly, they can also serve as a bridge between the
informal and formal credit markets for microenterprises in the following ways:
e     Improve the overall culture concerning loan recovery and credit
discipline, since NGO clients who later graduate into bank clients
should entail lower risk of default based on their previous
repayment performance; and
*     help dispel the widespread but erroneous view that relatively poor
borrowers with unsecured loans are a bad credit risk and that such
entrepreneurs are unwilling or unable to pay market interest
rates.
Microenterprises in the Middle Stratum
3.15        Financing needs for microenterprises in the middle stratum are
predominantly for short-term working capital (Rs4O,000, or about US$1,800, on
average) to purchase raw material and other inputs. NCBs could potentially
serve as an effective vehicle for delivery of credit to the microenterprises
in the middle stratum, because they could develop the administrative capacity
to provide short-term loans in a financially viable and institutionally
sustainable manner. However, despite their extensive networks of branches and
personnel throughiout Pakistan, none has so far been very successful in lending



- 13
to microenterprises. The NCBs' reluctance has resulted mainly from: interest
rates that are insufficient to cover the transaction costs for micro-
enterprises; their institutional structure (centralized decision-making,
bureaucratized field operations, and inadequate performance incentives); and
their institutional inability to determine creditworthiness of micro-
enterprises and to manage the credit risk of such clients.
3.16        First, lending to microenterprises at currently prevailing
interest rates is not viable. The transaction costs for a commercial bank
loan to this subsector could initially be as high as 10 percent. Added to the
current marginal costs of funds, the viable lending rate could initially be at
least 22 percent. As discussed in Section II.C, while the GOP's new financial
policy provides for more flexible pricing, limited price competition prevails
in the banking system. Adhering to their traditional clients and banking
practices in such an environment, NCBs have not been induced to venture into
microenterprise lending.
3.17        Second, as demonstrated by NGOs in Pakistan and elsewhere, lending
to microenterprises requires different business attitudes, credit methcds and
supervision systems. Traditional banking practices of Pakistan are not
workable, since most microenterprises are without the required collateral,31
may not have credit records or history, and typically would not have the
financial information in the form expected by traditional banks. The
commercial banks can indeed make lending to microenterprises a profitable line
of business if they adopt appropriate business systems and flexible loan
pricing policy. Such a development, moreover, would require a strategic
business commitment of a commercial bank to the microenterprise subsector: A
bank would have to see it as a new market niche, a business opportunity for
which it has to develop a strategic plan of action. Taken together, however,
these business conditions are difficult ones to materialize at the present
juncture in view of the on-going banking reforms.
Microenternrises in the UpRer Stratum
3.18        Financing needs for microenterprises in the upper stratum are a
combination of short-term working capital for inputs or inventory of finished
products (Rs4O,000, or US$1,800, on average), but more importantly medium-
term loans to invest in machinery and equipment (Rs6O,000, or about US$2,800,
on average). The working capital financing is best channeled through
commercial banks, while leasing industry or NCBs can meet their term-finance
needs. While some microenterprises in this stratum -- particularly the more
sophisticated ones -- have gained access to commercial banks for working
capital, only a very few have gained such access to formal intermediaries for
term-finance.
3.19        As in other countries, leasing activities in Pakistan have been in
existence for some time, operating in a legal, regulatory and tax vacuum.
I Under the current regulation, a commercial bank is to require
collateral for any loan above Rs 25,000.



- 14 -
While undefined in the country's legal framework, various lease-like
transactions governed by corporate and mercantile laws have been in regular
use, granting temporary usage of assets against payments to owners (e.g.
short-term rentals in agricultural equipment, and real estate leases).
Pakistan's modern leasing industry emerged in 1984, with the creation of the
National Development Leasing Corporation (NDLC) by IFC, and has evolved into a
more competitive industry with 14 companies today. These companies have a
cumulative lease portfolio of Rs. 2.6 billion (US$118.2 million). So far,
lease finance accounts for less than 5 percent of total capital investment
compared to 15-20 percent in developed countries. In recent years, these
companies' competitive behavior began to generate a degree of product and
service differentiation and client specialization. The industry is still
concentrated, however, with 4 companies representing about 90 percent of the
market share and NDLC accounting for a declining but large share (about 65X)
of that market. Since its emergence as a significant industry in the formal
financial sector, the Government has implemented a number of reforms necessary
to erect a sound framework of fiscal equity and prudential financial
management of leasing companies. As part of the on-going financial sector
reform supported by FSAL, for example, the State Bank of Pakistan has been
entrusted with the mandate to oversee the prudential regulation of the
industry.
3.20        Acquiring the use and ultimate ownership of an asset through a
lease transaction offers microentrepreneurs an attractive alternative to
outright purchase using borrowed resources, and promises to be an attractive
source of term-financing otherwise unavailable to them. Leasing possesses a
number of characteristics that are inherently suited for the medium-term
financing needs of upper-stratum microenterprises. First, the need for an
equity contribution from the lessee would be reduced to the level of the lease
deposit, and normally the lessor would require no additional collateral as
security. Second, while a prudent lessor will always impose conditions on the
lessee such that the leased asset is properly identified and insured, there is
little need for undertakings or covenants that could interfere with the
ordinary conduct of the lessee's business. Third, the requirement for formal
financial statements can thus be relaxed when a prospective lease transaction
is under appraisal, providing there is a reasonable assurance that the
entrepreneur is experienced, honest and likely to put a leased asset to
profitable use. Lastly, the simplicity of the leasing fundamentals combined
with the streamlined approval process of most competent lessors would permit a
lease transaction to be executed swiltly -- a feature that is also of special
importance to microenterprises with limited human resources.
3.21        Thus, the leasing industry and microenterprise subsector offer
each other a source of term-financing for one and new market opportunities for
the other. A number of forward-looking leasing companies are exploring new
market opportunities and trying to establish fresh market niches. Among them
at present is a progressive company, Orix Leasing Pakistan Limited (OLP),
which has specialized its business in leasing to small-scale businesses. Not
unlike the Bank's own experience, the company has gained knowledge of the
microenterprise subsector through its business experience with small-scale
enterprises. It has identified some promising microenterprises, and began



- 15 -
leasing on a pilot basis. The company's initial market experience has been
positive, so that it has set a corporate objective and formulated a business
plan to expand into this market niche. With the Bank assistance, the company
has catalyzed its experience to date and developed a marketing strategy to
identify new clients among those microenterprises sub-contracting to its
existing small-scale clients. The proposed Project aims to promote this
potential partnership.
C. SupRort Services
3.22        The secondary but nonetheless substantial obstacles to
microenterprise development has been the lack of access to business support
services. Partly in recognition of such obstacles, the GOP established in
early 1970s the Small Industry Corporations (SICs) in each of the country's
provinces. They are autonomous organizations with the objective to promote
more even regional development of small and microenterprises and employment.
To encourage small and microenterprises to locate outside urban areas, the
SICs have established and operated industrial estates, with many of the
advantages of an urban setting (i.e., infrastructure) sweetened by fiscal
incentives and various business support services. Today, SIC in Punjab
operates some 15 estates, the Sind SIC manages 14 estates, and the North West
Frontier SIC has 8 such estates. The majority of these estates, however, have
been established with little regard to the strong backward and forward
linkages that microenterprises require with their local factor and product
markets. These estates have thus resulted in housing mostly larger
enterprises, and microenterprises have not been at all well-represented. In
view of the business reasons for the preferred location of microenterprises,
such a pattern is far from being undesirable.
3.23        For similar objectives, the Government has been providing
vocational training through the country's provincial school systems and
federal training institutes. The Government's National Vocational Training
System, which dates from 1980, has made progress in upgrading its training
facilities and improving its utilization. Prerequisite for entry into most of
these institutes, however, is basic educational attainments that many
microentrepreneurs lack. Such institutes also offer courses normally on a
full-time basis -- opportunities inaccessible to most microentrepreneurs.
Instead, on-the-job training and informal apprenticeships are by far the most
important means among microenterprises.
3.24        The 1983/84 SHMI as well as firm-level surveys conducted as part
of preparation for the proposed Project reveal that there is a substantial
need for business support services. They also show that demand for such
services differ significantly among the spectrum of microenterprises.
MicroenterDrises in the Lower Stratum
3.25        This group, populated mostly by disadvantaged individuals at the
fringe of the microeconomy, have compelling needs for business support
services, which include some basic social services as well. These services
are needed to help microentrepreneurs transform their businesses from



- 16 -
subsistence to growth-oriented enterprises, and include such assistance as
securing regular supplies of raw material, marketing organizations (e.g.
transport to local markets and access to export markets), and various basic
technological stretching and improvements. Training is also needed in more
general subjects such as literacy and basic accounting. The needs also
include hygiene, health care, legal counsel and child care, which permit women
to shift from under-employment conditions to more productive work.
3.26        NGOs have historically provided much of the support services for
microenterprises in this stratum. Their programs cover basic health, family
planning, basic education and vocational training. NGOs' vocational training
has focused on activities engaged in by women workers and entrepreneurs such
as embroidery and sewing, in addition to training in general subjects such as
basic accounting. Surprisingly, however, NGOs' support services have
increasingly become supply-driven. Yet, microentrepreneurs do attend the
offered training courses even though they do not need them, because these
courses are prerequisites to obtaining credit support from NGOs.
Nevertheless, NGOs remain the most effective channel to provide technical
assistance and social services to microentrepreneurs in the lower stratum,
particularly when their programs are reoriented as competitive and demand-
driven ones. Such a reorientation is feasible when provisions for these
service are combined with competitive credit programs at market prices. The
proposed Project would institute such an approach through selected NGOs (para.
5.29).
Microenterprises in the Middle and the UpRer Strata
3.27        Microenterprises in the two higher strata require business support
services of a more technical nature, to assist middle-stratum enterprises to
grow into the upper one, and to assist those in the upper stratum to expand
the possibility of transforming into the formal sector. Such services include
provision/training on intermediate technologies (e.g. improvements in product
design, new intermediate inputs such as color-fast dyes, new molds for spare
parts), sourcing steady supplies of raw material, management training (e.g.
financial and cost accounting, inventory planning), and vocational skill
training (e.g. ceramics, metal and wood working, electrical appliance
repairs).
3.28        As noted earlier, the technical assistance provided by the public
sector has been inadequate in terms of quality as well as reaching out to
these enterprises' needs. Aside from these public sector services, organized
assistance services for microenterprises today comes from several for-profit
institutions in the private sector."  While the quality of these programs is
uneven and their coverage limited, these private establishments are far more
flexible and responsive to the market demand. Such market-driven support
services merit enhancements and promotion, particularly if they can respond to
the particular needs of microentrepreneurs such as the importance of on-the-
4 The World Bank, Pakistan - Education Sector Strategy Review, No. 7110-
PAK, December 1988.



- 17 -
job training and apprenticeships. In this context, the role of financial
intermediaries take on an added significance. These intermediaries, as part
of their daily business, provide advice to clients on proper technologies and
equipment choice (e.g. in leasing) or on managing assets and liabilities.
They can also act as intermediaries to microentrepreneurs on their business
support needs, and engage in referral services to private training
institutions. The proposed Project would systematize this approach (para.
5.29)
D. Development Approach to the Microenterprise Subsector
3.29        Microenterprise development can only be realized through programs
that are flexible yet designed to focus assistance on the critical constraints
faced by the target groups within this diverse subsector. Each group has its
own development objectives and requires different financial and support
services. Therefore, an appropriate strategy for the microenterprise
development program is as follows:
Enterprises in the Lower Stratum.  This group, populated mainly by
the disadvantaged at the fringe of the productive economy, have
compelling social as well as financial needs. For this stratum,
the objective is to help them achieve economic self-reliance in a
sustainable manner. The program should focus on a package of
access to credit for very small short-term loans for working
capital and tools combined with support services (particularly
social ones), which the target client base defines as priorities.
The direct benefit of the program would be poverty alleviation,
sustained income generation, and reduced under-employment and
enlarged productive opportunities particularly of women.
e     LEnterprises in the Middle Stratum.  For this group, the principal
goal is growth and productivity upgrading of their businesses.
Development program for this group should focus on increasing
access to credit for a modest size of short-;erm working capital
and to technical business support services. The benefit of the
program would be higher household incomes and employment,
including reduced incidence of under-employment.
*     EnterDrises in the Upper Stratum.  This group, engaging most
extensively in sub-contracting with the small-scale businesses and
for whom growing out of the micro subsector is no necessarily an
unrealistic possibility, faces challenging business transformation
needs (including management of a larger labor force, better
inventory controls, and a more sophisticated management of
production coordination, financial resources, and marketing). The
program should focus on providing access to credit for term-
finance of fixed assets. Business support services are also
essential, especially in intermediate manufacturing technologies.
This program would generate employment and raise labor
productivity.



- 18 -
3.30        The proposed Project, as the first Bank assistance concerning the
microenterprise subsector in Pakistan, is a pilot effort. As such, it is
prudent to begin building the experience with those institutions in Pakistan,
for whom business experience with the subsector is not an alien one. The
proposed Project thus focuses its assistance on those private-sector
initiatives present (NGOs) or emerging (leasing company) today in Pakistan.
Through the NGOs, it would provide a mix of financial, technical and social
support services to microenterprises in the lower stratum of the subsector.
Through the leasing initiative, it would address the needs of the upper
stratum of the subsector. Although commercial banks have been judged to be
the most appropriate intermediary to provide financial and business services
to the middle stratum, the absence of relevant business experience among them
takes such a component beyond the scope of the proposed pilot effort.
Moreover, all nationalized commercial banks in Pakistan are in the process of
restructuring, recapitalization and/or privatization (para. 2.17), which
should be their primary business focus in the near term. While one such bank
was seriously interested in exploring the new market niche, it was judged
inappropriate to introduce an entirely new business line in the midst of the
restructuring or privatization process.
IV. PROJECT RATIONALE
4.01        The proposed Project is the first assistance to microenterprises
by the Bank for Pakistan, and forms an integral part of the Bank's country and
sector assistance strategy in the medium term. In the financial sector, it
complements the GOP's current reforms on financial liberalization supported by
the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan. Previous Bank lending to small-scale
industries has assisted small establishments in the formal sector, but has
failed to reach the microenterprise subsector. Through a series of such
assistance, however, the Bank has gained experience and understanding about
the underlying causes for the subsector's credit access problem: Financial
sector liberalization is necessary but not sufficient for lifting this
particular aspect of financial repression; the client character is such that
microenterprise lending demands fundamental innovation in lending techniques
and instruments; and NGOs' lending methodologies provide key features of such
innovation in short-term lending, while financial leasing presents itself as a
promising instrument for medium-term lending. As such, the proposed Project
is proposed as a Rilot one: It would focus its assistance on those private-
sector initiatives present or emerging today in NGOs and leasing to strengthen
and reach a larger constituency, thereby demonstrating the replicability ox
financial innovations in these initiatives as a sustainable business along
with the market credit-worthiness of microentrepreneurs including women.
4.02        In the social sector, as a pilot effort, the proposed Project
promotes the GOP's interest to pursue poverty alleviation strategy without
imposing excessive fiscal burden by demonstrating how to make better use of
private sector initiatives and market mechanisms. In the trade and industrial
sctor, again as a pilot, it supports the GOP's outward-oriented structural
adjustment objectives by demonstrating one approach to mitigate the social



- 19 -
cost of adjustment in the socially and aconomically disadvantaged, most labor-
intensive, yet supply-responsive subsector.
4.03        In all of the above, the Bank's involvement is called for to help
ensure a sustainable development of new instruments, approaches, and required
institutional capacity, and to provide additional resources otherwise
unavailable including the co-financing by the Government of the Netherlands.
The Bank's involvement is also called for to effect the transfer of best
international experiences in microenterprise lending, the lessons from which
having already fed directly into the project design. In particular, the Bank
can assist under its umbrella to raise the prospects for a wider due
recognition of NGOs' work. Lastly, the Bank has been asked by the GOP to take
the leadership in stimulating the interest of other donors in microenterprises
and to coordinate their assistance.
V.   THE PROJECT
A. Project Obiectives
5.01        Addressing the needs of the microenterprise subsector constitutes
an important part of the Government's socioeconomic development strategy.
Experience from other countries suggests that the provision of credit access
not only corrects distortions and imperfections in the financial markets, but
also generates high social returns. It also indicates that these efforts will
be misdirected unless the credit is provided at market prices, and that the
social returns will be greater if such efforts are accompanied by technical
assistance to aid business development and by social services to allow women
to improve conditions of under-employment.
5.02        In view of these considerations and consistent with the pilot
nature of the proposed Project, specific objectives of this proposed Project
are as follows: (i) to strengthen the capacity of participating institutions
in delivering financial, as well as technical and/or social, services to
microenterprises; (ii) to assist these institutions to deliver their services
to a larger constituency of microenterprises; (iii) to broaden the menu of
financial instruments available for microenterprises in the upper stratum, by
promoting the initiative to market leasing to sub-contractors of small-scale
businesses; (iv) to catalyze NGOs' financial, technical and social support
services for microenterprises in the lower stratum; (v) to demonstrate the
replicability of the NGOs' and leasing initiatives to others, including
commercial banks who could potentially see microenterprises in the middle to
upper stratum as a promising market niche; (v) to demonstrate the
creditworthiness of microentrepreneurs, including and particularly women, at
market prices and practices; and (vi) to promote the development of businesses
owned and operated by women.
B. Project Scope and Description
5.03        In initiating the Bank assistance for microenterprises in Pakistan
for the first time, the proposed Project limits its scope and focuses on those



- 20 -
private-sector initiatives that are present or emerging in NGOs and leasing
industry. The proposed Project would provide funds for the following
components: (i) short-term loans to microenterprises in the lower stratum for
working capital and tools, through co-financing with the GNL (US$1.67
million); (ii) for medium-term equipment lease contracts to both small-scale
businesses and microenterprises in the upper stratum, as the Bank loan (US$26
million); and (iii) a technical assistance component of US$1.13 million, co-
financed by GNL, to (a) assist NGOs in training their staff and to adapt their
credit procedures and supervision information systems, to enable expansion of
their credit and support service programs, (b) provide technical business
support services to microentrepreneurs on a demand-driven basis with the NGOs,
OLP and other eligible leasing companies as implementing agencies, (c) conduct
a study assessing the development impact of the proposed Project, to be
completed by the end of two years after its effectiveness, no later than
December 31, 1992, and (d) conduct regular supervision and monitoring reviews
and a performance evaluation of the participating institutions two years after
the project effectiveness to be completed no later than October 31, 1993.
5.04        The GNL will provide the US$1.67 million as grants initially to
four NGOs (Agha Khan Rural Support Program, Orangi Pilot Project, Basic Urban
Services for Katchi Abadies, and Alfalah Development Institute) as seed
capital for their revolving credit operations, which should become financially
self-sustaining at the completion of the proposed Project. The participating
NGOs would bear the credit risks, be responsible for appraising the
creditworthiness of individual or group borrowers. Funds would be utilized
for short-term loans (6-24 months) at prevailing market rates, and be made
available only to established and operational microenterprises. In the case
of women entrepreneurs, however, start-up firms would be eligible.
5.05        The Bank loan of US$26.0 million would be on-lent by the GOP,
through Bankers Equity Limited the administrating institution, to OLP and
other eligible leasing companies, at a variable rate adjusted at the same
frequency as the Bank's rate. OLP and other eligible leasing companies would
bear the credit risks and will be responsible for appraising lease contracts
in accordance with Bank agreed criteria. OLP would effect its strategic
marketing plan to take advantage of existing sub-contracting business
arrangements between small and microenterprises, and finance at prevailing
market lease rates those lease contracts of established and operational small-
scale and microenterprises.
C. Project Costs and Financing Plan
5.06        The total cost of the proposed Project is estimated at US$36.6
million. The proposed Bank loan amounting to US$26.0 million will thus
finance about 70 percent of the total project cost. The balance will be
financed through co-financing as a grant from the Government of the
Netherlands (US$2.8 million), and by the private sector investors (US$7.8
million). The Bank loan would finance the leasing part of the credit
component. Part of the GNL grant (US$1.67 million) would fund the NGOs'
revolving credit facilities. The technical assistance (US$1.13 million) will



- 21 -
also be financed by the GNL. The project costs and financing sources are
summarized in the Table 5.1.
Table 5.1: Project Costs and Financiat Sources
(USS million)
Private
Bank    OWL   Sector    TOTAL
1. Eauity
Microentrepreneurs                      7.80     7.80
Subtotal                                7.80     7.80
2. Credit Component
OLP & other teasing companfes 26.00             26.00
Non-Government Organizations _  1.67             1.67
Subtotal               26.00   1.67              27.60
3. Technical Assistance
NGOs                           0.40              0.40
The Microenterprise Fund       0.50              0.50
Assessment Study               0.13              0.13
Performance Evaluation         0.10              0.10
Subtotal                       1.13              1.13
TOTAL                  26.00   2.80      7.80    36.60
D.  Credit Compor.e
5.07         Under the proposed Project, funds will be channelled as follows.
The GNL co-financing will provide grants initial.'r to four NGOs (para 5.13) as
seed capital for their revo..ving credit operatior., to become financially
self-sustaining at the completion of the proposec .-roject. The Bank loan will
initially be allocated to the OLP (para 5.17) for ftnancing lease contracts
with small-scale and microenterprises.
Participating Institutions and Selection Criteria
5.08         Selection Criteria for NGOs.  The criteria used to select the four
NGOs for participation in the proposed Project are as follows,
The NGO must be community-based in terms of membership, clients,
field staff, location, and activities. This criterion means that
the NCO would possess sufficient information about the capacity



- 22 -
and willingness of potential clients to repay, and sufficient
community ties to mobilize group-lending methods where necessary.
The general policies of the NCO must be philosophically compatible
with project objectives. Such policies include an economic
development orientation rather than strictly a social welfare
orientation, a self-reliance and self-help principle, and a
demonstrated commitment to cost recovery and financial discipline.
*     The NGO's organizational structure must be well-developed, with a
core of technical staff, field staff, and community workers.
*     The NGO must have a basic understanding of business development
principles and strategies and prior experience with income-
generating activities.
*     The NGO's mode of operations must be amenable to replication
elsewhere in Pakistan.
*     The NGO must be committed to involving women in all of its
activities, as demonstrated by female members, clients and staff.
5.09        Agha Khan Rural SuiRort Program (AKRSP).  AKRSP was established in
1982 in the Northern Areas under the Companies Act, with the objective of
increasing the income level of the local population (see Annex 3 for further
details). AKRSP's program is aimed at achieving this objective through an
integrated package of interventions that include: technical and financial
support for small-scale infrastructure; human resource development; and a
program of credit and savings, input supply, and marketing assistance. The
distinguishing feature of AKRSP is its method of implementation, which hinges
on local participation and development of indigenous institutions called the
"VOs" or Village Organizations and "WOs" or Women's Organizations, both formed
at the village level. By September 1989, there were 1,145 VOs and 281 WOs
covering 58 percent of rural households, with an estimated membership of
65,000 people. As of mid-1989, AKRSP's cumulative disbursement of funds was
Rs65.64 million (US$3.0 million) for short-term loans, of which 87 percent
were used for fertilizer and marketing operations.
5.10        Orangi Pilot Project (OPP).  OPP, which is a NGO registered under
the Societies Registration Act of 1960, began its work in 1980 (see Annex 4).
It was originally funded by the Bank of Credit and Commerce International but
is now the recipient of funds from a variety of donors, including the Canadian
and Swiss Governments. OPP is a community development project operating in
"Orangi Town", the largest squatter settlement in Karachi. Its primary
objectives -- community organization and self-management -- are promoted
through programs for physical infrastructure and economic development. Credit
is provided under the economic development program initiated in 1987 for 44
categories of microenterprises. Under this program, OPP provided 284 loans of
about Rs3.0 million (US$139,000) to family enterprises and 74 loans of about
Rsl.5 million (US$69,000) to individual companies.



- 23 -
5.11        Basic Urban Services for Katchi Abadies (BUSTI).  BUSTI, which is
an NGO registered under the Societies Registration Act, promotes integrated
urban development (see Annex 5). It is community-based, with a strong network
of professionals skilled primarily in health and education. The target
population of BUSTI is 136,000 people living in 54 "katchi abadies" (squatter
communities), with 90 percent of the target group being women. BUSTI focused
its activities initially on low-cost sanitation. It has since expanded to
include home schools, primary health care centers, and a number of income-
generating activities. BUSTI has been assisted by both UNICEF and the GOP's
Women's Division (the federal government's ministry responsible for Women's
affairs).
5.12        Alfalah Development Institute (ADI).  ADI is a community-based
development organization registered also under the Societies Registration Act
(see Annex 6). Its primary activity has been provision of short- and medium-
term credit to small-scale and micro-enterprises, so tha- ADI's management has
good knowledge of and experience with basic business development principles
and strategies. As of mid-1989, ADI has assisted about to 278 businesses with
cumulative disbursements of about US$490,000. It has received financial
assistance from Australian donors.
5.13        Of the four NGOs selected against the criteria, AKRSP, OPP and ADI
are now implementing revolving credit schemes for microenterprises, while
BUSTI has experience in implementing income-generating activities. Under the
proposed Project, the four NGOs combined are expected to reach about 2,300
microenterprises. At the time of the performance evaluation, any other
interested NGOs that meet the selection criteria would be evaluated for
possible inclusion in the proposed Project. Performance of the four NGOs will
be reviewed no later than October 31, 1993. During project implementation,
re-allocation of outstanding grant commitments among the four and any other
eligible NGOs can be considered.
5.14        Selection Criteria for Leasing Companies.  After evaluating four
major leasing companies in the industry (representing 30X of the market
share), Orix Leasing Pakistan Ltd. was selected to participate in the proposed
Project on the basis of the following criteria:
*     Sound organizational structure amenable to managing a high-volume
portfolio of relatively small value leases in a cost-effective
manner;
*     a marketing apparatus geared to addressing the leasing needs of a
diverse and informal class of businesses; and
*     strategic corporate objectives and current operations that are
compatible with the proposed Project's objectives.
5.15        Orix Leasing Pakistan Limited (OLP).  OLP was established in early
1987 by three institutions: Orix Leasing Limited of Japan, a large and
successful leasing company with affiliates in many parts of the world;
Banker's Equity Limited, a development finance institution in Pakistan; and a



- 24 -
group of private investors (see Annex 9 for further details). OLP has since
been listed on the Karachi and Lahore Stock Exchanges, and about 30 percent of
its equity is now owned by the general public. For the first half of FY90,
OLP's profit after provision for taxes reached about US$400,000, compared with
US$550,000 for the preceding year. Shareholders' equity stood at
approximately US$2.5 million on December 31, 1989, with the total assets of
US$14.1 million. OLP wrote lease contracts amounting to about US$12 million
during 1990, for an average size of roughly US$24,000 per transaction and an
average maturity of three to four years.
5.16        OLP already possess some experience in leasing to micro-
enterprises. Since its founding, the company has progressively specialized in
leasing to small-scale businesses and has received financial assistance from
the Asian Development Bank. Through this specialization, OLP has gained
knowledge of microenterprises, identified some promising ones, and began
leasing on a pilot basis. The company's initial market experience has been
positive, so that it has set a corporate objective and formulated a business
plan to expand into this market niche. With the Bank assistance, the company
has catalyzed its experience to date and developed a marketing strategy -- to
identify and gain informed access to new micro-clients,, via systematic
referrals by its existing small-scale clients to thatr "star sub-contractors".
OLP plans to use the project funds to effect this strategy by writing lease
contracts for small-scale businesses and their micro-subcontractors. Such a
strategy would allow OLP to develop its microenterprise marlket niche quickly
at reduced marketing costs. Based on a conservative projection, OLP expects
to reach about 1,000 small entrepreneurs and at least 2,500 microentrepreneurs
under the proposed Project. The company thus views microenterprise leasing as
a serious market niche, and has already committed management and staff
resources to expand its leasing portfolio to this subsector.
5.17        During the performance evaluation, the performance of OLP in
leasing to microenterprises would be reviewed. During project implementation,
eligibility of other interested leasing companies can be evaluated against the
agreed selection criteria, so that a re-allocation of outstanding commitment
to any other eligible leasing companies can be considered.
Conditions for Participation
5.18        NGOs.  To begin participating in the proposed Project, the NGOs
are required to fulfill the following conditions:
*     Approval by the respective Board of Directors and issuance of a
circular spelling out the strategies, operating policies and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank (Annex 7);
*     employment of competent staff to manage and administer credit
operations, or (in the case of BUSTI) existence of a clear plan to
build up such a capability with technical assistance;



- 25 -
*     employment of competent managing directors and project directors
of microenterprise units acceptable to the Bank5/;
*     establishment of a separate and independent unit for the credit
operations; and
*     agreement to an evaluation of their performance two years of after
the project effectiveness.
5.19        Leasing Companies.  To begin participating in the proposed
Project, OLP or any other selected leasing companies are required to fulfill
the following conditions:
*     approval by the respective Board of Directors and issuance of a
circular spelling out the strategies, operating policies and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank (Annex 10);
*     a clean audit by external auditors in accordance with
internationally accepted accounting principles;
*     compliance with existing and new prudential regulations;
sound financial condition including maintenance of a maximum
debt:equity ratio of 10:1 and a minimum debt service ratio of
1.25; and
agreement to an evaluation of their performance two years of after
the project effectiveness.
5.20        Continuing compliance of all participating institutions will be
monitored during project implementation. Any other NGOs or leasing companies
interested in participating will be subject to the same assessment vis-a-vis
these participation conditions.
The Administrating Institution
5.21        BEL will administer the Bank loan and will receive from the
Government a fee of 0.50 percent per annum on the amount withdrawn and
outstanding exp- ssed in rupees. It will also manage the technical assistance
component on bz.nAalf of the Government. BEL will (a) advise the participating
leasing companies (PLCs) on the Bank's procurement and disbursement
procedures, (b) maintain revolving funds and handle disbursements of the
special accounts, (c) provide the overall progress reports in project
implementation to the Bank, (d) collect repayments from PLCs.
I Each management director must have experience in (i) the field of
microenterprise development for 10 to 15 years; (ii) management of an NGO for
at least 3 years; and (iii) administration of a credit program.



- 26 -
Scope and Terms of NOO Lending
5.22        Sub-borrower Eligibility.  Under the proposed Project, a
microenterprise is defined as a manufacturing, commercial or service
enterprise that employs less than 10 workers. In the case of a manufacturing
concern, the number of workers would be defined as in-factory. Only
established and currently operational firms would be eligible for borrowing
from the NGOs. In the case of women entrepreneurs, however, start-up firms
would also be eligible. Sub-loans may be provided to groups as well as to
individuals. Sub-loans would be used exclusively for productive activities,
and only microenterprises with control over the production and marketing of
their products or services would be eligible. The proposed Project would
neither finance piece-rate workers nor middlemen. Where the sub-borrowers are
engaged in several activities, the NGOs would be responsible for determining
proof of their sources of income, and sub-loan applications would be evaluated
on the basis of the activity that has the most regular cash flow. Objective
criteria that can be physically verified would be used to screen prospective
sub-borrowers, such as entrepreneurs' backgrounds, business history, and the
like. The NGOs would finance working capital as well as purchase of tools.
Land and buildings would be excluded.
5.23        Sub-loan Terms and Conditions.  Sub-loans would be only short-
term, ranging from 6 to 24 months, at prevailing market rates (currently
between 15 to 22 percent per year, depending on the NGO's financial products
and services) sufficient to cover the opportunity cost of funds,
administrative costs, provision for losses, and net annual surplus to support
growth. The maximum size of the sub-loan would be US$1,800 (about Rs4O,000),
but at least 60 percent of the portfolio value should consist of loans at
US$700 (about Rsl5,000) or less, to ensure adequate coverage of
microenterprises at the lower end of the spectrum. For each withdrawal
application, NGOs will present a summary description of the subproject,
including a description of the goods and/or materials to be financed and the
terms and conditions of the sub-loan. The final date for submission of
sub-loans applications to the Bank would be June 30, 1997. The borrowing
would be step-wise, that is the maximum allowed sub-loan would be available
only to repeat customers that had promptly and fully repaid previous ones. No
new loans would be used for refinancing. In the case of sub-loans of
individual borrowers, they would have to provide a guarantor.'/ Personal
references may be accepted in lieu of provision of security or third party
guarantee. Group-based borrowers can use the group's savings as security. In
the case of default by one member of the group, each and every member will be
held responsible and lending will be suspended for all members of the group.
The NGOs would be informally responsible for assisting borrowers organize
themselves into groups.
I A guarantor would certify the borrower's standing in the community
(e.g., family status and years in business) rather than provide assets or
money as security to be used in case of default.



- 27 -
ScoRe and Terms for Leasing
5.24        Sub-borrower Eligibility.  The loan would finance only those lease
contracts of established and currently operational small and micro-enterprises
involved in any productive activity. In the case of women entrepreneurs,
however, start-up firms would also be eligible. Leases will be written only
for fixed assets, excluding land and buildings. Leased assets would be used
exclusively for productive activities, and only those enterprises with control
over the production and marketing of their products or services would be
eligible. Under the proposed Project, a microenterprise is defined as a
manufacturing, commercial or service enterprise that employs less than 10
workers. In the case of a manufacturing concern, the number of workers would
be defined as in-factory. A small-scale enterprise is defined as a viable
privately-owned business that have been operational for at lease three years,
with the total fixed assets (excluding land and building) less than or equal
to RslO.O million before granting of the lease contract. Eligible small-
scale firms are expected to be labor intensive, and the incremental fixed cost
is not expected to exceed Rs200,000 per job. They are also expected to be
financially and economically viable business engaged in manufacturing, repair,
industrial services or agro-processing.
5.25        Lease Terms and Conditions.  The maximum lease size will be
US$46,000 (about Rsl.O million). The selection criteria and procedures
presently applied by OLP for evaluating lease applicants are adequate and
would be utilized during project implementation. The leases will continue to
be written at prevailing market rates (effective yields for lease contracts
presently average about 23 percent per year). OLP and other leasing companies
will assess the economic life of equipment proposed for leasing in the context
of the lessee's business operating environment. The term of the lease will
never exceed the assessed economic life of the equipment. The free limit is
US$23,000 (about RsO.5 million).  The free limit would give the Bank adequate
control on the quality of sub-project appraisals and assurance that OLP and
other leasing companies would only finance eligible projects. The final date
for submission of lease applications to the Bank would be June 30, 1997.
E. Technical Assistance Component
Technical Assistance for NGOs
5.26        Two of the selected NGOs (BUSTI and ADI) need to strengthen the
institutional capacity to support microenterprise activities (Annexes 5 and
6), especially those for women wishing to establish their own enterprises.
Under the project, the GNL would provide funds to: (i) assist NGOs in
designing technical and social support service programs, credit procedures and
supervision information systems pertinent to microenterprise activities; (ii)
assist and train NGOs' staff in implementing, supervising and evaluating
support service programs; (iii) enhance the NGOs' institutional capacity to
continue their activities without assistance from consultants; and (iv) assist



- 28 -
with the development and application of indicators for monitoring and
evaluating the impact of enterprises created by the NGOs' constituencies.
5.27        The estimated cost of this technical assistance is US$400,000:
US$130,000 for BUSTI, US$135,000 for ADI, and US$135,000 for external
consultants (Annex 11). Technical assistance for both of these NGOs would
consist of office support (supplies, equipment and other overhead expenses),
staff salaries and training, and legal fees including annual external audits.
Technical assistance would also include periodic short-term consultancies,
especially for BUSTI. The primary use of the technical assistance would be to
support or to establish a separate unit within the NGOs, responsible for
implementing income-generating activities and developing and improving
operating systems and procedures. The external consultants would work with
all four participating NGOs for an average of six weeks each per year. BUSTI
would require an additional two to three months prior to program start-up to
establish a new special microenterprise unit as part of its organization.
AKRSP and OPP are prepared to and will be training field staff of the other
NGOs participating in the project.
Technical Assistance for OLP
5.28        Technical assistance beyond the Bank supervision is not considered
necessary for OLP. Its business decisions are based on rigorous credit
screening and the availability of adequate margins that reflect its
perceptions of the inherent risk. It has a strong marketing focus and has
established a commanding position in its chosen market segment to date.
Technical Assistance for Microentregreneurs
5.29        Since the subsector is exceptionally heterogeneous, the technical
assistance is designed to be multi-purpose and demand-driven at the same time,
embodying the flexibility to respond to the varying needs of microenterprises
(Section III.C). The Bank would review each proposal, submitted for financing
from the "Microenterprise Fund" estimated at US$0.5 million, and allocate
resource on a competitive basis. The microenterprise fund would provide
assistance for training, consultancies or studies as requested by the client.
Microentrepreneurs who are either clients of the NGOs or OLP and other leasing
companies would have priority access to the funds. A sufficient number of
entrepreneurs would have to request services, before they are be provided to
such a group. OLP, other leasing companies and the NGOs would be the
implementing agencies, and they themselves can also identify services needed
by their clients. The implementing agencies would be responsible for: (i)
promoting the fund; (ii) inviting proposals from microentrepreneurs; (iii)
appraising the viability and need of each proposal; and (iv) submitting
approved proposals to the Bank for approval.
Technical Assistance for the Assessment Study and the Performance Evaluation
of the Participating Institutions
5.30        An assessment study and a performance evaluation of participating
institutions will be carried out with the view to completion by the end of two



- 29 -
years after effectiveness of the proposed Project (Annex 12). The principal
agenda of the assessment study, whose cost is estimated at US$125,000, is to
record, update and analyze changes in microenterprise performance and
characteristics over time coupled with relevant policy and institutional
environment surrounding the subsector that is expected to undergo a
substantial make-over in the next few years. Of particular importance is to
keep abreast of the impact on microenterprises of planned adjustments in the
formal financial sector -- especially concerning the banking system and its
practices -- and of expected industrial and trade policy reforms. Monitoring
the performance of participating institutions under the proposed Project is
also of critical importance. The results of the study would be discussed with
the GOP, GNL, and all participating institutions. The GOP and the Bank would
conduct a performance evaluation of the participating institutions and assess,
in light of the project objectives the accomplishments of the proposed Project
and the participating institutions. The GOP and the Bank would adjust the
organizations and operations of the proposed Project according tc the
recommendations of the performance evaluation.
VI. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Amounts and Allocation of Funds
6.01        The proposed financing package of US$28.80 million equivalent will
consist of a Bank loan of US$26.00 million to GOP for on-lending through BEL
to OLP and later to other eligible leasing companies (para 5.17); and a grant
of US$2.80 million equivalent from the GNL to GOP. Out of the GNL's grant
assistance, the GOP will pass on as grants US$1.67 million equivalent
initially to four NGOs (para 5.13) as follows: US$1.0 million to AKRSP;
US$100,000 to OPP; US$245,000 to BUSTI; and US$325,000 to ADI. The GOP will
pass on the remaining US$1.13 million equivalent GOP as grants for technical
assistance allocated as follows: US$0.40 million to the NGOs; US$0.50 million
to the OLP, other leasing companies and NGOs for a joint management of the
Microenterprise Fund; and the remaining US$0.23 million as the assessment
study and the performance evaluation.
B. Terms and Conditions
On-lending Rates and Foreign Exchange Risk
6.02        The GNL grant will be utilized as a seed capital by each NGO to
build a revolving fund as a self-sustaining financing program. The NGOs will
on-lend at prevailing market rates, sufficient to cover each NGO's opportunity
cost of funds, administration costs, provision for losses and net annual
surplus to support growth (para. 5.23).
6.03        The Bank loan to the GOP will be on the Bank's standard variable
interest rates, and will have a fixed amortization schedule of 20 years
including a grace period of 5 years. The GOP would on-lend the Bank funds
through BEL to PLCs at a variable rate adjusted periodically at the same
frequency as the Bank's rate. The on-lending rate to OLP and other eligible



- 30 -
leasing companies would include the Bank's prevailing interest rate plus the
prevailing fee for the foreign exchange risk coverage as determined by the
State Bank of Pakistan and a fixed spread of 0.75 percent per annum (which in
composed of 0.25 percent per annum representing the average commitment fees
incurred by the Government over the life of the loan, and a 0.50 percent per
annum for administration cost to BEL). The adjusted rate would be applied to
the aggregate equivalent amount withdrawn and outstanding expressed in rupees.
BEL would receive its fees from the Government. Each PLC would also provide
to the GOP a guarantee from a suitable third party. In view of the fact that
small and micro-entrepreneurs do not possess means to hedge against the
foreign exchange risk, the Government will bear that risk. Terms and
conditions of the on-lending arrangements would be spelled out in an
Administration Agreement signed between the GOP and BEL and a written
Agreement between BEL and initially OLP and later other eligible leasing
companies. Lease charges would be the prevailing rates in the leasing market
(para. 5.25).
Repavment Terms and Security
6.04        OLP and other borrowing leasing companies would repay the GOP on a
fixed schedule of 10 years, inclusive of a 3 year grace period. They would be
allowed to use recycled funds arising from maturity mismatches in individual
contracts only for leasing to the eligible sub-borrowers according to the
agreed criteria.
6.05        The use of the Bank resources would not be secured by a charge
over any of the assets of OLP and other leasing companies. However, OLP and
other leasing companies would undertake, through a negative pledge, to hold
assets up to a predetermined value uncharged to any other creditor. These
assets would ensure that a group of lease receivables, together with title to
the underlying assets, valued at all times at more than the outstanding
balance on OLP's and other leasing companies' fund originating from the Bank,
would be unencumbered by any lien or hypothecation except in cases when lien
or hypothecation is required to secure a guarantee for such amount.  It
follows that the GOP, the legal lender of the Bank loan to OLP and other
leasing companies, would be one of OLPs' and other leasing companies'
unsecured creditors, with appropriate rights in the event of liquidation.
Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
6.06        The Bank would sign a Loan Agreement with the GOP, the GOP would
sign an Administration Agreement with BEL. The effectiveness conditions are
as follows: (i) signing of the Administration Agreement between the GOP and
BEL; (ii) and the signing of the Subsidiary Grant Agreements between the GOP
and at least one NGO. The effectiveness date will be within 90 days after
signing of the Loan Agreement.



* 31 -
C. Administrative Procedures
Disbirsem2=t
6.07        Except in the case of leasing, loans made under the proposed
Project would be small -- averaging less than US$1,000 -- and without foreign
exchange components. Therefore, the disbursements would be the cumulative
disbursements of first-time borrowers. In the case of leasing, the Bank would
finance: 100 percent of the ex-factory costs of locally manufactured
equipment; 100 percent of the CIF costs of imported equipment; and 90 percent
of imported equipment procured locally.   The Bank's reimbursement would be
limited to expenditures made by a sub-borrower not more than 180 days prior to
the Bank's receipt of OLP's and other leasing companies' request for
reimbursement. Because the amounts are so small and NGOs cannot pre-finance
their expenses, special accounts would be opened for each of them and the GOP
as follows: AKRSP US$100,000; OPP US$10,000; BUSTI US$24,500; ADI US$32,500;
and the GOP US$73,000. Similarly, in order to avoid OLP and other leasing
companies having to finance equipment using other resources, a special account
would be opened for them at US$1.5 million. BEL and the NGOs would have to
furnish to the Bank a certification that the disbursement had been made and
the procurement procedures had been followed. The Bank would then reimburse
the special accounts on the basis of the request for refinancing submitted by
BEL and the NGOs.
6.08        Disbursements of all leases at or below Rs250,000 (PLCs) and sub-
loans at or below Rs2O,000 (NGOs) would be made against certified statements
of expenditures (SOEs) for which appropriate documentation would be retained
by the participating institutions and made available for Bank supervision.
Any claims in excess of Rs250,000 for OLP and other leasing companies and
Rs2O,000 for NGOs will require full documentation. The disbursement schedules
are based on the latest Regional subsector disbursement profile (Annex 13).
The proposed Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997 and the
closing date is expected to be June 30, 1998.
6.09        For the technical assistance components, the Bank would reimburse
out of the GNL funds 100 percent of the expenditures incurred by the NGOs.
For the Microenterprise Fund and the assessment study component, the Bank
would reimburse: 100 percent of the foreign and 75 percent of the local costs
of consultants and training expenses; 100 percent of the ex-factory costs of
locally manufactured equipment and supplies; 100 percent of the CIF costs of
imported equipment and supplies; and 90 percent of imported equipment and
supplies procured locally. The implementing agency would submit withdrawal
applications to the Bank.
Procurement
6.10        International competitive bidding procedures would be impractical
because of the size of the sub-loans and leases (para. 6.07). Goods and
services procured would be acquired through the normal channels available to
borrowers. The participating institutions would ensure that the goods are
purchased at reasonable and competitive prices, with due account being taken



- 31 -
C. Administrative Procedures
DisbursemMn
6.07        Except in the case of leasing, loans made under the proposed
Project would be small -- averaging less than US$1,000 -- and without foreign
exchange components. Therefore, the disbursements would be the cumulative
disbursements of first-time borrowers. In the case of leasing, the Bank would
finance: 100 percent of the ex-factory costs of locally manufactured
equipment; 100 percent of the CIF costs of imported equipment; and 90 percent
of imported equipment procured locally.   The Bank's reimbursement would be
limited to expenditutres made by a sub-borrower not more than 180 days prior to
the Bank's receipt of OLP's and other leasing companies' request for
reimbursement. Because the amounts are so small and NGOs cannot pre-finance
their expenses, special accounts would be opened for each of them and the GOP
as follows: AKRSP US$100,000; OPP US$10,000; BUSTI US$24,500; ADI US$32,500;
and the GOP US$73,000. Similarly, in order to avoid OLP and other leasing
companies having to finance equipment using other resources, a special account
would be opened for them at US$1.5 million. BEL and the NGOs would have to
furnish to the Bank a certification that the disbursement had been made and
the procurement procedures had been followed. The Bank would then reimburse
the special accounts on the basis of the request for refinancing submitted by
BEL and the NGOs.
6.08        Disbursements of all leases at or below Rs250,000 (PLCs) and sub-
loans at or below Rs2O,000 (NGOs) would be made against certified statements
of expenditures (SOEs) for which appropriate documentation would be retained
by the participating institutions and made available for Bank supervision.
Any claims in excess of Rs250,000 for OLP and other leasing companies and
Rs2O,000 for NGOs will require full documentation. The disbursement schedules
are based on the latest Regional subsector disbursement profile (Annex 13).
The proposed Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997 and the
closing date is expected to be June 30, 1998.
6.09        For the technical assistance components, the Bank would reimburse
out of the GNL funds 100 percent of the expenditures incurred by the NGOs.
For the Microenterprise Fund and the assessment study component, the Bank
would reimburse: 100 percent of the foreign and 75 percent of the local costs
of consultants and training expenses; 100 percent of the ex-factory costs of
locally manufactured equipment and supplies; 100 percent of the CIF costs of
imported equipment and supplies; and 90 percent of imported equipment and
supplies procured locally. The implementing agency would submit withdrawal
applications to the Bank.
Procurement
6.10        International competitive bidding procedures would be impractical
because of the size of the sub-loans and leases (para. 6.07). Goods and
services procured would be acquired through the normal channels available to
borrowers. The participating institutions would ensure that the goods are
purchased at reasonable and competitive prices, with due account being taken



- 33 -
addition, they would submit proper accounts for the sub-loans, including
supporting disbursement and procurement documents, which would be audited
annually according to current practices acceptable to the Bank. Independent
external auditors acceptable to the Bank would audit the financial statements,
the special account and the SOEs and would submit audit reports not later than
six months after the end of the institutions' fiscal year. The NGOs, OLP and
other leasing companies would submit to the Bank a project completion report
within six months following the proposed Project's closing date.
D. Environmental Issues
6.15        Because of their size and type of activities, sub-loans and leases
financed under this proposed Project would have an exceptionally low
probability of causing environmental damage.  Nevertheless, in the case of the
leasing component, each sub-borrower will be required to comply with the
environmental protection regulations of the Government. The environmental
authorities will carry out an assessment of the adequacy of the environmental
protection measures in the lease contracts. Sub-borrowers will be required to
submit evidence of clearance from the environmental authorities that any
environmental concerns identified would be addressed through appropriate
measures. During the implementation of the proposed Project, regular
reporting to the environmental offices would be required to ensure continued
compliance. This approach to environmental protection would be reflected in
the policy and strategy statements of the participating leasing company, which
would have to be approved by its boards and be satisfactory to the Bank. The
Bank has provided to the participating leasing company guidelines covering
various aspects of environmental protection to assist them in the
environmental assessment.
E. Co-financing
6.16        The GNL would co-finance the proposed Project for US$2.8 million
equivalent (f4.8 million), of which US$1.67 million would be used for the
credit component (paras. 5.22-5.23) and the rest for the technical assistance
components (paras. 5.26-5.30). The GNL and GOP would sign a Development Grant
Agreement, which would spell out the terms and conditions of the grant and
specify that the execution of the proposed Project to be financed by the grant
would be in accordance with the loan agreement, and administered by the Bank
under standard Bank procedures. Upon effectiveness of the grant, the GNL
would disburse the funds to the Bank in three tranches as follows: f2 million
in CY91, f2 million in CY92, and fO.8 million in CY93.
6.17        The proposed grant would be under the umbrella of the General
Administration Agreement that exists between the Bank and the GNL. As such,
the GNL and the Bank would only exchange a letter, while the Bank would sign a
Dutch Grant Agreement with the GOP. The General Administration Grant
Agreement specifies that the Bank would administer the GNL's grant and
supervise related projects according to the Bank's standards and procedures
and would provide the GNL with copies of its regular supervision reports and
the project completion report. The Dutch Grant Agreement would spell out the



- 34 -
Bank's role as administrator and the terms and conditions under which the
grant would be administered.
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
7.01        The proposed Project would assist the GOP to further its
socioeconomic objectives by promoting private sector initiatives and thereby
demonstrating a poverty alleviation strategy that need not impose an excessive
fiscal burden. It also supports the GOP's planned trade liberalization
reforms by demonstrating one approach to mitigate the anticipated social cost
of adjustment. Most directly, the proposed Project complements the on-going
financial sector reforms in lifting financial repression, by focusing its
assistance to strengthen and expand those private-sector innovations and
initiatives without which microenterprise would not begin to gain greater
access to credit. The proposed Project's direct beneficiaries among
microenterprises will necessarily be extremely limited relative to the size of
the subsector. By itself, therefore, the proposed Project cannot claim to
generate a significant improvement in incomes of the economically handicapped
population, in the labor force participation of women, nor in additional
employment. It is hoped, however, that this proposed Project's pilot impact
be disproportionately larger, demonstrating the replicability of financial
innovations and initiatives in the private sector as sustainable businesses,
and demonstrating the credit-worthiness of microentrepreneurs including women
at market prices and practices. As one instrument to magnify the
demonstration effect, the GNL is reviewing the Bank's proposal to produce a
film on Pakistan's microenterprises in parallel with the implementation of the
proposed Project. The NGOs expect to provide funds to about 2,300
microenterprises, and OLP projects to serve about 3,500 clients of whom at
least 2,500 would be microenterprises.
B. Risks
7.02        The risks are in accordance with the pilot nature of the proposed
Project, and are mainly related to the institutional capacity of the
participating institutions. NGOs must strengthen their experience in project-
based lending on a scale larger than before. Participating leasing company
must accumulate further the experience to lease to the informal sector.
Frequent quality supervision and technical assistance by the Bank would thus
be critical, not only for the planned implementation of this pilot but also
for its intended demonstration effects and the associated sustainability of
such assistance to microenterprises in the future. Loan recovery by the NGOs
may also be considered a risk, but experience in other developing countries
(Indonesia, India, Bangladesh) indicates this risk to be significantly below
that associated with traditional borrowers of formal credit institutions, due
to safeguards in lending methodologies that are adapted to the community-
based culture of microenterprises. The Bank supervision, and technical
assistance would aim to shorten loan processing, to improve sub-project
implementation, and to strengthen the NCOs' supervision and loan collection



35 -
systems. Technical assistance would also be provided for extension services,
which is expected to alleviate demand-side problems of implementation.
VIII. AGREEMENTS. CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Aereements and Conditions
8.01        During negotiations, the Government and the implementing agencies
agreed on the following:
(a)   In the case of NGOs, the interest rate would be set at prevailing
market ones sufficient to cover each NGO's opportunity costs of
funds, administrative costs, provision for losses and net annual
surplus to support growth (para. 5.23);
(b)   the leasing price would be the prevailing rate in the leasing
market (para. 5.25);
(c)   the selection criteria (para. 5.08) and conditions of
participation (para. 5.18) for the NGOs;
(d)   the selection criteria (para. 5.14) and conditions of
participation for (para. 5.19) leasing companies;
(e)   the procedures for repayment and security for OLP and other
leasing companies (paras. 6.04-6.05), procurement (para. 6.10),
disbursements (paras. 6.07-6.09), environmental protection (para.
6.15), auditing and reporting requirements (paras. 6.11-6.14);
(f)   the on-lending terms and conditions (paras. 6.02-6.03), sub-
borrower eligibility criteria (paras. 5;22, 5.24), sub-loan/lease
terms and conditions (paras. 5.23, 5.25);
(g)   the staffing and details on the technical assistance for BUSTI and
ADI (paras. 5.26-5.27); and
(h)   the technical assistance for the Microenterprise Fund (para. 5.29)
and the assessment study and the performance evaluation (para.
5.30).
8.02        During negotiations, a draft of the following documents were
discussed and agreed upon:
(a)   the Loan Agreement between the Government and the Bank;
(b)   the Dutch Grant Agreement between the Government and the Bank;
(c)   the Project Agreement for the Dutch Grant between the Bank and the
NGOs;



- 36 -
(d)   the Policies and Strategy Statement for NGOs; and
(e)   the Policies and Strategy Statement for OLP.
8.03        The following would be conditions of loan effectiveness (para.
6.06):
(a)   signing of the Administration Agreement between the GOP and BEL;
and
(b)   signing of the Subsidiary Grant Agreement between the GOP and at
least one NGO.
8.04        Implementation of the technical assistance for the NGOs would have
to take place before disbursement of the credit component of the Dutch Grant.
B. Recommendation
8.05        The proposed Project is suitable for a Baik loan of US$26.0
million and GNL grants of US$2.8 million equivalent (f4.8 million) for the
Islamic Republic of Pakistan, under conditions outlined in Chapter VI.



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
MICROENrERPRISE PROJECT
KEY DATA FOR SMALL-SCALE/INFORMAL SECTOR MANUFACTURING, 1983/86
(Rs. 000)
F9ved     Averaoe  tEployseott Value Added               I D,stributior.
1uhrbr of   9aP ;:    trlyFv bante teber of   Eoploveenl  Payments to Vie Prods   ects    Net Value    Assets Per IFploynti    Lost Per                         PerHFI-9 ---
FIras       Asset.       is Assets Itorters       Losts,       Others      and Se-ProdsFros Others Added         Establushat EstabliSlatI       Worter       Ilorer Fid. Assets  Employment Value Added
foollsehold                            ---its licta-                                                                                                                        -
lord, Be.traqe, labatte         20.351     36W nt           738      33,221       12,58B       14,322   1,635,975       83,453      242,302        10.07         1.63        0.38    ?     .32        79.10        29.9&6       25.05
leltIlrs ard tsethb             2;,0'7       t.?97        7,999      46o096       53,694       11,76t,     483,92f     2126,466    362,618,        L.67         2. 69        I.ln         7.896       2.65         41.t7       64.2,
"tOd and VWe4 Pmodmtis           5.51          . 5    92    60        9.672        4,554        1,592      87,165       24,497       73,417         1.42        1.16         %I.47        7. ff        2.6tB        '.7J         5.4t.
Paper and Piper Frodutts           93j       !.23S          442       2.135          782           oil      22,072       5,765       15,018         1.38        2. b         0.37         7.63         6. ill        .i;        v.94
Chemicals, Robber, Plnti         1,359       M.e9B          702       2.986        2,794          169      35,951       25,609      35,286         5.81         2.19         6.94        11.94         l.hl         2.76        3.Il
tNon-ietallic Iinerals           3,5B1         644           37       5,057          398           42       50,06        1,413       39,979        0.27         1.41         0.08         7.09         0.21         4.57        0.4 t
Panic  1etal2                       75         353          169         176          179           11        1,166       1,331        1,377        4.94         2.41         1.0          7.192        0.08       (0.16         V.21
Fatricated  totals              3,3i3       l5.970        :,20        6,520        5,623          820      8Sb,IDB.  31,391         59.710          4.16        1.96         4.86         9.16         3.1          5.9S         S.7i;
(other                           3.07.       4.173          309       4,914        3,012          250      46,172       33,062      51,404          1.36        1.57         0.63        lo.6B        0.9t9        4.35        3.t"
l.1.l                       W,o66 4o 4.944            13,208     116,56       93,o60      29,046   1,84N,489      416,926      819,532         7.66         1.92         v.76         7.-5       (l0k.0 t'   14lo.00l     11k.VO
itllanltacitwtn  Establish.nts 17otall
Fnod, everage, lobacco          23,819   1,oS7.29.      128,B95      69,734      300,975       13,370   5,549,700      373,805   2,229,714         70.00        2.93         4.32        31.9S        35.63        15.67        iX.02
le:t-les antd Leather          S0,515      972.331      103,962     139,416      519,179      127,959   4,926,001      884,959   2,034,339         19.25        2.16         3.73        14.59        20.78        31.33       39.73
Wood aG Iood  Pr.detts          29.657     55e.675       47.275      6b,t,u      149,916       16,665      976,253     413,227      74B,9t,        18.95        2.75         2.25        11.25        1I.95        14.97        11.47
Paper and toapr trodurts         2,495     104.446       12,171       7,551       29,600        1,841       76,694      98,9S0      104,153        41.96        3.03         3.92        13.79         v.0          1.70         2.21.
fhemitals, Rubber. Plasti        2,665      68,906        8,232        7,562      24,549        1,042      327,795      20,A28      137,010        25.95        2.94         3.25        18.12         1.47         1.70         1.B8
lIa-awtallir Nunerals            3,689      B ,153        8,620       9,262       26,130       14,636      607,531       8,753      454,019        23.08        2.51         2.82        49.02         1.82         2.09         2.0e
Rasmc letals                       955      34,707        5,609       2,974        9,539        . 456       54,969      29,435       40,729        40.59        3.36         '.32        14.17         0.74         P.65         6.73
Fabricated 1e1l1!               36.319     837.740       91,506       99,212     202,224       27,946   1,6S6,911      548,132   1.110,545         23. 67        2.46         2.27       12.45        17.94        20.05        15.47
Olor.r                          31,21      3149,257      26,660       52,715      49,095       21,796   1,452,744      506,785      851,.35        11.19         3.69        0.91        16.15         7.46        12.85         3.o8
Ir,l.l                     210,230   4.U8.91b        432.33      444,932   1,307,515       225,701  15,569,497   2,87t,714   7,709,793.        25.92         2.46         2.94        17.33       100.00       10.00     I210. 
ulotal 6a.1-tcame bnur(cictnrinq
Irnd,  everaqe. lrhacco         44,2i7  2.035,604       229,633      162,855     313,557       27,692   6,585,615      457,758   2,411,075         46.01         2.3;         3.05 *     24.02 *      39.56        18.52        22. 4
ledtiles led leather            72.562   1,031,129      111,961     195,506      573,173      139,719   5.409,021   1,h95,359   2.337.419          14.21         2..6         3.09.       12.92       21.65        32.39        4 1.2l
wIb7b and good Produtts         35,167     56,872        47,98i      76,278      154,470       18,257      963,419     437,724      922,467        16.12         2.17         2.03       Ib.78        11.02        13.71       11.2;
.pier ind tPaper ProdKims        3,425      105.732      12.613       9.686       30,3B2        1,921       98,756      94,755    1H9,171          30.87-        2.83         3.14        11.311       (.01'        1.74          .lS
theamials. hRbber. Plasti        4,024       76,799       8,934       10,542      27,343        1,211      363,746      45,637      172,296        19.09         2.62         2.59        It.34         1.49        1.9%         I.97
rIon-uteallit Iinerals           1,771       9S.117       8,657       14,319      26,526       14,678      657,5,7       10,1       492,997        11.85         I.S'         1.95       34.42-        1.67         2.59         1.91
tnc M0etals                        929      35.0,         5,719       3.050        9,719          467       5.,228      30,766       42,106        37.78.        3.29        3.29        23.81         0.68         e.55         0.7.0
Fabruceled 10*als               39.651     851.6S8       93,113      95,732      2,84117       28,166   1,782,S19    5W,130   1,170,255            21.53         2.41        2.17        12.22        16.66        17.23 1..91
(itbhr                          34129S     35.430        26.369      57,529       51,107       22,636   1,498,916      539,947      902,639        16.31         2.68         0.8?        15.69        6.87        10.31         M.l
total                      241.t6    5,111.76       445,538     555,497   1,391,123       254,141  17,416,976   3.292,642   9,5B9,325         21.26         2.30         2.56        15.46       160..64      I0n0.0      I(*.6'
Source:  SHMI, 19l834                                                                                                                                                                                                           =|x 
0



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
MICROENTERPRISE PROJECT
KEY DATA FOR SMALL-SCALE/INFORMAL SECTOR MANUFACTURING, 1983/86
(Rs. 000)
Frt1-4    AveraRe  Emplovatet  1alve Added                 I Distribution
lieur el   Viw el o       tf r   Champ  abinr el   Employml  Pym s to leValve Predf Preipts    Rel V9l.3.    13ets Fer  EenPIDW11ll    Losi Per                     Pn ------------------------------------
firms        Assts       in Assts   Urtprg         Cuosts       Others,      amid 8ProdsFro. Olthes Uded            Establihmt Estallishat          lorter       borPer FVd. Assets  tmployment Valet Added
fod. rcwtay  leobKct             3637U      711 4          564 MM      9            77104         529        860704       632017       412410        24.11         2.18         0.85          7.32   U     3.2s        4e.5&    ; i.s
lenmles nd i  -air               lOOb         40            8743        20714        35944         79S9       404           1724       179M48         6.11         I.99         1.74         8.s5          4.59        1.14          4.?4
116s.ad Nsed Prdhtts              12422      Is"4     It 42;            25600        37423         5627       251537       191J2        248948        15.2         2.08          1.45        9.s5         13.s7        13.88        15.3?
tpipr am it        Proudts            0           a                         0             0           0             0           a            h          InR          ERB          FOR           EnR         O.b(i        0.0(l        i. .")
C&aiisuls,  RAW, PI&sHi             454        40lE         2950         1520         48            314       123294          714        44041        31.91         3.35          3.27        28.97         1.04         o.6?         2.0d
-"alallmr  lrmmals                 4443      12419 1         17         19346        7449            U39     1225724         4754       4UUS?         27.91         4.33          3.8..       32.95         9.40        10.42 %I.43
ta41C c dals                          *           a            0            a            0            0                        0            a          ERR          ERR          ERR          ERR          0.00         O. .0
F.rIlZc.u  Ut*lis                 14171      10432         15023         33831       12074         20M4       141576       13S905       179002         7.04         I.s5         0.52          7.s6         7.25        12.59         4.96
Otinr                              3379         I            8BBo        4952         2041          943        1202         41350        5028          4.90         1.44         0.42         30.43         3.19         2.43         0.84
letd3                         33s13      33131445      3071?5       165913       243495       122076     315425        106079       399304         Is.99         2.28         1.31        10.75       100.00       380.i4       lOs.tb
bitl:   mIT nlv allsmuls with li 3 millien Ih. total  3tId assets ari inClUded
Source:  SHMI, 1983/84
o "
0
"h
00



- 39
ANNKX 2
Page 1 of 4
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
MICROENTERPRISE PROJECT
THE INFORMAL SYSTEM OF CREDIT FOR MICROENTERPRISES1
A. The Committee System
1.          The committee system has been an important source of capital for
small businesses in Pakistan. Under this system, business people (usually of
the same trade) set-up informal groups to collect money and lend the collected
funds to members. The group decides the terms and conditions and the type of
committee. Three types of committees are now being used by the business
community: (a) ordinary committee; (b) monthly auction; and (c) lucky.
Ordinary Committee
2.          This is the simplest form of committee.  Its involves a compulsory
savings plan under which on a daily and/or monthly basis, the accountant
collects a fixed amount of money from the members. The first collection is
given to the person who organizes the group. From the second month onward the
accountant keeps a record of the names of all members who have contributed to
the plan, except the organizer, who always will have received the first
collection. These cards are shuffled and a non-member (usually a child) is
asked to draw one. The funds are then given to the member whose name is
drawn. This procedure is repeated every time a draw is required. Those
members who have received money once are not included in subsequent draws, and
the duration of the group depends on the number of members.
Monthly Auction Committee
3.          The auction committee is very popular within the business
community, especially in the big cities of Pakistan. The group's structure is
similar to that of the ordinary committee. However, in this case the money
that is collected is auctioned every month on a fixed date, going to the
member willing to pay the highest premium to the contributors. For example,
suppose there are 50 members, each of whom contributes Rs 1,000, so that the
amount collected is RS 50,000. One member offers RS 45,000 for the money
collected. Another member, whose need is more pressing, offers RS 40,000 and
so on. If Rs 40,000 is the lowest amount any member will offer, the money is
given to that person and the remaining RS 10,000 are equally distributed among
the contributing members. This amount is considered the profit of the group.
In this way, each member contributes Rs 800 for the month instead of the
' Taken from the Development Research and Management Services Limited's
consultant report.



40 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 4
normal Rs 1,000. Under this arrangement, those members not willing to pay a
minimum will get their share at the end.
Lucky Committee
4.          This once-popular type of committee was banned under the regime of
President Zia-ul-Haq. Nonetheless, it is still practiced illegally by some
people. The committee's organizer recruits as many members as possible to
contribute to and participate in a monthly auction. At the auction, the
organizer announces the amount of the bid: one-half to two-thirds of the
amount of the money collected. As in the ordi ..lry committee, a name is
selected from a draw. Each name that is selected is then excluded from
subsequent draws. Suppose there are 200 members who pay Rs 400 each month for
a total of Rs 80,000. The organizer announces that Rs 50,000 will be given to
the lucky member every month. Those members who have yet to be selected to
receive she money collected but have paid Rs 50,000 into the group get back
their contributions; previous winners do not have to pay the remaining
installments. Thus, some lucky members get a big amount while paying only a
few installments. The organizers of the groups always receive a large profit
every month.
B. Suppliers' Credit
5.          The suppliers' credit is the most important source of credit for
microentrepreneurs in Pakistan. This informal source of credit has strong
roots in the business community, so that even when microentrepreneurs know
there is a significant difference in the cash and credit prices for the
purchase of raw materials, they still use this mode of informal credit. The
reason is that they have no other way to obtain credit for purchases of raw
material.
6.          Most microentrepreneurs purchase raw materials on credit, which
they usually repay within two to six weeks. In addition to repayment of the
credit, borrowers often have to pay an implicit rate of interest of 10 - 15
percent Rer month, although lower rates of 2-3 percent per month are also
available. These interest rates are determined by the difference between the
amount paid for cash purchases as opposed to credit.
7.          For example, in the metal products industry, the price of scrap
metal, if purchased with cash, is about Rs 7-8 per kilogram, versus Rs 7.75-
8.75 on credit. The additional amount depends on the agreement between the
buyer and the seller at the time of purchase; suppliers charge a higher price
with a repayment plan ranging in length from 15 to 130 days. The price of the
raw material incorporates not only an interest rate but also a quantity
discount. In the metal products industry, raw material in kilograms costs
more as compared with raw material in tons. An interesting finding was that
"cash payment" meant payment within a week of purchase of the raw material.
This type of arrangement is practiced for nearly all types of materials bought



41 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 4
in this industry. Leather products are characterized by similar variations in
cash and credit opportunities.
8.          In the textile industry, suppliers' rates are based on the length
of time the credit is extended. If a buyer chooses to pay the credit within
20-30 days, the cost of repayment is less than if the repayment is extended
over a longer period. While the prices charged for raw material include an
interest rate, suppliers also offer buyers a discount on good bought in bulk
or in large quantities.
C. Buyer's Advance
9.          The buyer's advance is another source of credit for some of the
smallest microentrepreneurs. This type of credit arrangement between the
buyer and seller allows the buyer partially to collaterize his purchase of raw
materials. The buyer deposits a partial payment with the supplier who, in
turn, deducts that amount from the total cost of goods purchased. This credit
is usually interest-free, and the difference between the credit and total cost
is paid at a later date. This source of capital is very important for
shoemakers and wood furniture makers, who work on a very small scale.
10.         In some cases, buyers' provide working capital to
microentrepreneurs and charge an implicit interest rate of 6-8 percent per 15
days on the unpaid balance. These intermediaries enter into a subcontracting
agreement to purchase the microentrepreneurs' product. Under this
arrangement, the buyer deducts from the total value of the goods purchased the
credit advanced and pays the remaining balance to the microenterpreneur. The
interest the buyer charges is reflected in the form of a discount price.
D. Parchi
11.         The Rarchi is a piece of paper issued by intermediaries on receipt
of finished goods from microentrepreneurs. This form of credit states the
quantity of output received, the price per unit, the repayment time and the
beneficiary or the Rarchi's bearer. The typical parchi observed in the market
have three maturity periods: 20-30 days, 30-45 days and 45-60 days.
12.         When microentrepreneurs take their product to the market, the mode
of payment is negotiated. If payment is to be made in cash, a
microentrepreneur can sell his products relatively cheaply. If the
intermediaries ask him to take a pgachi, a microentrepreneur will charge a
higher price according to the maturity period of the Rarchi.  The parchi is
acceptable in the market just like a check. If the bearer of the Rarchi wants
to redeem or exchange the note, a certain rate of discount must be paid, which
varies according to its maturity period. The Rarchi is also used by
microenterprises to pay suppliers.



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 4
13.         The interest rates for parchi arrangements are given below:
Implicit          Implicit           Discount
Interest          Rate When          Rate
Rate When         Parghi Is          for
Parchi            ME Is Selling      Used to Pay        Cashing
Maturity           the Good          Suppliers           the Parchi
(dos)}            (X month)          (X month)          {X month)
20-30              2.0-1.5           1.7-2.3            2.5-5.0
30-45              3.1-6.2           2.3-5.0            3.8-7.5
45-60              4.4-7.0           6.0-7.0            5.0-10.0
14.         There is a big risk in the Rarchi arrangement.  If the business of
the borrower collapses, all bearers of its Marchis issued lose their money and
have no legal recourse to get it back.
E. Money Lende
15.         Although very unpopular among microentrepreneurs, the money lender
is another informal source of credit. The majority of the borrowers using
this source of credit are transporters, textile mill owners, property dealers
and stockists, although in some cases money is sought for household needs.
Money lenders usually give loans to those people whom they trust or who can
provide a guarantor. The interest rates vary from 2-5 percent per month;
because of these variations, loans must be paid monthly. Another reason for
the unpopularity of this source of credit is that a lender can demand
repayment at any time without giving prior notice.



. 43 .
ANNEX a
Page 1 of 3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
MICROENTERPRIS& PROJECT
THE AGHA KHAN RURAL SUPPORT PROGRAM (AKRSP)
A. Introdugtion
1.          The AKRSP was established in December 1982 in the Northern Areas
of Pakistan under the Companies Act, with the objective of increasing the
income level of the local population. This objective is achieved through an
integrated package of interventions that include: technical and financial
support for small-scale infrastructure; human resource development; and a
program of credit and savings, input supply and marketing assistance. Because
of the opportunities that have been created by the building of Karakarum
Highway and other access roads in this rural area, the AKRSP was able to
support commercialization of goods by villages and promote the self-reliance
of previously dependent villages. Consequently, a network of indigenous
Village Organizations (VOs) and Womens Organizations (WOs) has been developed.
In September 1989 there were 1,145 VOs and 281 WOs covering.58 percent of
rural households with an estimated membership of 65,000 people.
Geographically-based regional organizations have also been developed composed
of representatives of VOs and WOs.
B. Institutional Structure
2.          The distinguishing features of the AKRSP are its institutional
structure and method of implementation, which hinges on local participation
and the VOs. Most VO members are village residents who jointly participate
with UKRSP staff in selecting projects for their area based on need. The main
poiDv_ of contact between the AKRSP and these organizations is the Social
Organization Unit (SO), a monitoring group of AKRSP based in the field and at
the district level. The majority of the grants awarded to the VOs are for
productive physical infrastructure (PPI) with the selection criteria based on
the productivity, equity and sustainability of the VOs. Before a financial
grant is awarded to a VO for a project, the terms of implementation are
discussed in three stages, after which the VO receives a grant equal to one-
fifth of the total project cost. The remaining installments are paid when
project targets have been met.
3.          The bulk of the grants awarded are for PPI projects, which are
prerequisites for receiving financial awards for other projects such as
savings schemes, credit, input supply, agronomic research, extension training
and marketing programs. The program has been very successful. It has also
attracted an unusually large number of donors (17 different sources) such as
AKF, CIDA, Netherlands-MDC, UK/ODA, USAID, the European Community, five NGO
donors and the GOP.



- 44.
ANEXS 3
Page 2 of 3
C. The Women-in-Development Program
4.          In its interim evaluation of the AKRSP Program in 1986, the Bank's
Operation Evaluation Department (OED) observed that the emphasis on activities
performed by men and the almost exclusively male composition of tne VOs under
the PPI projects contradicted the program's intended to focus on women. With
the recommendation of the Bank, in early 1987, the AKRSP modified some of its
programs to highlight the role of the household and women. The program sought
to help women increase their productivity through measures aimed at
facilitating their access to institutional and infrastructure programs. It
also sought to improve their access to agricultural inputs, skill formation,
credit, marketing channels, and social sector services in health, education,
nutrition and sanitation offered by other development agencies and programs.
The concept of PPI was broadened to accommodate women by transferring some
traditional activities performed by women from the household level to the
village level. Consequently, PPI projects have been awarded to women in areas
such as nursery and orchard development, vegetable gardens, poultry projects,
fruit and food processing, storage, livestock management and disease control.
At the same time, the VO does not interfere with the traditional division of
labor by gender and respects the social norms of seclusion and segregation.
The second OED evaluation, in December 1989, recommended that all technical
activities promoted by the AKRSP should focus on women and that efforts to
assist women should not be left, by and large, to the Women-in-Development
section.
D. Savings and Credit
5.          The AKRSP's savings and credit program is based on a system of
collective savings and borrowings. Each member deposits his/her savings with
the VO, which combines them. The VO then makes a collective loan, according
to the needs of its members, and disburses individual loans. Two main types
of loans are used to minimize transaction costs: (a) a short-term, six-month
production loan for fertilizer, seed, poultry, marketing and so on; and (b) a
medium-term, two-to-five year development loan for infrastructure projects,
land development and equipment. The group's formation and savings effectively
replace the need for collateral to secure repayments.
6.          Total savings come to about Rs 63.86 million, of which Rs 6.63
million are from the savings accounts of WOs. The amount saved by the VOs and
WOs grew four-fold from 1986 to 1989. The average savings per VO member is
now Rs 1,140 (US$57). The Gilgit average is Rs 1,460, Chitral Rs 1,000 and
Baltistan Rs 520.
7.          The cumulative disbursement of funds as of mid-1989 was Rs 65.64
million for short-term loans and 49.35 million for medium-term loans. Eighty-
seven percent of the short-term loans were used mainly for fertilizer and
marketing operations and 88 percent for medium-term land development and
agricultural machinery. The average VO short-term loan was Rs 15,000 and for



- 45 -
Page 3 of 3
medium-term loans Rs 121,253; the average number of loans per VO loan was 451.
Therefore the average loan size per beneficiary member was Rs 330 (US$16.5)
for short-term and Rs 2,694 (US$134.70) for medium-term loans.
8.          The VOs and WOs have been repaying the AKRSP on schedule.  It
reports that only 1.4 percent of its portfolio of short-term loans is in
default and 1.97 percent of medium-term loans. The AKRSP has not restructured
any loans to date. These results verify the soundness of the agricultural
credit system adopted by the AKRSP and, in particular, the virtue of lending
to viable village-level institutions that guarantee members' loans.
9.          On the other hand, AKRSP's policy on interest rates and services
charges for VOs has fluctuated over the years. During the Government's
interest-free production loan phase, the AKRSP assessed a 1 percent per month
interest-penalty on all VOs and WOs that were in default and cancelled
subsequent loans. Later the AKRSP changed its policy and charged a 10 percent
per annum interest rate when the Government abolished interest-free production
loan schemes. The AKRSP has progressively increased its interest rates for
medium-term lending, which now vary from a minimum of 10 percent to a maximum
of 15 percent.
10.         Under the proposed VO banking system, each VO would jointly
purchase Khas Deposit Certificates with its savings in the name of its VOs and
the AKRSP. An amount equivalent to a VO's savings would be given as a
revolving fund for further lending to members. This amount would also serve as
collateral for the AKRSP and give a VO and the AKRSP the authority to draw
money unilaterally in the case of default. The AKRSP's on-lending rate to the
VOs would be 7 percent, and the interest rate to each of its members would be
a minimum of 15 percent. From July to September 1989 Rs 1.1 million were
advanced to three VOs with a total membership of 230 in Gilgit district.
11.         In 1989, the AKRSP hired three consultants to assess the program.
The consultants recommended that the institute become permanently self-
sustaining after an initial capital investment of donor funds. In this
regard, it would price its loans and savings to cover its administrative costs
and regular payments to the reserve account. A net surplus to support growth
and operating losses would also be set aside. They also recommended that
donor funds should become an ever-declining percentage of the total pool of
money lent and that beginning in FY90, the AKRSP should only charge an
interest rate of 1 percent per month for short-term loans rather than the
current 10 percent per year. The AKRSP is reviewing these recommendations and
trying to assess the changes it should implement. The above recommendations
are in line with the Microenterprise Project's objectives.
'This average fell from about 60 to 45 in the early years of the program,
commensurate with the drop in VO membership.



-46
MANE 4
Page 1 of 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAISISTA
MICROENTERPRtISE PROECT
THE ORANGI PILT PROJECT (QPP)
1.          The Orangi Pilot Project (OPP) is a registered NGO that began work
in 1980 in the Orangi area of Pakistan. It was originally funded by the Bank
of Credit and Commerce International but is now the recipient of funds from a
variety of donors, including the Canadian and Swiss Governments. OPP ls a
community development project. Its primary objectives -- community
organization and self-management -- are promoted through programs for physical
infrastructure and economic development. It operates in Orangi, the largest
squatter settlement in Karachi whose population is approaching 1 million. OPP
provides credit under the economic program initiated in 1987 for 44 categories
of microenterprises. Orangi has been in existence since 1965, an example of
effective community participation that shows the willingness of low-income
area residents to pay for services when they are closely involved in their
design, construction and maintenance.
2.          Initially OPP focused on sanitation projects, with the major share
of the operating costs absorbed by the low-income residents in the Orangi.
Between 1981 and 1987, OPP invested Rs 2.2 million in research while residents
of Orangi invested Rs 35.2 million in sanitation infrastructure efforts.
3.          Women have played a significant role in the development of the
Orangi community by eliminating contractors. As a result, the women's work
center program has been able to provide employment for and raise the wages of
workers. It has provided such services to garment manufacturers and
exporters. In the past, OPP subsidized transport costs and loaned money to
the work centers to buy industrial machines and play the role of contractors.
However, it has withdrawn the transport subsidy in accordance with the
objective of promoting self-reliant and sustainable development. In
supporting the development of female entrepreneurs, OPP has ceased to play the
role of a contractor and now encourages the work center managers to perform
this function. The women's work centers are now fully self-managed and self-
financed and have created secure employment for hundreds of women who were
previously piece-rate workers getting much lower wages; some of these women
have become self-employed.
4.          The economic program initiated in 1987 for 44 categories of
microenterprises has provided 284 loans for about Rs 3.03 million to family
enterprises and another 74 loans for about Rs 1.5 million to individual
companies. OPP has found several existing activities (shoemaking, mechanized
block making, etc.) where the scale could be increased from both the demand
and supply perspectives. These same activities could be started by new
entrepreneurs in the same area of operation or in new areas to be explored.
OPP is curtently lending to several microenterprises that have now become



C 47 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
viable and profitable. OPP has the capacity to increase its loan portfolio
with very little increase in operating costs.
5.          OPP is interested in participating in the Microenterprise Project
so it can develop a long-term relationship with the Bank. Although OPP could
receive grants from several bilateral donors, it has refused, arguing it lacks
the institutional capacity to handle large funds: OPP does not want to expand
too fast.



- 48 -
ANNEX S
Page 1 of 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
MICROENTERPRISE PROJECT
THE BASIC URBAN SERVICES FOR KATCHI ABADIES (BUSTI)
1.          BUSTI is a NGO that promotes integrated urban development.  It was
formed in 1986, in the belief that a development-oriented organization could
play a distinct role in solving the basic problems faced by people living in
low-income urban settlements. BUSTI is community-based, with a strong network
of professionals skilled primarily in health and education. The target
population of BUSTI is 136,00 people living in 54 katchi abadies (squatter
communities) in the towns of Baldia, Lyari, Mauripur, Old Golimar Mustafabad
and Hyderabad; 90 percent of the direct target group of BUSTI are women.
Although the program was initially a continuation of a UNICEF-funded soakpit
project initiated in 1979 that focused on low-cost sanitation, it has since
expanded to include home schools, primary health care centers and income-
generating activities. BUSTI has been assisted by both UNICEF and the Women's
Division.
2.          The assistance BUSTI provides to current programs depends on their
activities. BUSTI's main objective is not to participate in the
implementation of activities, but to help communities improve their standard
of living and assume responsibility for their own development. Its role is to
assist community-based organizations carry out sector projects. BUSTI
provides assistance in the following areas:
(a)   Its sanitation program is a continuation of a UNICEF-funded
soakpit project initiated in 1979.
(b)   Its education program supports home schools and adult literacy
centers, assists in the improvement of teaching methods and the
management of this program through the training of new and
existing teachers, and provides organizational support for
elementary education to community-based organizations in Baldia.
(c)   The income-generation program is carried out through the Home
School Teachers Welfare Organization that established a garment
unit in Baldia and received partial financing from the Habib
Group. This unit aims to increase the income of women in the
community and provide training to young and poor women.
3.          BUSTI has decided to support income-generation and microenterprise
activities with a special focus on women, but it lacks the human resources to
implement the operation adequately. Therefore, under the Microenterprise
Project, BUSTI would receive equipment, technical assistance and training, in
addition to external consultancy, in order to create a new microenterprise



49 -
ANNEX S
Page 2 of 2
unit. This unit would include the following staff during the life of the
project: one project coordinator; two field workers during the first year and
four starting in the second year; one accountant; and one cashier-typist. Thu
project coordinator should have management experience and at least five years
of experience in microenterprise development and have a B.A. degree (or the
equivalent). The project coordinator would directly report to the executive
director. The field workers should have a business administration background
and possibly a few years' experience with a microenterprise development
program.
4.          BUSTI would hire consultants to: (a) implement the accounting,
evaluation and monitoring systems; (b) evaluate the progress of the system and
make any adjustments, if needed, in agreement with the project coordinator and
executive director; and (c) assist in the design and execution of a training
program for the unit staff and participating microentrepreneurs. The
consultancy would take place during the initial three months of year 1 and at
the beginning and end of years 2-5.



- 50 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
MICROENTERPRISE PROJECT
THE ALFALAH DEVELOPMENT INSTITUTE (ADI)
1.          ADI is a Christian community-based development organization
registered under the Societies Registration Act of 1960. With a permanent
staff of 11 people and volunteers from the community, it serves small and
microentreprenuers of every religion in urban and rural areas. ADI's main
goal is to provide short- and medium-term credit and technical services (e.g.,
basic accounting) to small and microenterprises. ADI has received grants from
several countries including Australia and the United States.
2.          ADI's knowledge of and experience with basic business development
principles and strategies are sound. Its management team is composed of two
project appraisal officers and a loan recovery officer. One of the appraisal
officers is a former court employee who meticulously assesses the legality of
client applications. Prior to loan approval, staff are assigned to visit an
applicant's place of business at least twice after disbursement of the loan 4
to 5 times. Although ADI's operating, evaluating, monitoring and follow-up
systems are good, it does not produce semi-annual or annual reports.
3.          ADI has assisted about 278 business in the recent past.  The
number of loans it has disbursed has steadily increased and now averages about
25 a month. In 1986, ADI made 35 loans to retail businesses (general stores,
grocery stores and ready-made garments) and farmers (purchase of livestock,
[sheep, buffalos, goats and poultry]). In 1987, ADI doubled its lending to
and disbursed 70 loans, of which 20-25 went to support livestock enterprises.
Many of the new loans were for the production of ironstands, furniture and
doormats made from coconut shells, the latter being female enterprises. In
1988, ADI disbursed 108 loans and in 1989 about 200. It reports a recovery
rate of 99 percent.
4.          The lending terms and conditions of ADI's loans have deterred some
microentrepreneurs. The criteria are as follows:
(a)   for a loan above Rs 10,000, a borrower must provide collateral in
the form of fixed or immovable assets equal to the amount
borrowed;
(b)   for a loan below or equal to Rs 10,000, a borrower must provide a
personal surety or guarantor;
(c)   a borrower is charged a Rs 25 application fee and must pay a
monthly service charge of 1 percent on the loan; repayment must be
within 36 monti1s;



- 51 .
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
(d)   ADI finances 100 percent of the total investment, if needed;
(e)   ADI's review is based on character references from two people and
a review committee meets monthly to make a final decision on loan
requests.
5.          Under the proposed Microenterprise Project, ADI would make the
following adjustments to its current lending criteria:
(a)   immovable collateral would not be required;
(b)   employment generation would not be a condition for lending;
(c)   bilingual application forms written in English and Urdu would be
used;
(d)   character references could be given by any person who knows the
applicant (not on the basis of religious background);
(e)   existing businesses would qualify for short-term loans (6 to 24
months), and in the case of women financing would be provided for
new businesses;
(f)   loans would be repayable in monthly installments.



- 52 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 4
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
MICROENTERPRISE PROJECT
DRAFT POLICY AND STRATEGY STATEMENT FOR NGOS
UNDER THE MICROENTERPRISE PROJECT
A. Obiectives
1.          The aims of the proposed project are to:
(a)   develop the long-term institutional capacity of local
organizations to plan, execute, monitor and evaluate
microenterprise support programs;
(b)   support income and employment-generating activities of existing
microenterprises in a financially sustainable and socially
acceptable manner;
(c)   widen economic participation by assisting women entrepreneurs to
initiate or expand their businesses; and
(d)   provide an upward linkage to the formal commercial lending market
for the most successful NGO-assisted microenterprises.
B. Policy Statement
2.          In accordance with the overall development objectives of the
Microenterprise Project, NGOs would observe the following policies and
institutional commitments:
(a)   the general policy of NGOs would be development rather than
welfare orientation.
(b)   the NGOs would guarantee the overall financial viability of their
institutions.
(c)   the NGOs would be committed to cost-recovery and financial
sustainability.
(d)   the NGOS would not lend to an enterprise in which any of their
directors or officers has a significant interest or relationship,
whether direct or otherwise, without the express approval of their
Board of Directors. When the Board is considering any such
approval, the director or officer concerned shall disclose his/her
interest in writing and refrain from participating in the
deliberations and voting of a Board meeting. The circumstances



- 53 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 4
will be noted in the minutes and, if approval is sought by
circulation of a Board memorandum, the disclosure and other
relevant details would be set forth therein.
(e)   the organizational structures of NGOs would be well- developed,
with a core of technical and field staff and, community workers.
Where necessary, new office staff and field staff would be
recruited.
(f)   the NGOs would have a basic understanding of business development
principles and strategies and previous experience in income-
generating activities.
(g)   the NGOs must be committed to involving women in all their
activities, a commitment that should be reflected in the form of
female clients and staff.
(h)   the NGOs would undertake support activities such as sector
studies, training and consultancy services for the benefit of
their staff and borrowers.
(i)   the NGOs would submit a descriptive/analytical and statistical
report to the World Bank every six months and an audit report once
a year.
C. Ogeratinf Policies and Procedures
3.          The eligibility criteria established for borrowers are as follows.
They must be:
*     established and operating microenterprises, except that in the
case of women entrepreneurs start-up activities would be
considered;
*     considered financially viable when requesting assistance and
capable of generating enough additional net income to service the
debt incurred;
*     entrepreneurs with control over the factors of production and
marketing of the businesses' final output;
*     entrepreneurs of good standing in the local community.
4.          Lending terms and conditions would be as follows:
(a)   short-term loans would range from 6 to 24 months;
(b)   interest rates would be sufficient to cover the cost of funds,
administrative costs, a provision for losses and a net annual



- 54 .
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 4
surplus for growth;
(c)   personal references would be considered and/or accepted in lieu of
traditional collateral or guarantor requirements;
(d)   no new loans would be disbursed until all previous obligations had
been met;
(e)   no new loans would be used for refinancing;
(f)   the loan ceiling would be US$1,800 (about Rs 40,000), with a
minimum of 60 percent of the portfolio value composed of loans
less than or equal to US$700 (about Rs 15,000) to ensure adequate
coverage of microenterprises at the lower end of the spectrum.
5.          In addition to the above, the NGOs would cooperate with external
consultants appointed by the Bank to design and implement a similar monitoring
and evaluation system similar for all participating NGOs. This system would
evaluate institutional and borrower performance and the impact of the project
on NGOs' constituencies.
D. Mid-term Review
6.          After two years of project implementation, the NGOs would
cooperate in a mid-term review, to be undertaken by an independent mission
appointed by the Bank. The mission would review the impact of the project and
also the monitoring and evaluation systems used and, where necessary, propose
changes. At the same time a reassessment of the revolving fund scheme
projections would be undertaken and, if necessary, a new cost effectiveness
analysis will be proposed; if the percentage of women entrepreneurs is still
very low, a special strategy for their participation would be established by
either earmarking loans for women or creating a special fund to stimulate and
train women entrepreneurs.
E. Draft Strategy Statement
7.          Relationship Between NGOs and the Formal Banking System.  One of
the major objectives for NGO involvement is to demonstrate that entrepreneurs
at the lower stratum can borrow and repay and that lending to these
entrepreneurs can actually be profitable. Microenterprises with a credit
requirement of less than US$1,000 are not reached by the banks. The regular
activities of NGOs and their direct relation with microentrepreneurs would
enable successful borrowers to get bigger loans as regular costumers of banks.
8.          Relationship with the Microenter2rise Sector.  Although it is very
difficult to assess the market (informal) of the microenterprise sub-sector,
the NGOs would become actively involved in data collection and research about
the specific demand and needs of the target group and help in the assessment
study to be undertaken during the first two years of the project.



- 55 .
Page 4 of 4
9.          Relationship with Women Entreoreneurs.  The NGOs would take the
initiative to assume a leading role in promoting the development of businesses
owned and operated by women. They would establish specific measures to
overcome the financial, social and cultural constraints women entrepreneurs
face.



. 56
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 6
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
MICROENTERPRISE PROJECT
THE LEASING INDUSTRY
A. General
1.          Leasing in Pakistan, which was initiated by the International
Finance Corporation (IFC) in 1981 and expanded in 1984 with the creation of
the National Development Leasing Corporation (NDLC), has evolved over the past
five years to the point where competitive pressures among the 14 leasing
companies seem to have promoted a degree of market segmentation. Certain
leasing companies have chosen to restrict their activities to large lessees,
or to companies with an existing relationship with the lessor's parent company
which in several cases is a bank or a modaraba. Although this approach is
appropriate, it does constrain for the full flexibility and range of leasing
transactions. Still other lessors have restricted their services to certain
types of leased assets such as vehicles, where the specific protection of
registration and a ready resale market offer additional protection. Others
have devised a leasing formula that requires that the lessee pledge additional
security for conventional equipment leases. OLP claims to be the only sizable
Pakistani leasing company that deals with any qualified lessee, will finance
most types of assets (except real estate) and does not normally require
additional security.
B. Benefits of Leasing for Lessees
2.          Acquiring the use and ultimate ownership of an asset through a
lease transaction offers the entrepreneur an attractive alternative, in
Pakistan as well as elsewhere, to outright purchase using borrowed resources.
Under this project, the need for an equity contribution from the lessee would
be reduced to the level of the lease deposit, and normally the lessor would
require no additional security. The leases might carry certain tax
advantages, depending on the tax profile of the lessee, and the lessor would
endeavor to tailor the lease rental profile to fit the lessee's projected cash
flow. When the lease is offered on a true lease basis and not as a disguised
loan, the lessor attaches major importance to the cash flow to be generated
from the leased asset because it represents the effective security backing for
the transaction.
3.          Although the prudent lessor would always impose conditions on the
lessee such that the leased asset is properly identified and insured, there is
little need for provisions that would interfere with the ordinary conduct of
the lessee's business. For these reasons, the requirement for formal
financial statements would sometimes be relaxed during the appraisal of a
prospective lease as long as there is reasonable assurance that the



57
ANNEX8
Page 2 of 6
entrepreneur is experienced, honest and likely to put the leased asset to
profitable use.
C. Small and Hicroenterprises
4.          Small and microenterprises appear to be suitable candidates to
lease equipment because the most successful of them cannot prepare financial
statements, and may well have insufficient business or personal assets to
pledge as security for loans. By the same token, however, the lessor would
need to proceed cautiously to ensure that the absence of a reliable financial
record and formal security would be fully compensated for by an assessment of
the lessee's integrity, experience and acumen. With this provision, the
simplicity of the fundamentals of leasing combined with the streamlined
approval process adopted by most competent lessors would permit a lease to be
executed swiftly; a feature of special importance to enterprises with limited
resources.
5.          Alternative financing sources for such enterprises, which
constitute the informal sector, are few. Commercial banks are unwilling in
principle to lend to small and microenterprises unless they have collateral.
The shadowy and informal moneylending system charges monthly nominal interest
rates of 2-4 percent, which compounds to 27-60 percent per annum. In contrast
current lease rates in Pakistan are in the range 18-26 percent per annum on a
nominal basis, or 19 percent to 29 percent per annum when quarterly
compounding is considered. Leasing companies generally are now undertaking
some leasing to small and microenterprises on their own, and it seems likely
that leasing, if available on a larger scale, would provide a lower cost and
more convenient financing mechanism tc the sub-sector than does the informal
financial market.
D. Regulatoa Framework
General
6.          As has occurred in many other jurisdictions when lease financing
first became available, financial leasing in Pakistan initially operated in a
legal and tax vacuum. Leasing is not specifically addressed in Pakistani Law,
although various transactions that grant the temporary use of assets in
exchange for payment to the owner have been in regular use for some time,
governed by the normal corporate and mercantile statutes (e.g., short-term
rentals of agricultural equipment and processing facilities, real estate
leases and ship charters).
7.          Since the emergence in the 1970s of equipment leasing as a method
of medium-term financing in several countries, various measures to codify this
important new activity have been taken. Whether these measures encompass a
specific body of leasing law or, as is more common, are incorporated in
regulatory orders and accounting standards, one common important feature is
identification of the types of leasing transaction to be executed. Typically,



58
ANEEX 8
Page 3 of 6
they involve: (i) equipment leases for periods significantly less than the
estimated lifetime of the equipment; (ii) total irrevocable lease payment
obligations that exceed the acquisition cost; (iii) responsibility by the
lessee for insurance, maintenance and repair; and (iii) transfer of ownership
to the lessee at the termination of the lease.
Leasing Conditions
8.          Pakistan's financial leasing companies for the most part are not
deposit taking or lending institutions and thus are not viewed by banking
regulators, nor are they users of the industrial and other equipment supplied
through leases, so that they avoid the industrial regulatory agencies. The
tax levied on their profits is computed as though the leases were not
financing transactions, but merely long temporary hires. At least initially,
the external auditors of Pakistan leasing companies reflected this philosophy
in their treatment of accounts presented to shareholders and Stock Exchange
authorities, adopting the convention of the "operating method" rather than the
more useful and representative "financing method."
9.          The leasing companies are, however, subject to the Corporate
Ordinance and other all-encompassing legislation, including, in the case of
leasing companies created as modaraba ventures, the specific rules governing
the establishment and operation of these mutual entities, which conform to
Islamic law against usury.
Further Develo2ments in Pakistan
10.         In response to internal and external influences, the Government
has over the six or seven years since lease financing became a significant
activity initiated a number of reforms covering the environment in which such
transactions take place. One important source of influence was the advice by
the IFC in a letter to the Ministry of Finance dated March 14, 1983, as well
as its direct participation in the establishment and financing of the NDLC,
Pakistan's largest leasing company.
11.         Many of the measures necessary to erect a sound framework for
fiscal equity and prudential financial management for leasing companies have
been taken, as indicated below. Shortcomings are still apparent in the areas
of regulatory responsibility and the lessor's right to take possession of
leased equipment after a payment default. Universal application of the
accounting norms supposedly in force in the country has not yet been achieved,
leading potentially, to unfair comparison between leasing companies with
accounts prepared on different bases.
Acountine Standards
12.         Section 234 of the Pakistani Corporate Ordinance of 1984 requires
the auditors of p.&blic companies to apply all applicable International
Accounting Standards (IAS) other than those specifically dealing with group



. 59 .
Page 4 of 6
consolidation and inflation accounting. IAS 17, issued by the IAS Committee
in 1982 and dealing with accounting for leasing transactions in the accounts
of both lessors and lessees, is thus embodied into the statutory framework in
Pakistan. However, IAS 17 is, in itself, a statement of principles rather
than a set of detailed prescriptions of accounting procedures. IASs are
expected to be reflected in a detailed way in the procedures promulgated by
national accounting bodies, as has been done for IAS 17 in the United States
through Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Requirement 13 and in the
United Kingdom through Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 21 issued in
1984 following three years of consultation on Exposure Draft 29. While
Pakistan tends to follow UK, practice in accounting matters the profession has
not yet adopted any foreign practice or requirement for leasing accounting.
13.         For various reasons, there was, as indicated, some resistance in
Pakistan to the adoption of the financing method of accounting, as mandated in
general by IAS 17 for those lessors engaged in equipment leasing. Perhaps
this resistance arose from the firm line taken by the Central Board of Revenue
(CBR), which was, and still is, requiring tax computations on the equivalent
of the operating method accounts for lessors and lessees alike. However,
despite the need to prepare different accounts for taxation purposes, most
quoted leasing companies now claim to use the financing method of accounting.
The precise methods adopted to conform to IAS 17 can only be surmised in most
cases, in view of the absence of uniform detailed practices.
14.         The exception is OLP and its auditors, Sidat Hyder Aslam & Co.,
the Pakistani associate firm of Arthur Andersen, have adopted the provisions
of FASB 13 in order to conform to the global practice of all affiliates of
OLP, OLP's 40 percent shareholder and technical partner. While no particular
protection should be inferred from this practice, it almost certainly means
that OLP' audited accounts will be no less conservative than its Pakistani
competitors in such matters as setting provisions, bearing the initial direct
costs of leasing, taking lease income into account and providing for deferred
taxation.
Taxation
15.         The CBR has, while steadfastly insisting on the use of the
operating method of accounting, made a number of adjustments to the tax
ordinances to address the legitimate needs of the leasing industry. A
foundation for tax discrimination against equipment leasing had unwittingly
been included in CBR Circular No. 9 of 1943, which governs the treatment of
hire purchase or installment sale transactions. According to this circular
the lessee could only treat as an expense that portion of this periodic
payments that represented the lease charge, and not the remaining part, which
represented a fractional capital payment. The capital payments, while not
being deductible as an expense, were eligible to be depreciated in the normal
way. To distinguish this type of transaction from temporary hire arrangements
(e.g., cotton gins, ice factories, oil mills, etc.), where the full rental is



- 60 -
ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 6
tax deductible by the hirer/lessee, and the owner/lessor takes the
depreciation on an asset used in his business.
16.         In general terms, Pakistan now has a neutral taxation environment
with respect to leasing and borrowing as a means of equipment financing. In
Circular No. 8 of 1982, the CBR recognized the trap it had set for lessors
providing equipment finance, acknowledging that the existing treatment denied
the benefit of depreciation to lessees, which could have no right to future
ownership if the lease contract was not to be deemed a hire purchase contract,
as well as to the type of lessor that did not actually use the equipment in
its business. The Circular permitted such lessors, provided they were
scheduled banks, financial institutions or had been approved as being in the
new category of leasing institutions, to claim initial and additional
depreciation allowances as though they were users of the equipment. CBR
Circular No. 20 of 1988 made it clear that all rental payments made by a
lessee to the types of lessor categorized above would be allowed as an expense
for taxation purposes.
17.         Circular Letter C. No. l(l)TP-II/89 from the CBR dated January 30,
1989 tidied up a few contentious points, such as the prevention of potential
double permissible tax, clear treatment of ongoing depreciation once a leased
asset was transferred to a former lessee and provisions concerning the leasing
of expensive motor cars.
Regulation
18.         As stated, until recently leasing companies were regulated only by
reason of their corporate status, their Stock Exchange listing agreement,
where appropriate, and their need to be approved by the CBR for purposes of
the tax concessions described above. By a Statutory Regulatory Order (SRO)
promulgated on December 20, 1989, the Finance Division of the GOP exercised
powers enshrined in a Capital Issues Act of 1947 to regulate those leasing
companies that had already issued capital or proposed to issue capital. In
very concise words, the SRO seeks to define leasing, to set a minimum size for
leasing companies, which must become public limited companies, to force
existing companies to conform to these criteria within six months, to define
unsuitable staff, management and directors for leasing companies, to limit
foreign investment, to prevent dealings with significant shareholders, to
limit exposure to groups or to directors' interests and to set leverage
minima. Under the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, the Government agreed to
create an agency within the State Bank of Pakistan to establish coherence
between the supervision of banks and leasing companies.
19.         Because the leasing industry is at an early stage of development,
its regulation is ad hoc and inconsistent. In such cases as recovery of debt
and repossession, this situation has impaired development of the industry.
Leasing companies are conservative and cautious in their operations and do not
often entertain marginal risks; therefore, a large segment of the industrial
sector is denied access to leasing facilities. The Government should permit
leasing companies to have access to the Banking Tribunals, as is presently the



61
ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 6
case for the NDLC. It should clearly state the right of lessors to repossess
equipment and simplify the procedures for repossession and enforcement of
lease contracts. It should also review for consistency the fiscal environment
and the accounting treatment of leases, lessees and lessors.
E. Resource Reguirements
20.         Funding has been a major constraint on the growth of the industry
because of the GOP's financial regulations. The GOP has unsuccessfully tried
to resolve the problem by allowing leasing companies to issue participation
term certificates (PCT3) and term finance certificates (TFCs) in the market.
It did so to encourage the industry to obtain its financial resources by
raising funds from the private sector and possibly from the thriving informal
market. However, none of the leasing companies has issued commercial paper
because of the restrictive conditions imposed by the Controller of Capital
Issues. The only leasing company not so affected is the NDLC, to which the
GOP has granted special privileges. As a result, the NDLC has gradually
expanded its share of the low risk segment of the market and pushed others
into the higher risk segment. If this pressure upon the rest of the industry
continues, the leasing companies operating in that segment will find the
business risk too high to justify further exposure. As a consequence, they
will either discontinue the business or, more probably, diversify their
activities. The GOP is concerned about the industry's lack of interest in
issuing PTCs and has organized a seminar to ascertain the reason. The
Government should review the preconditions for public issuance of commercial
paper.



* 62 -
ANNE
Page 1 of 17
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
MICROENTERERISE PROJECT
ORIX LEASING EAKISTAN LIMITED (OLp)
A. Intr2&Z1flo
1.          Orix Leasing Pakistan Limited (OLP) Was formed in 1986 as a joint
venture between Orix Corporation of Japan, Bankers Equity Limited (BEL) and
the private interests of Mr. S. Durrani, a Pakistani businessman. The joint
venture traded three years under the name of Orient Leasing Pakistan, the then
name of its principal parent and technical partner. OLP was adopted as the
global name for Orient Leasing and all its affiliates in 1989, and the
official name ^hange in Pakistan was accomplished in January 1990.
2.          OLP's leasing activity commenced in early 1987, although progress
in executing the leases was understandably slow while the business was being
established.  As a deliberate policy to market leases to sectors that had
little knowledge of leasing as a financing technique, OLP concentrated on
leasing motor vehicles during this first period.  The audited accounts for
OLP's first accounting period to the end of June 1987 revealed a small loss
when computed using the "operating method," and the value of the assets leased
out was over Rs 33 million. The debt to equity leverage ratio was 2.9:1 at
the fiscal year end with the borrowing coming from drawings under a term loan
from BEL, OLP's development finance institutional shareholder.
3.          During its second year of operation, OLP expanded at a brisk pace
and managed to make some headway in implementing its evolving policy of
offering leases of industrial and office equipment. During the year it wrote
new leases amounting to over Rs 88 million. OLP changed its accounting basis
to the "financing method" as more appropriate to the nature of its business
and conforming to IAS 17, with the concurrence of the external auditors. Net
profits for the year were Rs 4.8 million, compared with a profit of Rs 0.1
million for the previous period, after restatement on the new accounting
basis. At the end of June 1988, the leverage ratio was 2.3:1, following a
public offering of shares that transformed OLP into a listed company with a
total capital of Rs 32 million. After this issue of shares to the public
amounting to 30 percent of the enlarged equity, the shareholder structure of
OLP became, as it remains now: OLP .orporation, 40 percent; BEL, 17.5
percent; Resource Promotion (Private) Limited, 12.5 percent; National
Investment Trust, 7 percent; and new private investors, 23 percent. In
addition to the continuing provision of funding from BEL, OLP negotiated
short-term finance lines from two foreign commercial banks in Pakistan.
4.          Business continued to grow at a fast rate in 1989, with lease
executions, excluding syndicated amounts, of Rs 158 million in the aggregate,
of which some 57 percent represented plant and equipment rather than vehicles.



- 63 -
ANNX 9
Page 2 of 17
Net profit for the year was Rs 11.5 million after providing, for the first
time, for deferred taxation of Rs 1.5 million. At the end of June 1989, OLP's
leverage ratio was 4.3:1, taking into account a 1-for-10 bonus issue of shares
by way of capitalization of reserves. OLP paid a cash dividend of 8 percent
as an interim dividend during the course of the year. The original BEL loan
of Rs 50 million had by now been supplemented with a further facility of Rs
100 million, and two other foreign banks were committed to providing running
finance,' or working capital, lines of credit. OLP provided security to all
lenders in form of the assignment or hypothecation of the lease contracts and
underlying leased assets, with, in the case of the foreign banks, a margin
over the amount borrowed.
Audited Profit and Loss Account Summary
Rupees millions
1987      1988        1989      1990
(Unaudtd.)
(6 mos)                      (6 mos to Dec)
Lease disbursements                 34         89         158       125
Lease and other income              4          20          37        31
Less: Operating expenses             2          4           7         6
Financial expenses            1           7         13         13
Provision for b/d leases      1           4          4          3
Provision for deferred tax   Q           Q           2          1
Net profit                           0          5          11         8
Cash dividend                       0           0           3         0
Ratios dX
Operating expenses ratio       49          21         18         18
Financial expenses ratio       14          35         34         41
Provision ratio on new leases  4.0          4.0        2.5        2.5
Earnings on average equity      2 (p.a.)  20          28         35  (p.a.)
5.          Unaudited results for the first six months of FY90 show continuing
progress, with leased amounts of Rs 125 million and a net profit of Rs 8.6
million. At the end of December 1989, the leverage ratio was 4.7:1, applied
to balance sheet footings of over Rs 300 million. Despite the successful
operations in the first half of the fiscal year, OLP chose not to pay an
interim dividend, in line with similar behavior by other leasing companies.
This decision apparently prevented individual shareholders from being assessed
I Short-term financing for the lessee.



- 64 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 17
the Zakat, an Islamic tax analogous to a wealth tax, which otherwise would
have been payable at 2.5 percent on the value of their shareholding when the
first cash dividend of any amount is paid in any fiscal year.
6.          A summary of OLP's financial statements since inception is given
above together with some ratios that illustrate the fairly orderly, if not
rapid, pace of OLP's growth over the past three years. There is no statement
of scurce and application of funds for the unaudited six-month period.
B. Management and Staffing
Board of Directors
7.          The Companies Ordinance in Pakistan provides for proportional
voting on the composition of corporate Boards of Directors, which in the case
of OLP has resulted in three of the eight Directors being appointed by OLP
Corporation, with its 40 percent stake, two by BEL with its 17.5 percent
stake, and two by Mr. Durrani's 12.5 percent shareholding interest. Mr.
Murad, the Managing Director, is the eighth member of the Board. There is no
explicit appointee on behalf of the 30 percent public shareholding. In
principle, Board meetings are held quarterly, but the timing may be modified
to suit travel plans, particularly those of the three Japanese Directors.
Executive Committee
8.          The Executive Committee of the Board of Directors, comprising one
Director nominated each by OLP Corporation, BEL and Mr. Durrani's interests,
is responsible for approving transactions that, while insufficiently large to
require full Board approval, are beyond the authority of management. Again, a
workable procedure has been developed to secure swift approval from the
Japanese member so as not to jeopardize the conduct of OLP business.
Management
9.          OLP supplied, until recently, an expatriate Managing Director for
OLP. However, since the departure from Karachi of the second incumbent, Mr.
E. Matsumoto, the previous General Manager, Mr. H. Murad, is now the first
Pakistani Managing Director. He supervises an entirely Pakistani team of 27
people, of whom 6 are located in the Lahore branch. Within this number are a
General Manager, who doubles as Company Secretary, three Senior Managers
(Marketing, Finance and Accounts, Lahore Branch) and four other Managers
(Marketing, two, Systems and Business Control and Accounts).
10.         Management, while small in absolute numbers, appears to be well-
organized to handle the important functions for a leasing company at OLP's
stage of development. The Managing Director and the General Manager, both
chartered accountants with considerable experience in a financial environment,
are required jointly to approve any transaction within the limits of the
authority of management. In the event of a disagreement, the Managing



- 65 -
ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 17
Director alone is able to propose such a transaction to the Executive
Committee for approval.
Staff
11.         The non-managerial levels include 6 officers and 13 support staff.
OLP has been assiduous in conducting a recruitment strategy that identifies
forthcoming graduates from Pakistan's business schools and offers them
on-the-job training in leasing. Influenced by OLP Corporation, OLP believes
this route is more productive than seeking to retrain bankers or other
financiers in leasing. The anticipated expansion of OLP's business,
particularly into the small- and microenterprise sub-sectors, will put
additional demands on its recruitment efforts. OLP recently opened three new
offices. OLP is confident that it will be able, at some cost in terms of the
management resources devoted to the task, to secure adequate and suitable
manpower to expand.
C. Existing Leasing Business
The Lease Portfolio
12.         The market sectors targeted by OLP during its three years of
operation have changed somewhat. It is now moving slowly toward smaller scale
transactions as the margins for larger leases have tightened and away from
cars, where Modaraba lessors have significant tax advantages. The current
portfolio contains almost all of the leases it has ever written, since most
leases are for a term of three to four years and even the earliest ones have
not yet matured.
13.         An analysis of the portfolio based on the original value of the
leased equipment and by number of transactions as of March 1990 is shown
below:
Lease Size Range (Rs)    Number         %      Value (Rs mil.)    X
Below       100,000      95        11             6             1
100,001 -   500,000    520         60           144            33
500,001 - 1,000,000    156         18           111            26
Above     1,000,001    11         J11           12             40
TOTAL                   872       100           431           100
14.         A review of the business of OLPs' clients, which numbered 307 in
March 1990 (taking into account the multiple leases to numerous lessees),
suggests the following split by number of lessee enterprises in each sector:



- 66 -
ANNE 9
Page 5 of 17
Percentage
Textiles                      30
Manufacturing                 24
Services                      20
Agricultural processing       16
Other                         10
TOTAL                        100
15.         As indicated, the nature of the equipment leased by OLP has
undergone a shift in orientation, driven by the changing market forces, a
heightened awareness among potential lessees of the scope of leasing, and
fiscal changes (see Annex 8). To illustrate the importance of the various
categories of leased assets the figures below show the percentage
distribution, by original value, of leased assGts acquired by OLP during
calendar 1989:
Percentage
Plant and machinery          47
Cars                         28
Office equipment             16
Commercial vehicles           9
TOTAL                       100
Marketing Methods
16.         The nature of the lease offered by OLP is remarkably standard,
considering the diversity of the assets and lessees it covers. A single lease
agreement is used, with virtually no flexibility for variation except in
unusual circumstances such as a syndicated lease. The original lease term is
almost invariably 3 or 4 years, with only 12 leases in the portfolio of 872
being for 2 years and 20 leases for 5 years, with all of these longer leases
relating to assets costing over Rs 500,000. The lease rate used to compute
the rental payments can be set within a range of from 18.0 percent per annum
to 27.0 percent per annum, with the decision heavily influenced by such
factors as the size of the lessee, the size of the lease and the nature of the
leased assets. In general, the term and rate guidelines set by management
dictate the levels applied within a narrow margin, although these guidelines
can be adjusted quite quickly to respond to market and competitive pressures.
OLP's average nominal lease rate in early 1990 was close to 23.0 percent per
annum, almost exactly 8.0 percent per annum higher than the average nominal
cost of all its borrowing at the same time.
17.         As a deliberate policy OLP does not require collateral (in the
form of additional assets owned by lessees), believing that ownership of the
leased asset, together with careful appraisal of a lessee's ability to make
the rental payments, are sufficient security. In this approach, OLP differs
markedly from competing lessors in Pakistan, many of which appear to require



- 67 -
ANNEX 9
Page 6 of 17
up to 100 percent additional security from unrelated assets such as houses,
shares or business receivables. OLP has breached this self-imposed discipline
only in a handful of cases where special reasons applied, such as indulging an
existing client by offering a lease to an associate where OLP's conservative
tests of financial health and cash-flow cover would not have been met. It is
not, on the other hand, an uncommon practice for OLP to request the personal
guarantee of the Directors of private companies and owners or partners of
unincorporated businesses. This measure corresponds with standard practice in
Pakistan for dealing with such enterprises, whether by banks, suppliers or
other creditors, and is viewed ne.ther as extra security nor as particularly
burdensome to these individuals.
ADRrovals and Limits
18.         OLP is keenly aware that its success is based partly on offering
credit facilities that might not be available to lessees from banks, but more
importantly on the speed and certainty of its response to requests.
Accordingly, the company has instituted a system of authority limits and a
fast procedure to move transactions through approval and execution.
19.         To guard against overenthusiasm, no one person may approve a
lease. Nost transactions up to Rs 2.5 million require the approval of both the
Managing Director and the General Manager. If the General Manager does not
agree, or in the case of leases above Rs 2.5 million and up to Rs 5.6 million,
the Managing Director must seek the approval of the Executive Committee of
three Directors. Nonetheless, in case of exception of guidelines, unanimous
approval of Board of Directors is required. Leases above Rs 5.6 million must
be approved by the Board of Directors. That limit was set in mid-1988 when
the shareholders' equity was one-fourth its present size.
20.         When a lessee's debt to equity ratio would exceed OLP's normal
limit of 4:1, the maximum limit for approval by the Managing Director/General
Manager is Rs 0.8 million, with unanimous Executive Committee or Board
approval, required above this limit.
21.         OLP's policy on maximum exposure to any single lessee is limited
to the higher of Rs 5.6 million or 25 percent of OLP's net worth. If the
exposure goes over the Rs 5.6 million figure, which is, coincidentally, about
10 percent of OLP's current net worth, endorsement by the Board is required
and unanimous approval is needed in case of exceptions. The defined limit for
net worth would have been over Rs 13.0 million at the end of December 1989.
OLP's current exposure with 10 lessees is more than Rs 5.6 million each, with
the highest exposure being just under Rs 10.0 million.
22.         The December 1989 SRO dealing with leasing companies sets limits
on their single group exposure. Without defining what is meant by a "group,"
tho limit is 20 percent of net worth, taking only "free" reserves into
account. This statutory order will, when applied, become a tighter constraint
than OLP's own single company exposure limit, but it does not appear it will



- 68 -
ANNEX -9
Page 7 of 17
render any existing company exposure in the breach. Unfortunately, when the
group exposure of OLP is examined and applying OLP's own fairly broad
definition of group to include any company linked by ownership or a common or
related director, its business with five different groups appears to infringe
on the new limit. The largest group exposure in March 1990 amounted, on a
leased asset cost basis, to over Rs 37.0 million, or two-thirds of OLP's net
worth. On the basis of both total lease receivables and net financed amount,
which more accurately reflect the remaining financial exposure of lessor to
lessee, the figure is substantially lower and nowhere near the new statutory
limit.
Bad and Doubtful Leases
23.         OLP, under the technical guidance of its experienced Japanese
leasing company shareholder, has adopted a rigorously conservative policy in
setting the level of the general provision for bad and doubtful leases. In
the first years of operation, a 3 percent general provision was made out of
profits against the lease receivables created by each leasing transaction,
which approximated 4 percent of the value of the assets purchased for leasing.
The amounts so provided, which under Pakistani corporate income tax law may
not be deducted from taxable profits, are maintained in a provision account
that is only drawn down when a write-off of a specific book asset is made.
24.         During its three-year history, OLP has only experienced serious
difficulty with two accounts, covering three leases for an exposure amount of
around Rs 210,000, compared with a total portfolio of Rs 379.0 million. By
any reasonable test, the bad and doubtful provision, which currently stands at
over Rs 12.0 million, is adequate to protect against the doubtful leases
mentioned above. OLP recently reduced its general provision level to 2
percent from the earlier 3 percent, based on lease receivables, although it is
not reducing the amount already provided. In fact, OLP's policy is to regard
the provision account as sacrosanct and not to make it available for return to
the profit and loss account, no matter how much excess is built up.
D. Funding
Equity
25.         OLP has been able to retain sufficient earnings within the company
to support the ever-increasing level of borrowed funds necessary to fund its
expanding business. The first public issue of OLP was successful, raising
Rs 22.0 million from new and existing shareholders for the new company. The
public shareholders are well-satisfied with the combination of the capital
gain indicated by recent market prices (Rs 32.0 per share in March 1990, for
shares issued at Rs 10.0) and the single dividend received thus far, and they
might be expected to support a sizeable rights issue. The original
shareholders have also indicated that they would be willing to subscribe
further capital through such an issue. It seems almost certain, that OLP will
arrange a capital increase in the relatively near future, the main



- 69 -
ANNEX 9
Page 8 of 17
uncertainties being the amount, timing, pricing and optimum final dividend
payment to be proposed for the current year.
26.         The SRO of December 20, 1989, dealing with leasing companies
requires existing leasing companies to raise their capital to a level of at
least Rs 50.0 million within six months of the date of the SRO. This timing
presents OLP with a tactical problem, in that the deadline for the mandatory
raise, in OLP' case, of Rs 15.0 million of new paid-up capital is 10 days
before the end of its fiscal year. The current intention of management is to
apply to the authorities for a short deferment so that the year-end position
can be accurately determined, the relevant stock dividend proposed and
sufficient additional capital be issued in an orderly and sequential fashion.
In general terms, it is likely that OLP's paid-up capital will rise to just
over Rs 50.0 million and that the reserves will amount to at least Rs 13.0
million after it raises this capital.
Existinz Short-Term Borrowing
27.         During FY1987/88 OLP arranged running finance lines with the Bank
of Tokyo and Deutsche Bank, two foreign banks operating in Pakistan. Having
fully deployed these initial facilities, it arranged further financing during
the next year with two more foreign banks, Bank of Oman and American Express,
and a Modaraba (subsequently terminated). OLP uses these facilities the same
way it utilizes the BEL funds described above, even though there is a mismatch
in the terms in an adverse direction: the lease term is significantly longer
than the theoretical term of these loans. In principle, this practice is
dangerous, being equivalent to borrowing short and lending long, but it is
tolerated on the grounds that the facilities are expected to be rolled over on
maturity.
28.         The running finance lines are generally similar.  The figures
below indicate the principal points of difference among the four lines
currently outstanding:
Security  Receive      Await
Bank       Amount        T        Interest   Nargin   Rentals
Registration
(million)            (X per p.a.)   (X)
Amex       Rs 30.0        6 mos       15.7      30       Yes         Yes
Oman       Rs 10.0        1 yr        15.7      30       Yes         Yes
Tokyo      Rs 12.0        6 mos       15.7      25       No          No
Deutsche   Rs 10.0        1 yr       16.2       25       No          No
29.         The limit on the amount each bank offered OLP is governed by the
State Bank of Pakistan's maximum lending limit, currently set at 20 percent of
any bank's capital.  The amounts shown above were mostly set at the respective
bank's upper limit when first made available; there is some limited scope for



* 70 -
Page 9 of 17
upward adjustment. American Express, for instance, expects shortly to be able
to increase its facility to OLP to about Rs 40.0 million. Interestingly, in
the case of Modaraba companies that are forming a series of ventures to offer
leasing facilities (First BRR Modaraba, Second BRR Modaraba, etc.), a bank can
extend the maximum facility to each separate entity; OLP is not able,
apparently, to take advantage of any such arrangement. It is instructive to
note that the guarantees issued by these banks do not fall under the same
control as direct lending; OLP has already used this incongruity once to
arrange for a guarantee by the Bank of Tokyo of OLP's indebtedness to a
Modaraba, although the overall cost of the guarantee and the borrowing made
this option expensive.
30.         OLP's management says that the differences in terms across the
four current running finance facilities are irrelevant, as the facilities are
routinely renewed at term, in the case of Deutsche Bank automatically.
Nevertheless, it should be realized that rollovers might not be so easy if
circumstances become adverse. However, the threat that potential withdrawal
of the running finance would pose to OLP's business should be examined in the
context that it represents only 17 percent of total liabilities and equity, a
proportion projected to fall as longer term facilities from multilateral
institutions, including the Bank, become available.
31.         Interest rates are expressed as a "mark-up," in conformity with
Islamic banking procedures, and all banks currently apply the same daily
mark-up of 43 paisas per 1,000 rupees of loan principal. Since this mark-up
is payable quarterly, compounding results in the 15.7 percent per annum
nominal rates indicated above effectively becoming 16.6 percent per annum.
Deutsche Bank levies an additional 0.5 percent service charge and is also
inclined to collect the interest by debiting the loan account much more
frequently than quarterly, so that its effective rate is almost 1 percent per
annum higher than that of the other three banks.
32.         The first two banks to offer OLP running finance, Bank of Tokyo
and Deutsche Bank, require slightly less rigorous security margins and
administrative procedures. The margin requirement for all banks is the amount
by which the balance outstanding on a running finance account must be exceeded
by the receivables from lease rentals hypothecated to the respective bank by
OLP.  The amount is determined on the basis of a periodic stock report that
OLP prepares and submits to each bank (and to BEL). The loan agreements refer
to the margin requirement being satisfied by these receivables or by the value
of the underlying assets, which are also pledged as security, but it is
unclear how or if the banks are applying more stringent asset test.
33.         Only American Express and Bank of Oman require that the lease
rentals on hypothecated leases be paid directly to them, a procedure that can
be cumbersome to administer and confusing to certain lessees. Similarly,
these two banks will not disburse until the relevant deed of hypothecation has
been registered at the Charges Registry, an act that imposes an obligation on



71
ANNEX 9
Page 10 of 17
OLP to fund leases with a receivable value of 130 percent of an intended
drawdown for a period of some weeks from an alternative source of funds.
Existing Medium-Term Borrowing
34.         BEL, one of OLP's original sponsoring shareholders, has made three
separate lines of credit available to OLP over the last three years, together
amounting to Rs 200.0 million. The first line for Rs 50.0 million, was
arranged to be available when OLP commenced operations in 1987. After a two-
year grace period, OLP began repayments in April 1989 to continue half-yearly
until May 1993. The second line, for Rs 100.0 million, was put in place in
December 1988, just after the issue of public shares augmented OLP's equity;
repayments will extend over nearly seven years, commencing at the end of 1990.
OLP disbursed both of these lines in just over 12 months, even though the
second was twice as large as the first. The third line, for Rs 50.0 million
was agreed and OLP started drawing. All of these medium-term lines are
evidence by similar documentation and security arrangements to conform to
Islamic precepts, no interest is chargeable and borrowing/lending transactions
are regarded as a sale of investment property by Orix to BEL. The equivalent
nominal rate of interest would be 14.5 percent per annum for the first and
second lines and 16.3 percent per annum for the third line. BEL requires
title deeds to the property deposited with it and to have the lease contracts
assigned to it as security for the future installments of the "purchase
price." OLP is obliged to find funds from elsewhere to make the initial
purchase of assets for leasing prior to requesting financing from BEL. Apart
from this impediment, the scheme works well. OLP disbursed the second
facility in 11 tranches of about Rs 9.0 million.
ADB/AFIC Medium-Term Funding
35.         OLP has concluded medium-term loan facilities of US$5.0 million
each from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and its private sector affiliate,
the Asian Finance and Investment Corporation Limited (APIC). These represent
one of the first instances in which ADB has lent to a private sector entity
without a Government guarantee and one of the first operations of the recently
formed AFIC. For administrative convenience, the lender of record will be ADB
for both loan components; these have been structured along parallel lines,
despite ADB's use of a fixed interest rate in contrast with AFIC's
LIBOR-linked floating interest rate and AFIC's greater leeway on the delay
prior to leasing out imported equipment.
36.         The negotiated terms of the ADB/AFIC loans to OLP include a grace
period of two years and final maturity after eight years. The fixed interest
rate on the ADB component is 10.0 percent per annum and that on the AFIC
component is LIBOR + 1.5 percent. OLP will be obliged to buy foreign currency
risk protection under the State Bank of Pakistan scheme; it currently costs
about 5.0 percent per annum for the rupee/US dollar cover. The security
margin will be 30 percent, as in some of OLP's running finance facilities,
which may eventually constrain OLP's ability to use the ADB/AFIC facilities if



- 72 -
ANNEX 9
Page 11 of 17
other resources, which must mainly be equity, are not available to finance the
margin. The projections illustrate the commencement of drawings under the
ADB/AFIC loans in 1990/91, reaching full disbursement by June 1992.
Thereafter, OLP will be able to draw on a new US$10 million loan which is
assumed to be disbursed over three years. Repayments of the old loans take
place on a six year schedule after a two year grace period.
37.         ADB/AFIC's security requirements imply that OLP will, once again,
be in the position of needing to bridge the period between paying for an asset
to lease and completion of the hypothecation and other security requirements.
OLP could ask lessees to provide financing for the bridging period, but it
will not always prove practicable or convenient from a marketing perspective.
Sooner or later OLP will face with a limit on its pace of expansion as a
result of this procedural impediment, particularly as ADB/AFIC funds will, for
the next few years, and unlike the other resources discussed above, be a
growing fraction of the funds OLP deploys on new leases.
E. Future Business
38.         OLP would be able to utilize the Bank funds starting July 1991.
Under the Microenterprise Project, OLP projects that it could draw down Rs
325.0 million (approximately US$15.6 million equivalent), as illustrated
below, and use these additional medium-term funds, together with the
recirculation of funds from the shorter term leases in which they are
invested, to satisfy the prospective needs of small- and microenterprise
lessees:
RuDees (millions)
Fiscal Year (July-June)           1991/92   1992/93   1993/94   Total
161        66        99       326
In FY 1991/92 OLP will most likely be the single beneficiary of the Project,
whereas thereafter other companies may become eligible.  The increase in
funding in FY 1993/94 reflects the overall increase of business in the sector.
39.         The review  .-ie Microenterprise Project after two years would be
a suitable point to examine OLP's progress in writing leases using Project
funds, particularly as this should correspond to the mid-point in the three-
year projections OLP made for the two categories of leases.
F. Segurity
40.         To avoid administrative complexity in on-lending, the Bank's
resources would not be secured by title deeds or lease contracts. However,
OLP would undertake, through a negative pledge, to hold assets at a
pre-determined value uncharged to any other creditor. This measure would
ensure that a group of lease receivables, together with the title to the



- 73 -
ANNEX 9
Page 12 of 17
underlying assets, valued at all times at more than the outstanding balance on
OLP's loan originating from the Bank, would be unencumbered by any lien or
hypothecation, except in the cases when lien or hypothecation is required to
secure a guarantee for such amount. It follows that the GOP, the legal lender
of the Bank-originating funds to OLP, would be one of OLP's unsecured
creditors, with appropriate rights in the event of liquidation.
G. Financial Projections
41.         OLP has prepared projections for its financial statements
illustrating the possible outcome of its growth over the next four years,
including the effect of the proposed Microenterprise Project. In general
terms, the projections are based on the continuation of certain ratios where
no change is anticipated, on specific plans where they exist, such as an
increase in business from new offices, and on reasonable estimates concerning
more nebulous future developments. Embodied in the projection data presented
in the projected financial statements are the drawdowns by OLP of Bank funds
under the Microenterprise Project.
42.         The projected profit and loss account summary includes,
conservatively, continued provisions for bad and doubtful leases at current
levels, provision annually of the deferred taxation at 40 percent of the
pre-tax profits, even though no tax is likely to be payable during the
projection period, and cash dividends of no more than 20 percent of the
paid-up capital. The lease rates are computed in line with the current range
applicable to different categories of lessee and leased assets. It will be
noted that the financial expense margin rises, but within an acceptable range,
as OLP's debt to equity leverage moves to higher levels.
43.         The projected balance sheet summary shows fixed assets rising in
keeping with OLP's scheduled acquisition of office equipmeaIt and vehicles on a
scale commensurate with the expansion in the numbers of offices, staff and
transactions. The growth of these items is mirrored in the operating expenses
item in the projected profit and loss account summary.
44.         OLP's liabilities to the various categories of lender are all
expected to grow at a fast, but potentially possible, pace. Running finance
from foreign and local banks in Pakistan, after stabilizing at current levels
until June 1991, as drawdowns are made from the agreed ADB/AFIC and BEL
facilities, will rise once more in the third and fourth projection years
before declining in the fifth. This item is correctly viewed as a residual,
the aim being to provide funds as required to meet the projected leasing
demand, within prudent levels of aggregate short-term exposure.



- 74 -
Page 13 of 17
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC Of PAKISTAN
OLP LEASING PAKISTAN LTD
NICROENTERPRISE PROJECT
AUDITED BALANCE SHEET SUMARY
(from June 30. 1987 - DeceaWer 31. 1989)
(Rupe.. millions)
1tM   199    1989
ASETS
Current As" tts
Not lease receivables: current portion       11        46    101      150
Other current assets                          2        13    .21        6
Total Current Assets                        1         592  1j2      J
Lona-Term Assets
Gross tease receivables                      45       138    276     379
Provision for b/d receivables                (1)       (5)    (9)    (12)
Unearned income                             111      Lm21   (55)    . n)
Net investment In Leases                     33       104    212      295
Current portion                                       A k L1D11   tl50
Net tease receivables: LT portfon            22        58    111      145
LT deposits and prepayments                   2         2      1        1
Fixed assets                                  2        2       3       4
Total Long-Term Assets                    A        62    115      150
TOTAL ASSETS                              2       121    237      306
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabitities
Short-term  borrowing                         0        10     31      52
Long-term debt: current portion               0         4     21    nWa
Creditors and other                           1         3      3      A
Total Current Lfabilities                 1       17      55      60
Lans-Term Liabilities
Long-term deposits and advances               4        14     31      41
Deferred liabiLities                          0         0      2        2
Long-term borrowings:  LT portion            24        53    104      19_*
Total Long-Term LfabiLities             29       67    137      193
Total Liabilities                       29       84    192      252
Paid-up capital                              10        32     32      35
Reserves and unappropriated profits           0         5     13       19
Total Shareholdersl Equity               10       37      45      54
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY             39      121    237      306
RATIOS
Total Liabilities to Equity ratfo           2.9:1   2.3:1   4.3:1   4.7:1
Provfsfons as X of Gross Receivables          3.0X    3.6X    3.2X    3.2X
* Current and LT portions not separated:  Interpret data with care.



- 75
ANNE9
Page 14 of 17
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
MiCROENTERPRISE PROJECT
OLP LEASING PAKISTAN
AUDITED STATENENT OF SOURCE & APPLICATION OF FUNDS SUU4RY
(from June 30  1987 to Dce*wder 31. 1989)
(Rupees miLLiton)
1987      1988      1989
(6 mos)
SOURCES
Internat sources
Pre-tax profit                             0         5        13
Add:    Depreciation                       0          1         2
Provision for b/d leases           1         4         4
Provision for mark-up on LTD      1          6         9
Total funds from ogeratiogs                2        16        28
External sources
Share issues                              10        22         0
LT Debt drawdouns                         24        26        59
ST Finance drawdowns                       0        10        21
Deposits from lessees                      4        10         17
Increase in other current liabilities    1           2         0
Total fuids from external sources         _         70        97
TOTAL SOURCES                                     41                  125
APPLICATIONS
Capital expenditure                        3         0         1
Net investment in teases                  34        75       113
Deferred costs                             1         1         0
LT investments                             1         0         0
Dividends                                  0         0         3
Increase in other assets                   1         0         2
Increase in cash and banks                 1        10         6
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                41        M         125



- 76 -
ANNEX 9
Page 15 of 17
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
MICROENTERPRISE PROJECT
OLP
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEET SU"MARY
Rupees millions
1990    1991   12      lm 1 21 i2
ASSETS
Current Assets                         3       7       8       8      8
Lon-Term Assets
Gross lease receivables            467    775   1,281   1,967   2,726
Deduct: Provision for b/d recvbls (15)   (27)    (44)    (69)   (100)
Unearned income            (83)  (161)   (256)   (373)   (489)
Net investment in leases*      369    587     981   1,525   2,137
LT deposits and prepayments      3      6       6       10      14
Fixed assets                     4      5       7        9       9
Total Long-Term Assets           376    598     994   1,544   2,160
TOTAL ASSETS                             9    605   1.002   1.552
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Short-term borrowing            54     55    129       170     131
Creditors and other             12     23     36        47      60
Total Current Liabilities         66     78    165       217     191
Long-Term Liabilities
Certificates of Investment       0      0      0       128     255
Long-term deposits & advances  55      92    143       233     325
Deferred liabilities             6     22     45        74     116
Long-term borrowing:
BEL*          184    210    160       279     476
ADS/AFIC*      10    115    215       248     281
IBRD*           0      0    161       227     326
Total Long-Term Liabilities      255    439    724    1,189   1,779
Total Liabilities                321    517    888    1,406   1,970
Eauitv
Paid-up capital                 35     53     53        53      53
Reserves and retained profits  23      35     61        93     145
Total Shareholders' Equity        58     88    114       146     198
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY           379    605  1,002    1,552   2,168
RATIOS
Total Liabilities to Equity ratio      5.5:1  5.9:1  7.8:1    9.6:1  9.9:1
Provisions as X of Gross Receivables  3.2X   3.5X   3.4X       3.5X   3.7X
*  Current and LT portions not separated:  Interpret data with care.
1/ Preliminary.



- 77 -
ANNEX 9
Page 16 of 17
ISLAMIC REPUSLIC OF PAKISTAN
MICROENTERPRISE PROJECT
OLP
PROJECTED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT SUMMARY
(from June 30 1990  1994)
Rupees millions
1990"/    1991      1992      1993      1994
Lease disbursements                 260      450       675      950       1200
Lease and other income               68      112       176      263        365
Less: Operating expenses             11       12        17       23         28
Financial expenses            29        49       82       144       201
Provision for b/d leases       7        12       17        24        31
Provision for deferred tax    3         16       24        Z9        42
Net profit                           18       23        36       43         63
Cash dividend                         6       11        11       11         11
RATIOS
operating expenses ratio       16a       11X      10X        9X        8X
Financial expenses ratio       43X       44X      47X       551       55X
Provision ratio on rww leases 2.71    2.71       2.51      2.51      2.51
Earnings on average equity    321        321      361       331       36X
1/ Preliminary.



-78 -
Page 17 of 17
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAM
NICROENTERPRISE PROJECT
PROJECTED CASH FLOW STATEMENT SUWSARY
(from Juw 30, 1991 - 1994)
Rupees sIllIons
1991      1929 3221           122k
INFLOWS
Lease rentals                         320       418       633       883
Lease deposits                         45        67        95        120
Front-end fees                          3         5         8        10
Loan drawdowns:  COI                    0         0       127        127
BEL                  30         0        120       197
ADS/AFIC            105       100         69        69
IBRD                  0       161        66         99
Share issues                         tl        Q          0         O
TOTAL INFLOWS                       521       751     ia21      1O
OuTFLOWS
Purchase of teased assets             450       675       950     1.200
Setting, general & adnin expenses      12        17        25        29
Expenditure on fixed assets             2         5         4         4
DivIdends                               6        11        11         11
Repayments of LTD:  BEL                35        50        78        85
ADS/AFIC           0         0         36        36
Mark-up:          Banks               7        14        31        33
COI                0         0          9        28
Interest:         ADB/AFIC           5         19        25        24
IBRO               0         4        20         46
TOTAL OUTFLOWS (exct runnono fin.)   517        795     1.189     1,496
Repayments of running finance         4        44        28         9
IOTAL  OUTFLOWS                       21        751     1-217    J1 50
Debt servIce coverage i-aio        1.66      1.45      1.31     1.35



- 79 -
ANNE 10
Page 1 of 7
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
MICROENTERPRISE PROJECT
DRAFT POLICIES AND STRATEGY STATEMENT OF ORIX LEASING PAKISTAN LTD. (OLP)
A. Operational Policies and Procedures
1.          The Board of Directors of OLP hereby declares its intention to
adopt and maintain the following policies and procedures for the general
conduct of its operations in Pakistan.
Objec,tive
2.          The principal purpose of OLP is to seek an attractive return for
its shareholders through the provision of medium-term equipment lease
financing to all productive sectors in Pakistan, including, without
limitation, the industrial, construction, agricultural, medical, transport and
other service sectors. In pursuit of this purpose, OLP will deal principally
with private sector lessee clients, although it may offer lease finance
facilities to entities in which the public sector has direct and indirect
interests, provided that such lessees are assessed as financially viable,
potentially profitable and independently managed.
Guidelines for OLP's Financing Operations
Tynes of Eguipment
3.          OLP is prepared to lease any type of equipment, including that
used in the industrial, construction, agricultural, medical, transport and
service sectors, as long as it is expected to be productively employed and
otherwise conforms with all OLP guidelines.
Types of Lessees
4.          OLP is prepared to provide lease finance to established corporate
lessees, professional partnerships, sole proprietorships and other suitable
business entities. Businesses will generally not be offered lease facilities
until they have operated independently for three years; since an essential
element of OLP's security in a lease transaction is the confidence it may
place in the capacity of the lessee to service the lease rental obligations to
be assumed.
5.          In view of their potential to grow into larger clients, OLP
confirms the importance of small- and microenterprises as prospective lessee
clients. OLP recognizes, additionally, that a professionally organized
approach to lessees in this size category can generate profitable lease
business.



- 80 -
NNEX 10
Page 2 of 7
Used Eauipment
6.          Before OLP purchases any used equipment to lease to a client, it
will satisfy itself as to the value and expected residual useful productive
life. The value and life thus determined will be used as the maximum limits
in setting the amount and term of any lease financing OLP offers on such
equipment.
lease Term
7.          OLP will assess the useful life of equipment it proposes to lease
in the environment in which it is to be employed by the lessee. The term of
the lease will never exceed this assessed useful life.
Evaluation
8.          In appraising each prospective lessee, OLP will apply high
professional standards in evaluating the managerial, technical, marketing and
financial viability of the lessee's business.
9.          When making credit judgments on each prospective lessee, OLP will
assess the capacity of the client to make its lease rental payments in a
timely way, its record, if any, of meeting financial obligations, the
character and ability of management, the viability of its business, the
incremental benefit of the asset to be leased and the likely realizable value
of the asset during the term of the lease. Special care will be exercised in
predicting the realizable value of equipment subject to rapid obsolescence.
Financial Information
10.         Credit judgments will be based on audited financial statements,
where available, or relevant management accounting information in cases such
as professional partnerships and small businesses where audits have not been
carried out. Audited statements will be supplemented with management
information when the latest audit relates to a period more than 12 months
prior to OLP's credit assessment.
Investigation
11.         OLP will make inquiries among creditors and other parties
concerning prospective lessees, including, where relevant, banks and
suppliers. In the case of small- and microenterprises, the standing of the
proprietor(s) in the community will be an important element in this
investigation.



- 81 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 7
Investment Exposure
12.         OLP will not enter into leases that would result in OLP becoming
the largest creditor of any lessee, based on the net financed amount of the
leases provided to the lessee by OLP, except in the case of microenterprises
with fixed assets less or equal to Rs. 1 million, this limit may be lowered or
increased as determined appropriate by OLP's Board of Directors.
13.         The amount of lease finance offered by OLP will not exceed the
lessee's net worth.
14.         Except in the case of microenterprises with fixed assets less or
equal to Rs. 1 million (this limit may be lowered or increased as determined
appropriate by OLP's Board of Directors), OLP will not finance more than 30
percent of any lessee's fixed assets, with assets for this purpose deemed to
include the net financed amount of all assets acquired on a lease finance
basis. OLP will not write leases that would result in its exposure,
determined as the aggregate net financed amount, to a single lessee amounting
to more than 10 percent of the total of OLP' own net worth, as shown in its
last audited financial statement and its unimpaired general provision for bad
and doubtful leases.
15.         OLP will not write leases that would result in its exposure to a
group of associated lessees, using the definition of associated companies and
undertakings in the Companies Ordinance, exceeding twice the limit applicable
to a single lessee.
16.         OLP will not undertake any underwriting, lending or other
financing activity not characterized as leasing without specific Board
approval, and OLP's exposure to single transactions of such an exceptional
nature will be limited to 50 percent of the leasing limit for a single lessee.
The aggregate exposure at any time to such transactions will not exceed the
leasing limit for a single lessee.
17.         To diversify its lease portfolio, OLP will ensure that its
exposure, defined by the net financed amount, to any single industry or type
of equipment will not exceed 25 percent of the total portfolio.
Maintenance and Insurance
18.         OLP will take reasonable precautions to ensure that its leased
assets are located at the lessee's specified premises, are correctly
identified and marked as being OLP's property and are adequately cared for and
maintained.
19.         OLP may require lessees to enter into maintenance contracts with
suitably qualified third parties for the maintenance of leased assets.



- 82 -
ARME 10
Page 4 of 7
20.         Adequate insurance cover will be effected to protect OLP's
interest in the leased assets. Since it may be convenient for this insurance
to be arranged by either OLP or the lessee, OLP will ensure that its ownership
and right to receive any insurance proceeds will be noted on the insurance
policy.
Credit Appraisal Manual
21.         OLP will develop and utilize a credit appraisal manual.
Environmental Issues
22.         OLP will give due consideration to environmental analysis and
screening of the projects financed by OLP within the context of the
Operational Directive of The World Bank on Environmental Assessment.
Financial Policies
General
23.         OLP will exercise general financial prudence in the conduct of its
business. In this context, it will accept the restrictions applicable to it
under the laws of Pakistan and subsidiary regulations but will be free to
adopt more conservative practices as appropriate.
Financial Ratios
24.         OLP will not allow liabilities to exist such that its ratio of
liabilities to net worth exceeds 10:1.
25.         OLP will not incur, assume or guarantee additional liabilities,
such that its prospective debt service coverage ratio for either the current
or the next fiscal year, computed on a conservative basis, falls below 1.25:1,
taking into account the obligations on such additional liabilities.
26.         OLP will ensure that the average weighted life to maturity of its
outstanding borrowings will be substantially identical to, or will exceed the
average weighted life of the net receivable value of its lease portfolio,
where both lives are computed on a similar basis, conservatively established.
Lease Commitments
27.         OLP will not enter into lease commitments or commitments to
purchase assets unless the requisite funds are available in the form of cash
or utilizable credit balances on bank accounts at OLP's disposal.



- 83 -
ANNE 10
Page 5 of 7
Provisions for Bad,Debts
28.         In addition to any specific provisions deemed necessary, a general
bad debt provision will be established at a prudent level, to be reviewed
periodically. A level of less than 2 percent of OLP's total lease receivables
after deducting amounts receivable for the account of third parties will only
be deemed prudent if approved in advance as such by OLP's Board of Directors
and certified as concurred in by OLP's external auditors.
Overdue Rentals
29.         OLP will conduct a careful review of any overdue rentals
immediately after the date on which lease rentals are due for receipt,
followed by the institution of vigorous corrective action. Any leases on
which rentals remain overdue six months or more beyond the due date for
payment will cease to generate accrued income in OLP's lease income account.
Such leases will be monitored closely by OLP's senior management to ensure
that timely and effective action is taken to secure OLP's rights and to
reflect in OLP's accounts the realistic prospect of recovery.
Disposal of Leased Assets Recovered
30.         When OLP has recovered a leased asset, it will dispose of it as
soon as practicable, with the intention that no such asset will remain in its
possession for more than three months.
Foreign Exchange Risks
31.         OLP will avoid the assumption of any foreign exchange risks,
making use of the coverage offered through the State Bank of Pakistan or other
available mechanisms.
Dividend PolicX
32.         The dividend policy adopted by OLP' Board of Directors will
balance the twin objectives of providing a fair return to shareholders and
simultaneously permitting the retention of sufficient earnings within OLP to
sustain future growth.
Conflicts of Interest
33.         OLP will not enter into leases with lessees in which any of OLP's
Directors or officers have a significant interest or relationship, whether
direct or indirect, without the specific approval of OLP's Board of Directors.
When the Board considers such approval, the Director or officer concerned
shall disclose his interest in writing to the Board and refrain from
participating in the deliberations and voting. If a Board meeting is held,
the circumstances will be noted in the minutes of the Board meeting. If



- 84 -
ANNEX 10
Page 6 of 7
approval is sought by circulation of a Board memorandum, the disclosure and
other relevant details will be set forth therein.
34.         The net financed amount outstanding for all such leases with
lessees associated with Directors or officers written by OLP will not exceed
10 percent of the net financad amount of OLP's lease portfolio.
Approval Limits
Managing Director and              -- Up to Rs 0.8 million
General Manager (together)             (when gearing > 4:1)
-- Up to Rs 2.5 million
(when gearing < 4:1)
Executive Committee                -- Up to Rs 5.6 million
(Three specified Directors)
Board of Directors                 --  Over Rs 5.6 million
The above approval limits may be lowered or increased as determined
appropriate by OLP's Board of Directors. However, notwithstanding this, any
single commitment or transaction for an amount in excess of 10% of OLP's net
worth (as shown in the last audited statement) will be subject to the approval
of OLP's Board of Directors.
B. Reports
35.         OLP's management will produce the following reports at the
specified intervals:
Daily:            Position sheet (to include available cash and funding,
lease executions, daily receipts and daily payments)
Every 10 days:    Overdue rentals
Monthly:          Profit and loss statement
Balance sheet
Expense statement
Statement of borrowing
Leases contracted list (with terms)
Leases executed list (with terms)
Statement of overdue receivables by period
Comparison of actual results vs. budget.
36.         The Board of Directors intends to authorize the preparation of the
following reports at the specified intervals:



- 85 -
,=NEX 10
Page 7 of 7
Annually:         Audited financial statements
Annual report to shareholders
6 Months
after start
of FY:             Interim (unaudited) profit and loss account
Interim (unaudited) balance sheet
Chairman's review for shareholders.
C. Strategy Statement
37.         OLP is a joint venture leasing company formed for the principal
purpose of offering lease-financed equipment to suitable lessees in Pakistan.
38.         As a public limited company formed under the laws of Pakistan with
its shares listed on the Karachi and Lahore Stock Exchanges, OLP is committed
to pursuing the long-term goal of maximizing its profitability under the
guidance of its Board of Directors. In recognition of the importance of its
staff in meeting this challenge, OLP will devote appropriate resources to
staff welfare.
39.         OLP Corporation of Japan has undertaken to maintain its 40 percent
shareholding in OLP (subject to ongoing Government permission) and to draw on
its worldwide resources to provide technical assistance and training for its
affiliate in Pakistan.
40.         OLP intends to expand its operations into all parts of Pakistan,
forming branch offices in regional centers, in order to make leasing
facilities available to all suitable lessees in the country.
41.         In pursuit of profitability, OLP is willing to consider the
provision of lease finance, on appropriate terms, to all sizes and types of
lessee enterprises operating in all productive sectors.
42.         Acknowledging the need to cultivate new clients, in circumstances
where competition among leasing companies will intensify for the business of
large- and medium-scale lessees, OLP is aware of the potential for leasing to
small- and microenterprises. It intends to dedicate the requisite resources
to develop this market and refine its delivery methods, bearing any additional
costs as an investment for the future.
43.         OLP's staff will be reminded constantly that the best protection
for a leasing company is the careful application of a reliable credit
assessment procedure and the creation of a diversified lease portfolio.



. 86 -
ANEX L1
Page 1 of 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
MICROENTERPRISE PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE NGOS EXTERNAL CONSULTANTS
The proposed terms-of-reference are as follows:
1.        Assist, where necessary in the development of credit and accounting
systems, as well as loan approval procedures.
2.        Assist in the design and execution of a training programme for
project staff and future participating micro-entrepreneurs.
3.        Provide the NGOs with relevant training materials from experiences
in Pakistan and from abroad.
4.        Assist, where necessary, in designing a specific training programme
for female field workers.
5.        Provide the project staff with methodological tools to facilitate
the incorporation of women entrepreneurs.
6.        Provide the project-staff with methodological tools to identify
constraints and the needs of the microenterprise sub-sector in areas such as
types of financing; technology improvements; market access and the role of
middlemen).
7.        Assist in the development and implementation of a monitoring system
to be shared by all participating NGOs in order to evaluate institutional
performance, borrower performance and the impact of the project on the
microenterprise sub-sector.



- 87 -
ANNE 12
Page 1 of 3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
MICROENTERPRISE PROJECT
ASSESSMENT STUDY OF THE MICROENTERPRISE SUB-SECTOR
A. Objective
1.          Policy and institutional environment surrounding the
microenterprise sub-sector is expected to undergo a substantial change in the
next several years. Objectives of this study are to record, update and
analyze changes in microenterprise characteristics, performance, and their
advantages/disadvantages relative to others in the formal part of the economy.
Of particular importance is to keep abreast of the impact on microonterprises
of planned adjustments in the formal financial sector -- especially concerning
the banking system and its practices -- and of expected industrial and trade
policy reforms.
B. AsDects of the Study
Policies
2.          The study would review all government objectives and policies on
microenterprise development, and focus on policies that intended to protect
the sub-sector but that in reality inhibit the growth of microenterprises.
Market Conditions for the Loan
3.          The study would, through a sample survey, review and compare
credit conditions in the formal and informal financial markets aimed at the
target group. The study would also review remaining preferential credit
programs and analyze its impact on the formal and informal financial markets.
Investment or Consumntion (Economic Develogment or Poverty Alleviation)
4.          Economic conditions of microenterprises frequently force them to
use a large share of loans for consumption purposes, diluting the purpose of
credit programs for businesses. The study would analyze and provide
guidelines to cope with these problems by defining necessary questions and
guidelines to be incorporated in a credit manual to be used by formal
commercial banks; and analyze alternatives that credit officers could use to
appraise microenterprises more effectively.
Defaults and Arrears
5.          Repayment records on most loans in the formal sector have been
discouraging. While political patronage plays an important role, it does not



- 88 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 3
account for all of the arrears. The study would delineate and analyze common
reasons for the arrears that might also be relevant for microenterprises, and
provide guidelines to overcome such difficulties. Some, such as Pak Swiss,
Pak Holland, and a number of NGOs (particularly Agha Khan Rural Support
Services), have come up with innovative solutions to such problems. The study
would evaluate lessons from such experiences.
Savings. Credit and Other Financial Functions of the Banking Units
6.          The experience with most successful lending programs for
microenterprises indicates a strong link between developing the habit of
saving and prompt repayment. The study, through sample surveys, should deepen
the analyses on the need of the target group for financial services and
develop a number of scenarios, that show the costs and benefits of providing a
wider array of services, such as additional financial services to attract more
customers and thus achieve a higher turnover.
Institutional Infrastructure
7.          This study would analyze efficient and cost-effective
institutional support to meet the needs of microenterprises. The results of
the study would provide further guidelines as to the use of the direct
technical assistance to microenterprises.
Women EntreDreneurship
8.          This study will identify existing and potential areas of womens'
entrepreneurship and assess barriers to women's participation in the
microenterprise subsector. The study will recommend concrete actions to
remedy the situation, such as particular training programs, and/or technical
assistance particularly targeted to assist women entrepreneurs.
Outputs
9.          The study would result in the following outputs:
(a)   A credit operations manual, which inter alia describes
appraisal methods with particular reference to consumption
vs. business credit;
(b)   a description of the common characteristics of arrears, and
guidelines on how to recover (or prevent) them, including if
necessary, additional loan agreement formats for use by
banking units and their clients.
(c)   a strategic plan for new and innovative financial services
for microenterprises at competitive prices, such as bank
units that provide certain bank transactions free of charge
or for a nominal fee, while maintaining the financial



- 89 -
ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 3
viability of the scheme as a whole;
(c)   a description of the policy environment in which micro-
enterprises function, isolating national and regional
policies that are positive and need to be encouraged further
and those that are negative from the point of view of
microenterprise development;
(d)   a description of loans and provisions that would be
competitive with microenterprises;
(e)   a description that compares the costs and lending practices
of the target group in the formal and informal financial
sector, with particular attention to the practices used in
buying guarantees or providing other incentives to third
parties in order to obtain loans from both the formal and
informal financial sectors;
(f)   a detailed typology of microenterprises operating in
Pakistan, with a description of the financial and support
services and the most suitable institutions for providing
these services to the target group.
(g)   a description of existing and potential areas of women's
entrepreneurship and identification of barriers that prevent
women's participation in the various activities of the
microenterprise subsector, including recommendations to
remove those barriers.



- 90 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of I
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
MICROENTERPRISE PROJECT
PROJECTED DISBURSEMENTS
liar        Aivwal Ctuiltiv*            Cumulative
Credt       _Amount        Percentace
1            0.8            0.8            3.0
2            S.4            6.2           24.0
3            10.2           16.4          63.0
4            5.7           22.1           85.0
5            2.8           24.9           96.0
6            1.1            26.0          100.0



- 91 -
AERX 14
Page 1 of 1
IStAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
MICROENTERPRISE PROJECT
DOCUMENT AVAItABLE IN PRJECT FILE
1.    Agha Khan Rural Support Program, Strategy and Operational Design 1990,
1992.
2.    Agha Khan Rural Support Program, Village Organization Banking.
3.    Leasing Industry, J. de Alwis, November 15, 1989.
4.   NGOs Component of the Microenterprise Project, Royal Institute Report,
March 1990.
5.    NGOs and Linkages for Credit Delivery from ADBP, Suzanne
September 1989.
6.    Orix Leasing Pakistan Limited, Allied rish Bank's Report, October 1989.
7.    Orix Leasing Pakistan Limited, Dr. D. J. Smith, April 1990.
8.    Pilot Program to Test Saving and Lending Procedure Modification, IFAD
Report.
9.    Role of NGOs in Microenterprise Development the case of AKRSP and OPP,
Yasme Mchiuddin's report, April 1990.
10.   Study of the Microenterprise Subsector, DRMS; Report Credit and Support
Services for Microenterprise, April 1989.
11.   Study of the NGOs, Bank Resident Misuion.



IBRD 16248R1
'                  ~~~~~64-                               6's-                            1~ 7'2-     U  S S R       z       
CHINA
PAKISTAN
36'                                                                
NATIONAL CAPITAL
0    CITIES AND TOWNS
NATIONAL ROADS                                             q     
PRIMARY AND  SECONDARY ROADS
RAILWAYS
-     AIRPORTS
-   -   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                      *  N Chwso J                       Lfo
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES           (~                Pshawod ,
RIVERS                                         \      i  yRowolpRrd. .AMMU and KASHMIR
32,                                                                                                                                     32.-
4- 
Fow t . lacobod/             28]-
ISLAMFGHANITANt                                   z                >5* 
REPUBLI OF  j     A  2  \ /AAKokOh
I RAN   jJ     /                 trgZorldioro    /                   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o tOO  2010  30|0    40|0
* J | S ( It N D < KIIOMETERNDI
28_                    r        /              :     l  \               -                      50     00    150    200    250
REPUBLIC  OF  PI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bo0 lf~o100
I RAN                                 .010                         0       100      290~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OnaeC  310040
s    I  N   D                           KIL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OM,oEc,sTERS~ b
4                                          00~~~~~~~~~0 5000100001 5 0   200    250
(  _   4       //        3elo     \  \ >\ttNowo~~~bshch   |MILES
Toy -0 o.. be loyad by
bod                       Tt.~~~~~~~~~~enooebn K o r S CeOpL.#C   0
CIW.1.. The f-d    M      1987
MV SW U.MARCH-198



