Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3318 PAK
                     (Microenterprise Project)
                              between
                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated June 28, 1991
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3318 PAK
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 1991, between ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN acting by its President (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as
to the feasibility and priority of the Project described
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   Parts A (1) and B.2 (a) of the Project will be
carried out by the Participating Leasing Companies (PLCs,
as hereinafter defined) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to PLCs the proceeds of the Loan as provided in
this Agreement;
      (C)   the Borrower has obtained from the Netherlands
Page  2
a grant (the Dutch Grant) in an amount of four million
eight hundred thousand Dutch Guilders (Dfls 4,800,000) to
assist in financing Parts A (2) and B of the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in the agreement (the
Dutch Grant Agreement) of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by the Minister for Development Cooperation of
the Netherlands; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in Schedule 6
to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "PLCs" mean collectively the Participating
Leasing Companies under the Project, being leasing
companies which shall have satisfied the eligibility
criteria set forth in paragraph A.1 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; and "PLC" means each and any of the Partici-
pating Leasing Companies under the Project individually;
      (b)   "AKRSP" means Aga Khan Rural Support Program,
a company established and existing under the Borrower's
Companies Ordinance of 1984, as amended from time to
time;
      (c)   "OPP" means Orangi Pilot Project Society, a
society registered under the Borrower's Societies
Registration Act of 1860, as amended from time to time;
      (d)   "BUSTI" means Basic Urban Services for Katchi
Abadis, a society registered under the Borrower's
Societies Registration Act of 1860, as amended from time
to time;
      (e)   "ADI" means Alfalah Development Institute, a
society registered under the Borrower's Societies
Registration Act of 1860, as amended from time to time;
      (f)   "PNGOs" mean collectively the Participating
Non-Governmental Organizations under the Project, being
AKRSP, OPP, BUSTI and ADI; and "PNGO" means each and any
of the Participating Non-Governmental Organizations under
the Project individually;
      (g)   "Participating Institutions" mean collectively
PLCs and PNGOs; and "Participating Institution" means
each and any of the PLCs or PNGOs individually;
      (h)   "Administrating Institution" means the Bankers
Equity Limited, a company incorporated and existing under
the Borrower's Companies Ordinance of 1984, as amended
from time to time, or any successor thereto;
Page  3
      (i)   "Administration Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and the Adminis-
trating Institution pursuant to Section 3.01 (a) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;
      (j)   "Microenterprise" means a manufacturing,
commercial or service enterprise, employing, in the case
of a manufacturing enterprise, fewer than ten workers in-
factory, and, in the case of a commercial or service
enterprise, fewer than ten workers;
      (k)   "Small-scale Enterprise" means a privately-
owned manufacturing, repair, industrial service or agro-
processing enterprise, owning total fixed assets (exclud-
ing land and buildings) valued at Rs.10,000,000 or less,
and whose incremental fixed cost per worker is not
expected to exceed Rs. 200,000;
      (l)   "Lease Financing" means financing provided or
proposed to be provided through a PLC out of the proceeds
of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project;
      (m)   "free-limit Lease Financing" means Lease
Financing, as so defined, which qualifies as free-limit
Lease Financing pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
C.1(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (n)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be
made by a PNGO out of the proceeds of the Dutch Grant to
an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project;
      (o)   "Investment Enterprise" means a Microenterprise
or a Small-Scale Enterprise to which a Participating
Institution has provided or proposes to provide Lease
Financing or has made or proposes to make a Sub-loan, as
the case may be;
      (p)   "Investment Project" means a specific develop-
ment project to be carried out by an Investment Enter-
prise utilizing the proceeds of Lease Financing or a Sub-
loan, as the case may be;
      (q)   "Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
      (r)   "SBP" means the State Bank of Pakistan;
      (s)   "Rs" and "rupees" mean the currency of the
Borrower; and
      (t)   "FY" or "fiscal year" means the period July 1
through June 30.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of twenty-six million dollars ($26,000,000), being
the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account under Part A (1) of the
Project for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be paid) by a PLC on account of withdrawals made by
Page  4
such PLC on behalf of an Investment Enterprise under
Lease Financing to meet 100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 90% of
local expenditures for other items procured locally for
equipment and machinery required for the Investment
Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan
Account is requested; provided, however, that no with-
drawal shall be made: (i) in respect of Lease Financing
not provided in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) in respect of
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement.
      (b)   For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this
Section: (i) the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in any currency other than that of the
Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territo-
ry of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(ii) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services
supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
      (c)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part A
(1) of the Project, open and maintain in dollars a
special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropri-
ate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30,
1998 or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstand-
ing from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month peri-
                  od ending on the date immediately preced-
                  ing each date specified in Section 2.06
                  of this Agreement, beginning with the
                  Interest Period in which this Agreement
                  is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
                  cost, as reasonably determined by the
                  Bank and expressed as a percentage per
                  annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
                  excluding such borrowings or portions
Page  5
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                  fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after
                  July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates de-
                  termined otherwise than as provided in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section.
            (iii)       "Semester" means the first six
                        months or the second six months of a
                        calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:
            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
      principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and out-
      standing from time to time, at a rate for each
      Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
      determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
      plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each
      of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
      Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
      on the principal amount outstanding during the
      preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
      applicable during such Interest Period."
            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
      each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
      the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
      respect of such Quarter."
            "(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month
      period commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or
      October 1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each
year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commit-
ment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without
any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall carry out
Part A (1) of the Project, through the Administrating
Institution, to whom responsibility for this purpose
shall be assigned under an administration agreement to be
concluded between the Borrower and the Administrating
Institution, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, which shall include those set forth in Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part A
(1) of the Project, relend the proceeds of the Loan to
PLCs through the Administrating Institution, such
proceeds to be utilized by PLCs on a first-come first-
serve basis, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank which shall include those set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under
the Administration Agreement in such manner as to protect
Page  6
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Administration
Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. The Borrower undertakes that, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PLCs will provide
Lease financing in accordance with the procedures and on
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall, jointly with
the Bank,  carry out a review of the performance of the
Participating Institutions and their micro-enterprise
clients not later than October 31, 1993, and shall
thereafter, in agreement with the Bank, make such
adjustments in the organization and operation of the
Project as may be appropriate in light of the conclusions
of said review.
      (b)   The Borrower shall complete the assessment
study referred to in Part B.3 of the Project, not later
than December 31, 1992, and shall thereafter, after
consultation with the Participating Institutions and in
agreement with the Bank, take such actions as may be
appropriate in light of the findings of said study.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the
Administrating Institution to maintain with respect to
PLCs' activities under Part A (1) of the Project proce-
dures and records adequate to monitor and record the
progress of the Project and of each Investment Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it) and to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices their resources and
operations with respect to the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   cause the records referred to in Section
                  4.01 of this Agreement, and records and
                  accounts for the Special Account for each
                  fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  sound auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors accept-
                  able to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank, as soon as avail-
                  able, but in any case not later than six
                  (6) months after the end of each such
                  year the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such de-
                  tail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested, including a separate opinion
                  by said  auditors as to whether or not
                  PLCs have complied with the prudential
                  regulations and maintained the ratios
                  referred to in paragraph A.1 (d) and (e)
                  of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
           (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other in-
                  formation concerning said records
                  and accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
Page  7
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this
                  Section, records and accounts reflecting
                  such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
                  Bank has received the audit report for
                  the fiscal year in which the last with-
                  drawal from the Loan Account was made,
                  all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
           (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to
                  in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
                  the report of such audit contains a sepa-
                  rate opinion by said auditors as to whet-
                  her the statements of expenditure submit-
                  ted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls
                  involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related with-
                  drawals.
      Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall require each PLC not to incur
any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the ratio
of debt to equity shall be greater than 10 to 1.
      (b)   For purposes of this Section:
            (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of
                  the PLC maturing by its terms more than
                  one year after the date on which it is
                  originally incurred.
            (ii)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A)
                  under a loan contract or agreement or
                  other instrument providing for such debt
                  or for the modification of its terms of
                  payment, on the date, and to the extent,
                  the amount of such debt has become out-
                  standing pursuant to such contract, agre-
                  ement or instrument; and (B) under a
                  guarantee agreement, on the date the
                  agreement providing for such guarantee
                  has been entered into but only to the
                  extent that the guaranteed debt is out-
                  standing.
           (iii)  The term "equity" means the sum of
                  the total un-impaired paid-up capi-
                  tal, retained earnings and reserves
                  of the PLC not allocated to cover
                  specific liabilities.
            (iv)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section
                  it shall be necessary to value, in terms
                  of the currency of the Borrower, debt
                  payable in another currency, such valua-
                  tion shall be made on the basis of the
                  prevailing lawful rate of exchange at
                  which such other currency is, at the time
                  of such valuation, obtainable for the
                  purposes of servicing such debt, or, in
Page  8
                  the absence of such rate, on the basis of
                  a rate of exchange acceptable to the
                  Bank.
      Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall require each PLC to ensure that
its net income for each fiscal year, when added to
provisions for losses and loan collection and interest
and other charges on debt, adjusted for income taxes, for
such year, shall be at least 1.25 times the maximum of
its debt service requirements for such year on all its
debt.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of
                  the PLC maturing by its terms more than
                  one year after the date on which its debt
                  is originally incurred.
            (ii)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A)
                  under a loan contract or agreement or
                  other instrument providing for such debt
                  or for the modification of its terms of
                  payment on the date of such contract,
                  agreement or instrument; and (B) under a
                  guarantee agreement, on the date the
                  agreement providing for such guarantee
                  has been entered into.
           (iii)  The term "net income" means the
                  difference between:
                  (A)   the PLC's income from all sources;
                        and
                  (B)   the sum of all of the PLC's expenses
                        including those relating to adminis-
                        tration, income taxes and payments
                        in lieu of income taxes, provisions
                        for losses and loan collection and
                        interest and other charges on debt.
            (iv)  The term "debt service requirements"
                  means the aggregate amount of repayments
                  of, and interest and other charges, ad-
                  justed for income taxes, on, the PLC's
                  debt.
            (v)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section
                  it shall be necessary to value, in terms
                  of the currency of the Borrower, debt
                  payable in another currency, such valua-
                  tion shall be made on the basis of the
                  prevailing lawful rate of exchange at
                  which such other currency is, at the time
                  of such valuation, obtainable for the
                  purposes of servicing such debt, or, in
                  the absence of such rate, on the basis of
                  a rate of exchange acceptable to the
                  Bank.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
      (a)   The Administrating Institution shall have
failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Page  9
Administration Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after
the date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Administrating Institution will be able to
perform its obligations under the Administration Agree-
ment.
      (c)   The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolu-
tion or disestablishment of the Administrating Institu-
tion or for the suspension of its operations.
      (d)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this
                  paragraph, the right of the Borrower to
                  withdraw the proceeds of the Dutch Grant
                  shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                  terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                  to the terms of the Dutch Grant Agree-
                  ment.
            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall
                  not apply if the Borrower establishes to
                  the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A)
                  such suspension, cancellation or termina-
                  tion is not caused by the failure of the
                  Borrower to perform any of its obliga-
                  tions under the Dutch Grant Agreement;
                  and (B) adequate funds for the Project
                  are available to the Borrower from other
                  sources on terms and conditions consis-
                  tent with the obligations of the Borrower
                  under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of the Dutch Grant Agreement, other than the effective-
ness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
      (b)   the Administration Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and the Administrating Institu-
tion.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  10
      Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of
Pakistan, Economic Affairs Division, or any Additional
Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section
Officer of that Division of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Condi-
tions:
      For the Borrower:
            Economic Affairs Division
            Islamabad
            Pakistan
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                  ECONOMIC                   ECDIV-05-634
                  Islamabad
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                     197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA),
                                                 64145 (WUI) or
                                                 82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                  By /s/ A. Farooq
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ M. H. Wiehen
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (a) to support
the Borrower's efforts to provide Microenterprises with
direct access to credit from formal sources thereby
contributing to the correction of distortions and
imperfections in the financial market; and, to that end:
Page  11
(b) to assist the institutions involved in providing such
credit in strengthening their capacity to deliver their
financial, technical and/or social services to an
increasing constituency of Microenterprises, including
particularly those owned and operated by women; (c) to
assist such institutions, in particular, in developing
and promoting new financial instruments to benefit their
clients in the microenterprise subsector; and (d) to
assist in demonstrating the replicability of the initia-
tives taken by such institutions to others, particularly
commercial banks.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A:     Investment Projects
      Financing of specific development projects through:
(l) Lease Financing provided through PLCs to Small-Scale
Enterprises and Microenterprises; and (2) Sub-loans made
by PNGOs to Microenterprises.
Part B:     Technical Assistance and Training
1.    Provision of technical assistance to PNGOs to assist
in: (a) strengthening institutional capacity; (b)
designing technical and social support service programs,
credit procedures and supervision information systems
relevant to microenterprise operations; (c) training
staff in implementation, supervision and evaluation of
said technical and social support service programs; and
(d) developing and applying indicators for monitoring and
evaluating the impact of assisted Microenterprises.
2.    Establishment of a Microenterprise Fund to finance
through (a) PLCs and (b) PNGOs any training, consultanci-
es or studies required to be provided or carried out to
assist Microenterprises.
3.    Carrying out of an assessment of the microenterprise
subsector in light of the changing policy and institu-
tional environment over a period of about two years from
commencement of the Project.
                     *     *     *     *    *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                       Amortization Schedule
                                             Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (Expressed in dollars)*
August 1, 1996                                   475,000
February 1, 1997                                 490,000
August 1, 1997                                   510,000
February 1, 1998                                 530,000
August 1, 1998                                   550,000
February 1, 1999                                 575,000
August 1, 1999                                   595,000
February 1, 2000                                 620,000
August 1, 2000                                   640,000
February 1, 2001                                 665,000
August 1, 2001                                   695,000
February 1, 2002                                 720,000
August 1, 2002                                   745,000
Page  12
February 1, 2003                                 775,000
August 1, 2003                                   805,000
February 1, 2004                                 835,000
August 1, 2004                                   870,000
February 1, 2005                                 905,000
August 1, 2005                                   940,000
February 1, 2006                                 975,000
August 1, 2006                                 1,010,000
February 1, 2007                               1,050,000
August 1, 2007                                 1,090,000
February 1, 2008                               1,135,000
August 1, 2008                                 1,180,000
February 1, 2009                               1,225,000
August 1, 2009                                 1,270,000
February 1, 2010                               1,320,000
August 1, 2010                                 1,370,000
February 1, 2011                               1,435,000
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
      lents determined as of the respective dates of
      withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04
      and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Condi-
tions, the premium payable on the principal amount of any
maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percent-
age specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
      Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                          The interest rate
                                          (expressed as a per-
                                          centage per annum)
                                          applicable to the
                                          Loan on the day of
                                          prepayment multi-
                                          plied by:
Not more than three years                             0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                             0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                               0.55
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity
More than eleven years but not                        0.80
      more than sixteen years
      before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                       0.90
      more than eighteen years
      before maturity
More than eighteen years before                       1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Terms and Conditions for Relending of
                 Loan Proceeds to PLCs referred to
               in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement
      Except as the Borrower and the Bank  shall otherwise
Page  13
agree, each PLC shall:
      (a)   pay a charge on the amount of the Loan
withdrawn  by it and outstanding at a floating annual
rate adjusted every six months so as to be equal to the
prevailing lending rate for loans made by the Bank plus
a spread which shall cover the charge for the foreign
exchange risk cover provided by SBP at the prevailing
rate, a commitment fee charge of 1/4% (one-fourth of one
percent) per annum and an administration fee of 1/2%
(one-half of one percent) per annum;
      (b)   repay the proceeds of the Loan relent to it
over a period of ten years, including a grace period of
3 years, the principal amount to be repaid being the
aggregate equivalent of the amounts withdrawn by the PLC
from the Loan Account expressed in rupees determined as
of the respective dates of withdrawal; and
      (c)   give an undertaking, in terms satisfactory to
the Bank, that the PLC shall at all times hold unencum-
bered by any lien or hypothecation assets in value
exceeding the amount of the Loan withdrawn by the PLC and
outstanding, except insofar as such lien or hypothecation
is required to secure a guarantee for such amount.
                            SCHEDULE 4
          Administration of Credit Component carried out,
          and Terms and Conditions of and Procedures for
              Lease Financing provided by, PLCs under
                     Part A (1) if the Project
A.    Administration of Credit Component
      The administration of the credit component to be
carried out by PLCs under Part A (1) of the Project shall
be assigned under the Administration Agreement to the
Administrating Institution.  The Administration Agreement
shall include, inter alia, provisions whereby:
1.    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Lease
Financing shall be provided only through those leasing
companies each of which shall have:
      (a)   demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Bank
that it has: (i) a sound organizational structure suited
to managing a large number of relatively small-value
leases in a cost-effective manner; (ii) a marketing
apparatus geared to addressing the lease financing needs
of a diverse and informal class of enterprises; and (iii)
strategic corporate objectives and current operations
which are compatible with the objectives of the Project;
      (b)   got its board of directors to approve and issue
a circular setting out its strategies, operating policies
and procedures to the satisfaction of the Bank;
      (c)   prepared an unqualified financial statement
audited by external auditors in accordance with interna-
tionally accepted auditing principles;
      (d)   complied with all existing, and agreed to
comply with all future, prudential regulations of the
State Bank of Pakistan; and
      (e)   maintained a debt/equity ratio and a debt
service coverage-ratio within the limits referred to in
Sections 4.02 and 4.03, respectively, of this Agreement.
2.    The Administrating Institution shall act under the
Administration Agreement solely as an administrator to
Page  14
enable, on behalf of the Borrower, the utilization by
PLCs of the proceeds of the Loan for the provision of
Lease Financing by PLCs under Part A (1) of the Project;
therefore (a) the Borrower shall bear all financial
obligations due on such proceeds under the provisions of
the Loan Agreement; and (b) all debt service payments by
PLCs with respect to such proceeds utilized in the
provision of Lease Financing shall be made by PLCs,
through the Administrating Institution, to the Borrower.
3.    To assist in defraying the administration cost
assumed by the Administrating Institution under the
Administration Agreement, the Administrating Institution
shall receive from the Borrower a fee at the rate of 1/2%
(one-half of one percent) per annum of the amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding.
4.    The Administrating Institution shall make the
proceeds of the Loan available to PLCs for utilization by
them for the provision of Lease Financing under Part A
(1) of the Project on terms whereby the Administrating
Institution shall obtain, by written agreement with each
PLC, rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank, including the right to:
      (a)   require the PLC to comply with the terms and
conditions referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement;
      (b)   require the PLC to apply in the provision and
administration of Lease Financing the rules and proce-
dures set forth in, and to comply, mutatis mutandis, with
the provisions of Sections 4.02 and 4.03 of, the Loan
Agreement;
      (c)   require that: (i) the equipment and machinery
required for each Investment Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a
reasonable price, account being taken also of other
relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency
and reliability of the goods and availability of mainte-
nance facilities and spare parts therefor; and (ii)
records shall be kept in satisfactory form of the methods
of procurement used, the summaries of quotations received
and awards made in procuring said equipment and machin-
ery;
      (d)   require that the PLC shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance as
shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery of the equipment and machinery
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of
use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made
payable in a currency freely usable by the PLC to replace
or repair such equipment and machinery;
      (e)   require the PLC to prepare applications for,
and requests for authorization to make withdrawals from
the Loan Account in respect of, Lease Financing for
presentation to the Bank through the Administrating
Institution for approval;
      (f)   obtain all such information as the Borrower and
the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and
financial condition of the PLC; and
      (g)   suspend or terminate the right of the PLC to
present new applications for, or requests for authoriza-
tions to make withdrawals from the Loan Account in
respect of, Lease Financing for approval by the Bank upon
failure by the PLC to: (i) obtain the prior concurrence
Page  15
of the Bank to an amendment of the PLC's circular setting
out its strategies, operating policies and procedures; or
(ii) comply with the prudential regulations of SBP; or
(iii) perform its obligations under its agreement with
the Administrating Institution.
B.    Terms and Conditions of Lease Financing
1.    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Lease
Financing shall be provided only:
      (a)   to Investment Enterprises which: (i) qualify as
Micro-enterprises or Small-Scale Enterprises; (ii) are
established and currently operational (except in the case
of Microenterprises owned and operated by women which are
to be newly started-up); (iii) are economically and
financially viable; and (iv) have control over the
production and marketing of their products or services;
and
      (b)   to finance equipment and machinery to be used
exclusively for productive purposes.
2.    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no Lease
Financing shall be provided to an Investment Enterprise,
if, after such Lease Financing has been provided, the
aggregate amount of the proceeds of the Loan provided for
the financing of such Investment Enterprise shall exceed
the equivalent of $46,000.
3.    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
      (a)   the proceeds of each Lease Financing shall be
utilized to finance equipment and machinery purchased by
the PLC concerned in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph A.4 (c) of this Schedule and leased to the
Investment Enterprise requesting the Lease Financing for
the purposes of the Investment Project for which the
Lease Financing is requested;
      (b)   each such Lease Financing shall be subject to
payment on the amount of the Lease Financing withdrawn
and outstanding of a charge per annum at the prevailing
market rate for any lease financing provided by the PLC
concerned; and
      (c)   the term of each such Lease Financing shall be
not less than 2 years nor more than 6 years, and which
shall in any case not exceed the projected economic life
of the equipment and machinery financed out of the
proceeds of the Lease Financing, at the end of which the
ownership of the equipment and machinery shall pass to
the Investment Enterprise upon payment by the Investment
Enterprise of an additional charge.
C.    Procedures for Lease Financing
1.    No expenditures for equipment and machinery required
for an Investment Project shall be eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
      (a)   the Lease Financing for such Investment Pro-
            ject shall have been approved by the Bank and,
            except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, such
            expenditures shall have been made not earlier
            than one hundred eighty (180) days prior to
            the date on which the Bank shall have received
            the application and information required under
            paragraph C.2 (a) of this Schedule in respect
            of such Lease Financing; or
      (b)   the Lease Financing for such Investment Pro-
Page  16
            ject shall have been a free-limit Lease Fi-
            nancing for which the Bank has authorized
            withdrawals from the Loan Account and such
            expenditures shall have been made not earlier
            than one hundred eighty (180) days prior to
            the date on which the Bank shall have received
            the request and information required under
            paragraph C.2 (b) of this Schedule in respect
            of such free-limit Lease Financing. For the
            purpose of this Agreement, a free-limit Lease
            Financing shall be a Lease Financing for an
            Investment Project in an amount to be financed
            out of the proceeds of the Loan which shall
            not exceed the sum of $23,000 equivalent, when
            added to any other outstanding amounts fi-
            nanced or proposed to be financed out of the
            proceeds of the Loan or of any other loan,
            provided for in any outstanding loan agreement
            between the Borrower and the Bank, entered
            into before the date of this Agreement, the
            proceeds of which have been or are being used
            for financing goods and services directly and
            materially related to such Investment Project.
2.    (a)   When presenting a Lease Financing to the Bank
for approval, each PLC shall furnish to the Bank an
application, through the Administrating Institution, in
form satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a
description of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal
of the Investment Project, including a description of the
equipment and machinery proposed to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and
conditions of the Lease Financing, including the schedule
of amortization of the Lease Financing; (iii) whenever
relevant, a statement as to the environmental impact of
the Investment Project and, when necessary, the remedial
action to be taken in this respect; and (iv) such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
      (b)   Each request by a PLC, through the Administrat-
ing Institution, for authorization to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Lease
Financing shall contain: (i) a summary description of the
Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the
terms and conditions of the Lease Financing, including
the schedule of amortization therefor; and (iii) whenever
relevant, a statement as to the environmental impact of
the Investment Project and, when necessary, the remedial
action proposed to be taken in this respect.
      (c)   Applications and requests made pursuant to the
provisions of sub-paragraph (a)  and (b) of this para-
graph shall be presented to the Bank on or before June
30, 1997.
3.    Lease Financing shall be provided on terms whereby
each PLC shall obtain, by written contract with the
Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Borrower, the Bank and such PLC including the right to:
      (a)   require the Investment Enterprise to carry out
and operate the Investment Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
financial and managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records;
      (b)   require that the equipment and machinery to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment
Page  17
Project;
      (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representa-
tives of the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, such
equipment and machinery and the sites, works, plants and
construction included in the Investment Project, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and docu-
ments;
      (d)   require that the Investment Enterprise shall
take out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as
shall be consistent with sound business practice;
      (e)   obtain all such information as the Bank or the
PLC shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the
benefits to be derived from the Investment Project; and
      (f)   suspend or terminate the right of the Invest-
ment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan
upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its
obligations under its contract with the PLC.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expendi-
tures in respect of the reasonable cost of equipment and
machinery required for Investment Projects and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.02 (a) of this Agree-
ment; and
      (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be
made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
                  requests for deposits into the Special
                  Account at such intervals as the Bank
                  shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such
                  request, the Borrower shall furnish to
                  the Bank the documents and other evidence
                  required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
Page  18
                  Schedule for the payment or payments in
                  respect of which replenishment is re-
                  quested. On the basis of each such re-
                  quest, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                  Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
                  and deposit into the Special Account such
                  amount as the Borrower shall have re-
                  quested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have
                  been paid out of the Special Account for
                  eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment
was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make
further deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Condi-
tions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of the Loan
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan,
less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to Part A (1) of the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of $3,000,000, twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justi-
fied by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide
such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall
so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.
Page  19
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                Modifications of General Conditions
      For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions
of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
      (1)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (2)   The words "the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.
Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan
shall be cancelled." set forth at the end of Section 6.03
are deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
            "or (f) by the date specified in sub-paragraph
      (c) of paragraph C.2  of Schedule 4 to the Loan
      Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect of any por-
      tion of the Loan: (i) have received no applications
      or requests under sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of
      said paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such appli-
      cations or requests, the Bank may, by notice to the
      Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of
      the Borrower to submit such applications or re-
      quests or to make withdrawals from the Loan Ac-
      count, as the case may be, with respect to such
      amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of
      such notice, such amount or portion of the Loan
      shall be cancelled."
