Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23286-MOG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LENDING CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.0 MILLION (US$5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
MONGOLIA
FOR A
LEGAL AND JUDICIAL REFORM PROJEC T
November 19, 2001
East Asia and Pacific Region
LEGEA



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 2, 2001)
Currency Unit = Tugrik
1,100 Tugrik = US$1
US$0.00 = 1 Tugrik
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACS              Administrative Court System
ADB              Asian Development Bank
AMA              Association of Mongolian Advocates
BELTAC           Banking, Enterprise and Legal Technical Assistance Credit
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
GCC              General Council of Courts
GTZ              Gesellschaft Fur technische Zusammenarbeit
IBRD             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB              International Competitive Bidding
IDA              International Development Association
IFC              International Finance Corporation
LIL              Learning and Innovation Loan
LJR              Legal and Judicial Reform
LNA              Legal Needs Assessment
MOFE             Ministry of Finance and Economy
MOJHA            Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs
NBF              Not Bank-Financed
NCB              National Competitive Bidding
NGO              Non Governmental Organization
PAD              Project Appraisal Document
PMR              Project Management Report
PIU              Project Implementation Unit
QBS              Quality Based Selection
SA               Special Account
SOE              Statement of Expenditure
UB               Ulaanbaatar
USAID            United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:   Ian C. Porter
Sector Manager/Director:    Carlos R. Escudero
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Carlos R. Escudero



MONGOLIA
LEGAL AND JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                         Page
1. Project development objective                                                         2
2. Key performance indicators                                                             2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project        3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                             3
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project                         9
4. Learning and innovation expectations                                                  10
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   11
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                         12
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements                                                12
D. Project Rationale
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                              12
2. Financial                                                                             12
3. Technical                                                                             12
4. Institutional                                                                         13
5. Environrental                                                                         14
6. Social                                                                                14
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                    15
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                        16
2. Critical risks                                                                        16
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                        17
G. Main Credit Conditions



1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             17
2. OtherAssurances                                                                     17
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           19
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          19
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           20
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     23
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          29
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                    30
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                31
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        33
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      39
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    40
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   41
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             42
MAP(S)



MONGOLIA
Legal and Judicial Reform Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
LEGEA
Date: November 19, 2001                           Team Leader: Carlos Ricardo Escudero
Country Manager/Director: Ian C. Porter           Sector Manager/Director: Carlos Ricardo Escudero
Project ID: P074001                               Sector(s): BJ - Judicial Reformn
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation       Theme(s): Public Sector
Lending (LIL)                  Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit     1 Grant      ( ] Guarantee    [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount:sDR 4 million (US$5 million equivalent)
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                          Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.50%                             Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                             Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        0.55           0.00          0.55
IDA                                                             1.65           3.35          5.00
Total:                                                          2.20           3.35          5.55
Borrower: MONGOLIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF JUSTICE AND HOME AFFAIRS
Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs
Address: 210646 Khudaldaani, gudamj 6/A, Ulaanbaatar-46, Mongolia
Contact Person: Munkh-Orgil Tsend, Deputy Minister of Justice and Home Affairs
Tel: 976-11-325225            Fax: 976-11-325225; 976-11-311483           Email:
munhorgil@mongolnet.mn
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004       2005
Annual    2.70        1.50       0.50       0.30
Cumulative    2.70        4.20       4.70       5.00
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 04/30/2002  Expected closing date:  10/31/2005
=S VAD F- A. .    2sw



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project overall objective is to enhance public trust and confidence in the legal system as a
whole and the judiciary in particular through the design and testing of new tools and systems that
promote better access to legal information, the creation of specialized courts and an improved
legal education and profession. Since the idea of focusing on the user's perception of the justice
system is very delicate, and the behavior changes are unpredictable, a pilot project has been
deemed necessary to track the performances and reactions on a smaller scale before expanding on
a larger level. This would be attained through the design of new tools and processes that will
promote a more transparent, equitable and effective legal and judicial system.
Lack of legal information is a constraint to confidence in the system and its performance and thus
in the Rule of Law. Moreover making the legal information available to the public is not enough;
the user should know how to use it to access justice. Another serious threat to the implementation
of good governance and the Rule of Law in Mongolia is the absence of an adequate system to
protect against infringement of individual's rights by the state institutions or its representatives.
The project would, therefore, test mechanisms to foster access of the public to legal and judicial
infonnation, improve its awareness toward the rule of law, establish norms and procedures for the
exercise of the legal profession and create a new branch of the judiciary that will protect the civil
society against any infringement of their rights by the state institutions and/or its representatives.
In summary, the project will support the integration of four main challenges of the justice system
in Mongolia: "Independence". "fairness". "accessibility" and "effectiveness".
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Among other key performance indicators for monitoring and evaluation purposes the project
would include:
a)  Establishment and operation of the Center of Legal and Judicial Information, Research and
Trainimg;
b) Implementation of the two levels administrative courts (one at the Supreme Court level, one
at the Capital city court level and one at Darkhan Aimag);
c) Level of involvement and motivation of the public in the use of the Center and the pilot
Administrative courts;
d) Development of a methodology to monitor the effectiveness of the Legal Education Quality
Assessment within the renewed curricula;
e) Design of training materials and handbooks for the legal professional's licensure exams.
- 2 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number:  17604- MOG    Date of latest CAS discussion: June 2, 1998
The Association's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) reviewed by IDA's Executive Director on
June 2, 1998, supports the government's primary goal of poverty alleviation. The program is
based on a four pronged approach: a) supporting macro-economic stabilization; b) facilitating
private sector development; c) investing in infrastructure; and d) promoting greater equity in
development. The CAS also emphasizes closer coordination with other donors and broader
participation of stakeholders in program design and implementation. In addition, the Interim
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper prepared by Mongolia (I-PRSP, IDA-SecM2001-0557), which
was reviewed by IDA's Executive Directors on September 27, 2001 sets forth an active legal
reform agenda as a necessary factor for the creation of a stable macroeconomic framework
conducive to growth and increase in private investment to support Mongolia's poverty reduction
strategy. The project would contribute to the Bank's country assistance strategy and support the
Government's poverty reduction strategy, since facilitating the private sector development as well
as promoting greater equity in development rely heavily on the existence of a transparent,
equitable and effective justice system. The project tackles the popular demand for strengthening
the rule of law and enhance active participation of citizens in the reform process. The LIL is
proposing to back a core set of reforms on a pilot basis, focusing on those which user's
perception of the legal system in general and the judiciary in particular would be enhanced to
foster private sector development, help reducing poverty and inequality and promote better access
to justice. It will also follow the CAS emphasis on closer coordination with other donors and
broader participation of stakeholders in program design and implementation.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background:
For the past decade, Mongolia has been undergoing a transition toward modemizing its legal
system, establishing political democracy, and creating a market economy. The Rule of Law is
equally important for both objectives: the development of a market economy and a democratic
state. Strong, autonomous, and respected courts are the necessary parts of an effective legal
order. A market-oriented economy entails countless transactions among private and public
actors, and these transactions are based upon confidence that the social environment is sufficiently
stable and predictable to make them worthwhile. A sound legal and judicial system and rule based
regulatory systems play a pivotal role in the effective operation of private sector development. It
creates certainty of legal rights, predictability of enforcement, encourages private investment and
market based solutions for delivery of services, which are all fundamental for economic growth
and poverty reduction.
Following the disintegration of the socialist bloc led by the Soviet Union, Mongolia embarked on
a radical and comprehensive reform path encompassing all spheres of the nation's political,
economic and social life. In pursuing this reform, the following objectives have been laid out by
the Government:
-3-



*  To make the transition from a planned economy dependent on investment from Soviet Union
and other socialist countries into a market-based economy to ensure political and economic
independence and sustainable development;
*  To build a civil and a democratic society with full adherence to the principle of respect for
human rights and the rule of law; and
*  To become a full fledged member of the international community.
In order to achieve the above goals there was an urgent need to establish a basic legal framework
within which society could evolve itself politically and economically while maintaining its culture
and identity.
The first stage of reform culminated in 1992 with the adoption of a new democratic Constitution.
Since then efforts have been made to establish the legislative framework necessary for a new
political and economic system. In 1998, the Ih Hural (Parliament) of Mongolia adopted the Legal
Reform Program that sets the new basic directions structured upon the appraisal of new demands
for further reforms.
The Legal Reform Program:
The Legal Reform Program was adopted by January 1998 Ih Hural Resolution. It determines the
basic direction of activities to be undertaken to ensure the effective implementation of the
Constitution and legal reform in the country for the purposes of building "the humane civil society
" and "creation of the legal basis andfavorable environment for economic development". The
program reflects the need for the next stage of legal reform and encompasses the conceptual
policy of the Mongolian Government and society as a whole.
The General Provisions of the Legal Reform Program state the basic directions of implementation
of the Program. They are classified as follows:
I. Development of the legal basis for ensuring the sovereignty of Mongolia.
2.  Perfection of the legal basis of economic relations.
3. Ensurance of human rights freedoms and its legal guarantees.
4. Perfection of the legal basis of state structure.
5. Creation of the environment for legal reform.
6. Perfection of the training of legal professionals.
7. Broadening of participation of Mongolia in international legal regulations.
The Legal Needs Assessment (LNA!:
In June 1999, the World Bank funded the LNA for Mongolia. The assessment process was based
on the assumption that the legal reform must be designed by the country itself. The problems and
needs were identified by the Mongolian authorities and major actors involved in the legal sphere
through open debates and consultation.
-4 -



The LNA report analyzed the activities carried out under the Legal Reform Program and served
two purposes. The first was to assess major problems affecting the efficiency of the newly shaped
legal system and identify the programs needed to help the government to design further legal
reform activities. The second was to provide information to the external donor community for
designing upcoming legal reform projects and to coordinate activities that have been or are being
carried out as part of the legal reform process. There was a coordinated effort of Govermnent,
Parliament, Judiciary, scholars and civil society to assess their needs for legal and judicial reform
in their country.
To further achieve the objectives of the Legal Reform Program the following areas for assistance
were identified:
1.  Legislative drafting: development and coordination.
2.  Judicial and criminal justice reform.
3.  Legal profession: improvement of legal education and bar development.
4.  Legal scholarship: development of materials and research databases.
5.  Public awareness: dissemination of legal information.
6.  Coordination and harmonization of International treaties
The Strategic Plan for the Justice System:
On 4 May 2000, the Ih Hural (parliament) adopted the Strategic Plan for the Justice System of
Mongolia. This plan is a strategic document which clarifies the direction of development of bodies
of the judiciary within the frame of overall Legal Reform and, more significantly, sets strategic
goals to define the Mongolian judiciary with comprehensive and coordinated activities planned for
its implementation. This document was prepared by a working group that involved representatives
of all judiciary bodies and experts of the USAID.
The plan raises the need for the judiciary to protect its political, economic, organizational and
decision-making independence as the first fundamental value. Among strategic goals to do so, the
plan states the provision of an oversight mechanism on wrongful decisions made by the executive
branch through the creation of a court specializing in adjudication of administrative cases.
Other major fundamental values pointed in the plan were fairness and accessibility. The plan
stresses the necessity to treat all citizens with respect and to consistently apply only the law. This
will be guaranteed by ensuring correct application and strict observance of the laws by the justice
system. In this regard, dissemination of new legislation, Supreme Court interpretation and court
decisions would be developed. To enhance accessibility of the Justice System the plan focuses on
the need to improve the relations with the public and to provide it with legal information. Legal
education and legal profession were also pointed as strategic principles to ensure effectiveness of
the justice system.
The Strategic Plan was based on six fundamental values:
- 5 -



1.    Independence: The ability of the judiciary to protect its political, economic, organizational
and decision-making independence for the purpose of balancing powers among the legislative,
executive and judicial branches.
2.    Accountability: The ability of the justice system to use public resources efficiently. It
includes personal accountability on the part of all individuals who work in the justice for their
daily work habits, actions, and ethical behavior.
3.    Responsiveness: The ability of the justice system to anticipate and timely respond to the
changing needs of society.
4.     Fairness: The ability to treat all with respect and to consistently apply only the law.
5.    Accessibility: The ability of the justice system to be convenient, timely, and affordable to
everyone with a legitimate concern.
6.    Effectiveness: The ability to uphold and apply the law consistently throughout the
country.
State of the Judiciarv:
The Constitution of 1992 formalized the separation of powers between the judicial and other
branches of the government, ensuring the judiciary's independent status. The Constitution also
introduced judicial standards, such as the right to a fair trial, the right to counsel, and the
presumption of innocence. The court structure has been transformed by significantly reducing the
number of courts, abolishing the military and railway courts and those for hearing the state-owned
enterprises, and introducing a constitutional court.
Profile:
The court system in Mongolia is divided into courts of general jurisdiction and constitutional
courts.
There are three levels of courts of general jurisdiction:
-   Soum, intersoum and district courts have jurisdiction only at first instance and deal with
offenses and less serious crimes and civil disputes where the amount is less than 10 million
tugrug.
-   Aimag and city courts, found in the aimag capitals, and the Capital City Court in
Ulaanbaatar have first instance jurisdiction in cases of more serious crime and in civil matters
where the amount of dispute is over 10 million tugrug. They also deal with appeals from the
lower level courts. The judges of these courts sit in both first instance and appeal cases.
-   The Supreme Court deals with any matters at first instance that are not specifically within
the jurisdiction of the other courts and appeals from decisions of the Aimag courts and the
Capital City Court.
-6 -



Specialized courts may also be established to hear special cases of criminal, civil or
administrative nature.
The Constitutional Court examines and settles constitutional disputes at the request of the Ih
Hural, the President, the Prime Minister, the Supreme Court, the General Prosecutor, on its own
initiative, or on the basis of a petition received from a citizen. The Constitutional Court is
composed of three members nominated by the Parliament, three by the President, and three by the
Supreme Court, all of whom serve six-year terms.
The General Council of Courts (GCC) created by Article 49 of the Constitution ensures the
independence of the judiciary. The role of the Council includes submitting proposals to the Ih
Hural on the judiciary's budget, personnel and court buildings, recommending candidates for
appointment to the judiciary (judges are appointed by the President), organizing training courses
for judges, ranking them and deciding issues regarding benefits of judges and court officers. It is
composed of twelve members: the Chief Justice, the General Prosecutor, the Minister of Justice
and Home Affairs (MOJHA), a Secretary appointed by the President, two members appointed by
the Supreme Court, two by the Ih Hural, two representing the Aimag and Capital City courts, and
two representing the courts of first instance.
Challenges facing the Judiciary:
The public confidence in the judicial system is very low. This lack of trust is mainly due to the
perception of lack of transparency and accountability, absence of information regarding court
decisions, significant administrative cases, extensive case backlogs, limited independence of the
judiciary, etc. Surveys and consultations (NGOs and roundtables) conducted in Mongolia revealed
that the public was least confident in the Judiciary system. The central challenge of the judiciary at
this stage is to enhance the public trust by being more transparent, more accessible and more
efficient.
State of the Law:
The massive drafting of laws in the 1990s frequently assisted by advisors from legal traditions of
different countries has resulted in many laws that are inconsistent and in contradiction to each
other. In some instances, the laws have been prepared without taking into account local traditions,
cultural and linguistic background and existing legislation. Moreover, many laws have been
drafted with a narrow sectoral view and interest, thereby causing the adoption of these laws that
are detached from the objectives of national socio-economic development and that overlook
economic priorities and the scarcity of resources. Many laws emerged in an autonomous way
without any ties to any social or economic necessity.
According to the statistics of the Secretariat of the Ih Hural, 177 laws were adopted and 144 laws
were changed and amended between July 1992 and July 1996. Between July 1996 and 20 January,
2000, 160 laws were adopted and 247 laws were amended and changed.
-7 -



This massive amount of existing laws need a comprehensive review to avoid contradictions if any,
and undertake follow-up work on reconciliation of legislation. No less important is the fact that
these laws are yet to be disseminated to the public. Even if they get to hear about the enacting of
some of these laws they neither know what kind of rights and obligations these laws are granting
them nor how to take advantage of them. Results of surveys clearly represent the urgent need to
enhance and strengthen the rule of law and make this process readily accessible and clear to the
public.
Legal Profession:
Both during the socialist period and today there are four main professional groups of lawyers in
Mongolia:
-  The judges.
-  The prosecutor: lawyers representing the state.
-  The advocates: lawyers admitted to practice law, provide legal advice and represent in
courts.
-  The notaries: lawyers who witness or authenticate documents.
In addition, there is a growing group of governnent lawyers and new law school graduates.
While the economy and society were heavily regulated by the state, citizens had little need for
legal advice unless they were involved in a criminal case. In the last five years, the most
burgeoning profession among lawyers has become an advocate. From 200 people in 1994, the
Association of Mongolian Advocates had grown to 500.
The Law on Advocacy came into effect at the beginning of 1995 and outlined the structure of the
advocacy profession. It does not regulate government legal advisors who are specifically
prohibited from joining the Association of Mongolian Advocates (AMA). Under the new law,
advocates may provide legal advice, prepare legal documents and represent their clients in court
and before administrative organs and participate in investigations.
All advocates should be mandated to be members of the Association of Mongolian Advocates,
which is independent of the government and funded by a levy of six percent of its members' dues.
To qualify as an advocate, it is necessary to have a law degree, no criminal record, and to pass an
examination administered by the AMA and MOJHA.
However, they have no exclusive rights to represent before the court and a defendant may choose
to be represented in court by a lay person. Article 7.2 of the Law of Mongolian Advocacy
provides for: "A citizen has the right to defend himself or may be defended by trusted person who
had not been criminally convicted, even if that person does not satisfy the requirement of
paragraph 1 of this Article."
Legal Education:
Legal education is currently provided by 31 law schools. According to data provided by MOJIIA
and dated 12 February 2001, the number of law students currently enrolled in these universities is
- 8 -



approximately 5,995. More than a half of the law student population is enrolled in the four main
universities. From 31 law schools only one is a public university, the rest are privately-owned.
Only two private law school are accredited.
At the end of April 2001, the MOJHA is planning to conduct a revision of all law schools
nationwide. This would include the screening of curricula and the level of law professors.
With the transition to a market economy, Mongolia has altered the basis of social and economic
relationships, and thus, the essence and justification of the legal system. To meet this challenge,
legal education has to be restructured in terms of having a unified curricula standard applicable to
all accredited law schools, the choice of courses, their content and their presentation. Moreover, a
rigorous system of entry to the practice of the legal profession must be adopted based on equal
treatment, fairness, competition and qualifications.
3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project:
The main objective of the project is to test whether better access to legal information, the creation
of specialized courts and an improved legal education and profession would increase public trust
and respect for the judiciary to enhance access to justice. Since the idea of focusing on the user's
perception of the justice system is very delicate, and the behavior changes are unpredictable, one
strategic choice was to start with a pilot project to track the performances and reactions on a
smaller scale before expanding on a larger level.
A  second key choice was  to adopt a participatory approach during preparation and
implementation of the project. This includes involvement of judges, court personnel, academia,
advocates and lawyers, the public, NGOs and others involved in the reform process. The third and
final strategic choice was to take into consideration user's perception towards the legal and
judicial system and its consequences on access to justice. The Mongolian Government has
identified the need to develop, test and refine new strategic tools, mechanisms and processes on a
pilot basis before replicating and scaling up nationwide. This would provide an option to fine tune
the mechanisms needed as project implementation progresses.
The project's components would address the following issues (see Annex 1 and 4):
(1)   Development of an Administrative Court System  in Mongolia to promote
transparency and governance. This specialized court system is considered as an essential
guarantee of the rule of law with emphasis on equity and fairness. The component would include
the refurbishing of allocated space for the functioning of three pilot courts in Ulaanbaatar
(Supreme Court and Capital City Court) and one at a selected aimag (Darkhan), training all
administrative judges, public awareness campaign, introducing new techniques of case and court
management within these administrative courts and, gathering and publication of data on court
personnel and public opinion.
(2)   Knowledge sharine and capacity building to foster access to justice through the
establishment and operation of the National Center for Legal and Judicial Information, Research
-9-



and Training. This Center will develop new tools for the dissemination of legal and judicial
information and public awareness activities. The legal and judicial database to be developed would
be available to link with the judiciary through the USAID judicial reform project. It will also be
linked to Ih Hural and other agencies. The center will also house a research unit and training
activities including those currently funded by other donors (see Annex 6).
(3)   Enhancement of the legal education and the legal profession to provide market
based solutions for better delivery of services, through the adoption of a revised and unified
curricula for all law schools and modem teaching methods, training of professors and monitoring
the effectiveness of the revised curricula and teaching methods. The component would also
include the design and implementation of high standard requirements and examination for practice
of the legal profession.
The components of the project interlink in a way that the legal professionals would have an access
to the existing legislation and court decisions through the center. The public would get educated
via the public awareness activities, increase their knowledge of the justice system and be able to
use efficiently this legislative and judicial database for protection of their rights. The creation of
the administrative court system will enable the public to defend itself against the wrongful
decisions of any administration whether it is a government agency or a private entity with public
service purpose. The participation in improving the legal education and profession would allow
the public to have access to qualified legal professionals.
(4)   Strengthening of the Proiect Implementation Unit, capacity to implement legal and
Judicial projects through the provision of consultants' services and training.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
I Economic    E Technical    1 Social       Z Participation
I Financial    Z Institutional  El Environmental El Other
- 10 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative            Bank-       % of
Component                   Sector         Costs     % of    financing    Bank-
(US$M)    Total      (US$M)  financing
1- Begin to set up the Administrative   Judicial Reforn  1.22      22.0      0.95       19.0
Court System in Mongolia to promote
transparency and governance.
l.a Begin a communication awareness
campaign for the administrative court
system
l.b Training of administrative judges
and court personnel
l1c Providing a physical infrastructure
for the pilot administrative courts
l.d Introducing new court
management and case administration
techniques for pilot courts.
2- Knowledge sharing and capacity    Judicial Reform     3.35      60.4       3.07      61.4
building to foster access to justice
2.a Conducting comprehensive public
awareness activities and dissernination
of legal and judicial information
2.b Establishment of an electronic legal
and judicial database.
2.c Providing physical infrastructure
for the National Center for Legal and
Judicial Infornation, Research and
Training, staff training, equipment and
computers.
3.Enhancing the legal education and the Judicial Reform  0.65      11.7       0.65      13.0
legal profession to provide market
based solutions for better delivery of
services.
3.a Providing training for trainers
3.b Development of techniques to
monitor the effectiveness of legal
education quality assessment.
3.c Improve the legal profession.
4. Project Unit Support           Judicial Reform        0.33       5.9       0.33       6.6
Total Project Costs                    5.55      100.0      5.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                      5.55      100.0      5.00      100.0
- 11 -



2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
To achieve a better access to justice and enhance public trust and confidence in the legal system as
a whole and the judiciary in particular, through the design and testing of new tools and systems.
This, in turn, will promote a more transparent, equitable and effective legal and judicial system.
By doing so, the project would strengthen the rule of law and the State's role as its guarantor and
source. It would therefore promote good governance.
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
The main project benefit would be a more transparent, equitable and effective legal and judicial
system. The project would demonstrate that by focusing on users' needs through:
* a more transparent and understandable justice system;
* a more equitable judiciary that will protect the population from infringements of its rights by
the state institutions and/or its representatives; and
* a better service provided by a more qualified legal profession at large, it would achieve a
better access to justice and enhance public trust and confidence in the justice system as a
whole. The project would meet CAS objective regarding private sector development since
economic activity can be expected to benefit from increased trust in the legal and judicial
system. The Administrative court system would attain the CAS objective related to equitable
development.
D. Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph B: 3.]
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
A least costly approach has been adopted to reach the objectives of this project.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
Not applicable
Fiscal Impact:
3. Technical:
[For LIL, enter data if applicable or 'Not Applicable']
Project's technical issues are appropriate to Borrower's needs. Technological tools for data
gathering and design of an electronic legal and judicial database have been evaluated to be viable.
Technologies selected for training and learning are appropriate and adapted to the technological
- 12 -



level of Borrower.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
a. Executing agency:
The Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs (MOJHA) will be the executing agency for the project.
Its mandate covers a whole range of functions including the overall policy and coordination of the
judiciary and monitoring of decisions of the executive and administrative bodies that have legal
implications. In addition, MOJHA is responsible for legislative drafting, legal research and
technical assistance, organization of the judicial system and implementing the state policy towards
the judicial.  MOJHA  has experienced with World Bank-assisted projects (Beltac, Legal
component) and those of other donors active in the legal and judicial sector (GTZ, ADB, Hans
Seidel Foundation, Soros Foundation and USAID, among others). MOJHA is, therefore, best
suited to handle the execution of the project and to coordinate among major actors, such as the
Supreme Court, the General Council of Courts and the donors community.
4.2 Project management:
A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been established within MOJHA and will be responsible
for management and implementation of the project. The PIU is being set up and staff is being
identified. The PIU will be composed of a Project Coordinator, a Deputy Project Coordinator
cum Procurement Specialist, an Accountant and a Translator cum Implementation Officer.
Appointment of these key staff will be a condition of effectiveness.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement issues will be handled by the PIU. Training and constant follow-up will be provided to the
unit.
4.4 Financial management issues:
PIU will be in charge of financial management of the project.
The task team has conducted an assessment of the adequacy of the project financial management system of
the Mongolia Legal Reform Project. The assessment, based on guidelines issued by the Financial
Management Sector Board on June 30, 2001, has concluded that the project meets minimum Bank financial
management requirements, as stipulated in BP/OP 10.02. A financial management manual will be
developed and a simplified computerized financial management system, satisfactory to IDA will be put in
place as conditions of effectiveness. A qualified project accountant will be appointed. Training and
follow-up will be provided to the unit. Subject to satisfactory completion of the Action Plan outlined in
Annex C, the project will have in place an adequate project financial management system that can provide,
with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project in the reporting
format agreed with the project and as required by the Bank.
No outstanding audits or audit issues exist with the implementing agency involved in the proposed project.
Audit reports will be provide to the IDA within six months of the end of each calendar year in accordance
with the TOR acceptable to IDA.
- 13-



Funding sources for the project include Bank loan and counterpart funds. Bank loan will be signed
between the Bank and the Ministry of Finance and Economy (MOFE) and flow from the Bank to Project
Implementing Unit (PIJ), created under the Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs (MOJHA) and where
special account for the project will be managed, and to contractors or suppliers. As Bank loan will be
repaid with government budget, no on-lend agreement is required between MOFE and MOJHA. In terms
of disbursement technique, the project will be disbursing based on the traditional disbursement technique
and will not be using PMR-based disbursements after discussion with MOFE. Contribution of counterpart
funds would be in kind, namely, land and landscaping for the center and buildings to be refurbished for the
Administrative Courts.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
NA
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
NA
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
NA
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
NA
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
NA
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project has been designed to target the population as a whole and those at disadvantage, in
particular, the poorest. A survey conducted by the "Sant Maral" foundation on a representative
sample of population from Ulaanbaatar and Domogobi, Bayanhongor, Hovd, Huvsgul Aimags
was published in March 2001. It shows that the public confidence in the judicial system is very
low. This lack of trust is due to the perception of lack of transparency and accountability of the
judiciary. Within the same survey, the public stressed that the most important in Mongolia for
transparency and accountability was to strengthen the rule of law and the active citizen
participation in country affairs. This shows a strong awareness on the need for the reform of the
justice system in general.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The Legal and Judicial reform project was prepared using a participatory approach. As part of this
process, a Legal Needs Assessment was prepared. The assessment process was based on the
assumption that legal reform must be designed by the country itself. The problems and needs were
- 14 -



identified in Mongolia by local authorities and major actors involved in the legal sphere through
open debates and consultations. Roundtables composed of officials of the Mongolian government
and representatives of civil society were organized to discuss issues and share opinions in an open
forum. Another roundtable gathered the donor community to discuss information and comments
regarding the findings of previous roundtables. Other information and observations were gathered
through interviews with officials of Mongolian government agencies, non-governmental
organizations, legal professionals, practitioners, business people and representatives of civil
society. The output of these extensive consultation was the Legal Needs Assessment based on
which components of the project were identified.
The participatory process will continue during project implementation through consultations with
the Coordinating Committee for Legal Reform Projects, NGOs, academia and donors community.
Since the main target of the project is the user of the justice system, consultations with the public
and NGOs was integrated as part of component B related to public awareness activities. This will
help the project track the results of pilot tools and fine tune them in accordance with users' needs
and reactions to the reform process.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The project would include constant consultation and follow-up with NGOs during implementation
to evaluate the results obtained at each stage of the project implementation. This will help to test
and adapt the tools being applied and design next steps according to the public's behavior. The
project will therefore benefit from the NGO's field experience to design and test tailored solutions
and to be closer to the public. Promoting partnership between NGOs, MOJHA and the judiciary
would foster achieving the project objectives and build ownership among all concerned.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The Coordinating Committee for Legal Reform Projects established within MOJHA would
provide policy guidance and oversee achievement of the social outcomes under the project. The
Steering Committee will also coordinate the activities under the project with that of other donors.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
User's and staff surveys as well as annual evaluations and quarterly progress reports will be used
to monitor and measure project performance in terms of social development outcomes.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                 Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)       0 Yes * No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)               0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                              0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                               0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                         0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                          0 Yes 0 No
-15 -



Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    |  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*          OYes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
NA
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This section is not to be completed in L1L PAD.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth coluni of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Enacting the legislation on Resolving        M         Commitment of the Government to speed -up
Administrative Cases (Administrative                   the process and lobbying within Parliament.
Court System) delayed.                                 Law is planned to be enacted prior to
effectiveness
Space for pilot administrative court is not  M         MOJHA has identified space.
made available
Land for construction of the National        N         Land has been identified and allocated to
Center for Legal and Judicial information,             MOJHA for use by the Center.
research and training is not made
available.
Problems in dissemination of laws and        M         Project has strong government and civil society
judicial decisions and public awareness,               support. Constant coordination with policy
policy makers and staff will not be                    makers and staff to raise consciousness about
receptive.                                             importance of dissemination and public
awareness.
From Components to Outputs
Procurement difficulties delay               M         Constant follow-up, training and supervision are
implementation.                                        planned within implementation.
PIU ability to implement the project         M         Project implementation unit will be composed of
proves inadequate                                      technical and specialized staff and trained
accordingly.
Overall Risk Rating                          M         Constant monitoring and evaluation will
minimize the risks and permit early detection of
problems if any.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 16 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
This project requires a strong input from stakeholders in order to ensure important public involvement and
participation in the project. Efforts will be carried out to foster project objectives which includes
enhancement of public trust and confidence in the legal system as a whole and the judiciary in particular.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
The following events are specified as additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement:
(a)  the Steering Committee has been established;
(b)  the Borrower, through MOJHA, has retained the services of a Project Coordinator, Deputy Project
Coordinator cum Procurement Specialist, Accountant and Translator cum Implementation Officer
and assigned them to the PIU;
(c)  the Center has been established and its Director and Scientific Secretary have been appointed;
(d)  the Borrower, through MOJHA, has fumished to the Association evidence satisfactory to the
Association that the Municipality of Ulaanbaatar has assigned to MOJHA the land required for the
construction of the Center; and
(e)  the PIU has adopted a financial management manual, satisfactory to the Association, to ensure
proper accounting, monitoring and reporting of Project operations, resources and expenditures.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Assurances:
1.    For purposes of carrying out component A of the Project the Borrower would:
(a)  by not later than May 31, 2002, adopt a strategy and detailed time-bound action plan for
carrying out the public awareness campaign for the Development of the Administrative
Court System satisfactory to the Association;
(b)  by not later than May 31, 2002, adopt a training program and detailed time-bound action
plan for carrying out the training of the prospective administrative judges and court
personnel, satisfactory to the Association;
(c)  by not later than May 31, 2002, furmish to the Association for its approval the architectural
designs for the refurbishing of the buildings that would host the selected pilot Administrative
Courts, including the bidding documents and a detailed time-bound action plan for carrying
out the works;
(d)  by not later than May 31, 2002, prepare manuals for court management and case
administration and adopt a program and time-bound action plan for publication and
dissemination of decisions of the administrative courts, satisfactory to the Association;
(e)  by November 30, 2002, and pursuant to the provisions of the Law on Administrative Court
System, appoint judges and court personnel, which appointment shall take place by January
1, 2003;
- 17 -



(f)  ensure that each Judge of the Administrative Court System is, concurrently with his/her
appointment provided with support staff in adequate numbers, individual office space and
support staff office space, office equipment including computers, and such other resources as
shall be required to ensure the effective, transparent and efficient operation of such
Administrative Courts;
(g)  by November 30, 2002, prepare a program and time-bound action plan of gathering and
publication of data on court performance and public opinion, satisfactory to the Association;
and
(h)  by January 31, 2003, discuss with the Association the findings and recommendations of the
program of gathering and publication of data on court performance and public opinion
surveys implemented pursuant to sub-paragraph (g) above, and prepare a time-bound action
plan, satisfactory to the Association for applying to the other Administrative Courts the
lessons leamed.
2.    In carrying out component B of the Project the Borrower shall by not later than May 31, 2002:
(a)  furnish to the Association for its approval the architectural designs for the construction of
the building for the Center, including the bidding documents and a detailed time-bound action
plan for carrying out the works;
(b) furnish to the Association for its approval a short-list and the Letter of Invitation of
Proposals, including terms of reference and proposed contract, for retaining the services of
the Director and Scientific Secretary of the Center; and
(c) furnish to the Association for its approval a time-bound Action Plan for the design,
implementation and operation of the legal and judicial database information system.
3.     In carrying out component C of the Project the Borrower shall by not later than May 31, 2002,
furnish to the Association for its review and comments a proposed training program an a detailed-action
plan for enhancing the programs within the two selected pilot Law Schools, as well as a proposal to
develop a nationwide unified examination for law graduates.
- 18-



H. Readiness for Implementation
FO I . a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
CD 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
E 2. The following exceptions to Baik policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank polic:cIs.
_                                     __t                    _ _     _       _
Carlos Ricamro Eacudero     WiEula kicarbo Eacunro              n C. Por
Team  Leader                   Sector MmnhgerlDlr.cr           Counrty MutmeifDiracor
-19-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MONGOLIA: Legal and Judicial Reform Project
More information on Logframes
Key Performance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives        Indicators                                    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:      Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
1- Facilitate private sector  1- More transparent  Progress report and user    1- Private sector and foreign
development.             equitable and effective   survey updates           investors to respond
justice system.                                    positively to improved legal
and judicial framework.
2- Promote greater equity in 2- Better access to justice                    2- Continued commitment
development.                                                                to transformation toward
political democracy and
market economy.
3- Improved level of public
trust and confidence in the
legal system as a whole and
the judiciary in particular.
Follow-on Development
Objective:
Project Development      Outcome / Impact          Project reports:         (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:               Indicators:
to test whether an increase  1- Level to which legal and  Progress reports and user   I - Enhanced public trust
of public trust and respect  judicial information is  survey updates.       and respect of the legal and
for the judiciary through    accessible and shared with  Pr                 judicial system will foster
better legal information, the different categories of civil  Poject-sponsoredvjudi better access to justice, and
creation of specialized  society.                                           may encourage the
courts and an improved   2- the adequacy of                                 replication of
legal education as well as   communication strategy                         communication tools and
legal profession would   manifested by an increase of                       mechanisms used in the
enhance better access to    Public trust and respect for                    pilot program, nationwide.
justice                  the judiciary.                                     2- The effectiveness and
3- Degree to which                                 efficiency of new
Administrative Court
System are developed and                           System will serve as a
become operative.                                  demonstration effect" in
implementation and
4- Degree to which                                 operation of other
developed monitor                                  specialized courts to ensure
methodology shows                                  greater equity in
effectiveness of legal                             development and foster
education within renewed                           private sector development.
- 20 -



curricula.
curricula.                               3- Lessons learned in this
5- Adequacy of designed                         Legal and Judicial
training materials for legal                    Reform(LJR) LIL may be
profession's exams.                             applied to an extended LJR
project.
Output from each        Output Indicators:       Project reports:        (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Establishment and       Pilot administrative     Progress reports, annual  Legislative changes are
successful operation of   courts fully operational,  evaluations and surveys.  enacted and implemented.
pilot Administrative    efficient and
Courts.                 administrative judges
trained.
Achieving capacity      Center built and                                 Positive behavior of the
building for a unified  operational and                                  public towards
system of legal and     dissemination and public                         dissemination and public
judicial information.   awareness tools designed                         awareness tools.
and tested.
Strengthening the legal   Law professors trained                         Continued Government
education through       and monitoring tools for                         support to reform and
extensive training for law quality assessment of new                     follow-up with
professors and          program  developed and                           implementation of tested
improvement of legal    tested.                                          methods and tools.
profession.
Bar examination program
developed and tested.
Project Components /    Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:     (from Components to
Sub-components:         component)                                       Outputs)
(1) Establishment of    US$ 0.95 million         Project progress reports  Legislative changes are
Administrative Court                                                     enacted and implemented.
System.
(2) Capacity building for  US$ 3.07 million      Disbursement reports    PIU receives support
a unified system of legal                       (quarterly).             from MOJHA during
- 21 -



and judicial information.                                           start-up and
implementation.
(3) Improvement of legal US$ 0.65 million    Audit reports (Annually). Timely procurement of
education and legal                                                 works, goods and
profession.                                                         services.
(4) Strengthening of the  US $ 0.33 million  Update reports from PIU.
PIU
- 22 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
MONGOLIA: Legal and Judicial Reform Project
Introduction:
Following the disintegration of the socialist bloc led by the Soviet Union, Mongolia embarked on
a radical and comprehensive reform path encompassing all spheres of the nation's political,
economic and social life. In pursuing this reform, the following objectives have been laid out by
the Government:
*  To make the transition from a planned economy dependent on investment from Soviet Union
and other socialist countries into a market based economy to ensure political and economic
independence and sustainable development;
*  To build a civil and a democratic society with full adherence to the principle of respect for
human rights and the rule of law; and
*  To become a full fledged member of the international community.
In order to achieve the above goals there was an urgent need to establish a basic legal framework
within which society could evolve itself politically and economically while maintaining its culture
and identity.
To enhance this above mentioned area the Bank proposed a legal and judicial reform project to
test whether better access to legal information, the creation of specialized courts and an improved
legal education and profession would increase public trust and respect for the judiciary to
enhance access to justice.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$0.95 million
Begin to set up the Administrative Court System (ACS) in Mongolia to promote
transparency and 2overnance:
The Constitution (1992) provides that the state shall be responsible for ensuring citizen's human
rights and freedoms and to fight against violation of human rights and freedoms and to restore
infringed rights (Article 19.1).
One of the main guarantees for the right application of the Rule of Law is the creation of a
specialized court dedicated to settling cases related to the infringement of citizen's rights by any
agency or official who has a power to issue administrative acts that must be followed. The
establishment and operation of administrative courts should be considered as a high priority with
regard to the protection of human rights. In this respect, the Constitution states that specialized
courts such as criminal, civil and administrative courts may be formed (Article 48.1).
Furthermore, as above mentioned, the need to create administrative courts is stated in the
Strategic Plan for the Justice System of Mongolia (2000), among strategic goals to ensure
independence of the judiciary.
- 23 -



Establishment and operation nationwide of a specialized court system to foster the rule of law by
settling cases related to the infringement of citizen's rights by any agency or government official
empowered to handle proceedings and issue mandatory decisions on administrative acts,
including: (i) the provision of training for administrative judges and court personnel, (ii)
publication of manuals and provisions of necessary academic material therefore, and (iii)
development of a communication strategy for public awareness to promote public participation
and access to the administrative courts.
At the Supreme Court level, at Capital City Court and at a selected Aimag, Administrative Courts
would be established; this includes, provision of office spaces for judges and court personnel and
chambers, including court, design manuals for court management and case administration,
publication and dissemination of decisions of the administrative courts, development of a program
of gathering and publication of data on court performance and public opinion surveys, and
provision of office equipment and computers, and consultants' services.
The draft law states that there would be around 3 administrative judges per aimag and an
independent court at the city court. The Supreme court would have an administrative chamber
composed of 6 judges. The total number of administrative judges would then be of approximately
76 (Table 1).
Table 1- Number of Administrative judges
Courts        Aimags (21)        City       Supreme    Total
Court
Judges    3 judges per aimag   7 judges    1 Chamber
Total      63                 7          6            76
The project would provide an extensive training for administrative judges. It would also support
the publication of manuals and acquisition of necessary academic material in order to guarantee a
full specialization of the administrative judges.
The project will support the development of a communication strategy for public awareness
regarding the new ACS. It will promote public participation and access to administrative courts.
Pro bono legal assistance for the poor, access to justice for young people and women, timeliness
of publication of administrative decisions are among the features to be put into practice. It would
support the development of a program of gathering and publication of data on court performance
and public opinion survey, to improve transparency and enhance public trust and respect toward
these new courts.
- 24 -



Collaboration with other external donors and other non-governmental organization will be
fostered inter alia, to design administrative procedures to ensure the efficiency of the
administrative courts. Dissemination of administrative manuals and implementation plans are
considered for a better application of administrative and automated procedures. The project will
ensure that the administrative staff gets the adequate training regarding these procedures. It would
also support the production of reliable case statistics and design and deployment of performance
standards.
Project Component 2 - US$3.07 million
Knowledge sharin2 and Cavacity building! to foster access to iustice:
The project addresses learning needs for the justice system. It would support the development of
new work methods, attitudes and behaviors for improving communications (with the public, and
with other donors), legal education, policy research and timeliness in the publication legal and
judicial information.
A pilot Center for Mongolian lawyers, judges and the public in general, would be established and
operational. This center should be a place where the above mentioned could have access to legal
and judicial information, get trained, discuss with professors about their findings and get a
professional advice. The Center would include:
*   A database for dissemination of laws and commentaries, Supreme Court and Constitutional
Court decisions and commentaries, government and ministries resolutions and decrees,
international treaties, municipal and provincial ordinances and other relevant information as
well as data regarding donors' assistance on legal reform projects.
e   A public awareness program regarding the Legal and Judicial System, as well as a pro bono
legal clinic.
*   A comprehensive legal library for public use.
*   A unified and modernized training area to house all on-going training programs for judges,
lawyers, prosecutors and other civil servants, funded by other donors
*   A research unit specialized in analyzing the draft laws, their impact on the different economic
sectors and levels of society, the sociological survey of the legislation and the legal statistics
regarding courts, notaries and any other relevant data.
The IDA credit would provide support in building the required physical infrastructure. Land and
related landscaping will be provided by the government. IDA credit would also provide the
acquisition of adequate equipment and technical assistance. The project will ensure the adequate
training of the staff of the Center in order to provide for the fully operational Center. The project
will also assist in the design of a strategy for the marketing of the Center.
- 25 -



MOJHA has compiled the existing legislation in a hard copy that is concentrated within the
Ministry and so far exists for the use of the MOJHA itself and some government ministries. A
legal electronic database was also designed. It is composed of more than 3000 laws and
regulations. It includes laws, Ih Hural and government resolutions, and ministerial ordinances. In
addition, MOJHA is inputting the constitutional court decisions, presidential decrees, and
international treaties to which Mongolia is a signatory. So far, the electronic database is in
Mongolian language only. Its access is limited to the government agencies and few private
businesses (upon request). As a result of budget shortfalls, the MOJHA has neither the means to
transmit the legal database to all users, in particular judges, nor the required infrastructure to
compile the complete legal database and transmit it in a reasonable time to the users. The project
will begin to provide support to digitize the complete existing legal database and provide with the
necessary infrastructure and procedures to allow a timely update.
At present, judges and clerks, advocates, prosecutors and general public face a complete absence
of internal and external channels of court decisions information. Court decisions are not accessible
to the public. The Supreme Court's reputation is solely based on what journalists write in the
newspapers. The only publication provided by the Supreme Court is a volume of commentaries on
the new laws. However this publication does not reach all judges in the countryside, and the
public in general does not have access to this information either.
The project would start setting up the grounds to ensure that the Supreme Court decisions be
published in order to increase transparency and ease the understanding of court decisions. The
project will seek to identify the most accessible source of information and will support the design
of an electronic judicial database.
MOJHA is responsible for the public awareness activities, governors of the administrative units
(aimag) are also entitled to conduct this activity in the countryside. At present, the MOJIIA has
developed its public awareness activity with the preparation of the video-taped series, distribution
of informative brochures, radio programs and field lectures series. Due to the lack of funding,
limited qualified personnel and inadequate infrastructure, these activities have been occasional
and were not expanded neither geographically nor topic-wise.
The results of a survey conducted by the MOJHA among 840 residents of one district in
Ulaanbaatar on Feb 25, 2001 showed that 87.6 % of the persons thought it was necessary to get
legal information and knowledge of the legal system. 77.4% evaluated their knowledge of law as
very mediocre and low-level. 64% of the respondents chose the form of legal education through
special courses offered after the job or through long-distance courses (Table 2). Therefore, there
is an urgent need to develop the public awareness campaign to make the legal and judicial
informnation accessible and understandable.
- 26 -



Table 2- Necessity of Public Awareness Campaign
__________________________________________________ Percentage
Necessity to get legal information and knowledge of the justice  87.6 %
system
Poor knowledge of law as per their self-evaluation               77.4%
Public awareness through special courses after their jobs or through  64%
long-distance courses
Public awareness provided by the employer after working hours    19%
Public awareness through radio and video                         19%
Public awareness through internet                                10.4%
The project will support the development of tools that gives satisfactory results and design new
efficient mechanisms for public awareness. It will also design tailored techniques of public
awareness based on the needs of the population and will provide with procedures, expertise and
the necessary infrastructure to ensure the provision of these mechanisms at the lowest cost. It will
start making the process of drafting the laws accessible to the public in order to enhance civil
participation in the strengthening of the rule of law.
Legal and judicial dissemination of information is a primary function of MOJHA, and the
governors of administrative units (aimags). So far, this activity has been limited to the printing of
pertinent laws and disseminating it to the public. Due to absence of funding and very limited
infrastructure, the MOJHA does not have the capacity to print the law immediately after its
adoption, but it prints volumes of 10-12 laws and sells them. The provincial and administrative
units have no budget for disseminating laws whatsoever. The volumes of laws are sold only within
UB, there are no mechanisms of sale outside the city. This creates a situation where the rural
areas outside of UB are not capable of getting laws on a sufficient basis. Judges are provided with
the legal information through the General Council of Courts.
The project would assist in the creation of arrangements for the dissemination of legal and judicial
information in a timely manner, to make the laws and the jurisprudence more accessible. It would
design new techniques of legal and judicial dissemination of information, such as the establishment
and operation on a pilot basis of legal and judicial information kiosk within areas of concentration
of population, i.e. in the lower level courts or municipalities. It would also include the
development of a website that will unify all the available legal and judicial information with
monitoring of its access in order to control its efficiency.
- 27 -



Project Component 3 - US$ 0.65 million
Start enhancing the Legal Education and Legal Profession to provide market based
solutions for better delivery of services:
Legal education has to be restructured in terms of, having a unified curricula to all accredited law
schools, the choice of courses, their content and their presentation. It would also be necessary to
set requirements for the law school to meet with international standards. The project will
participate in the implementation of the revised legal education program with extensive training of
trainers (law professors) sub-component.
The project would assist the law professors in two selected pilot law schools, to get the necessary
training materials and methodology of teaching in order to be able to provide courses adapted to
the new curricula.
The Project would assist in the development of methodology to monitor the effectiveness of Legal
Education Quality Assessment within renewed curricula.
In support of the Mongolian government's program to set up the legal profession standard, the
project will aim to assist in the administration of the nationwide examination. This will include
organizing training programs for all lawyers, designing and providing with training material and
handbooks.
Project Component 4 - US$0.33 million
Stren2thenin2 of the Project Implementation Unit, to irnplement legal and judicial projects
through the provision of consultants' services and training.
- 28 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MONGOLIA: Legal and Judicial Reform Project
Local         Foreign          Total
Project Cost By Component                       US $million    US $million    US $million
Component 1                                                          0.85            0.10            0.95
Component 2                                                          2.20            0.87            3.07
Component 3                                                          0.30            0.35            0.65
Component 4                                                          0.00            0.33            0.33
Total Baseline Cost                                                  3.35            1.65            5.00
Physical Contingencies                                              0.00            0.00           0.00
Price Contingencies                                                 0.00            0.00           0.00
Total Project Costs'                    3.35            1.65            5.00
Total Financing Required                      3.35            1.65            5.00
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 5.55 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 90.09% of total
project cost net of taxes.
-29 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
MONGOLIA: Legal and Judicial Reform Project
Not Applicable
- 30 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MONGOLIA: Legal and Judicial Reform Project
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
A project management board comprising members from MOFE, MOJHA, PIU, Supreme Court and
General Counsel of Courts will be formed to provide guidance and monitor project implementation. The
project will be executed by the Project Implementing Unit (PIU) which was officially established on August
24, 2001 within MOJHA. PIU will be composed of Project Coordinator, Deputy Project Coordinator,
Procurement Officer, Accountant and Technical Staff.
A financial management assessment was carried out during appraisal. The Report dated October 22, 2001
can be found in files. The assessment has concluded that the projects will meet minimum Bank financial
management requirements upon completion of an action plan to improve financial management of the
project. A time-bound action plan has been developed and agreed by the governnent to address
deficiencies or inadequacies identified during assessment.
Adequate project accounting staff with educational background and work experience commensurate with
the work they are expected to perform is one of the factors critical to successful implementation of project
financial management. The task team has already provided a one-day training on August 29, 2001 for the
project's staff and addressed in detail the accounting information system tailored for the project and Bank's
disbursement procedures.  However, the task team plans to provide further training in financial
management to project accounting staff prior to effectiveness.
To strengthen financial management capability and achieve consistent quality of accounting work, a project
financial management manual will be prepared. The manual will provide detailed guidelines on financial
management, internal controls, accounting procedures, fund and asset management and withdrawal
application procedures. A draft manual will be available to the Bank for comments prior to the end of
year 2001 and finalized manual will be issued before project effectiveness. A qualified project accountant
will be appointed prior to the effectiveness. A simple computerized financial management system (i.e.a
PC) will be put in place by effectiveness.
Currently, there are no accounting regulations stipulated by MOFE for Bank's projects in Mongolia, and
the projects can design their own accounting system in line with IAS and the requirements of the donor.
Consequently, the task team drafted for the project an accounting system in line with IAS and the Bank's
requirements. Accrual accounting and double-entry bookkeeping basis will be adopted for the project.
PIU will be managing, monitoring and maintaining project accounts. Original supporting documents for
project activities will be retained by PIU.
Reporting and Monitoring and Format of Financial Statements
The format and content of the following financial statements have been discussed and agreed among the
task team, MOFE and PIU. Project financial statements will be submitted to the Bank on semi-annual
basis (prior to October 1 and April 1 of the subsequent year) and include the following four statements:
Balance Sheet
Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds by Project Component
Statement of Implementing of Credit Agreement
- 31 -



Statement of Special Account
PIU will prepare project financial statements and sent to the Bank for comments on a semi-annual basis.
Audit
There will be no separate, independent internal audit function for the project. However, the MOFE will
carry out similar function through regular supervision. The Bank requires that project financial statements
be audited in accordance with standards acceptable to the Bank. Arthur Anderson Mongolia Office, which
would be acceptable to the Bank, has been engaged to carry out the audit of this project. Audit reports on
annual project financial statement will be due to the Bank with 6 months of the end of each calendar year,
with a separate opinion on Statement of Expenditures and Special Account.
Financial Management Action Plan
Action                      Responsible Entity          Completion Date
1. Prepare a draft financial  PIU                       December 31, 2001
management manual available
for Bank's comments
2. Adopt a financial management PIU                      Before effectiveness
manual and a simple
computerized financial
management system acceptable
to IDA
3. Provide training in financial  PIU/MOFE/World Bank    Before effectiveness
management to relevant staff
4. Appoint a qualified project   PIU                     Before effectiveness
accountant acceptable to IDA
Funds Flow
A special account (SA) for the project will be set up at the central bank, which is acceptable to the Bank.
The special Account will be jointly managed by PIU and MOFE. The funds flow is as follows:
The World Bank             SA (managed by MOF            Suppliers and
I           I | and PIU)                 I Contractors
The contribution of the Government of Mongolia would be in kind, namely, land and landscaping for the
Center and buildings to be refurbished for the Administrative Courts.
- 32 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MONGOLIA: Legal and Judicial Reform Project
Procurement
1. The procurement capacity of the PIU, was assessed in the course of a mission to Mongolia in
October 2001. A report of this assessment is in project files. Mongolian National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) procedures for works have been reviewed by the Bank and found some deviations
in the internal procurement procedures, such as conditions for foreign participation, local
preferences, inadequate qualification requirements and evaluation criteria, bracketing and award
criteria. The Implementing Agency is fully aware and committed to strict compliance with the
Bank's procurement procedures/policies Bank-fnanced contracts. In case there are any
discrepancies between local policy and Bank's requirement, the bank policies and guidelines will
prevail. Special attention should be paid to ensure that the following procedures are followed:
a.  all invitations to Bid shall be advertised in a newspaper of national circulation;
b.  qualification requirements of bidders and method of evaluating the qualifications of each
bidders and method of evaluating the qualifications of each bidder shall be specified in detail
in the bidding   documents;
c.  the bidding documents will specify in detail the appropriate evaluation criteria;
d. no bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls outside any standard
contract estimate or margin or bracketing; and
e.  each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder, that is to say, the bidder who
meets appropriate standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been determined:
(i) to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (ii) to offer the lowest
evaluated price. The winning bidder shall not be required, as condition of award, to
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding documents or otherwise to
modify the bid originally submitted.
2. Implementation arrangements. The Project Implementation Unit will be responsible for all
procurement under the project. The PIU will coordinate the procurement processing work,
relying on technical inputsfrom staff in different departments, construction supervision and local
consultants. An assessment of the PIU capacity to implement procurement was completed prior to
and during project appraisal. The report is available in project file.
3. Through implementation of the BELTAC project, the PIU staff has accumulated 4 years of
experience with World Bank procurement guidelines and procedures. The procurement process
has generally been handled satisfactorily. However, improvement is needed in following the
issuing of new Bank guidelines and the requirements of the newly enacted procurement law,
including those for procurement planning. The risk of non-compliance with World Bank
guidelines is rated as average. The risk will also be mitigated by the assistance, guidance and
inputs from the World Bank Office in Mongolia and the World Bank Office in Bangkok. In
addition, training and coaching of PIU staff, and close IDA supervision of procurement
processing are critical for this project.
- 33 -



4. A supplemental letter addressing specific measures regarding NCB procedures will be signed
together with the Development Credit Agreement.
5. IDA will finance goods and civil works according to World Bank Guidelines for procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated January 1995 and revised January and August 1996,
September 1997, and January 1999. The borrower will be required to use the World Bank
Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for goods and works, other Bank SBDs as appropriate to
the specific project needs; and the World Bank Standard Form of Contracts for Consultant
Services. A price preference of 7.5 % for works contracts will apply in bid evaluation only to
domestic firms and joint ventures thereof with no more thanlO% sub contracting to foreign firms.
Joint Ventures between foreign and domestic firms do not qualify for domestic preference.
Consultants will be selected following the Guidelines for the Selection and Employement of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997, and revised in September 1997 and
January 1999, using Standard Request for Proposals dated July 1997 and revised in April 1998
and January 1999.
6. Civil Works: Aggregate value US$ 1.98 million of which IDA financing US$ 1.43 million
including contingencies. All civil works contracts will be subject to IDA's prior review.
a.   International Competitive Bidding (ICB): Construction of National Center for Legal and
Judicial Information, Research and Training building of an aggregate value of US$ 1.22 million of
which IDA financing US$ 1.1 million including contingencies.
b.    NCB: Rehabilitation of Administrative Courts physical space of an aggregate value of US$
0.36 million of which IDA financing US$ 0.33 million including contingencies.
7. Goods: aggregate value of US$ 1.17 million totally financed by IDA including contingencies.
Procurement of goods estimated to cost more than US$ 50,000 would be subject to IDA's prior
review.
ICB procedures in accordance with World Bank Guidelines would be used to procure print shop
equipment and Software and Hardware for legal and judicial database totaling about US$ 0.62
million. International and National Shopping would be used to provide other goods up to an
aggregate of US$ 0.55 million.
8. Consultant Services and Training: Aggregate value US$ 2.2 million totally financed by IDA
including contingencies.
QBS procedures in accordance with World Bank Guidelines would be used for public awareness
campaign, case and court management and training.
Sole source procedures would be applied to select architectural services for the refurbishing of the
Courts under component A and architectural services for the Center under component B.
Least cost procedures in accordance with World Bank Guidelines would be used for Audit; and
Individual contracts for all consultants of PIU and the Center.
- 34 -



Procurement activities related to the selection of consulting firms for contracts estimated to cost
US$ 100,00 or more, and for individual consultants for contracts estimated at or over US$
50,000, will be subject to IDA's pnror review. Expenditures on training activities and workshops
will also be subject to IDA prior review.
9. Incremental Operating costs: US$ 0.2 million.
Incremental operating costs including contingencies related to (i) the PIU on account of Project
implementation, including: office supplies, telecommunications expenses, audits, travel costs
including per diem, but excluding salaries or salary supplements of officials of the Borrower's civil
service working in the PIU, (ii) the Center on account of the implementation of Part B of the
Project during the Borrower's Fiscal years 2002 and 2003, including office supplies,
telecommunications expenses, but excluding salaries or salary supplements of officials of the
Borrower's civil service working in the Center (which expenditures would not have been incurred
absent the project).
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB          Other'        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                             1.22            0.36           0.00         0.40         1.98
(1.10)          (0.33)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (1.43)
2. Goods                             0.62            0.00           0.55          0.00        1.17
(0.62)          (0.00)        (0.55)        (0.00)       (1.17)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00           2.20          0.00        2.20
(0.00)          (0.00)        (2.20)        (0.00)       (2.20)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00             0.00          0.20          0.00        0.20
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.20)        (0.00)      (0.20)
Total                             1.84             0.36          2.95          0.40        5.55
(1.72)          (0.33)        (2.95)        (0.00)      (5.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2'1) QCBS: Foreign: 0.60   Local: 0.05
2) Consultant Qualifications: 0.97
N.B.F= Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultancies under
trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items).
The figures may not tally because of rounding off.
- 35 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)              Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                        >500                     ICB                      All
<500                    NCB                      All
2. Goods                        >100                     ICB                      All
<50<100                    IS                       All
<50                      IS                      None
3. Services
Firms                           >100                     QCBS                     All
Individuals                     >50                      CQ                       All
<50                     Sole Source              None
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 36 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
1.    The project will be disbursed following the traditional disbursement techniques and will not be
using PMR-based disbursements. Credit proceeds would be disbursed against eligible expenditures as
follows (i) civil works - 90%, (ii) Goods - 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory) and 85% of other items procured locally, and (iii) consultant services, training and incremental
operating costs - 100% of expenditures.
2.    Disbursement methods, such as replenishment, direct payment and special commitment, are
available for the project. The SOE limits will be set up as follow: (i) all contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $ 50,000 or less; (ii) all contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $
100,000 or less; (iii) consultant estimated to cost $ 100,000 or less for the consulting firm and $ 50,000 or
less for individual consultants.
3.    To expedite disbursements one special account (SA) will be established for the project and jointly
managed by MOFE and PIU. However, PIU will be directly responsible for the management, monitoring,
maintenance and reconciliation of the SA activities of the project. The SA would be opened in a
comnmercial bank acceptable to the Association. The authorized allocation of SA will be equivalent to
about 4 months of eligible expenses reimbursed via SA. The authorized allocation of SA is proposed to not
exceed $500,000 with an initial deposit of $250,000 until the amount disbursed and committed equals to
SDR 800,000 ($1million).
4.    Supporting document required for Bank disbursement will be prepared and submitted by PIU to
MOFE for verification and approval. Withdrawal applications however will be signed off by authorized
staff from both MOFE and PIU before sending by MOFE to the Bank for further disbursement processing.
Withdrawal application processing flow is as follows:
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
1. Works                                    1.30                         90 %
2. Goods                                    0.90           100 % of Foreign Expenditures; 100 %
Local Expenditures (ex. factory cost) and
85 % for other items procured locally.
3. Consultants' Services and Training       2.10                         100 %
4. Operational Costs, etc.                  0.15
5. Unallocated                              0.55
Total Project Costs                         5.00
Total                                       5.00
N.B : Retroactive financing in the amount of US$ 100,000 equivalent would be provided to
cover the costs of the PIU and the Center and categories 2, 3 and 4 for expenditures incurred
after August 1, 2001.
Accounting and Reporting Arrangements
The Project Coordinator of the PIU Legal component under the Bank-assisted Beltac Project has been
designated as the Project Coordinator for this project. The PIU under Beltac had established a
- 37 -



computerized accounting system to record and report expenditures. This system would be replicated under
the project. A certified public accountant would be retained by the PIU as condition of effectiveness. The
internal control framework within the PIU includes a manual to be adopted as condition of effectiveness.
The project is not considered eligible for PMR-based disbursements. Traditional disbursements methods
will be issued.
- 38 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MONGOLIA: Legal and Judicial Reform Project
Project Schedule                                   Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       24                            24
First Bank mission (identification)              11/01/1999                    11/01/1999
Appraisal mission departure                      11/01/2001                    10/10/2001
Negotiations                                     12/01/2001                    11/19/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    04/30/2002                    04/30/2002
Prepared by:
Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Speciality
Carlos R. Escudero                 Task Manager and Chief Counsel, LEGEA
Karine Abdelnoor                   Consultant (LJR Specialist), LEGEA
Sarangua Davaadorj                 Consultant (LNA Specialist), LEGEA
Dr. Philip Langbroek               Consultant, Institute of Constitutional and Administrative Law, The
Netherlands.
Rosa E. Muleta                     Sr. Disbursement Officer, LOAG3
Chau-Ching Chen                    Sr. Financial Management Specialist, EACCF
Yi Dong                            Disbursement Officer (China) EACCF
R. I Gopalkrishnan                 Consultant (Procurement Specialist), EAPCO
Bat-Orgil Turbold                  Project Coordinator, MOJHA-PIU Staff
Mrs. Oyunchimeg Dash               Deputy Project Coordinator, MOJHA-PIU Staff
Malini Rangarajan                  Program Assistant, LEGOP
Mazhar Farid                       Program Assistant, LEGOP
Peer Reviewers:
Maria Dakolias                     Lead Counsel, LEGOP
Waleed H. Malik                    Sr. Public Sector Management Specialist, LCSPS
- 39 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MONGOLIA: Legal and Judicial Reform Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan (PIP) complete with related Annexes including those providing description,
costs, project implementation schedule and performance indicators.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Mongolia Legal Needs Assessment (LEGEA, World Bank)
*  Procurement Assessment (R.I Gopalkrishnan, EAPCO)
* Financial Management Assessment (Chau Ching Shen, Sr. FMS, EACCF and Yi Dong,
Disbursement Officer-China, EACCF)
* Comparative review of Draft Law on Resolving Administrative cases (Dr. Philip Langbroek,
Institute of Constitutional and Administrative Law, The Netherlands).
C. Other
* The Strategic Plan for the Justice System (Document prepared by representatives of all
judiciary bodies and experts of the USAID)
=  Rules and Regulations of the National Center on Legal and Judicial Research, Training,
Information and Publicity (Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs)
*Including electronic files
- 40 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MONGOLIA: Legal and Judicial Reform Project
19-Nov-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Orginal Amount in US$ Millions                               disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                        IBRD         IDA                         Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frn Revd
P040907       2001 ENERGY SECTOR                                       0.00     30.00                            0.00      30.21      0.85       0.00
P056200       2001 MN-Transport Develop                                0.00     34.00                            0.00      30.97      6.14       0.00
P068071       2000 Mongolia Fin Sector Adjustment Credit               0.00     32.00                            0.00      19.23       4.46      0.00
P049789        1999 MN-PRIV.SEC. DEVT CR                               0.00     12.00                            0.00       8.41      4.58       0.00
P051855        1998 MN-Fiscal Technical Assistance Project             0.00      5.00                            0.00       3.46       3.54      0.00
P036052       1998 MG-ULAANBMTAR SERV.IMP                              0.00     16.70                            0.00       6.37       5.34      0.95
P035697       1996 MONGOLIA COAL PROJ.                                 0.00     35.00                            0.00       0.46       3.08      0.00
Total:       0.00      164.70                           0.00       99.11     27.97       0.95
MONGOLIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
MAY-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                   Disbursed
IFC                                        IFC
FY Approval               Company                                  Loan    Equity        Quasi    Partic        Loan    Equity        Quasi    Partic
1997                      SEF G&M  Leather                          1.05       0.20       0.00       0.00       1.05       0.20        0.00       0.00
Total Portfolio:                  1.05       0.20       0.00        0.00        1.05      0.20        0.00       0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval              Company                                      Loan        Equity        Quasi        Partic
2001                     SEF XAC                                       0.40         0.00          0.00         0.00
Total Pending Commitment:                    0.40          0.00         0.00         0.00
-41 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MONGOLIA: Legal and Judicial Reform Project
East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               Asia &      Low-
Mongolia    Pacific  income        Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                          2.4      1,853     2,459                  Life expectancy
GNt per capita (Atlas method, US$)                       390      1,060       420
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                        0.95      1,964     1,030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                           1.1        1.1       1.9      G                                 G
Labor force (%J                                          1.9        1.4       2.4      GNI                              pGross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                                  capita                        enrollmenl
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)     36
Urban population (% of total population)                  64         35        32
Life expectancv at birth (vears)                          67         69        59
Infant mortalitv (per 1, 000 live births)                 58         35        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                1 3        1 3        ,,          Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)      60         75        76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                      37         14        38
Gross primarv enrollment (% of school-aqe population)     88        119        96            -M       ongolia
Male                                                    86       121        102                   Low-income group
Female                                                  91       121         86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990       1999      2000
-        Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                               ..       ..       0.91      0.97
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                           38.1       28.5      30.0
Exports of qoods and services/GDP                       24.0       61.2      65.5                      Trade
Gross domestic savinqs/GDP                               9.2       15.1      13.6
Gross national savinqs/GDP                                 .       14.8      12.9
Current account balance/GDP                                       -13.7     -17.1      Domestic   I           'n \e
Interest pavmentsGDP                             ,                  1.0        1.0     savings                       Investmeni
Total debUGDP                                                      98.4      88.6
Total debt service/exoorts                                          4.6       4.5
Present value of debt/GDP                                          55.9
Present value of debUexports                                       89.1
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   5.4       1.0      3.2        1.1        40                    Mongo)ia
GDP Per capita                        3.0      -0.3      2.3        0.3       2.0                     Low-income group
Exports of qoods and services                            4.7       12.8       3.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999      2000      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                             17.4       37.0      33.3
Industry                                                30.4       20.7      18.5    1lo. .
Manufacturing                                                     5.9        5,4      a -         _                     /
Services                                                52.2       42.4      48.2
Private consumption                               ,     58.4      68.8       66.3    .s I      5    sr   5?   96           ov
General government consumption                          32.4       18.1      20 0                      GDI    -O-GDP
Imports of goods and services                           52.9       74.6      81 9
1980-90  1990-00       1999      2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Aariculture                                     1.4      3.2        4.2        1.6    is
Industry                                        6.6     -0.5        1.1        1.1    ,s
Manufacturing                                                    -2.7        3.2     5
Services                                        8.4      0.1        3.4        0.8
Private consumption                                                 1.4       4.8      o            wi s  9a7   g8    4     00
General government consumPtion                                     -5.0       6.2    -5
Gross domestic investment                                          -3.6       12.4            -      Expons       CImports
Imports of qoods and services                                      -2.4      11 4
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with Its income-qroup averaoe. If data are missinq. the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 42 -



Mongolia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990        1999      2000       Inflation (Y)
Domestic Drices                                                                           go.
(% change)                                                                                io
Consumer prices                                     ..        ..       10.0       9.5      so
imolicitGOP detfator                ,                                    . 9.7   11.6  *40
Government finance                                                                         20
(% of GDP, includes current orants)                                                        e *        ,                 r
Current revenue                                     ..    54.1           ..        ..              95    96    97    98    99    00
Current budget balance                              ..      -1.5                                  -      GOP deflator  -CPl
Overall surplus/deficit                             ..   -14.5        -11.9      -9.9
TRADE
1980     1990        1999      2000       Export and Import leeals (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                 ..      661        454        529      goo
Copoer                                            ..      260         119         .     
Moat                                              ..       56                            goo .
Manufactures                                      ..
Total imports (cif)                                         924        567        679      4     * .
Food                                                                                     200 
Fuel and energV                                   ..
Capital goods                                     ..        ..         ..         ..
94   99   98   97   98   99   00
Exoort price index (1995=100)                       ..
Imoort price index (1995=100)                       .         ..                                          Exports      * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                           ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                   1980     1990        1999      2000       Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                       ..      493        554        635       s
Imports of goods and services                       ..   1.101         675        794
0~~~~~~~0
Resource balance                                    ..    -608        -121       -159o 
Net income                                                  -44         -tO       -15
Net current transfers                               ..        0          7          8
Current account balance                             ..    -651        -124       -166
Financing items (net)                               ..      598        140        224
Changes in net reserves                             ..       53         -16       -58      -20
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)              .,       ..        157        188
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                    ..       ..   1,021.9   1,076.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990        1999      2000
(US$ millions)                                                                             Compositlon of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstandinq and disbursed                ..       ..        891        859
IBRD                                              ..       ..          0          0                    F: 17 G0 14
IDA                                               ..       ..        130       137                      'e137
Total debt service                                  ..        ..        26         29
IBRD                                              ..       ..          0          0                   e.s
IDA                                               ..       ..          1          1
E: 337
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                  ..        ..         49
Official creditors                               ..        ..        151         46
Private creditors                                ..        ..         -3         -3
Foreign direct investment                                                                                         ... 0.30
Portfolio eouiy                                   ..       ..          0                                                304
World Bank program
Commitments                                      ..        ..         12         32      A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                    ..        ..         14         14      B- IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                             ..        ..          0          0      C - IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                         ..       ..         14         14
Interest payments                                ..        ..          1          1
Net transfers                                    ..        ..         13         13
Development Economics                                                                                                           11//501
-43 -






MAP SECTION






lIRD 31531
es.                            92'                             06'                             00.                            104'                            10O                            1/2'                             116'                                   52 I
052'
RUSSIAN  FEDERATION                                                                                                                              R U  RUSSIAN   FEDERATION
T. ffipT  /o-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
so'~~~Zi 32:   or ~~~~~Hyoros                                                                       h-U/                       DARHAN.                                                                           '           j   o~                 r
40                                                                           :4:'Ktet:0 
64A/I_cy                    hI                        Uj
\ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~I                                                             ogy  oc MondolgooT          Ho,doda  Ayo                         Honhor                     AN  OD
' ~~ | )>~~R/Nogon OEdntog RAIOD
oq- ~        ~         . 
T.H6o,61   Dom6 U/$_\                                                                                                                                          M       NGOLI
y-                                                  hi                      g~~lourD/rdogd                                                                 AN  OD
w  .1_ / ) >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~                                                                       RIVERS
t! ~  ~        ~       ~ ~            -"" .                                                             NATIONAL CAP/TML
100D           200        300       400        5000KILOM^E/OS                                                         '-                                                                                                      DA04POINECPT/
/                                                      DARH^IN ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRINCIPAL C/TIES
r^4mmptpnidbrchehbpDs;anuneoirewoddbintC                         H     I   N      A                                 --S                                                                                      0    OTHER SRLRCTED CIT/ES
/6. booodoniMs. co/orn,dorom,ocrioo, ood onyoh/ron iofomn,ooro shoown                                                                                                                                                                 PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
on hi5 mop do rol op/yp 00e /rporroforhr World/cS ooGrwp. ory                                                                                                                                                                          ITRAINLBUDRE
/cdoo.r nf i/rte /cosrorcrs of coy /orionrc0or coy erdor,nroorf or                                                                                                                                                                    IdEkOIldIBUDRE
02'                                  06'                                 IOD'                                  104'                                /00'                                  /12'                                 /16 'NE0
g6.     E BB



