Report No. PID10443
Project Name                     Mongolia-Legal and Judicial Reform Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Judicial Reform
Project ID                       MNPE74001
Borrower(s)                      MONGOLIA
Address MINISTRY OF JUSTICE
Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs
Address: 210646 Khudaldaani, gudamj 6/A,
Ulaanbaatar-46, Mongolia
Contact Person: Munh-Orgil Tsend, Deputy
Minister of Justice and Home
Affairs
Tel: 976-1-325225
Fax: 976-1-325225
Email: munhorgil@mongolnet.mn
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                May 22, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         November 1, 2001
Projected Board Date             January 31, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Background:For the past decade, Mongolia has been undergoing a transition
toward modernizing its legal system, establishing political democracy, and
creating a market economy. The rule of law is equally important for both
objectives: the development of a market economy and a democratic state.
Strong, autonomous, and respected courts are the necessary parts of an
effective legal order. A market-oriented economy entails countless
transactions among private and public actors, and these transactions are
based upon confidence that the social environment is sufficiently stable
and predictable to make them worthwhile. A sound legal and judicial system
and rule based regulatory systems play a pivotal role in the effective
operation of private sector development. It creates certainty of legal
rights, predictability of enforcement, encourages private investment and
market based solutions for delivery of services, which are all fundamental
for economic growth and poverty reduction.Following the disintegration of
the socialist bloc led by the Soviet Union, Mongolia embarked on a radical
and comprehensive reform path encompassing all spheres of the nation's
political, economic and social life. In pursuing this reform, the
following objectives have been laid out by the Government:n To make the
transition from a planned economy dependent on investment from Soviet
Union and other socialist countries into a market based economy to ensure
political and economic independence and sustainable development;n To build
a civil and a democratic society with full adherence to the principle of
respect for human rights and the rule of law; andn To become a full
fledged member of the international community.In order to achieve the
above goals there was an urgent need to establish a basic legal framework
within which society could evolve itself politically and economically
while maintaining its culture and identity.    The first stage of reform



culminated in 1992 with the adoption of a new democratic Constitution.
Since then efforts have been made to establish the legislative framework
necessary for a new political and economic system. In 1998, the Ih Hural
(Parliament) of Mongolia adopted the Legal Reform Program that sets the
new basic directions structured upon the appraisal of new demands for
further reforms. The Legal Reform Program:The Legal Reform Program was
adopted by January 1998 Ih Hural Resolution. It determines the basic
direction of activities to be undertaken to ensure the effective
implementation of the Constitution and legal reform in the country for the
purposes of building the humane civil society and creation of the legal
basis and favorable environment for economic development. The program
reflects the need for the next stage of legal reform and encompassed the
conceptual policy of the Mongolian Government and society as a whole.The
General Provisions of the Legal Reform Program state the basic directions
of implementation of the Program. They are classified as follows:1.
Development of the legal basis for ensuring the sovereignty of Mongolia.2.
Perfection of the legal basis of economic relations.3. Ensurance of human
rights freedoms and its legal guarantees.4. Perfection of the legal basis
of state structure.5. Creation of the environment for legal reform.6.
Perfection of the training of legal professionals.7. Broadening of
participation of Mongolia in international legal regulations. The Legal
Needs Assessment (LNA):In June 1999, the World Bank funded the LNA for
Mongolia. The assessment process was based on the assumption that the
legal reform must be designed by the country itself. The problems and
needs were identified by the Mongolian authorities and major actors
involved in the legal sphere through open debates and consultation. The
LNA report analyzed the activities carried out under the Legal Reform
Program and served two purposes. The first was to assess major problems
affecting the efficiency of the newly shaped legal system and identify the
programs needed to help the government to design further legal reform
activities. The second was to provide information to the external donor
community for designing upcoming legal reform projects and to coordinate
activities that have been or are being carried out as part of the legal
reform process. There was a coordinated effort of Government, Parliament,
Judiciary, scholars and civil society to assess their needs for legal and
judicial reform in their country.To further achieve the objectives of the
Legal Reform Program the following areas for assistance were identified:1.
Legislative drafting: development and coordination.2. Judicial and
criminal justice reform.3. Legal profession: improvement of legal
education and bar development.4. Legal scholarship: development of
materials and research databases.5. Public awareness: dissemination of
legal information.6. Coordination and harmonization of International
treatiesThe Strategic Plan for the Justice System:On 4 May 2000, the Ih
Hural (parliament) adopted the Strategic Plan for the Justice System of
Mongolia. This plan is a strategic document which clarifies the direction
of development of bodies of the judiciary within the frame of overall
Legal Reform and, more significantly, sets strategic goals to define the
Mongolian judiciary with comprehensive and coordinated activities planned
for its implementation. This document was prepared by a working group that
involved representatives of all judiciary bodies and experts of the
USAID.   The plan raises the need for the judiciary to protect its
political, economic, organizational and decision-making independence as
the first fundamental value. Among strategic goals to do so, the plan
states the provision of an oversight mechanism on wrongful decisions made
by the executive branch through the creation of a court specializing in
-2 -



adjudication of administrative cases. Other major fundamental values
pointed in the plan were fairness and accessibility. The plan stresses the
necessity to treat all citizens with respect and to consistently apply
only the law. This will be guaranteed by ensuring correct application and
strict observance of the laws by the justice system. In this regard,
dissemination of new legislation, Supreme Court interpretation and court
decisions would be developed. To enhance accessibility of the Justice
System the plan focuses on the need to improve the relations with the
public and to provide it with legal information. Legal education and legal
profession were also pointed as strategic principles to ensure
effectiveness of the justice system. The Strategic Plan was based on six
fundamental values:1. Independence: The ability of the judiciary to
protect its political, economic, organizational and decision-making
independence for the purpose of balancing powers among the legislative,
executive and judicial branches.2. Accountability: The ability of the
justice system to use public resources efficiently. It includes personal
accountability on the part of all individuals who work in the justice for
their daily work habits, actions, and ethical behavior.3. Responsiveness:
The ability of the justice system to anticipate and timely respond to the
changing needs of society.4. Fairness: The ability to treat all with
respect and to consistently apply only the law.5. Accessibility: The
ability of the justice system to be convenient, timely, and affordable to
everyone with a legitimate concern.6. Effectiveness: The ability to
uphold and apply the law consistently throughout the country.State of the
Judiciary:The Constitution of 1992 formalized the separation of powers
between the judicial and other branches of the government, ensuring the
judiciary's independent status. The Constitution also introduced judicial
standards, such as the right to a fair trial, the right to counsel, and
the presumption of innocence. The court structure has been transformed by
significantly reducing the number of courts, abolishing the military and
railway courts and those for hearing the state-owned enterprises, and
introducing a constitutional court. Profile:The court system in Mongolia
is divided into courts of general jurisdiction and constitutional courts.
There are three levels of courts of general jurisdiction:- Soum, intersoum
and district courts have jurisdiction only at first instance and deal with
offenses and less serious crimes and civil disputes where the amount is
less than 10 million tugrug. - Aimag and city courts, found in the aimag
capitals, and the Capital City Court in Ulaanbaatar have first instance
jurisdiction in cases of more serious crime and in civil matters where the
amount of dispute is over 10 million tugrug. They also deal with appeals
from the lower level courts. The judges of these courts sit in both first
instance and appeal cases.- The Supreme Court deals with any matters at
first instance that are not specifically within the jurisdiction of the
other courts and appeals from decisions of the Aimag courts and the
Capital City Court.Specialized courts may also be established to hear
special cases of criminal, civil or administrative naturell Mongolian
State Law of Courts, article 4. .The Constitutional Court examines and
settles constitutional disputes at the request of the Ih Hural, the
President, the Prime Minister, the Supreme Court, the General Prosecutor,
on its own initiative, or on the basis of a petition received from a
citizen. The Constitutional Court is composed of three members nominated
by the Parliament, three by the president, and three by the Supreme Court,
all of whom serve six-year terms.The General Council of Courts (GCC)
created by Article 49 of the Constitution ensures the independence of the
judiciary. The role of the Council includes submitting proposals to the Ih
- 3-



Hural on the judiciary's budget, personnel and court buildings,
recommending candidates for appointment to the judiciary, organizing
training courses for judges, ranking them and deciding issues regarding
benefits of judges and -court officers. It is composed of twelve members:
the Chief Justice, the General Prosecutor, the Minister of Justice and
Home Affairs (MOJHA), a Secretary appointed by the President, two members
appointed by the Supreme Court, two by the Ih Hural, two representing the
Aimag and Capital City courts, and two representing the courts of first
instance.Challenges facing the Judiciary: The public confidence in the
judicial system is very low. This lack of trust is mainly due to the
perception of lack of transparency and accountability, absence of
information regarding court decisions, significant administrative cases,
extensive case backlogs, limited independence of the judiciary, etc.
Surveys and consultations (NGOs and roundtables) conducted in Mongolia
revealed that the public was least confident in the Judiciary system. The
central challenge of the judiciary at this stage is to enhance the public
trust by being more transparent, more accessible and more efficient. State
of the Law: The massive drafting of laws in the 1990s frequently assisted
by advisors from legal traditions of different countries has resulted in
many laws that are inconsistent and in contradiction to each other. In
some instances, the laws have been prepared without taking into account
local traditions, cultural and linguistic background and existing
legislation. Moreover, many laws have been drafted with a narrow sectoral
view and interest, thereby causing the adoption of these laws that are
detached from the objectives of national socio-economic development and
that overlook economic priorities and the scarcity of resources. Many laws
emerged in an autonomous way without -any ties to any social or economic
necessity. According to the statistics of the Secretariat of the Ih Hural,
177 laws were adopted and 144 laws were changed and amended between July
1992 and July 1996. Between July 1996 and 20 January, 2000, 160 laws were
adopted and 247 laws were amended and changed. This massive amount of
existing laws need a comprehensive review to avoid contradictions if any,
and undertake follow-up work on reconciliation of legislation. No less
important is the fact that these laws are yet to be disseminated to the
public. Even if they get to hear about the enacting of some of these laws
they neither know what kind of rights and obligations these laws are
granting them nor how to take advantage of them. Results of surveys
clearly represent the urgent need to enhance and strengthen the rule of
law and make this process readily accessible and clear to the public
(Annex 5). Legal Profession:Both during the socialist period and today
there are four main professional groups of lawyers in Mongolia: - The
judges - The prosecutor: lawyers representing the state.- The advocates:
lawyers admitted to practice law, provide legal advice and represent in
courts.- The notaries: lawyers who witness or authenticate documents.In
addition, there is a growing group of government lawyers and new law
school graduates.While the economy and society were heavily regulated by
the state, citizens had little need for legal advice unless they were
involved in a criminal case. In the last five years, the most burgeoning
profession among lawyers has become an advocate. From 200 people in 1994,
the Association of Mongolian Advocates had grown to 500.The Law on
Advocacy came into effect at the beginning of 1995 and outlined the
structure of the advocacy profession. It does not regulate government
legal advisors who are specifically prohibited from joining the
Association of Mongolian Advocates (AMA). Under the new law, advocates may
provide legal advice, prepare legal documents and -represent their clients
- 4 -



in court and before administrative organs and participate in
investigations. All advocates should be mandated to be members of the
Association of Mongolian Advocates, which is independent of the government
and funded by a levy of six percent of its members' dues. To qualify as an
advocate, it is necessary to have a law degree, no criminal record, and to
pass an examination administered by the AMA and MOJHA. However, they have
no exclusive rights to represent before the court and a defendant may
choose to be represented in court by a lay person. Article 7.2 of the Law
of Mongolian Advocacy provides for: A citizen has the right to defend
himself or may be defended by trusted person who had not been criminally
convicted, even if that person does not satisfy the requirement of
paragraph 1 of this Article Legal Education:Legal education is currently
provided by 31 law schools. According to data provided by MOJHA and dated
12 February 2001, the number of law students currently enrolled in these
universities is approximately 5,995. More than a half of the law student
population is enrolled in the four main universities. From 31 law schools
only one is a public university, the rest are privately-owned. Only one
private law school is accredited, Otgontenger University Law School. At
the end of April 2001, the MOJHA is planning to conduct a revision of all
law schools nationwide. This would include the screening of curricula and
the level of law professors.With the transition to a market economy,
Mongolia has altered the basis of social and economic relationships, and
thus, the essence and justification of the legal system. To meet this
challenge, legal education has to be restructured in terms of having a
unified curricula standards applicable to all accredited law schools, the
choice of courses, their content and their presentation. Moreover, a
rigorous system of entry to the practice of the legal profession must be
adopted based on equal treatment, fairness, competition and
qualifications.
2. Objectives
The project overall objective is to test whether better access to legal
information, the creation of specialized courts and an improved legal
education and profession would increase public trust and respect for the
judiciary to enhance access to justice. Since the idea of focusing on
the user's perception of the justice system is very delicate, and the
behavior changes are unpredictable, a pilot project has been deemed
necessary to track the performances and reactions on a smaller scale
before expanding on a larger level. This would be attained through the
design of new tools and processes that will promote a more transparent,
equitable and effective legal and judicial system.Lack of legal
information is a constraint to confidence in the system and its
performance. Moreover making the legal information available to the public
is not enough; the user should know how to use it to access justice.
Another serious threat to the implementation of good governance in
Mongolia is the absence of an adequate system to protect against
infringement of individual's rights by the state institutions or its
representatives.The project would, therefore, test mechanisms to foster
access of the public to legal and judicial information, improve its
awareness toward the rule of law, establish norms and procedures for the
exercise of the legal profession and create a new branch of the judiciary
that will protect the civil society against any infringement of -their
rights by the state institutions and /or its representatives. In summary,
the project will support the integration of four main challenges of the
justice system in Mongolia: Independence, fairness, accessibility
- 5 -



and effectiveness.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
4. Description
A- Begin to set up the Administrative Court System in Mongolia to promote
transparency and governance.
A.1 Begin a communication campaign for the administrative court system
A.2 Training of administrative judges and court personnel
A.3 Providing a physical infrastructure for the pilot administrative courts
A.4 Introducing new court management and case administration techniques
for pilot courts.
B- Knowledge sharing and capacity building to foster access to justice
B.1 Conducting comprehensive public awareness activities and dissemination
of legal and judicial information
B.2 Establishment of an electronic legal and judicial database.
B.3 Providing physical infrastructure for the National Center for Legal
and Judicial Information, Research and Training
C.Start enhancing the legal education and the legal profession to provide
market based solutions for better delivery of services.
C.1 Providing training for trainers
C.2 Development of techniques to monitor the effectiveness of legal
education quality assessment.
C.3 Start to improve the legal profession.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost       5.3
6. Implementation
Executing agency: The ministry of Justice and Home Affairs will implement
the project over 3 years.Project coordination: A project implementation
unit (PIU) is being identified and would be responsible for project
implementation.Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Monitoring of the
project will be carried out by the PIU. It will provide the Bank with
semi-annual reports on Project progress, by June 30 and December 31 of
each year, beginning June 2002. The coordinating Committee for Legal
Reform Projects will provide policy guidance. This committee was
constituted in year 2000 and is composed of:Head of Committee: Deputy
Minister of Justice and Home AffairsSecretary: Head of the Division for
Foreign Relations of Ministry of JusticeMembers: State Secretary of
Ministry of Justice Justice of the Supreme CourtDeputy General Secretary
of the Administrative Department of the State Great Ih HuralHead of the
Audit Department of the State Audit BoardDirector of the Department for
Legal and Consular Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign AffairsPresident of
the Mongolian Association of AdvocatesHead of the Department for Legal
Policy of Ministry of JusticeOfficer of Foreign Relations Division of
Ministry of Justice.The Bank will participate in monitoring project
implementation through periodic supervision missions taking into account,
among others, the annual work plans which will be provide to the Bank by
PIU starting 2002.
-6-



7. Sustainability
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         NA
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Carlos R. Escudero
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-1729
Fax: 202-522-1590
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending June 22, 2001.
- 7 -



