Page  1
CONFORMED
CREDIT NUMBER 3595 MOG
Development Credit Agreement
(Legal and Judicial Reform Project)
between
MONGOLIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 22, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3595 MOG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 22, 2002, between MONGOLIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement has requested the Association to assist in the 
Page  2
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, and the 
existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs 
(13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 
of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and 
‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.”; 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”; 
and
(c)
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows:
“(c)
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and 
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived 
from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective 
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Credit.”
Page  3
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Aimag Courts” means the appellate courts of the Judicial System of the 
Borrower at the provincial level. These courts have also first instance jurisdiction in certain 
legally prescribed matters.
(b)
“Capital City Courts” means the appellate courts of the Judicial System of the 
Borrower located  in Ulaanbaatar. These courts have also first instance jurisdiction in certain 
legally prescribed matters.  
(c)
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(d)
“Center” means the Center on Legal and Judicial Research, Training, 
Information and Publicity, a state-owned non-profit organization established by the Borrower 
under the jurisdiction of the MOJHA referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(e)
“Donors” means collectively the bilateral and multi-national organizations 
providing financial and technical support to the Borrower in legal and judicial reform matters, 
including the Asian Development Bank, Geselschaft fur Techniche Zusammenarbeit (GTZ), 
Hans Sidel, SOROS Foundation and the United States Agency for International Development 
(USAID).  
(f)
“General Council of Courts” means the Council established and operating 
pursuant to Article 49 of the Constitution of Mongolia (1992) and the Borrower’s Law on Courts 
dated February 4, 1993, as amended, to ensure the independency of the judiciary and whose role 
includes recommending to the President of Mongolia candidates for appointment to the judiciary, 
submitting to the Ih Hural the annual proposed budget for the judiciary and organizing training 
courses for judges, or any successor thereto.
(g)
“Ih Hural” means the Borrower’s Parliament established and operating under the 
Constitution of Mongolia (1992).
(h)
 “Law on Administrative Court System” means the law to be enacted by the Ih 
Hural providing for the establishment and operation of the specialized administrative court 
enshrined in Article 48.1 of the Constitution of Mongolia (1992), for purposes of (i) enforcing 
the application of the rule of law, and (ii) settling cases related to the infringement of citizen’s 
rights by any agency or official who has the power to issue mandatory administrative acts.
(i)
“MOFE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Economy, and any 
successor thereto. 
(j)
“MOJHA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs, and any 
successor thereto.
(k)
“Mongolia Association of Advocates” means the association of  lawyers 
established on April 16, 1928, currently functioning as a non-governmental grouping of lawyers 
in private practice. 
Page  4
(l)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
(m)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established within the MOJHA on 
August 24, 2001, by Decision No. 227 issued by the Minister, MOJHA,  whose role, functions 
and staffing needs are described in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(n)
“Steering Committee” means the committee established by the Borrower 
pursuant to paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(o)
 “Supreme Court” means the Borrower’s Supreme Court established and 
operating in accordance with Article 48, section 1 and Article 50, section 1 of the Constitution of 
Mongolia (1992) and the Borrower’s Law on Courts dated February 4, 1993, as amended.
(p)
 “Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to four million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars 
a
separate special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 2005, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
Page  5
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each January 15 and 
July 15 commencing January 15, 2012 and ending July 15, 2041. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on July 15, 2021 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
Page  6
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through 
MOJHA with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, legal education and judicial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the 
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Page  7
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account  for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said 
Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than July 31, 2002, or such later date as 
the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and (B) 
Page  8
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a 
Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
the Law on the Administrative Court System of the Borrower shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement; and
(b)
the Borrower’s Decision establishing the Center shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the 
Association to the Borrower.
Page  9
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of 
the General Conditions:
(a)
the Steering Committee has been established pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(b)
the MOJHA has issued a decision establishing the Center in accordance with 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c)
the Borrower, through MOJHA, has retained the services of a Project 
Coordinator, Deputy Project Coordinator cum Procurement Specialist, Accountant and 
Translator cum Implementation Officer and assigned them to the PIU, all pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(d)
the Borrower, through MOJHA, has furnished to the Association evidence 
satisfactory to the Association that the Municipality of Ulaanbaatar has assigned to 
MOJHA the land required for the construction of the Center; and
(e)
(i) the PIU has adopted a financial management manual and established a 
computerized financial management system, satisfactory to the Association, to ensure 
proper accounting, monitoring and reporting of Project operations, resources and 
expenditures; and (ii) the relevant staff of PIU have received financial management 
training in a manner satisfactory to the Association. 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Association, namely that the assignment of land to MOJHA for the construction 
and operation of the Center is in conformity with the laws of Mongolia on these matters.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Economy of the Borrower is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
Page  10
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
United Nations Street – 5/1
Ulaanbaatar – 210646
Mongolia
Facsimile:
976-11-320247
976-11-329272
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable Address:   
Telex :
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(1-202) 522-1590
Washington D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, as of the day and year first above written.
MONGOLIA
By
/s/
Chultemiin Ulaan
           Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/
Saha Dhevan Meyanathan
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Page  11
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
      % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent
)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
90%
          (a) under Part A 
                 of the Project
  240,000
          (b) under Part B
                 of the Project 
  800,000 
(2)
Goods       
100% of foreign
 (a) under Part A  
    80,000
expenditures,
of the Project
100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
(b) under Part B  
  720,000 
cost) and 85% of local 
        
of the Project 
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(3)
Consultants’
100%
services
and training:
(a)  PIU
  160,000
(b) Center
  160,000
(c) under Part A 
  360,000
                   of the Project
(d) Other
  940,000
(4)
Incremental operating
100% 
costs:
(a)
PIU
    70,000
(b)
Center
    40,000
(c)        Audit Fees
    20,000
(5)
Unallocated 
  410,000
TOTAL   
4,000,000
Page  12
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)  
the term "incremental operating costs" means the reasonable cost of incremental 
expenses incurred by: (i) the PIU on account of Project implementation, including: office 
supplies, telecommunications expenses, audits under Article IV of this Agreement, travel costs 
including per diem, but excluding salaries or salary supplements of officials of the Borrower’s 
civil service working in the PIU; and (ii)  the Center on account of  the implementation of Part B 
of the Project during the Borrower’s Fiscal Years 2002 and 2003, including office supplies, 
telecommunications expenses, but excluding salaries or salary supplements of officials of the 
Borrower’s civil service working in the Center (which expenditures would not have been 
incurred absent the Project). For purposes of this sub-paragraphs “Borrower’s Fiscal Year” 
means twelve consecutive calendar months commencing on January 1 and ending on December 
31.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawal, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 80,000 may be made in 
respect of Categories (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on 
accounts of payments made for expenditures before that date but after August 1, 2001; and (b) 
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1)(a), (2)(a) and (3)(c) until the Ih Hural has 
enacted the Law on Administrative Court System.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing less 
that $50,000 equivalent; (b) consultants’ services under contracts with firms costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent; (c) consultants’ services under contracts with individuals costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent; (d) training; and (e) incremental operating costs, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to enhance public trust and 
confidence in the legal system as a whole and the judiciary in particular through the design and 
testing of new tools and systems that promote better access to legal information, the 
establishment and operation of a specialized court system, and improved legal education and 
profession.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
PART A
: Administrative Court System
Page  13
Establishment and operation nationwide of a specialized court system to foster the rule 
of law by settling cases related to the infringement of citizen’s rights by any agency or 
government official empowered to handle proceedings and issue mandatory decisions on 
administrative acts, including (i) the provision of training and training materials for 
administrative judges and court personnel, (ii) development of manuals for court management 
and case administration, (iii) publication and dissemination of decisions of the administrative 
courts, (iv) development of a communication strategy for public awareness to promote public 
participation and access to the administrative courts, (v) development of a program of gathering 
and publication of data on administrative court performance, and  public opinion surveys, (vi) 
development of a program to facilitate access by the poor and women to the administrative courts 
including pro bono legal assistance,  (vii) provision of building facilities for one administrative  
court each at the Supreme Court level, a selected Capital City Court and a selected Aimag Court, 
including office space for judges and court personnel, court rooms, office equipment and 
computers, and (viii) technical assistance therefore. 
PART B
: Knowledge Sharing and Capacity Building to Foster Access to Justice
Establishment and operation of the Center on Legal and Judicial Research, Training, 
Information and Publicity, including the construction of the required physical facilities in 
Ulaanbaatar, development of a legal and judicial database, establishment of a legal library, 
provision of training facilities to implement training programs for judges, lawyers, prosecutors 
and other civil servants, and establishment of a legal research unit, through the provision of staff 
training, office equipment, computer software and hardware, printing equipment, television 
studio equipment, training equipment and technical assistance therefore.
PART C
: Enhancement of the Legal Education and Legal Profession
1.
Development of a nationwide enhanced curriculum,  including contents and teaching 
methods, to be applied on a pilot basis by selected accredited  Schools of Law established and 
operating in Ulaanbaatar, including provision of training to law professors on the subject matters 
of the enhanced curriculum and methodology of teaching.
2.
Development of a nationwide examination for law graduates.
PART D
: Project Implementation
Strengthening of the capacity of the PIU to implement legal and judicial projects through 
the provision of technical assistance and training.
* * * * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Page  14
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member countries” 
and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating 
Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works for the refurbishing of buildings and office facilities for the Administrative 
Courts under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $580,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines and those set forth 
in the Annex to this Schedule. 
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods under Part B of the Project, other than software and hardware for the Legal and 
Judicial Database and printing equipment, estimated to cost less than $50,000 per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $366,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  15
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for works, and (b) each contract for goods estimated to 
cost $50,000 equivalent or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part 
A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-Based Selection
Services for public awareness campaigns, case administration and court management and 
training may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Architectural Services for the refurbishing of Courts under Part A of the Project and for 
the Center under Part B of the Project which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Page  16
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, including: services of the Project Coordinator, the Deputy Project Coordinator cum 
Procurement Specialist, the Accountant, and the Translator cum Implementation Officer of the 
PIU
;
and services of the Director and Scientific Secretary of the Center, may be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Least-cost Selection
Services for auditing of Project accounts may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultants’ Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and each contract to be awarded pursuant to Part C.3 
of Section II of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 3
National Competitive Bidding Procedures
CIVIL WORKS
COMPETITIVE BIDDING ADVERTISED LOCALLY
I.
Advertising
Page  17
1.
The Invitation for Bids shall be advertised in a newspaper of national circulation in 
Mongolia.  
2.
The Invitation for Bids may be in the Mongolian language and in such other language 
which may be deemed appropriate by the Borrower’s department or agency concerned, and shall 
include the information referred to in the model Invitation for Bids set forth in the Standard 
Bidding Documents, Procurement of Works, Smaller Contracts, published by the International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development on October 1996, as revised on January 1999, 
October 1999 and January 2000.
3.
With due regard for the nature of the civil works to be provided, the time period for bid 
submission from invitation shall be sufficient to allow potential bidders a reasonable time to 
prepare and submit their bids.  It shall be no less than 30 calendar days, unless otherwise agreed 
with the Association.
II.
Flexibility
1.
The eligibility of bidders shall be as defined under the Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines).
2.
Foreign bidders will be allowed to bid, if they wish to do so.
3.
Joint ventures between foreign and local firms shall not be a condition for eligibility.  
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to bid alone.  Nevertheless, foreign bidders may be required to 
appoint a local agent/intermediary in Mongolia, as a condition for award of contract.
III.
Bidding
1.
In addition to the Invitation for Bids, the Bidding Documents shall include the following:
(a)
Instruction to Bidders, including the criteria to be used for bid evaluations;
(b)
Conditions of Contract;
(c)
Technical Specifications;
(d)
Bid Form and Price Schedules;
(e)
Performance Security (optional for bids below a Dollar equivalent sum to be 
agreed with the Association); and
(f)
Bill of Quantities, or breakdown of lump sum price, as the case may be.
2.
Bids may be expressed in Tugrik or in foreign currency as set forth in the Invitation for 
Bids.  If the currency of payment is set forth in the Invitation for Bids is Tugrik, the Invitation 
may indicate that there is no obligation on the part of the Borrower’s department or agency 
requesting the bids to convert into foreign currency the amounts to be paid.
3.
Bidding documents may be in Mongolian language or in such other language that may be 
deemed appropriate by the Borrower’s department or agency concerned.
4.
Bids may be delivered by mail or by hand at the place set forth for such purposes in the 
Invitation for Bids.
Page  18
5.
Bids shall be opened publicly allowing representatives of the bidders to attend if they so 
desire.  Bids shall not be modified after bid opening except to correct arithmetical errors; all bids 
shall be opened at the same time.  Minutes of Bid Opening shall be prepared and signed by all 
bidders who chose to attend.
6.
Bids may not be rejected for the sole purpose of obtaining lower bids.  The Borrower 
shall consult with the Association prior to rejecting all bids or soliciting new bids.  All bids shall 
not be rejected and new bids invited on the same specifications solely for the purposes of 
obtaining lower prices, except in cases where the lowest evaluated bid exceeds the cost estimates 
by a substantial amount.  In such cases, the Borrower may, as an alternative to rebidding and with 
the prior concurrence of the Association, negotiate with the lowest evaluated bidder to try to 
obtain a satisfactory contract, and failing a satisfactory response, with the next lowest evaluated 
bidder.  Rejection of all bids may be permissible when bids are not substantially responsive or 
there is a lack of effective competition.
7.
In the comparison of bids between local and foreign bidders, no domestic or regional 
preferences to local bidders shall apply and bids shall be compared on delivered price inclusive 
of any prevailing duties.
8.
Award of the contract shall be to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder.  Price 
negotiation with bidders shall not be undertaken before award except as provided in paragraph 6 
above.
9.
The award of contract shall be made within the period specified in the bidding 
documents.  This period shall be determined in each case depending on the complexity of the 
contract and the approval.
10.
A
bid evaluation report shall be prepared by the Borrower’s department or agency 
requesting the bids setting out a record of all bids submitted, the reasons for disqualification of 
any bids, the criteria, weighing and evaluation of all responsive bids, the recommended award, 
and, if recommended award is to be other than the lowest bidder, the reasons therefore.  The 
concerned Borrower’s department or agency shall furnish the Association an English translation 
of such bid evaluation pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain throughout the period of Project 
implementation a Steering Committee chaired by the Deputy Minister of Justice and with 
representatives of the Supreme Court, the General Prosecutor Office,  the Secretary of the Ih 
Hural, General Council of Courts, Ministry of Finance and Economy, Ministry of Education, 
Culture and Science and the Mongolian Association of Advocates, for purposes of providing 
policy guidance, and ensuring coordination and supervision in the implementation of the Project. 
The Steering Committee shall meet at least once every quarter.
2.
The Borrower: (a) shall maintain the PIU headed by a Project Coordinator who shall 
report to the Deputy Minister of MOJHA on matters of Project implementation and to the 
Steering Committee for policy guidance, and assisted by a Deputy Project Coordinator cum 
Page  19
procurement specialist, an accountant, and a translator cum implementation officer, all with 
terms of reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association and selected in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in Part C, Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, 
and assigned with the responsibility of the day-to-day implementation of the Project; and (b) to 
that end, shall provide the PIU with sufficient funds and other resources as shall be required to 
allow it to carry out its responsibilities under the Project. 
3.
For purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project the Borrower shall:
(a)
by not later than May 31, 2002, furnish to the Association for its review and 
comments a proposed strategy for carrying out the public awareness campaign, including a 
detailed time-bound action plan therefore, and, thereafter, carry out such strategy  taking into 
account the Association’s comments, if any;  
(b)
 by not later than May 31, 2002, furnish to the Association for its review and 
comments a training program for carrying out the training of the prospective administrative 
judges and court personnel, including a detailed time-bound action plan therefore, and, 
thereafter, carry out such training program taking into account the Association’s comments, if 
any;  
(c)
by not later than May 31, 2002, furnish to the Association for its approval the 
architectural designs for the refurbishing of the buildings that would host the Administrative 
Court, including the bidding documents and a detailed time-bound action plan for carrying out 
the works and, thereafter, carry out such building refurbishing pursuant to the bidding documents 
and time-bound action plan as approved by the Association;  
(d)
by not later than May 31, 2002, furnish to the Association for its review and 
comments manuals for court management and case administration, and a program and 
time-bound action plan for publication and dissemination of decisions of the administrative 
courts and, thereafter, take all action as shall be necessary to ensure the use of such manuals and 
the implementation of the said program taking into account the Association’s comments, if any;
(e)
 by November 30, 2002, and in accordance with the requirements of the Law on 
Administrative Court System, appoint all  judges of the Administrative Court System,  which 
appointment shall become effective by not later than January 1, 2003; 
(f)
ensure that each Judge of the Administrative Court System is provided, 
concurrently with his/her appointment with support staff in adequate numbers, individual office 
space and support staff office space, office equipment, and such other resources as shall be 
required to ensure the effective, transparent and efficient operation of such Administrative 
Courts; 
(g)
by November 30, 2002, furnish to the Association for its review and comments a 
program of gathering and publication of data on Administrative Court performance and public 
opinion surveys and, thereafter, carry out such program and surveys taking into account the 
Association’s comments, if any; and
(h)
by January 31, 2004, discuss with the Association the findings and 
recommendations of the program of gathering and publication of data on court performance and 
public opinion surveys implemented pursuant to sub-paragraph (g) above, and prepare a 
Page  20
time-bound action plan, satisfactory to the Association, for applying the lessons learned to the 
other Administrative Courts.
4.
(a)
The Borrower shall establish the Center under Part B of the Project headed by a 
qualified and experienced member of academia with terms of reference,  qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Association and selected in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in Part C, Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, assigned with qualified staff in 
sufficient numbers and provided with funds and other resources as shall be required to enable the 
Center to accomplish its objectives and functions as a legal and judicial public sharing 
knowledge, training and research  non-profit organization.
(b)
As part of the Center, the Borrower shall establish:
(i)
a legal and judicial database information system on laws, government and 
ministries resolutions and decrees, international treaties, municipal and 
provincial ordinances and other relevant legislation, decisions and commentaries 
of the Constitutional Court, Supreme Court, Appellate Courts and 
Administrative Courts, and similar legislation matters; 
(ii) modernized and unified training mechanisms to coordinate and deliver all 
on-going and future training programs for judges, lawyers, prosecutors and other 
civil servants funded by Donors; 
(iii) a research unit specialized in analyzing laws enacted or in draft form, and their 
impact  on the different economic sectors and levels of society;
(iv) a comprehensive library of  legal material for public use; and 
(v) a pro bono legal clinic for the poor and women.
5.
In carrying out Part B of the Project the Borrower shall:
(a)
by not later than May 31, 2002, furnish to the Association for its approval the 
architectural designs for the construction of the building for the Center, including the bidding 
documents and a detailed time-bound action plan for carrying out the works and, thereafter, carry 
out such works pursuant to the bidding documents and time-bound action plan as approved by 
the Association; 
(b)
by not later than May 31, 2002, furnish to the Association for its approval a short 
list and the Letter of Invitation of Proposals, including terms of reference and proposed contract, 
for retaining the services of the Director and Scientific Secretary of the Center, and thereafter 
retain their services; and
(c)
by not later than May 31, 2002, furnish to the Association for its approval a 
time-bound action plan for the design, implementation and operation of the legal and judicial 
database information system, and thereafter implement such plan taking into account the 
Associations comments, if any.
Page  21
7.
For purposes of carrying out Part C of the Project the Borrower shall, by not later than 
May 31, 2002, furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, a proposed training 
program for the professors of the pilot selected Law Schools as well as a proposal to develop a 
nationwide examination for law graduates, and thereafter implement these proposals taking into 
account the Associations comments, if any.
8.
The Borrower shall select the pilot Law Schools under selection criteria satisfactory to 
the Association.
9.
The Borrower shall, through the Steering Committee, take all such action as shall be 
necessary to ensure:
(a)
adequate coordination in the carrying out of the activities under the Project with 
those under legal and judicial reform projects and programs funded by Donors; and
(b)
the active involvement of NGOs, the private sector and academia in the carrying 
out the Project, in particular in respect of the various awareness campaigns and surveys.  
10.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
carry out every six months, beginning not later than June 30, 2002, a review of 
Project implementation and promptly thereafter submit to the Association the 
results of such review;
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, not later than November 30, 2003, a midterm review report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; and
(d)
review with the Association, by January 15, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the mid-term review report referred to in 
sub-paragraph (c) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report and the Association’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Performance Indicators
Page  22
I.
In regard to the entire Project
1.
More transparent equitable and effective justice system.
2.
Better access to justice.
3.
Improved level of public trust and confidence in the legal system as a whole and 
judiciary in particular.
4.
Level to which legal and judicial information is accessible and shared with different 
categories of civil society.
II.
In regard to Part A of the Project
1.
Degree to which Administrative Court System are developed and become operative.
2.
Pilot Administrative Courts fully operational, efficient and administrative judges trained.
III.
In regard to Part B of the Project
1.
The adequacy of communication strategy manifested by an increase of Public trust and 
respect for the judiciary.
2.
Center built and operational and dissemination and public awareness tools designed and 
tested.
IV.
In regard to Part C of the Project
1.
Degree to which developed monitor methodology shows effectiveness of legal education 
within renewed curricula.
2.
Adequacy of designed training materials for legal profession’s exams.
Page  23
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $250,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 800,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made for  eligible expenditures,  in 
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.  
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the  Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the 
Association requests for deposits into the  Special Account at 
such intervals as 
the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the 
Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in 
Page  24
respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each 
such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as 
shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Page  25
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Association, the Borrower shall promptly, upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account  (or, 
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, 
the Borrower shall promptly, upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association  such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
