Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21538-MOR
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-36180; SCL-3618A; SCPM-3618S; CPL-36190; CPL-36200; CPL-36210)
ON FOUR
LOANS
1N THE AMOUNT OF US$130 MILLION
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO, CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET H6TELIER, WAFABANK and
SOCIETE GENERALE MAROCAINE DE BANQUE
FOR A LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT FOR LOW-INCOME FAMILIES
DECEMBER 28, 2000
Infrasturucture Develoment Group
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonmance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham (DH)
DH 1 = US$ 0.12 at appraisal (January 1, 1993)
0.10 at closing date (June 30, 2000)
US$ 1 = 8.50 DH at appraisal (January 1, 1993)
9.98 DH at closing date (June 30, 2000)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31, up to FY96
January 1 to June 30, 1997
July 1 to June 30, FY 97/98 to FY99/00
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANHE                Agence'Nationale de Lutte contre l'Habitat Insalubre
BMCE                Banque Marocaine de Commerce Exterieur
CIH                 Credit Inmmobilier et Hotelier
ERAC                Etablissements Regionaux d'Amenagement et de Construction
FNAET               Fonds National d'Achat et d'Equipement des Terrains
GoM                 Government of Morocco
SNEC                Societe Nationale d'Equipement et de Construction
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
LCB                 Local Competitive Bidding
MoF                 Ministry of Finance
MoI                 Ministry of Interior
SGMB                Societ6 Generale Marocaine de Banque
TVA                 Taxe sur la Valuer Ajout6e
VIT                 Valeur Immobiliere Totale
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:    Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager & Acting Director:   Sonia Hammam
Task Team Leader/Primary Author:   Jean-Hubert Moulignat/Ekaterina Massey



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  17
6. Sustainability                                                                      18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       20
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     23
9. Partner Comments                                                                    24
10. Additional Information                                                            24
Annex 1. Key Perfornance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P005514                                        Pro]ect Name: LAND DEVELOPMENT
Team Leader: Jean-Hubert Moulignat                         TL Unit: MNSID
ICR Type. Core ICR                                         Report Date: December 28, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: LAND DEVELOPMENT                                L/C/TF Number: CPL-36180;
SCL-3618A;
SCPM-3618S;
CPL-36190;
CPL-36200;
CPL-36210
Country/Department: MOROCCO                                                Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: UH - Urban Housing
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/02/92                                 Effective: 09/21/93            12/13/93
Appraisal:  05/21/93                                   MTR: 05/13/98              05/13/98
Approval:  06/10/93                                 Closing: 06/30/2000           06/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: Gov. of. Morocco, CIH/SNEC; Gov. of. Morocco, CIHICIH; Gov. of. Morocco,
ClH/Ministry of Housing
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                           Caio Koch-Weser
Country Manager:      Christian Delvoie                          Harinder Kohli
Sector Manager:       Sonia Hammamn                              Amir Al-Khafaji
Team Leader at ICR:   Jean-Hubert Moulignat                      Henri Beenhakker
ICR Primary Author:   Ekaterina Massey; Jean-Hubert
Moulignat
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=ighly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: U                       U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project had four main objectives:
(a) provide serviced residential lots at affordable prices specifically targeted to squatter and low-income
families;
(b) provide medium-term financing to private sector property developers for construction of housing for
low- income families;
(c) foster the participation of private sector banks in the housing finance sector; and
(d) improve the housing finance sub-sector, housing subsidy policies, and the land delivery process.
At the time of the project appraisal those objectives were clear and responded to pressing borrower
circumstances and development priorities, and supported CAS goals of enhancing the efficiency of public
sector management, and alleviating poverty and improving social indicators through improved coverage and
quality of essential services. However, the third objective, while in line with financial sector objectives,
proved to be overly ambitious given housing real sector and policy constraints.
The project was conceived in response to an emergency request (originally US$100 million) of the
Government of Morocco to assist in the implementation of the 1988-92 Development Plan's action
program. Its goal was to significantly reduce the number of squatter and informal settlements. It was to
be inscribed in the comprehensive nationwide housing program of DH 7,180 million for the 1992-95 perio.
However, at the time of project identification, the strategy was not yet ready, and the Moroccan authorities
were yet to achieve a consensus on the policy measures and their sequencing. The same held true for the
Bank team. Despite this fact, however, the management encouraged fast processing of the project and
limited the number of issues that were to be addressed during its preparation. Strategic issues were to be
addressed during the course of the project.
The overall design of the investment component, and the choice of the implementing agency, in particular,
reflected the importance, given by the GoM, to stepping up provision of the owner-occupied social housing
for poor and low-income families. As noted in the Memorandum of the President, "the previous experience
of the urban development projects had shown, among others, the need to overcome impediments to project
implementation, such as shortages of adequately trained personnel, poor decision making channels,
over-regulated project executing mechanisms, and prohibitive hiring and procurement restrictions. The
choice of SNEC as an executing agency, besides other reasons described below, was intended to avoid
these problems by placing the land development component under a semi-autonomous agency with highly
qualified personnel which has been accorded recognition as a priority institution with easy access to the top
levels of govermnent and a broad license to set its own operational policies and procedures". The
differential pricing mechanism (cross-subsidization of lots) was supposed to optimize cost recovery, which
had also been a problem in previous projects.
The project was demanding for the implementing agency SNEC which, at the time of appraisal, had limited
experience and low management capacity. Besides, the US$58.5 million, on-lent to SNEC, was too large an
amount to be consumned in 7 years, given SNEC's implementation experience, and existing sector
constraints.
As noted, the attempt to channel medium-term finance through the banking sector to private sector
property developers for construction of housing for low-income families was premature, despite the
indisputable need for such a mechanism. The financial system in Morocco was not ready to provide
sustainable incentives for private property developers and private banks to participate in financing
- 2 -



low-income housing.
Though the project was not complex per se, it was surely over-ambitious in its expectations about the
possible sector impact and reforms being put in place to facilitate the investment in land development. The
main risk of slippage from low-income to middle-income beneficiaries was correctly identified, and, indeed,
materialized.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Original objective (c) was dropped as the two private banks (SGMB and Wafabank) never used the Bank
loans (CPL 36200 to SGMB, for an amount of US$12 million, and CPL 36210 to Wafabank, for an
amount of US$12 million). After formal restructuring, the revised objectives were as follows:
(a) provide serviced residential lots at affordable prices specifically targeted to squatter and low-income
families;
(b) provide medium-term financing to private sector property developers for construction of housing for
low-income families; and
(c) improve the housing finance sub-sector, housing subsidy policies, and the land delivery process.
3.3 Original Components:
To achieve the challenging original objectives, the project included the following components for
the total Bank loan amount of US$130 million and the total estimated project cost of US$302.25 million.
(1) Financing of land development sub-projects implemented by SNEC, to deliver about 17,100 serviced
residential lots with a potential of private development of about 50,800 dwelling units, of which about 93
percent would be occupied by low-income families (including rehoused squatters) as owners and tenants
(US$157.46 million - 53 percent of the project cost).
The World Bank's financed this component out of its US$66 million loan to GoM, US$59 million
of which (Part A of the Loan) was onlent to SNEC with US$58.5 million for refnancing sub-projects
costs.
(2) A line of credit to banks (CIH, and two private sector banks, SGMB and Wafabank) to provide: (a)
medium-term financing to eligible private sector developers for the development of residential lots and
housing for low-income families (including squatters), and (b) long-tern loans to owners of developed lots
building their own dwelling. (US$141.10 million- 46 percent of the project cost).
The World Bank financed this component out of its US$40 million loan to CIH (US$39.5 million
credit line), US$12 million to SGMB, and US$12 million to Wafabank.
(3) Financing of studies for the Ministry of Housing to address housing sector issues (Land Development
and Housing Finance) and to carry out a socio-economic analysis of squatter rehousing (US$2.46 million -
under 1 percent of project cost).
The World Bank financed this component out of the US$66 million loan to GoM (Part B of the
Loan) in the amount of US$2 million.
(4) Institutional development of SNEC and CIH that includes training and technical assistance (US$1.64
million - under I percent of project cost).
- 3-



The World Bank financed this component out of its respective loans to CIH and GoM, onlent to
SNEC: US$0.5 million for CIH and US$0.5 million for SNEC.
(5) Unallocated: US$5 million.
3.4 Revised Components:
(1) The first component, i.e., financing of land development was retained, however, its implementation was
much slower than anticipated because of land acquisition delays and low demand for lots in small towns. In
1998, SNEC requested to use about US$2 million from the unallocated category (Part B of the Loan to
GoM and US$10 million from the amount onlent to SNEC (Part A of the loan) for the construction of low
income housing units. This request was not accepted by the Bank, and the amount of the loan to GoM was
subsequently reduced, in May 1999, from US$66 million to US$44 million, the amount onlent to SNEC
(Part A of the loan), being reduced from US$59 million to US$42 million.
(2) The second component was limited to the loan to CIH and was fully disbursed by March 1996.The
loans to Wafabank and SGMB, amounting to US$24 million, were canceled on January Ist, 1995 and
November 29, 1995 respectively.
(3) The third component was retained. The three studies were completed in 1998. Their conclusions and
recommendations were presented and discussed during a two days seminar organized by the Ministry of
Housing on May 27 and 28, 1998, with a large participation of the private sector.
(4) The fourth component was also retained. Technical assistance to CIH, which included the improvement
of its information system, was completed in 1996, and the amount allocated to this sub-component (US$0.5
million) was totally disbursed. Technical assistance to SNEC, which included the design and
implementation of a new MIS (Management and Information System), was also disbursed and completed in
1998. In 1999, SNEC requested to use undisbursed Bank funds for additional technical assistance and
training. However, SNEC did not manage to launch the consultation for this technical assistance on time to
have it comnitted on the Bank loan before the closure date of June 30, 2000.
Rating:  Component;                                                           Cost
S       LAND DEVELOPMENT;                                                $41,500,000.00
S       LINE OF CREDIT THROUGH CIH TO PRIVATE DEVELOPERS;                $39,500,000.00
S       STUDIES FOR MINISTRY OF HOUSING;                                  $2,000,000.00
S       TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SNEC;                                      $500,000.00
NR      TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO CIH;                                       $500,000.00
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality at Entry at the ICR stage is rated unsatisfactory.
At appraisal, three major project risks were identified.
1. Slippage of beneficiaries from low-income to higher income groups. Not properly mitigated.
It was noted that the pressures of increased demand resulting from a shortage of housing could lead to
- 4 -



higher-income groups obtaining lots targeted for low-income households and squatters. The small size of
lots and strict procedures for selecting beneficiaries were expected to mitigate this risk.
The risk was correctly identified but the mitigation measures included in the design of the project were not
adequate. As the projects were often located where demand was low, or where alternative informal sector
developments were available, SNEC had difficulty selling the smaller lots.
During project preparation, the agencies considered for the implementation of the land development
component were ANHI, SNEC and ERACs. Of these only ANHI was created specifically to address the
resettlement of shanty towns and upgrading of informal settlements. ANH[, however, received USAID
financing for part of the GoM program. As a result, SNEC was retained as the implementing agency for the
investment component, even though ANHI had much more extensive experience of cross-subsidization and
land development projects targeting the poor.
This selection outcome clearly exacerbated the risk of targeting slippage, as, at the time, SNEC had a very
limited experience in identifying and implementing new land development projects targeted to the poor. Its
funds were equally limited to acquire land most suitable for responding to the effective demand of the
targeted group.
2. Financial viability of SNEC.
The public developers, described above, were all undercapitalized and had a limited ability to borrow
domestically and internationally. The financial viability of the public developers were examined during
project preparation. The ERACs were not found financially viable. The situation of SNEC was carefully
assessed and financial covenants were designed to monitor SNEC's financial viability: annual return on
equity, ratio of net income to profit, ratio of total wage expenses to profit, ratio of total operating expenses
to profit. However, while the financial viability of SNEC did not prove to be a major risk, the amount
onlent to SNEC (US$58.5 million) was too high to be absorbed by that institution, given the requirements
for financial viability and its share of national land development activities.
3. The possible delays in the implementation of the sector reforms. The delivery dates for studies have
slipped, and most of their recommendations are still undergoing review.
The tight schedule for the studies proved over-ambitious given the complications with identifying the
consultants, and cumbersome payment procedures. The consultants fees had to be channeled through the
Treasury, a procedure that created delays and caused several qualified consultants to drop out. Even if the
studies had been delivered on schedule, however, it was clear that the conclusions and recommendations of
these studies could not have been discussed, agreed upon, and, moreover, implemented in time to have an
impact on the land development and housing finance components. The lack of coherent strategy for the
housing sector reform, both at appraisal and even at the mid-term review, clearly indicated that the
imnplementation of the sector reform aspect of the project was not well thought through.
Additional issues also surfaced which were notfully recognized at appraisal:
The inclusion of private commercial banks in the housing finance component: The financial sector
reforms supported by the Bank's Financial Sector Development Program (FSDP - 1991) aimed at reducing
directed credit. Thus exclusive lending to CIH, with its special privileges of VAT exemption on interest on
loans for dwelling with a total real estate value of less than DH 500,000, and a special strearmlined
foreclosure proceduress, was no longer warranted. The inclusion of the private banks was supposed to be in
- 5-



line with the FSDP. To put the CIH and the private banks on equal footing, it was agreed that, unlike in the
previous Housing Finance projects where CIH onlent to parastatals and municipalities, both CIH and the
private banks would onlend the proceeds of the loan to private sector developers to encourage their
participation in land development and social housing projects. Though the CIHI privileges were eventually
extended to the private banks, this did not prove to be enough of an incentive for the private banks still
could not see any advantages in expanding their business in that sector. At the same time, the risks and
transaction costs of reaching low-income clients were prohibitively high for both developers and banks.
Thus, the inclusion of the private commercial banks in the project even as a pilot, was clearly premature,
given sector constraints.
Lack of appreciation of lessons learnedfrom previous projects and realism in project design.
Given the fact that the Bank had had a long history of prior involvement in the urban and housing finance
sector in Morocco, the lessons learned from the previous projects were available to the preparation team
and could have been more fully integrated into the design of the project. At the time the team was working
on the housing sector strategy (completed in 1995, but not approved by the GoM) and preparation of the
follow-up projects. Prior to this project, the Bank had assisted the Kingdom of Morocco with the two
housing finance projects and the two urban upgrading projects. In sum, though the design of the project had
clearly attempted to incorporate some of the lessons of the past and address the sectoral gaps, this good
intention did not materialize into a quality designed project.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The rnain development objectives have been met satisfactorily. The rating is justified by the fact that the
project has been successful in meeting its revised development objectives, contributed significantly to the
institutional reforms and advanced the policy dialogue in the housing sector in Morocco. The sector impact
of the project is considerable, despite the fact that it has been restructured, the amount of the loan
significantly reduced, and some of the outputs delivered with delay.
A. The revised target of 11,433 serviced residential lots was met on the 20 subprojects around the
country with around 70 percent of them serving lower-income families.
There were few technical problems with this component. SNEC has proved itself fully competent to
manage the works, and only in a few cases there were delays caused by the defaulting contractors.
However, broader housing and land sector constraints caused delays and reduced the affordability of lots
for low-income families. The project went into implementation prior to initiation of reformns that would
have removed some of the bottlenecks, especially in access to land and carrying out land transactions.
These reforms are at the core of the current policy debate in Morocco, but it is understood, that they will
take some time to implement.
One of the development tools the Bank had at its disposal to control the delivery on the investment
component, but has not used fully, were the eligibility criteria for subprojects. The eligibility criteria,
established in the loan agreement with SNEC, were mostly respected, though implementation showed them
to be often insufficient to insure smooth subproject execution and reaching the target population. Some of
them were non-binding by design, while others were ill-chosen or formulated in very general terns, and,
therefore, were not properly enforced during supervision:
- 6 -



*   SNEC was supposed to show that it had acquired or was in the process of acquiring the land on
which the specific development project was to be carried out. This condition proved to be
non-binding. Many projects experienced delays due to SNEC being in the "process of acquiring the
land" for many years. Such subprojects had to be eventually dropped due to complications with the
land transaction. The MoH study on land accessibility, commnissioned under the project, highlighted the
issues that SNEC and the Bank supervision staff have encountered in the field. ,It also provided
concrete recommendations, including the mass appraisal of land. This is still under consideration but
would, naturally, take some time to introduce. It is unfortunate, that this fundamental housing sector
constraint was not addressed in a more proactive manner in the design of the project, despite significant
experience which demonstrated that access to land had always been one of the main hurdles in
implementation in Bank urban projects. The OED report "Twenty years of lending for urban
development 1972-92" that came out in June 1994 singled that out as "lessons learned" in the design of
urban projects.
*   The specific development project should be technically feasible and economically, financially and
commercially viable. This condition was stated in very general terms and, therefore, not enforced in its
major requirement for identified sub-projects to be "commercially viable". As the effective demand and
competing projects in the area were not analysed systematically, and the financing model based on
cross-subsidization did not work for each site, SNEC often found itself developing land with no final
consumer, especially in small towns, where demand is weak. It must be noted, however, that towards
the end of the project SNEC became more selective and abandoned some of the sites that could not be
commercialized.
*  At least 50 percent of the land to be developed under the specific land development project were to
be reservedfor lots and sold. This criterion aimed at increasing the land utilization factor; i.e., the
amount of land that would be used directly for housing lots (the other 50 percent are used for public
space, subdivisions, etc.) The 50 percent requirement was on average observed (48 percent), but it
could have been set higher to further reduce developed land costs for low income population and
increase commercial viability of certain projects.
*  At least 60 percent of the marketable land were to be sold to families with a total income under DH
3,000 (in constant 1993 DH). The 60 percent targeting was generally observed, though the Bank
supervision team agreed with the concern raised by SNEC, that given the nature of income generation
process and family support nets in Morocco, the income level of DH 3,000 was more of an
approximate, rather than a definite eligibility criteria. Therefore, (a) it was not be used as an accurate
measure of income status, and (b) it was hard to enforce. One of the risks identified at appraisal was
slippage from low-income to middle-income beneficiaries and it has surely materialized, though at this
stage it is too early to give precise estimates of such slippage. It must be noted, additionally, that while
complying with 60 percent targeting was important for the Bank project overall, its enforcement is less
meaningful in the individual case of each sub-project. Middle-income housing is a carrying structure of
the urban areas, and strengthens their social cohesion. Having such quality developments helps improve
the housing stock and sets the standards of service provision in growing towns. Instead of creating
isolated areas with high concentration of low-income families, promoting social mix of families with
different levels of income and employment profiles will develop economically, financially and socially
viable communities.
A preliminary socio-economic analysis performed by a local consultant in April 2000 underlined the
- 7 -



structural constraints by locality (its size, demographics, social and professional composition, and the
dominant land ownership patterns) that had been already identified by the supervision team that took over
the project in 1998. The portfolio of sub-projects is very heterogeneous in tenns of their size, type of lots
offered, required development time, possible rhythm of commercialization and the speed of housing
construction. The success of commercialization is correlated with the dynamics of the larger urban area
where the project is located. It seems that the fastest sales happened in the towns that had a combination of
the following factors:
*   booming economy, or important administrative function (a lot of civil servants);
* transition from primarily agricultural to urban activities, and predominance of irrigated agriculture;
*   location at the periphery of the large metropoles;
* high incidence of "Moroccans abroad" ( residents marocains d l'etranger (RME);
*   fast population growth;
*   the low level of informal land activities (strict enforcement on the part of the local authorities);
*   low competition from other land developers and municipalities themselves.
Ignoring these constraints in appraising the sub-projects has limited the impact of the land development
component on the low-income households, especially on mass resettlement of shanty town dwellers. Only 4
subprojects in the end had some share of resettlement lots.
B. Most of the US$40 million line of credit to CIH was used to refinance medium-term loans to private
sector property developers for construction of housing:
* 0.7 percent of the loan proceeds were used to refinance medium term loans (2 years maturity) to
private land developers for two projects of serviced lots to be sold to low income families. The Project
financed a total of 104 lots of 120 m2 or less.
_   10.9 percent of the loan proceeds were used to refinance long term loans for construction of 909
dwellings by owners of residential lots, with a real estate value of less than DH 300,000 per dwelling.
*   88.4 percent of the loan proceeds were used to refinance medium term loans (maturity up to 3 years) to
private sector developers for construction of about 5,500 dwellings with a real estate value of less
than DH 300,000.
CIH supported the private sector activities in housing construction. The Project allowed CIH to be
active in financing housing projects by private developers. The line of credit was totally disbursed in less
than two years, even though the economic situation was not propitious to high activity of the housing
sector. From this point of view, the project can therefore be considered a success. However, private sector
activity in the development of residential lots remains marginal, as it is crowded out by public developers
like SNEC, ANI  and ERACs.
The impact on low income families is unclear. The eligibility criteria for dwelling units was a total real
estate value of less than DH 300,000. CIH complied with this criterion. However, it must be recognized
that this criterion is highly questionable as a measure of income level of homeowner.
The eligibility criteria for lots (120 m2 or less) is more reliable, but this sub-component was marginal in the
Project.
C. The objective of increasing competition in the housingfinance sector by involving private banks was
not achieved.
-8 -



Getting private banks interested in broad based housing finance and especially targeting of the low-income
segment of the market proved difficult in the absence of a comprehensive reform of the sector and of the
subsidy system. Only about 15 percent of household investment in housing is financed by bank loans, and
the system of subsidized interest rates is not really targeted to low-income families, but benefits instead
middle income families. So, it is not surprising, that the private banks, that are now becoming more active
in housing finance, are serving the high and middle income end of the market. While the Bank loan
provided long term resources, this was not a sufficient incentive and private banks were wary about
assuming the foreign exchange risk.
D. Reforms in the housing finance sub-sector, housing subsidy policies and land delivery process have
been initiated
The housing sector reform agenda was advanced jointly by the investment component with SNEC and by
the studies conmmissioned by MoH.
On the investment side some of the opportunities for sector improvement were missed: the project worked
exclusively with SNEC, a public developer amongst a few others in the Moroccan system of public and
private sector developers. It seems that while developing the portfolio and investing in the institutional
capacity of SNEC, more attention could have been paid to SNEC's "competitive " and "special" role in the
overall housing supply system. It is worth recalling here that two national agencies, SNEC and ANHI, and
seven regional agencies, ERACs, while having different mandates, are responsible for providing mainly
lots, and to a certain extent housing, to all classes of households, using the system of cross-subsidization (
perequation) of the poor by charging more for the higher income lots. The Government also has a housing
developer in Casablanca, Attacharouk, and the publicly-owned bank CDG (Caisse de Depots et de Gestion
) has real estate branches dealing with promotion and construction of middle-income housing.
Municipalities and Urban Agencies, regional inspections, and ultimately the Ministry of Interior, are
responsible for urban land policies and urban plans. There are also private developers of various scales.
During the course of the project's implementation no data were collected on how local markets were divided
between different suppliers of land and housing and how, if at all, the operations were integrated into the
local urban development plans (SDAUs), where the latter existed. In the new medium term plan for the
Housing Sector, GoM is raising the issue of clarifying the mandates of the public developers - OSTs (
organismes sous tutelle), and streamlining land development for housing into the overall management of
urban growth.
On the technical assistance side: the three reports had a very positive impact on the advancement of
housing reforms in Morocco, but only towards the end of the project, much later than originally planned
(3 years later), and, thus, were out of sync with the investment components.  Most of the
recommendations of the studies were incorporated in the 2000-2004 GoM Plan for the Housing Sector:
*   The report on developing land for housing was delivered by the EDESA-URBAPLAN-IIrHEM and
recommended: changing the role of the State from direct provision of lots and housing to providing
critical regulatory conditions (land registration, norms of urban development, developing financing
mechanisms for primary infrastructure, ensuring transparency of procedures) to capture the private
capital that is largely diverted into the informal sector, and channel it into the social housing market;
* The report on the financial and fiscal aspects of housing finance was delivered by Pluram
Intemational Inc, Algoe, Promoconsultant and recommended: creation of a secondary mortgage market,
revision of the system of state subsidies in favor of upfront grants, reform of the legal and regulatory
framework for housing construction and rental market.
-9-



* The socio-economic impact of resettlement operations for shantytown dwellers study was delivered by
Groupement d'etudes Atelier Atrium 3/Creuset/Cabinet Guerraoui for the first case study of
resettlement in Yasmine n, in Khouribga. The second study is still in progress. Delays in the choice of
the site and payment processing caused subsequent changes in the consultant team. As it is limited to a
sample and a transversal approach, and not a longitudinal study as originally planned, its conclusions
could not be widely generalized.
The reforms that have ensued from these recommendations are described in detail in the institutional
development section below.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. The targeted 11, 433 serviced residential lots were delivered on 20 sub-projects around the country
and over 60 percent of the lots have been sold. 60.5 percent of lots are social lots, and 9.7 percent are
lots for squatter resettlement.
Though it is still too early for a definitive analysis of the socio-econornic impact of the sub-projects on its
intended beneficiaries, a number of preliminary impact indicators can be assembled from the data readily
available at SNEC:
Average marketable area              48% of the total area of the site being developed (50% goal).
Number of lots developed by type of  Total 11,433 (100% goal) of which:
lot                                  Resettlement of shantytown dwellers: 1,112 ( 9.7%), 6,918 social lots (60.5%),
3,202 promotional lots (28%) and 201 lots for community facilities and
activities (1.8%)
Degree of physical completion of     6,640 lots are ready, 3,732 are basically completed (at 95%). All lots intended
works                                for shantytown dwellers have been delivered.
Degree of commercialization          7,156 lots are sold (63%). All lots intended for shantytown dwellers have been
sold and construction of houses is in progress.
Property titles                      5,177 land titles have been created (45% of the lots, a good indicator, taking
into consideration the average time lag for creating individual titles).
B. CIH has financed, through private developers, 5,503 eligible housing units and 104 serviced
residential lots, and, through owners of serviced lots, 909 housing units.
Number of housing units with a total real estate 6412: 909 by lot owners and 5,503 through private
value of less than DH 300,000                      developers.
Number of serviced residential lots of less than 120 2 projects with 104 lots
m2
m
Total number of housing units and serviced lots 261 private developers, 467 projects, in total 7,974
completed                                          units and 104 lots
According to the Loan Agreement, the Bank loan to CIH refinanced the loans to private developers for
developing serviced residential lots not exceeding 120 m2 and construction of dwellings with the total
estimated cost not exceeding DH 300,000. Though these requirements were supposed to insure that the
refinanced projects reach the lower-income families, they are vague as indicators of the type of
- 10 -



end-consumer that would buy the lots or dwellings as they can mean very different income groups,
depending on the location and type of development.
As most CIH are medium tern loans, they were repaid after 2 or 3 years and the amount recovered by CIH
was used by CIH to finance new projects before the end of the Bank loan grace period. Currently there are
42 loans that are at risk for the total loan value of DH 149 million. This represents 12 percent of the total
value of the loans CIH made as part of the project (DH 1,250 million). The total cost of the projects
financed is DH 3,300 million. At the time of the preparation of this report CIH was still looking at the
causes that made 12 percent of the loans to become non-performing.
C. Three studiesfor MoH were delivered and widely disseminated
The studies were commissioned with a delay due to changes in the terms of reference, payment difficulties,
and consequent problem in retaining the selected consultants, but all, with the exception of one case study,
were successfully completed in 1998 and discussed at a seminar.
D. Technical assistance to CIH and SNEC
The technical assistance components to CIH and SNEC (US$0.5 million each) were designed to improve
their data processing and management systems, in order to enable easy generation of monitoring documents
for each operation, and to make their existing accounting and budgeting systems compatible. Training of
staff was also included.
CIH has installed computers and software to upgrade its data processing capacity. However, no technical
assistance was provided to improve its management and risk monitoring.
Technical assistance to SNEC included design and implementation of a new integrated Management and
Information System with four components: Land Management, Marketing, Procurement and Contracts
Management, Programming and Budgeting. This task was completed in 1998. However, in 1999, the new
management of SNEC felt that the system was not used to its full capacity and towards the end of the
project requested additional technical assistance and training to fully operationalize the MIS: to integrate
the marketing module of the MIS, to develop its operational manual, and to provide operational training to
SNEC staff. After some delay on the part of the Bank, a consultant prepared terms of reference for this
additional assistance in November 1999.
Unfortunately, SNEC was not able to launch these new components in time, due to delays in the approval
of its budget for FY2000. Consequently, the request for financing could not be granted as the project
closure date was set for June 30, 2000. Despite this setback, SNEC has decided to go ahead and finance the
installation of the marketing module of the MIS out of its own budget.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The following costs were included to compute the economic rate of return (ERR) of land development
sub-projects: (a) land and site development, including site preparation and on-site infrastructure; (b) the
share of off-site infrastructure allocable to the sites; (c) physical contingencies; (d) administration and
supervision. The economic analysis was done on the basis of domestic market prices and a project life of 10
years. The assumption was made that land values would increase by 10 percent during the first year after
project completion and 5 percent thereafter. The ERRs of a sample of 7 sub-projects were computed; they
ranged from 29 to 48 percent. In the conservative assumption of a one-time increase of 10 percent in land
- 11 -



values, ERRs were expected to reach 15-40 percent.
The ERRs computed for a sample of 10 houses financed by mortgage loans refinanced under the Second
Housing Finance Project were applied to the CIH/private banks component for loans to the private sector
land and housing developers. Such ERRs were assumed to be similar to estimated 15-20 percent. The
assumption was used that half of the line of credit would be used for the construction of houses and half for
the development of serviced lots, and overall ERR of the proposed project was expected to reach 27
percent under the conservative assumption of increased land values and ERR of 36 percent under the more
optimistic assumption of increased land values. Both of this values were well above the prevailing cost of
capital of 10 percent.
It is too early yet to recalculate the ERR for land development sub-projects as only around 60 percent of
the lots have been commercialized, and even less have been constructed, so land value increases are hard to
observe with certainty and consistency, and other economic benefits could not be observed until the
communities start functioning. A rough estimate, made using the methodology described in the SAR, gives
comparable ERRs for the three sites where land value data is available (Ain Aouda, Kelaa Sraghna and
Yasmine II). Resale land values there increased by 15-50 percent. The costs of the retained subprojects
were close to the original estimates, and sale prices are also in line with the original estimates.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is substantial.
The two main achievements are: (a) advancing the policy debate and the reforms in the Housing Sector,
including redefining the role of the State in providing serviced land and social housing, the relative roles of
public and private developers, the housing finance system and the housing aid for low income families, and
(b) the capacity building at SNEC. The impact on capacity building at CIH is more questionable.
(a) Advancing the policy debate and the reforms in the Housing Sector
Changing the role of the State and increasing the participation ofprivate developers
As a result of the experience of the project, it becarne clear that SNEC as an unspecialized public
developer, can not continue launching and commercializing many small and somewhat ad hoc projects,
based on intemal cross-subsidization formula. SNEC has been charged with the piloting of ZUNs, defined
as neighborhoods and new towns the primary infrastructure for which is to be developed "wholesale" by
SNEC and later be sold to private developers that would further develop secondary and tertiary
infrastructure on certain segments of the zone for individual sale. The future of public developers is called
into question and their financial and operational records are under scrutiny as most of them are
experiencing financial difficulties and find themselves in direct competition with the private developers and
municipalities.
The difficulty with provision of resettlement lots, and relatively high prices of SNEC's sites, lead the GoM
to consider another mechanism for broadening the private sector involvement in land development: the
launching of ZAPs, that would compete with the informal sector by offering the low-income families
partially equipped lots for further improvement at more affordable prices.
- 12-



Though the concept of ZUNs and ZAPs is widely accepted, the regulatory and financial mechanisms of
their practical implementation still need to be worked out. SNEC is experimenting with possible
mechanisms for partnering with the private developers in the framework of ZUNs it has already launched.
The issue of supply of urban landfor development has been recognized as a reform priority
The project reconfirmed the existing awareness that the urban regulation of land, being very rigid and slow,
causes major distortions and delays for the land and housing markets. The reform of the Land Law and
launching of mass titling is underway. The Agency responsible for land title registration (Conservation
Fonciere) will be given autonomous status by the law currently under consideration, and its efficiency will
be improved. Creation of the National Agency of Land Promotion (Agence Nationale de la Promotion
Fonciere) is underway. Assistance from the Bank was requested for the preparation of the reform of the
administration of State Properties (Administration des Domaines). The new Rental Law was passed,
redefining the relationship between the landlord and tenants in order to increase investment in the rental
sector. That would in tum augment the supply of housing for low-and middle-income families, and
increase the efficiency of use and incentives for the up-keep of existing housing stock.
The laws and norms governing the fornal process of urbanization are being revised
The GoM has started to reform the Urban Planning Law (Code d'Urbanisme), aiming at simplifying the
documents and urban norms to make them more consistent with the social and economic dynamics of
Moroccan urbanization. In the meantime, the articles of the Law and standard procedures for delivery of
construction permits are being applied with more flexibility in order to speed up the unduly cumbersome
process of approvals and permits. More attention is being paid to the social and economic analysis in the
Urban Development Plans (SDAUs) and the need for more frequent revisions. The mandate of the existing
Urban Planning Agencies and Inspections, established in the main regional capitals, was changed in 2000:
they are charged now with urban planning issues of their regions. Such decentralization of planning will
allow better and faster enforcement of planning laws and norms.
The housing finance market is opening up to commercial banks and becomes more liquid
The lack of interest of the private banks in participating in the project was not surprising, as they could not
lend on the same terms as CIH. To level the playing field and encourage competition in mortgage
provision, agreements (Conventions) were signed between the MoF and private banks to allow them to
benefit from interest rate subsidies available to CIH special low-income program. At the same time, to
increase liquidity in the housing finance market, a Law on securitization was passed. Today the private
banks are more and more active in the housing sector, although their participation is still limited to the
higher end of the market.
Improving targeting and efficiency of the State Housing Subsidy
The studies and consultant reports delivered during the project helped convince the GoM that the current
system of the State housing subsidy (interest rate subsidy for social housing) is costly and poorly targeted.
As a result of this finding, the GoM is considering replacing the indirect subsidy by a system of upfront
grants that would be better targeted to the low-income households. The Bank is providing on-going
assistance in the preparation for such transition.
(b) Impact on the executing agency for the land development component: role and situation of SNEC
- 13 -



At the start of the project
SNEC was established in 1987 to take over the program of FNAET from MoH accounts. During its first
two years of operation (1987-89), SNEC concentrated almost entirely on FNAET activities: assessment of
works completed to date, determination and verification of all outstanding liabilities, completion of
construction activities for several of the sites. For these services SNEC received a commission of 7 percent
of all transactions that it processed on behalf of FNAET. This commission was more or less consistent with
the comparable fees charged by the private sector and was the most important source of income.
At the start of the project SNEC operated with a staff of 43 people and was divided into three functional
departments: technical, commnercial, and administrative. A staff increase to 70 people was made a condition
of effectiveness. It had only 5 projects under construction for its own account, and thus its track record as a
land developer was still relatively untested.
As SNEC was undercapitalized at the start of the project, its paid-in capital was also required to increase
annually to reach DH 20 million by the end of 1998.
At the end of the proiect
Scope of operations and expertise has grown significantly. A new strategy has been approved.
SNEC's portfolio has increased to 85 projects (1998), with over 31,000 lots and 2,674 dwelling units for
the total coast of about 4,390 MDH. From 1997 to 2000, 42 projects have been completed, with a total of
12,000 dwelling units. The extensive experience acquired by SNEC allowed the new management,
nominated in 1998, to define a strategy and take into account the achievements and shortcomings of the
previous modes of operation:
(i) greater selectivity in the choice of project sites, and emphasis on marketing: the scarcity of public
land in areas were the demand for serviced lots is high led to launching too many projects in small cities
where land was available, but the demand was weak or already satisfied by competing projects managed by
other public developers or by municipalities. The new SNEC management therefore decided to carefully
screen all on-going projects, and to cancel those without commercial potential or stalled by property issues.
This selectivity allowed SNEC to concentrate on a more aggressive marketing policy for retained projects,
based on the decentralization of commercial services in regional agencies, and on the reinforcement of
staffing and communication strategy.
(ii) identification and launching of new modes of operation: to address the persistent scarcity of public
land in large urban areas, SNEC designed, in close cooperation with the Ministry of Urban Planning and
Housing, a new strategy based on the development of large scale projects outside urban perimeters, called
ZUN (Zone d'urbanisation nouvelle). On these projects, SNEC will focus on the design and
implementation of primary infrastructure, while secondary infrastructure, serviced lots and housing will be
implemented by private developers. The first ZUN is already being implemented in Agadir, and others are
being prepared near Rabat, Sale, Nador, and Fes.
Management has improved
To address the enlarged scope of operations, SNEC's staffing has increased steadily, to 121 people in
2000. Priority was given to the staffing of the new regional agencies and to commercial services.
- 14 -



Monitoring, internal audit and budgeting services were also reinforced.
Growth in SNEC staffing
SNEC 's new management is also focusing on the full integration of the MIS, especially on the marketing
module and on reporting procedures between regional age-ncies and headquarters.
Financial situation has dramatically improved and constitutes a sound basis for the implementation of
the new strategy
Concentration of SNEC activity on viable projects has improved the financial situation of the agency, and
SNEC complies with all financial targets set in the loan agreement:
* Return on equity is 15.7% (target: no less than 4%)
* Income ratio is 58.7% (target: no less than 10%)
* Wage expenses to profit is 26.2% (target: less than 30%)
* Total operating expenses to profit is 41.3% (target: less than 50%).
In compliance with the Loan Agreement, SNEC has increased its equity in successive amounts of about
DH 4 m-illion throughout the life of the project. Moreover, in November 1999, SNEC's equity was
increased from DH 22.5 million to DH 106.5 million, which is well above the target set by the loan
agreement. This last equity increase is a highly important development in the way of institutional
strengthening of SNEC. It conveys the trust of the GoM in the management of the agency and its capacity
to imnplement the new ZUNs. By reducing its debt to equity ratio, it prepares SNEC for its future large
scale development operations, which will require additional long term fmnancing. SNEC has already secured
long termn loans from Arab development agencies for the first ZUN in Agadir.
(c) Impact on the executing agency for loans to private developers: role and situation of CIHI
The institutional imnpact on CIH as part of this project was negligible, as the CIH component was a simple
line of credit with very limiited policy requirements. The technical assistance component was limited to
upgrading its computer hardware and software. However, the Bank has a long history of working with
CIH, and the role of CIH was central to the debates about the reform of the housing finance and subsidy
systems in Morocco. As this reform is one of the major institutional achievements of the project, the
institutional evolution of ClIH during the life of the project merits a brief account.
- 15- 



At the start of the project
At appraisal, CIH was found efficient and well managed, comparable to a private sector enterprise, and
independent from the GoM, financially and in its management. CIH had doubled its branch network in the
five years prior to the start of the project, and in 1992, it had 46 branches and a staff of 1,120. At
appraisal the CIH policy statement and lending criteria were clearly defined and its portfolio supervision
was found rigorous. Fifteen percent of the portfolio was earmarked towards the tourism sector, and housing
loans made 75 percent. Loan arrears were increasing, but were found within acceptable parameters - 5.6
percent of its portfolio by the end of 1991 with more than two thirds of it arising from the tourism sector
(bankrupt hotel chains). The targets set for financial ratios were the same as those set for the Second
Housing Finance Project with CIH (Loan 3122-MOR approved in 1989 and completed in 1995). These
targets included the interest rate spread, operating expenses to total assets, current assets to sight deposits,
end equity to total assets.
At the end of the project
During project implementation, the Bank was getting increasingly concemed about the financial health of
CIH. Up to FY97, CIH complied with financial targets, except for operating expenses as a percentage of
total assets, but this was not the most serious issue, as it was due to the transformation of CIH into a
depository bank.
The main issue was CIH non compliance with the Bank Al-Maghrib (Central Bank) regulations on loan
classification and provisions. Bank Al-Maghrib had agreed to postpone enforcement of these regulations
by former specialized public financial institutions (OFS) such as CIH. However, the Bank insisted on
resolving the problem, having reviewed the results of the audit report of CIH Financial Statements for
FY94 In 1996, as the Bank was considering a new line of credit to CIH, the Bank missions to Morocco
stated clearly that a special audit of CIH portfolio was a prerequisite to future lending to CIH, and the
Bank prepared terms of reference for this audit. However, the on-going loan had already been totally
disbursed, the idea of a new line of credit was abandoned in 1997, and the Bank's leverage on CIH was
thus limited. The special audit was never commissioned by CIH.
The situation became critical in 1998 when CIH began enforcing Bank Al-Maghrib regulations. The
amount of non-perforning loans had soared since several years, as a result of the bankruptcies in the hotel
industry, the crisis in the housing sector, but also as a result of bad management and weak risk
management. The annual return on operations became negative in 1998, because of increased provisions.
The other financial ratios still complied with the targets set by the Bank. The GoM nominated a new
management team, and the audit of the FY99 financial statements was carried out according to
intemational audit standards. It is qualified and raises questions of accountability for non-recoverable
loans. Under-provisioning for doubtful debts could reach DH 5,700 million, against capital and reserves of
DH 851 million, indicating that CIH is technically bankrupt.
However, the main shareholders and the GoM have decided on a rehabilitation plan (Plan de redressement)
which was approved by CIH's Board (Conseil d'Administration) in June 2000. The Plan includes:
* injection of DH 2 billion in equity by shareholders in two tranches (2000 and 2001);
*   injection of DH 3 billion in loans by the banking sector, with State guarantee;
*   a State loan of DH 1 billion;
*   the write-off by the State of DH 200 million of exchange losses;
*   the write-off by the State of DH 400 million of ERAC debts;
- 16 -



*   a proactive policy of nonperforming debt recovery;
*   extensive State support for the enforcement of the Plan.
The Plan is expected to restore financial equilibrium to CIH and clean up its portfolio. Its objective is to
transform CIH into a viable financial institution able to compete in a level playing field with commercial
banks, that are increasingly active in the housing finance sector. The creation of a secondary mortgage
market, with the new law on securitization, will contribute to a further development of the mortgage market
and the housing finance sector.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Macroeconomic situation
During the project implementation period, the Moroccan economy experienced nearly zero real GDP per
capita growth, with a 10 percent negative growth in 1995. That explains, in part the sluggishness in
national and local investment demand. By the end of the decade, poverty is 50 percent higher than in 199 1.
In the last two years Morocco witnessed a steep rise in unemployment, which reached 22.8 percent in urban
areas at the end of 1999. In view of second consecutive drought year in 2000, it can be assumed that due
to increased rural migration combined with low growth, unemployment in urban areas might exceed 2.5
percent. The housing sector has been performing below its potential, and currently accounts for only 5
percent of GDP.
Economic stagnation, lack of public resources, increased number of the urban poor, and low opportunities
for income generating activities jeopardized the project's design, that aimed at increasing ownership of land
for self-construction and resettlement, and housing construction subsidies programs targeted at the poor.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Land development component: access to land was identified as a major constraint at the start of the
project, and it remained the main obstacle for the project's implementation and cause of slow disbursements
of the land development component. The new mandate for SNEC and the first operations of ZUN, the
project for the Land Agency (Agence Fonci&re), show that the government has taken this constraint int.o
consideration and is responding to it.
The housing finance (CIH) component: the bankrupt hotel chains and financial difficulties of ERACs,
the large clients of CIH, jeopardized the overwhelming part of the CIH portfolio and along with other
financial difficulties caused major problems for this institution. As CIH remains a major player on the
housing finance market, its institutional viability is closely linked with the sustainability, costs, and
success of implementing any current and future housing finance programs.
The implementation of the recommendations of the MoH studies: the studies could have been delivered
much faster and their recommendations translated into substantial reform even during the life of the project.
The payment delays on the part of the Treasury caused many difficulties for the management of the
consultant teams.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
- 17 -



SNEC has performed well, and has increased its management effectiveness, pursued sound financial policy,
rationalized its operations and staffing, and improved the quality of its growing portfolio. Such behavior
naturally led to the reduction of the size of the project, as some projects identified initially were not viable.
However, SNEC could have been more proactive in applying stricter eligibility criteria, undertaking market
research to avoid engaging funds in non-viable projects, and finding ways to reduce the cost of serviced
land to make its projects more competitive with the ample supply of lower cost informal developments.
Bank funds were rather expensive for SNEC, as they were on-lent by GoM with a fixed interest rate of
12.5 percent, close to prevailing interest rate on the local market at the time of negotiations. However,
while, consequently, domestic market rates dropped to 7-8 percent, no action was taken by the counterparts
to reduce the on-lending rate. The on-lending rate was finally reduced to 11  percent only in 1999. At that
time SNEC, whose financial situation had steadily improved, was already searching for cheaper resources
on the local financial market. This was an important factor behind the low disbursement rate of the Bank
loan. However, it must also be considered as a positive outcome of the sound SNEC management and as
an indicator of the positive institutional impact of the project.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The project has experienced a drop in costs due to reduced scope of the land development component and
the withdrawal of two private banks.
The final cost of all the retained sub-projects, including land costs, studies, works and financial fees,
amount to US$65.5 million (DH 653.71 million at the exchange rate of DH 9.8 per US dollar). That
represents 41.6 percent of the original estimates.
Overall disbursements were very fast in the first three years due to the fast pace of the loan to CIH and
slowed down significantly towards the end due to the slow progress of the land development component and
the perception of the high price of the Bank loan by SNEC. The Bank reacted by reducing the loan by
USS22 million in May 1999. Despite the reduction, the US$14.43 million was left undisbursed, due to the
large gap between the appraisal estimate and actual disbursements.
Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million equivalent)
Land Development+CIH   FY94      FY95      FY96       FY97      FY98      FY99      FYOO
Appraisal Estimate           1.53     16.43     52.15      76.51     96.56     105.1    106.00
Actual                       8.63     39.26     48.64      53.76     59.14     66.46      69.57
Actual as % of Estimate     564%      239%       93%        70%       61%       63%       66%
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated likely.
The lessons learned during project implementation have already been taken into consideration by the
implementing agency, the scale of the project has been reduced, and some of the land development
practices have been modified accordingly. All that will insure sustainability of ongoing and future
operations. Given the reduced availability of public land, the formula of cross-subsidization is losing its
- 18-



universal applicability, and new mechanisms are being explored. It must be noted, that the SNEC projects
imposed no direct costs on the state Budget.
In the Memorandumn of the President, sustainability of the project was mostly described in terms of the
economic viability of the system of intemal cross-subsidies through differential pricing of lots and private
sector participation, both in land development and housing finance. Lots for squatters and low-income
families were to be sold at or below cost, cross-subsidized from the sale at higher prices of other lots within
the same sub-project. To insure sustainability, total revenue was to be equal total costs for each
sub-project. SNEC was to be not only developing, but also marketing its projects to the end consumer for
private construction.
The implementation showed that the cross-subsidization system works well in cases when there is a
broad-based demand for all types of lots, from economy to "villa" type lots, with a large group of buyers
for residential lots with commercial ground floors. That is mostly the case of fast growing middle to large
cities. Where SNEC had managed to secure land in such areas, its projects have been a success.
Unfortunately, cheap public land is hard to come by in such areas, and there is a strong competition from
other developers. Many projects that had been included in the list at appraisal, being either inherited from
the FNAET, or because it was easy for SNEC to get access to land, were eventually dropped, and the loan
amount for land development component was scaled down to finance only the commercially viable sites.
Both the Bank and the executing agency displayed vigilance and preferred to limit the size of the project
than to continue financing what would be "white elephant" sites.
By the end of the project, SNEC not only preserved but, in fact, increased its financial viability. Its role in
the system of the OST (Organisme sous tutelle), has been reassessed to reflect its comparative advantage.
SNEC has been charged with developing large tracts of land in the areas of high growth (e.g. Agadir
peri-urban districts), so called ZUNs (Zones d'Urbanisation Nouvelle). This concept was discussed with
the Bank throughout project implementation, as SNEC was becoming more and more financially and
operationally sustainable. Developing "wholesale" primary infrastructure on large tracts of land and letting
private developer provide secondary and tertiary infrastructure and then "retail" lots, will avoid the
problems that surfaced in the current project. Equally, the policies of pursuing gradual land development,
and using private capital to deliver further improvements, are conceptualized in the so called ZAPs (Zones
d'amenagement progressij). It will reduce the cost of formally developed land and the burden on local
budgets.
The project was implemented during a period of shiffing sectoral orientation. Project experience proved that
some of the sacred housing policy pillars inherited from the 80's did not work in the 90's and are
unsustainable in the future:
*   the model of a national public developer for social housing at the same time striving for financial and
commercial viability, with limited funds for accessing an artificially restricted pool of land, acting in
limited, if any, coordination with municipalities and their infrastructure programs;
* universal applicability of cross-subsidization system for individual sub-projects;
* excessive reliance on policies of resettlement of shanty town dwellers without drastic reforns of the
urban regulatory and subsidy system,.
*   the temporary emphasis on provision of state- and privately constructed social housing (the program of
200,000 units) proved costly and did not match the demand of the population, particularly in small and
middle-size towns.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
- 19-



The way the institutions have adjusted during the course of the project testifies that new modalities were
foumd, and that in some way, the scaled down project has ended up serving as a pilot. It has produced
limited outcomes that are, nonetheless, sustainable. The experience of the land development component of
the project and parallel developments of the 90s caused MoH to reconsider its strategy. The implementation
experience of the project, the studies completed as part of the project, and a seminar organized by the Bank
to discuss them, have led the GoM to design and begin implementing important reforms that would
provide a totally different operating environment for any future operation. The difficult situation of CIH is
being addressed by the GoM in its rehabilitation plan for this institution, and the Bank will be monitoring
the progress closely.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
Bank performance at lending is rated unsatisfactory
First. risks were underestimated during project preparation:
i. Delays in the implementation of sector reforms: The Housing Sector Development Letter signed by the
GoM was written in very general terms and did not include deadlines for specific reforms.
2. Many serviced lots produced do not benefit the low-income family group intended: The project did
not include enforceable procedures for selecting beneficiaries. Moreover, previous projects analyzed at
appraisal to infer the impact of land development projects on low- income groups were located in main
agglomerations, whereas most projects financed by this loan were located in smaller cities.
3. Private developers launched a very limited number of social housing projects: No practical
mechanisms were introduced to broaden the system of housing finance, so it is not surprising that
private developers continued to specialize in housing projects for high and middle income families.
Most issues mentioned above had been properly identified. However, it seems, that at the time of project
preparation, there was a sense of urgency, from the executing agencies (SNEC and CIH) to secure long
term financing from the Bank, and also from Bank management to approve the loan, even if the
institutional framework was not ready and if there were no strict criteria ensuring that the Project was
effectively targeting low-income families.
Second, the staff skill mix at preparation and appraisal has been inadequate, as the team lacked specialized
expertise in housing and land development.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance at supervision is rated unsatisfactory.
The supervision team was proactive in identifying together with SNEC new land development sub-projects
that could be financed by the Project. However, both SNEC and the supervision team failed to focus on
demand analysis when appraising sub-projects. When the supervision team realized that the implementation
of land development projects was lagging behind schedule, the first reaction was to increase the percentage
of works refinanced by the Bank loan from 65% to 85%.
During mid-tern review (May 1998), the lingering financial problems of CIH were identified, but at that
- 20 -



time the Bank's leverage was already limited since this component had been totally disbursed. The
supervision did not enforce the timely delivery of the project audit reports, that were all received after the
component had been totally disbursed.
The workshop organized to disseminate the results of the studies on housing sector reforms was successful,
but no support was provided to the MoH to deal with the continuing delays by the Treasury in paying the
consultants.
The opportunity was missed to restructure the land development component. It was clear at the time that
the delays in sub-projects implementation and the weak demand for lots in small cities would reduce the
financing needs of SNEC. Instead, the supervision team proposed to use part of the loan to finance SNEC
housing projects, which was not in line with Bank policy, did not represent SNEC main line of business,
and was inconsistent with the project design.
Lingering problems in implementation of some sub-projects were not addressed until the last quarter of
1998. The new team that assumed project supervision, acted proactively and dropped some of the
non-viable sub-projects from the project list and canceled part of the loan, alleviating the financial burden
for SNEC and the country. The Loan to the Government has been reduced from US$66 million to US$44
million on May 13, 1999. The fraction of the loan for Category 4 (unallocated), managed by the State
Secretariat of Housing, was canceled (US$5 million) and the amount on-lent to SNEC was reduced from
US$59 million to US$42 million.
In the same period, weaknesses in the previous project management were identified and addressed: the
threshold for the Banks prior review of contracts for civil works had been raised from US$300,000 to
US$1,500,000 by a simple letter from the Bank, without a request from the Borrower and without a formal
amendment. Some time later, another letter from the Bank had applied the new threshold to the
disbursements on the basis of Statement of Expenditures. There had been also problems with the
refinancing rate and the change of the annual interest rate charged to SNEC. The rate was reduced from
12.5 percent to 1 1 percent by an amendment in the subsidiary loan with SNEC without introducing the
necessary changes in the Loan Agreement with the GoM.
The timely delivery of account audits for SNEC and CIH was insisted upon, only after 1998, in order to
stay in compliance with the legal covenants.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory.
The preparation and appraisal stages of the project cycle were clearly not satisfactory. However, the
supervision performance rating is more ambiguous. Despite problems outlined above, the Bank staff
cooperated closely with the Government and the implementing agency for the land development component
and behaved proactively towards the end of the project. The relationship with CIH was more arms-length
due to the nature of the component - a simple line of credit. There were, however, significant problems in
the overall quality of project supervision and institutional memory both for the Bank and the Borrower.
The opportunity was lost to restructure the project at mid-term review, and though most problems were
eventually rectified by FY99, valuable time was lost to make the best use of the available resources.
The team has discussed the importance of the ICR preparation with the main executing agency. SNEC
expressed a high level of engagement and initiative in taking stock and leaming from the project
- 21 -



implementation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance at preparation is rated satisfactory.
The project was designed in response to the Borrower's request for emergency Bank's assistance for its
national social housing program. The Borrower was skeptical about the participation of the private sector
in the operation, as at the time the role of the private sector in social housing was limited. The private
banks component was included on the Bank's initiative and on a pilot basis in an attempt to encourage
private sector participation, but the concerns of the borrower were borne out and private banks
participation quickly tumed out to be premature, even as a pilot.
Lack of a clear government strategy, however, can be considered one of the major weaknesses at the
preparation stage.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation perforrnance is rated satisfactory.
The launching and supervision of studies by the MoH was fully satisfactory, as was the organization of the
dissemination workshop. The Government's commitment to reform has also been strong.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementing agencies' perfonnance is rated satisfactory.
SNEC:  the initial objectives of SNEC  in launching the land development component proved
over-ambitious, and SNEC failed to give enough importance to market analyses. In 1997/1998, under
pressure from the Ministry of Housing, priority was given to social housing over land development, which
contributed to the delays in project restructuring, as this policy was not in line with Bank orientations and
not feasible, given the mandate of SNEC. Further changes in sector policy and a new management at
SNEC led to more realistic views: cancellation of non viable projects, priority given to the marketing of
viable projects, and improvement of internal management. Unfortunately, this change occurred too late to
allow a full restructuring of the project, which should have occurred during mid-term review.
CIH: the implementing agency disbursed quickly the housing finance component and complied with the
eligibility criteria. However, CIH management did not fully cooperate with supervision teams to identify the
lingering problems with its loan portfolio.
MoH: the studies were delivered with large delays, that were caused largely by bureaucratic difficulties
outside of control of the implementation team.
7.7 Overall Borrower perfornance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.
- 22 -



There were some continuity and consistency problems in the implementation policy of the borrowers.
However, they finally managed to built on positive and negative experiences of the project to define a new
sector strategy, to define a new role for SNEC and CIH, and to improve their intemal management.
8. Lessons Learned
1. To be effective, land development projects should involve municipalities and other regional
stakeholders and be integrated with the broader urban and environmental development programs for the
agglomerations.
In Morocco, as in most countries, social housing services are financed by the central government. Local
governments are generally responsible for providing adequate municipal services, such as sewage, solid
waste management, and finance local roads, lighting and some public and commercial facilities. More often
than not, they have low progranmming and budgeting capacity to provide these services. Many limitations
are also imposed by the urban development plans and norms that are too rigid and do not take into
consideration local realities. It was decided at the preparation stage that the project will not include
institutional development of municipalities, as this was being addressed under the Municipal Finance
(FEC) project in preparation at the time. Implementation process proved that the two projects oftentimes
provided mutually exclusive incentives for municipalities - a SNEC project will not sell, while the
municipality would seek FEC credit to finance infrastructure upgrading of the informal settlement it
allowed to grow spontaneously in the meantime.
Therefore, the project has demonstrated that all these complimentary aspects of local management have to
be taken into consideration for a land development project to respond to the targeted local effective demand
and be sustainable. The mechanism of PLHDU (plans locaux d'habitat et de developpement urbain) is
being considered by the GoM as a means to orchestrate the process of solving local housing, urban, and
environmental problems at a regional level.
2. Combining housing sector and housing finance sector components requires careful timing.
The project's three components, while all working towards the same goal, seem to have been designed with
totally different timeframes in mind. Piloting private banks financing of private developers as part of the
low-income housing project was not warranted as the financial system could not provide private banks with
the incentives to compete with the CIH, a specialized public institution, and private developers were not
interested in providing low-income housing as there were no economic incentives or mechanisms for them
to do this. Besides, the banking system in Morocco reaches less then 20 percent of housing purchases and
construction and the poor are the last ones to get access to credit.
The studies component was supposed to advance the reforms in both, the housing and housing finance
markets, but even without slippage in the delivery dates for the studies, realistic estimates should have been
made as to the earliest possible impact of such studies on the sector. No expectations should have been
placed on their contribution to the performance of the other two components.
- 23 -



3. The institiutional and regulatory framework governing land use and housing sector was not ready for
such a large scale project of land development for low-income families
The issue of land accessibility, the cumbersome procedures that govern land use and increase land prices
were raised at preparation, and even the Urban Law was critically reviewed, but nothing was streamlined
during the life of the project. Bank's participation (versus USAID just supporting ANHI) in the project was
justified by the argument of the comparative advantage of the Bank in bringing higher value added by
financing more difficult programs with a well conceived strategy framework. It seems, that there should
have been more conditionalities on the gradual reform of the regulatory framework and operational
strategy at least by the mid-term of the project. Equally, the vast investment resources allocated could not
have been realistically absorbed in the 7 years of implementation period, given the severe sector constraints.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borroiwer/implementing agency:
No report has been received from the Borrower yet.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOsivrivate sector):
10. Additional Information
- 24 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
I lciftmwix                         Proed in last PSR                     Ac..,atU .   Estlmae
Increased supply of lots for housing  Expeded delivery of 11,433 serviced    Though not all identified sub-projects proved
construction at affordable prices for  residential lots on 20 sub-projects around the to be viable due to land market constraints,
low-income households by a public developer country, around 70-% of them serving  11,433 serviced residential lots were
low-income families.                  delivered on 20 sub-projects around the
country with around 70% of them serving
low-income families.
Increased availability of medium term  The line of credit totally disbursed in two  CIH financed 261 private developers, 467
financing to private sector developers for    years and financed 6412 eligible housing    projects, and 6412 units with total real estate
construction of housing for low-income  units, however the private sector acivity in   value less than 300, 000 DH. However, the
families                              the development of residential lots for  financial and housing sector was not ready to
low-income families remains marginal.  support private sector activity for low-income
housing, so the impact is marginal. At the
same time, increased private sector
partidipation is observed on the high and
middle income end of the market.
Reforms in housing finance sub-sector,  The investment component has strengthened SNEC is charged with implementation of
housing subsidy policies, and land delivery   SNEC as an institubon and helped to define  ZUNs, the Land Registration agency is being
process                               its proper role in the system of OSTs.  reformed, the National Agency of Land
The studies have been instrumental for  Promoton is being created, the rental law
supporting the sector dialogue and reforms. has been passed, the Urban Planning Law is
under reform, and procedures are being
simplified and decentralized, the housing
finance market is opening up to equal
competition for commercial banks, a
secondary mortgage facility is under
consideration.
Output Indicators:
in~~I~$QdMat~1X            ?rqjc% ktdilaetPSR'                    cttLWtItlt
(a) number of serviced lots delivered to  11400 lots built, including at least 60%  11,433 lots built, on 20 subprojects,
squatters and low4ncome households (at   resettlement and social lots       including 60.5% social lots. 9.7% are
least 60%) of total of lots delivered);                                      resettlement lots.
(b) number of dwellings constructed by  About 6200 housing units with a total real   5, 503 eligible housing units and 104
private developers for low-income families;  estate value of less than 300,000, about    serviced residential lots were financed
and                                   5,300 through private developers and 909 by through private developers, and 909
lot owners, 104 serviced residential lots of   housing units through owners of serviced
less than 120 sq.m.                   lots.
(c) completion of the 3 projed-supported  Studies delivered and disseminated  Studies delivered and disseminated. A
studies.                                                                     seminar was held with govemment officials
and developers. The studies'
recommendations were discussed, and
some are already implemented as laws.
(d) Technical assistance to CIH and SNEC   CIH TA completed. CIH upgraded its data   Technical assistance delivered according to
processing capacity. A consultant provided  the TORs agreed at appraisal. CIH upgraded
TORs for additional assistance to implement Rs data processing capacity. At SNEC a fully
the marketng module of MIS and operatonal integrated MIS has been implemented,
manual and training for SNEC staff.   further reinforcement the marketing module
and operational training was requested but
could not be performed before the loan
ciosed.
End of project
- 25 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
ProJect Cost by Component (in US$ million e uivalent)
0976r*c '~e 2y ( 4ompont                      Ut$ mte--illion    US$ mnillion   .____._
A. Land Development
1. Land Acquisition                              38.06           14.69          38.6
2. Civil Works                                    75.73          35.26          46.6
3. Design Consultancies                           11.29           2.11          18.7
4. Other Costs                                    32.38           9.03          27.9
B. Loans to Private Developers
1. Through CIH                                   87.78          115.80        131.92
2. Through private sector banks                   53.32           0.00             0
C. Technical Assistance
1. To SNEC                                        0.62           0.08            13
2. To CIH                                         0.62            0.50           81
3. Studies for MoH                                2.46            1.82           74
Total Baseline Cost                                302.26          179.29
Physical Contingencies                              9.35
Price Contingencies                                 9.92
Total Project Costs            321.53
Total Financing Required            321.53          179.29
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                     7.50         81.90         0.00         0.00         89.40
.       ~~~(4.88)     (50.06)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (54.94)
2. Goods                     OM0           O.Oo         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         13.10        0.00         13.10
land project design         (0.00)        (0.00)       (8.34)       (0.00)       (8.34)
consultancies
technical assistance         0.00          0.00         1.23         0.00         1.23
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.00)       (0.00)        (1.00)
4. Studies for MoH           0.00          0.00         2.46         0.00         2.46
(0.00)       (0.00)       (2.00)       (0.00)        (2.00)
5. Sub loans                 0.00          0.00        141.10        0.00        141.10
(0.00)       (0.00)       (63.50)       0.00        (63.50)
Total                      7.50         81.90        157.89        0.00       247.29
(4.88)      (50.06)       (74.84)       (0.00)     (129.78)
The table does not include not bank-finance costs: land acquisition costs, financing costs and other costs as
defined in the SAR, for the total sum of US $73.98 million.
- 26 -



Project Costs by Procurem    Arrangements ActuallLatest Estimate) US$ million equivalnt
1. Works                         0.00           35.26          0.00           0.00          35.26
(0.00)        (24.40)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (24.40)
2. Goods                         0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                      0.00            2.11           0.00           0.00          2.11
land project design             (0.00)          (1.76)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (1.76)
consultancies
technical assistance             0.00            0.58           0.00           0.00          0.58
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
4. Studies for MoH               1.82            0.00           0.00           0.00          1.82
(1. 1 )        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (1. 1 0)
5. Sub loans                     0.00           0.00           115.80          0.00         115.80
(0.00)         (0.00)        (39.50)         (0.00)        (39.50)
Total                         1.82           37.95          115.80          0.00         155.57
(1.10)        (26.16)        (39.50)         (0.00)        (66.76)
The table does not include not bank-finance costs: land acquisition costs, financing costs and other costs
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by C oponent (in US$ million equivalent)
A. Land Development      66.00                91.46      24.40                36.65    37.0           40.1
B. Loans to private      63.50                77.60      39.50                76.30    62.2           98.3
developers
C. Technical Assistance
to SNEC                   0.50                 0.12      0.08                 0.02     16.0           16.7
to CIH                    0.50                 0.12      0.50                 0.12    100.0  156.5  100.0
MoH studies               2.00      0.46                  1.10      0.72               55.0  156.5
Total                    132.50     0.46      169.30     65.58      0.72      113.09    49.5  156.5  66.8
-27 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 28 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle             No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation     Development
Month/Year    Count      Specialty                       Progress         Objective
Identification/Preparation
02/92                        5   Economist/Fin.AnalystlUrban
Planner/Procurement Spec./
San.Engineer
03/92                        4   EconomistlMun.Engineer/
Fin. AnalystlFin.Spec.
07/92                        6   Economist/Urban Planner/
Fin.Analyst/Fin. Specialist /
Housing Spec./Lawyer
01/93                        6   Economist/Fin.Analyst/
Financial Spec./Housing Spec./
Resettlement Spec.
02/93                        1   Fin. Analyst
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/92                            Economist/Procurement
Specialist/Urban Planner/
Social Scientist
Supervision
08/93                         1  Economist                          HS                HS
02/94                         6  Economist/Fin.Analyst/Urban        HS                HS
Planner/Procurement Spec.!
Mun.Engineer/Sociologist
07/94                         3  Economist/Fin. Analyst / Urban      S                HS
Planner
05/95                        4  Economist/Fin. Analysts(2)           S                HS
[Urban Planner
03/96                        3  Economist/Social Scientist/          S                HS
Operations Analyst
08/96                         2  EconomistlUrban Planner             S                HS
03/97                         5  Economists(2)/Fin.Analyst/          S                HS
Urban Planner/Sociologist
06/98 (MTR)                   4  Economist/Fin. Analyst/Urban        S                 S
Planner/Sociologist
02/99                        5  Economist/Fin.Analyst/Sector         U                 S
Manager/Urban Planner/
Civil Engineer
11/99                        1  Economist                            S                 S
02/99                         3  Economist/Urban Planner/            S                 S
Civil Engineer
ICR
11/00                        2   Economist/Urban Planner                               S
- 29 -



(I) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actua/LaVtest Estimate
Identification/Preparation               70.5                        228.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                    51.4                        161.6
Supervision                             171.4                        623.6
ICR                                       10.0                        20.0
Total                                   303.3                      1,034.1
- 30 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Sector Policies                        O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Z Physical                               OH *SUOM ON ONA
O Financial                              O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
O Institutional Development              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  ON  O NA
Social
F Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
OI Gender                         O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
LI Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Private sector development             0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management               0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                OH  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 31 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
F Lending                                            OHS OS  *U  OHU
Z Supervision                                        OHS OS  *U  OHU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS  * U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
 Preparation                                        OHS OS  O  U  O HU
Z Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS  O  U  O HU
0 Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
- 32 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The ICR is based on the documents in the project file and the relevant sector work. Early evaluation report
was commissioned from a local consultant and was used in some of the analyses.
-33 -



