FILE        COPY                            Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1852-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
May 14, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Baht
US$1.00         =  $ 20.00
$ 1.00          =  US$0.05
$ 1.00 million  =  US$50,000
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Kingdom of Thailand for the equivalent of $31 million to
help finance the Fourth Education Project. The loan would have a term of
25 years, including seven years of grace, with interest at 8-1/2 percent
per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Thailand Current Economic Prospects and Selected
Development Issues" (924-TH) was distributed under cover of Secretary's Memo-
randum (M75-799) dated November 20, 1975, to the Executive Directors and to
members of the Consultative Group for Thailand. Basic data are given in
Annex I.
Recent Political Events
3.        The Government of Dr. Sanya Dhammasakdi, which came to power after
the overthrow of the military government of Field Marshalls Thanom and Prapass,
successfully adopted a new democratic constitution in October 1974 and held
elections in January 1975. After the elections, in which 22 parties won
seats, M. R. Kukrit Pramoj, leader of the Social Action Party, put together
a minority coalition government of four centrist parties in the elected
assembly. This coalition agreed on a policy statement emphasizing the need
to correct inequalities between rural and urban areas and between different
income classes. Its major domestic policy actions towards achieving this
objective were: (a) decentralization of some government expenditures to
rural areas through direct transfers of funds to tambons (village councils);
(b) adoption of price guarantees for rice and sugar; and (c) substantially
increased budget expenditures in FY76 for social and economic development
programs. In late December 1975 the Kukrit Government increased the con-
trolled retail prices of rice and sugar to bring them into line with the
minimum guaranteed prices previously announced for the current paddy and
sugarcane crops. When this action was challenged by the parliamentary
opposition, the Prime Minister requested H.M. The King to dissolve Parliament.
Elections were held on April 4; the Democratic Party, led by Seni Pramoj
(Kukrit's elder brother) won 115 of the 279 seats. Seni Pramoj was chosen
to be the new Prime Minister and formed a four party coalition Government
on April 21st. On April 30th the new Government received a vote of confid-
ence in the House of Representative on its policy statement. While the
Government's statement indicates that some economic policies initiated by
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents mAy not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization



the previous Government are likely to continue, it lays stress on meeting the
urgent needs of the rural population through policies which, among others,
would tackle the problems of rural indebtedness and accelerate the implement-
ation of the land reform program.
4.        The international environment altered dramatically soon after
establishment of the Kukrit Government with changes in the political control
of Cambodia, Laos and South Viet Nam. In adjusting to these changes the
Government has secured the agreement of the United States to withdraw its
remaining forces in Thailand this year, established diplomatic and trade
relations with China and Cambodia, received diplomatic delegations from
South Viet Nam and North Viet Nam, and exercised restraint in responding
to diplomatic incidents with Laos while pursuing a normalization of
relations.
Current Economic Situation
5.        Thailand's real GDP expanded at an average rate of 8 percent
during the 1960s with agriculture growing by 5-1/2 percent per year; prices
were virtually stable; open unemployment was minimal; and the balance of
payments was in surplus. Recent years have been more difficult, however.
In the period 1970-75 performance has been mixed, and for the period as a
whole growth has slowed to about 6 percent as a result of stagnation of
private and public investment in the early 1970s, and adverse weather and
slow progress in intensification of agricultural production which reduced
agriculture's growth to 4 percent a year. In 1973-74 dramatic improvements
in international markets and prices of agricultural commodities raised
Thailand's export earnings by 150 percent. This export boom stimulated a
rapid expansion of demand, production, and private investment and generated
balance of payments surpluses that enabled Thailand to adjust to higher
prices of imported petroleum with less difficulty than most other develop-
ing countries. At the same time, domestic prices increased rapidly, largely
as a result of massive increases in both import and export prices. Since
the summer of 1974, however, the strong stimulus from the external trade
sector has faded as export commodity prices declined while import prices
continued to rise. Consequently, the growth of demand decelerated, the
expansion of manufacturing output slowed, and significant open unemployment
appeared. Part of the new capacity created in the 1973-74 private invest-
ment boom remained underutilized; and excess capacity, together with the
international recession and political uncertainty, caused private invest-
ment to decline in 1975. Still, real growth in 1975 was about 6 percent as
a result of the Government's expansionary fiscal policy (which raised public
expenditure by about 25 percent) and good weather. Slower demand growth and
smaller import price increases also held the rate of inflation to about 4
percent. Assuming normal weather, real GDP should grow by another 6 percent
in 1976, although private investment is likely to continue to be depressed
for at least the first half of the year.



-3-
Structural Problems
6.        Thailand's favorable performance during the last decade was not
without weaknesses. Income disparities between regions and between rural
and urban areas are substantial as Bangkok and the Central Region have
developed more rapidly than the rest of the country. The population
has continued to grow by about 3 percent per year. As a result of past
and present population growth, the annual increment to the labor force
has risen by more than 50 percent in the last decade, the dependency ratio
is high, and the burden on the Government to provide education, health,
and other necessary services is heavy. In the past, agricultural output
increased largely because new land was put under cultivation rather than
because productivity increased. However, evidence has now accumulated
that the supply of new land is being exhausted; population pressure on
land has already developed in some areas; and tenancy problems are becoming
more serious than in the past. Expansion of area under cultivation also
provided jobs for about half the new entrants to the labor force, as indus-
trial employment has grown slowly and still accounts for only 7 percent
of the work force. In the future, as free land suitable for cultivation
is exhausted, creating new jobs will be more difficult as they will have
to be generated by the intensification of agricultural production and the
rapid expansion of labor intensive industries.
Progress Toward Development Objectives & Recent Institutional Changes
7.        Thailand's Third Five-Year Plan (1972-76) attempted to deal with
the above structural problems. It included the following objectives:
reducing regional and rural-urban income disparities, increasing employ-
ment, intensification of agricultural production, and greater public ex-
penditure on education and other social services. Progress towards these
objectives was minimal under the Thanom-Prapass regime. The Sanya and
Kukrit Governments, however, have taken a number of steps directed towards
achieving these objectives. Public expenditures for education, health and
social services have almost doubled and expenditures on agriculture almost
tripled in the period FY73-FY76. The Government's price policy in agri-
culture has allowed domestic agricultural prices to rise with international
prices, and the real per capita income of the 75 percent of the population
that is dependent on agriculture rose by about one-third over the last four
years. Through the tambon program $125 million was transferred to village
councils in FY75 to finance rural public works and create off-farm employ-
ment and income. In the last two years, laws have also been passed to re-
form agricultural land ownership, tenancy, and rents and to establish a
Marketing Organization for Farmers and a Farmers' Aid Fund. However, for-
mulation of detailed programs to implement many of these measures is still
necessary, and only the implementation will determine whether or not these
promising first steps lead to lasting results.
Development Prospects and the Fourth Plan (1977-1981)
8.        Recent events have complicated long-term planning, and work on
the Fourth Five Year Plan (1977-81) is not yet far advanced. The Govern-
ment presented a general policy statement and a preliminary project list



- 4 -
to a meeting of the Consultative Group for Thailand in December 1975. The
preliminary outline of the Fourth Plan reflects the emphasis which recent
governments have put on reducing social and economic disparities between
regions, income groups, and urban and rural areas. In order to achieve its
distributional objectives, Thailand must also adopt policies and programs
to accelerate growth to at least the 7 percent target announced at the
meeting. Generating a growth rate of 7 percent or higher is necessary for
two reasons. First, the progressive exhaustion of free land will limit
agriculture's capacity to absorb workers in the countryside; and, if growing
rural unemployment is not to worsen the pattern of income distribution,
employment opportunities in other sectors will have to expand rapidly.
Second, if, for instance, GDP were to continue to grow at 5 percent (the
average over 1974 and 1975) average real per capita income would rise only
very slowlv, given annual population increases of 2.5-3 percent and
declining terms of trade.
9.        A greater effort than in the past will, however, be required
in order to achieve the above target. Political and economic uncertainty
will restrain private investment, particularly foreign investment, at
least in the early years of the Plan. Agricultural production increases,
improvements in rural incomes, and growth in agricultural exports will
have to be generated by raising yields rather than by extending the area
under cultivation. An ambitious public expenditure program will be neces-
sary to satisfy priority economic and social needs and support rapid employ-
ment growth. Substantial effort will be necessary to mobilize the domestic
resources required to finance the needed level of public expenditures.
Finally, the availability of foreign exchange could also become a serious
constraint to growth later in the decade, when Thailand's balance of pay-
ments position will be less favorable than it has been in the recent past.
Balance of Payments and External Borrowing Program
10.       Although Thailand's import bill doubled between 1972 and 1974,
higher export earnings and private capital inflows were sufficient to meet
foreign exchange requirements in this period and increased reserves to six
months imports. In 1975, however, the overall balance of payments was in
deficit by about $100 million as the terms of trade (which began declining
in mid-1974) deteriorated further, overseas demand weakened due to the inter-
national recession, and a smaller volume of agricultural commodities was ex-
ported due to poor weather in the previous year. The turnaround in the
balance of payments reflects the transition from a period of rapid growth in
export earnings, led by unusually high commodity prices, to a period of
smaller increases. This situation is likely to continue for the remainder of
the decade, and rising import levels required to maintain a large investment
program in the Fourth Plan will lead to a large external resource gap.
11.       A marked increase in the use of external capital for financing
public investment, which was relatively low in the past, will be necessary
to provide needed foreign exchange. At the last Consultative Group meeting
the Government indicated that it was seeking about $3,500 million in loan



commitments to finance its investment program in the Fourth Plan. It also
plans to borrow an additional $600 million from private sources and has just
raised the first $100 million of this amount. Thailand's total debt service
ratio has dropped from 18 percent in 1971 to below 12 percent in 1975 (of
which just over two percentage points are public debt service) and would
remain under 15 percent throughout the Fourth Plan. With the projected level
of borrowing, public debt service payments would not place an unreasonable
burden on the balance of payments provided the debt is incurred on reasonable
terms. However, because of the limited availability of official development
assistance and long term private capital, the Government may encounter some
difficulty in achieving this level of borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
12.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank in 1950 and has received
33 loans amounting to $733.9 million, net of cancellations. Most of these
have been for transportation ($186.1 million), irrigation ($164.1 million)
and power ($166.0 million) with, in addition, one for a dual-purpose power
and irrigation project ($65.8 million). The remaining loans have been for
water supply ($55 million), telecommunications ($37 million), education
($21.3 million), industry ($13 million), rural development ($21.0 million)
and livestock ($5.0 million). Loans for rubber replanting ($50.0 million)
and telecommunications ($26.0 million) have been approved but not yet signed.
In addition, Thailand has received IDA credits of $19.5 million for educa-
tion and $12.5 million for irrigation improvement. In general, Bank-financed
projects have been carried out in accordance with expectations; and imple-
mentation of those on which problems have earlier been reported is improving.
Initial progress under the Third Education Project (Credit 369-TH) was slow
but specific steps have been taken to overcome early problems and accelerate
implementation in conjunction with the proposed loan for the fourth educa-
tion project-(paragraph 38). Under the Fourth Railway Project (Loan 898-TH),
the borrower is slowly overcoming its financial difficulties. Under the Fifth
Highway Project (Loan 870-TH) work is being resumed on roads for which earlier
contracts were terminated due to inadequate cost escalation provisions. The
Bangkok Water Supply Project (Loan 1021-TH), after initial delays in evalua-
tion, has completed bidding and award of most of the tunnel contracts has been
made. Annex II contains a summary statement of IFC investments (as of March
31, 1976), Bank loans and IDA credits (as of April 30, 1976), as well as notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
13.       The Bank is diversifying its lending program in Thailand.    In the
next few years a smaller proportion of lending is planned for transportation
and power projects, while projects to support a broad range of agriculture
development, rural works and infrastructure, family planning, education and
small and medium-scale industries would account for about two-thirds of the
proposed program. Increasingly, projects are being selected to spread dev-
elopment benefits outside the Central Plains area, and one of the main
functions of the Bank's Resident Regional Mission in Bangkok is to assist



the Government in developing projects which will achieve this. Our readi-
ness to finance some local costs in appropriate cases will enable the Bank
to participate more fully in projects in agriculture and the social sectors
which would have significant social benefits.
14.       In FY76, about 90 percent, by dollar amounts, of projects pro-
posed for Bank lending are expected to benefit the rural areas, where most
low income people live. An irrigation project in the northern region was
approved in July 1975, rural development and livestock projects in the north-
east were approved in January 1976, and a rubber project in the south was
approved in April 1976. In addition, the recently approved telecommunica-
tions project would extend telephone services to some rural areas not
previously connected. The education project described in this report is
also designed to benefit the rural population.
15.       On April 30, 1976 Bank loans and IDA credits disbursed and out-
standing amounted to $312.6 million, representing about 22 percent of the
country's estimated total external debt and about 47 percent of public ex-
ternal debt. This is not excessive in view of Thailand's modest overall
public external debt (about 4.2 percent of GDP in 1975). In addition, al-
though the level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over the next
five years, the Bank Group's share is expected to decline rapidly to about
16 percent of total external debt and 26 percent of total public external
debt. Servicing of the Bank debt in 1980 is projected to account for about
8.2 percent of the total debt service and about 32 percent of the country's
public debt service; this compares with 8.4 percent and 43 percent respect-
ively in 1975.
16.       IFC has made two equity investments in the Industrial Finance
Corporation of Thailand totalling $380,000, two loans to and an investment
in the Siam Cement group totalling $32.08 million, and a loan of $300,000
to Concrete Products Ltd. Prospects for other IFC operations are reasonably
good; potential projects include a pulp and paper project based on bamboo and
bagasse, a zinc mining and refinery project, and the development of privately
sponsored industrial estates. The Capital Markets Department is considering
an investment in a mutual fund management company and has been invited to
assist in housing finance.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Strengths and Weaknesses of the Thai Educational System
17.       The Thai educational system has made impressive gains over the
past decade as the Government has given considerable emphasis to extending
literacy and to training skilled manpower. Enrollment is almost universal
through the first four years of primary school; teacher training has
expanded rapidly so that qualified teachers are increasingly available; and
vocational education has been improved and expanded.



- 7 -
18.       The principal deficiency in the educational system has been its
inability to provide a quality education to those living outside the major
urban centers, most notably, Bangkok. While great progress has been made in
increasing enrollments, fundamental problems remain. For example, almost 60
percent of the children, largely those in rural areas, do not continue beyond
the fourth grade; thus, for the majority of the population, literacy skills
tend to be rapidly lost. Also, the quality of education is lower in rural
areas and provincial towns than in Bangkok and other major urban centers
because of the difficulty of attracting qualified teachers, the inadequacy
of instructional materials, the lack of proper supervision and in-service
teacher training and the irrelevance of much of the curricula to the rural
environment. Thus, rural students are handicapped when competing with the
more fortunate urban youth in examinations for entrance to each of the higher
levels. Rural youths' opportunities for continuing their education are
further reduced as both secondary and higher education are concentrated in
Bangkok. Finally, no comprehensive program is yet underway to correct the
deficiencies of the past by reaching the 15 million adults, mostly rural, who
have had four years or less education.
19.       A second problem concerns those students who obtain a secondary
education and yet have difficulty finding jobs. Less than 20 percent of all
students embarking on a secondary education will go-on to a university, yet
most still enter the academic stream rather than the pre-vocational stream.
This preference, which grows out of the separation of the two streams, results
in many students being ill-prepared to enter the labor market when they
attempt to do so.
Proposed Educational Reform
20.       In response to these and other pressing problems, the Cabinet
appointed an Educational Reform Committee in June 1974 to conduct a compre-
hensive review of education in Thailand. The Committee's final report,
submitted in December 1974, recommended a substantial overhaul of the
education system in order to provide more equitable opportunities and to
prepare students better for entrance into the labor force.
21.       The reforms proposed are extensive and imaginative; while rooted
in Thai conditions, they accord with current educational thinking outside
Thailand in terms of equality, structure, curricula and administration.
The salient features of the reform include the following:
-    All educational administration, presently divided among the
Ministry of Interior (primary education), the Ministry of
Education (secondary education) and the Bureau of Universi-
ties (higher education), would be unified under the Ministry
of Education, with operational responsibility decentralized
through 12 regional offices spread among the 71 provinces.
-    National core curricula would be developed, which would,
however, allow flexibility for regional variations.



- 8 -
Primary instruction would be restructured from the
four-year lower cycle and three-year upper cycle now
in existence to an integrated, six-year program univer-
sally available.
-    The separate academic and vocational education streams
at the secondary level would be integrated into a compre-
hensive program offering diversified curricula to all
students, and the upper cycle would be extended from two
to three years.
-    Rural students would be offered increased opportunity to
receive a secondary education by expanding enrollments in
the provinces, by replacing the present use of entrance
examinations by geographic quotas, by expanding the
scholarship program for needy students, and by introducing
a credit system which would allow students to progress at
varying rates.
-    Non-formal education programs for adults relevant to their
needs would be developed and a network established for
delivery of the program into the rural areas.
22.       There is widespread support for introducing the main recommenda-
tions of the reform, which have been formally endorsed by both the Cabinet
and the National Education Council (NEC).    While implementation of the
administrative reorganization will undoubtly be difficult, considerable
progress has been made in preparing the groundwork for several of the
recommendations, particularly those concerning secondary and adult education.
The proposed project is designed to assist the Government in implementing
these reform proposals.
Financing Educational Development
23.       Between 1968 and 1973, Central Government public education expendi-
tures grew in real terms at an annual rate of 6.5 percent compared to a growth
of 3.6 percent per annum for total Central Government expenditures, thus
increasing education's share of Central Government expenditures from 16.1
percent to 18.4 percent. Public education expenditure as a proportion of GDP,
however, remained nearly constant at about 3 percent. Achieving the improve-
ments in educational quality and equity implied by the reform would require an
increase in Central Government education expenditures to about 5 percent of
GDP by 1980. The proportion of such expenditures would remain substantially
unchanged at 19 percent of total Central Government expenditures and would not
overburden the Government's finances. A UNESCO/IBRD Cooperative Program
sector survey visited Thailand in March 1976 and, among other things, helped
the Government develop and estimate the costs of programs in primary and
higher education. Its report is expected around October 1976.



-9-
Bank Group Lending to the Sector
24.       The Bank Group has made two loans and one credit to finance projects
in Thailand's education sector, the main thrust of which has been the develop-
ment of vocational education. The first (Loan 471-TH of 1966), helped finance
the expansion and improvement of facilities at 14 trades and industries schools,
nine agricultural schools, one vocational and one agricultural teacher training
college located throughout the country. This project was satisfactorily com-
pleted in 1973 within the original cost estimates. The second (Loan 822-TH of
1972), is helping to finance the expansion and improvement of Thailand's major
agricultural university. Implementation of the second project began slowly
due to late appointment of campus planners and delays in completing architectural
plans. Construction is now proceeding satisfactorily but the project is about
18 months behind schedule. Under the third project (Credit 369-TH of 1973) pri-
mary teacher training facilities in the provinces are being improved and ex-
panded, a diversified curriculum is being introduced in 32 rural secondary
schools, educational research and curricula design are being improved through
establishment of a National Curriculum Development Center, and the science pro-
gram at one of the regional universities is being strengthened. Initial pro-
gress under this project was slow because of contracting, procurement and
administrative delays. Specific steps to overcome these problems have been
taken in conjunction with the arrangements for carrying out the proposed fourth
project. The project is about 12 months behind schedule.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
25.       The project was identified by a Bank mission in May 1974, and was
initially appraised in September 1974. In early 1975, the Government with-
drew its request for support of educational radio and television, which had
formed part of the original proposal, and proposed a modified project based
on the remaining components. After incorporation of the reform recommenda-
tions, a revised project proposal was received in early December, and field
review of the modified project was completed in February '1976. The proposed
loan was negotiated in Washington from April 21 to 26, 1976; the Government
delegation was led by H.E. Ambassador Upadit Pachariyangkun assisted by Khun
Charoon Vongsayanha, Under-secretary of State for Education.
Project Description
26.       Under the proposed project, the Government will begin implementing
part of its educational reform in two key areas: secondary school curricula
and adult education. The project includes (a) the introduction of diver-
sified curricula in 50 provincial secondary schools and (b) the establish-
ment of a national adult education program. Details are provided in the
report, "Appraisal of a Fourth Education Project in Thailand" (No. 613a-TH
of May 5, 1976), which is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. A loan and project summary is provided in Annex III.



- 10 -
Secondary Schools
27.       The Government's program to diversify curricula in secondary
schools began in the mid-1960's when it became concerned that students fol-
lowing the academic stream who failed to go on to higher education were ill
prepared to enter the labor market. With the assistance of the Canadian
International Development Agency, pre-vocational courses such as home eco-
nomics, agriculture, commerce and industrial arts were introduced in 20
secondary schools in rural areas. In addition, over 300 schools have re-
ceived equipment assistance from UNICEF and USAID. The third education
project (Credit 369-TH), building on experience gained under these programs,
is introducing diversified curricula in an additional 32 rural secondary
schools. Under the proposed project, the Government's program of diversified
education will be strengthened and accelerated in an additional 50 schools in
provinces where secondary educational opportunities are now grossly inadequate.
28.       All 50 schools are located in provincial towns away from Bangkok
and constitute some 30 percent of Thailand's upper secondary schools outside
the greater Bangkok area. Existing facilities are inadequate and must be
equipped and expanded to permit the effective application of the diversified
curricula. Laboratories and workshops will be constructed and equipped at all
50 schools, a limited number of classrooms will be provided at about half
of them, and an average of 10-14 staff housing units will be provided at each
site.
29.       When completed in 1980, the schools will have a total enrollment
of about 98,000, compared with 82,000 at present, part of the expansion being
due to the extension of the upper cycle proposed under the reform. Students
will be recruited from the surrounding districts. The expansion of enroll-
ments will require about 800 additional teachers, including about 300 teachers
of practical subjects. While the overall supply of new teachers is sufficient
to meet this demand, practical arts teachers will need extensive in-service
training in order to ensure the high quality of instruction on which the
success of the diversified curricula will hinge. A training center will be
established under the project for this purpose; practical arts equipment
maintenance and warehousing and distribution of new equipment will also be a
function of the center.
Adult Education
30.       Non-formal adult education courses are offered by the Adult Educa-
tion Division (AED) of the Ministry of Education and by several other govern-
ment and private institutions. The Ministry of Education's program includes
instructional activities such as functional literacy courses, second-chance
education and skill training as well as recreation activities and radio
information campaigns. Apart from the information campaigns, which reach
about two million people, only about one percent of the adult population is
currently reached by the program.



- 11 -
31.       This system of non-formal education has developed in Thailand with
insufficient planning and coordination. Although much has been accomplished,
analysis of adult learning needs has been unsystematic, development of special
curricula has been ad hoc, insufficient numbers of adult educators have re-
ceived special training, and evaluation has been piecemeal.    Also, many of the
courses offered by the AED are more appropriate to urban than to rural adults
insofar as they are designed to prepare them for modern sector jobs. Two
exceptions are: (a) the "special interest group" program, under which a
small group of villagers may request instruction in an area of particular
interest to them and (b) the village reading center program in which three
daily newspapers are provided any village which constructs, at its own expense,
a small reading center. Both programs are low-cost and, if duplicated through-
out the country, offer considerable potential of integrating in the development
process rural adults with a limited education. The adult education program to
be established under the project would help correct the deficiencies noted
above by consolidating existing activities, by introducing program develop-
ment and evaluation, by improving staff training and by establishing a net-
work to ensure delivery throughout the country.
32.       This nationwide network would comprise a coordinating unit at
Bangkok; four regional Adult Education Centers (AECs) located throughout the
country; a Lifelong Education Center (LEC) in each of the 71 provinces, and
reading centers in some 24,000 villages. The foundation for this nationwide
network will be established under the project, which includes equipping the
coordinating unit, constructing and equipping the four regional AECs, con-
structing and equipping the first 24 LECs (that is, six in each of the four
regions) and related technical assistance; these facilities will be con-
structed in three phases, phases one and two will include the coordinating
unit, four AECs and 12 LECs, and phase three the remaining 12 LECs. Full
development of the program covering all provinces is expected by 1990.
33.       The coordinating unit will be responsible for developing core
materials and for directing and coordinating the activities of the regional
centers.  The four regional centers will identify specific target groups and
their learning needs, modify and supplement curriculum materials developed by
the national center as appropriate for each region, and train adult educators.
The curriculum work of the AECs will be coordinated with that of the National
Curriculum Development Center being established under the third education pro-
ject (paragraph 24) and with the programs of other Government agencies such
as agricultural extension and family planning (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
34.       The LECs are the heart of the program.    Each will contain class-
rooms, workshops and a library and will provide mobile teams responsible
for extending the program to the villages within the province. In addition
to recruiting villagers for short courses to be offered at the provincial LEC,
the mobile units will help villages establish reading centers, will encourage
the formation of "special interest group" classes, and will organize discussion
groups and film showings. When the project is completed in 1981, the program
is expected to reach approximately 8,400 of the country's estimated 50,000
villages.



- 12 -
35.       To ensure that the program meets the multiple and changing educa-
tional needs of adults, ongoing courses must be continuously evaluated, and
new courses and materials developed. Units will be established in the national
coordinating unit and each of the regional AECs to provide the required
feedback through data collection, surveys and evaluation; and expert services
will be provided in research design and statistical analysis. In addition,
the Government will submit the operation and teaching program to the NEC for
its evaluation (and to the Bank for information) and require NEC to send the
Government and the Bank copies of its evaluation (Section 3.09 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
36.       At full operation, this component of the project will require a
total of about 1,000 full-time and 800 part-time professional staff. About
500 are already employed full-time by the AED or will be transferred to it
from elsewhere in the Ministry of Education. The remaining 500 persons will
be hired from among teachers, development workers and university graduates
specializing in adult education. Overseas training for 46 of the staff will
be provided under the project, and all staff will participate in regular,
in-service training programs operated in cooperation with local universities
and using the services of local and foreign experts. During negotiations
agreement was reached that disbursements out of the proposed loan for the 12
LECs included in phase three would be contingent on the Borrower preparing a
detailed staff recruitment and training plan agreeable to the Bank, for the
facilities to be established for all three phases, and that qualified staff
have been hired for the phase one and phase two facilities (Paragraph 4 of
Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Technical Assistance
37.       About 110 man-years of specialist services will be provided under
the project of which about 20 man-years would be expatriate services at a total
cost of $55,000 per man-year. These specialist services include assistance in
curriculum development, scheduling, research design and in-service training,
preparation of future education projects, and support for the project implementa-
tion units in the Ministry of Education. About 90 man-years of fellowships are
also included in the project which would enable some 140 adult educators and
administrators to receive overseas training mostly in the form of practical
on-the-job apprenticeships. During negotiations, the Government agreed that
suitably qualified experts would be appointed under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). To ex-
pedite project implementation, the Government is attempting to recruit some
of the technical experts immediately. Retroactive financing up to $50,000
from March 1, 1976, is recommended to cover the cost of these services.
Project Implementation
38.       Implementation of the project is expected to take five years.    The
project implementation unit, established within the Ministry of Education for
the third education project, will also be responsible for the administration,



- 13 -
coordination and supervision of this project. In order to prevent recurrence
of problems encountered initially with the on-going third education project,
the project unit in the Under-Secretary's Office is being strengthened by
the addition of five full time specialists, a project coordinator, architect,
procurement officer, accountant and expatriate advisor of which the coordina-
tor and architect have already,been appointed. Advisers will also be pro-
vided to assist the Diversified Secondary Education Unit and the AED, and in
each division a deputy director and an architect have already been appointed,
while the procurement officer is being assigned, to work full time on imple-
mentation of the proposed project. Consultant architects will be employed to
prepare sketch plans, soil studies and drawings for building construction and
to provide site supervision; their appointment would be a condition of loan
effectiveness. In addition to strengthening the project implementation unit
and sub-units, the Government is considering various measures to streamline
its procurement procedures in order to avoid the delays experienced under
ongoing projects and has agreed to submit to the Bank for review its plans in
this regard within six months of Loan signature (Section 3.08 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
39.       The total cost of the project is estimated at about $78 million
(of which $7.8 million represents taxes and duties) with a foreign exchange
component of $31 million or 40 percent. Detailed cost estimates are given in
Annex III. It has been assumed in deriving these estimates that local firms
will win the contracts for civil works and furniture. The Bank would finance
the foreign exchange cost of the project while the Government will provide
the counterpart local financing through budgetary appropriations.
40.       At full operating capacity the project will require an estimated
$3.0 milliion equivalent (in 1976 prices) in incremental operating costs,
less than 0.1 percent of projected total public recurrent expenditures on
education in fiscal year 1980. About $1.5 million of this would be for
operating the adult education program, which at full development in 1990
will require a total of about $10.0 million annually. The Government should
be able to meet these costs and its share of the capital costs without cur-
tailing expenditures for other ongoing educational activities of high priority.
Procurement
41.       Contracts will be grouped to the maximum extent practicable to form
attractive bid packages. All equipment contracts exceeding $50,000 will be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Eligible local manufacturers will be allowed a preferential
margin of 15 percent or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, over
the c.i.f. price of competing imports for purposes of bid comparisons. Con-
tracts for civil works and furniture, and for equipment which cannot be
grouped in packages of at least $50,000, will be awarded on the basis of com-
petitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with government procurement



- 14 -
practices acceptable to the Bank. Foreign firms will be allowed to partici-
pate. This is appropriate for civil works because construction firms not yet
established in Thailand are unlikely to be interested in the relatively small
and scattered works involved; no bids were received from foreign-based firms
for similar works under the third education project. Similarly, furniture
manufacturing is a well-established local industry and foreign firms are un-
likely to be interested in competing for these contracts. Furniture and
equipment, in contracts not exceeding $10,000 equivalent, subject to an aggre-
gate total not exceeding $500,000 equivalent, could be purchased "off-the-
shelf," on the basis of a minimum of three price quotations.
Disbursements
42.       Disbursements from the loan account will be on the following basis:
(a) for equipment and furniture, 100 percent of the c.i.f.
cost of imported items; 100 percent of the ex-factory
cost of locally manufactured items; and 65 percent of
imported items procured locally;
(b) for civil works and related professional services, 30
percent of the total cost; and
(c) for technical assistance, 100 percent of the foreign
cost or 80 percent of the total cost.
As an exception to (b) and (c) above, 100 percent financing of expenditures
for technical assistance and professional services rendered prior to
January 1, 1977, is recommended, up to a limit of $200,000 including the
$50,000 of retroactive financing (paragraph 37). This is necessary to
allow the timely appointment of experts since provision for their services
is not included in MOE's budget for fiscal year 1976. The Government has
agreed to advance funds to MOE to cover the experts' costs provided these
funds are reimbursed out of the proposed loan after loan effectiveness. Dis-
bursements are expected to be completed by mid-1982.
Benefits and Risks
43.       The proposed provincial secondary school component would
strengthen and accelerate the Government's program to diversify secondary
education and reduce existing geographical imbalances. With the practi-
cal education received under the project, students would enter the labor
market better trained and more employable. With the overall prospects for
the economy to generate growth and employment and the low educational attain-
ment of the present labor force, there is a growing need for better qualified
entrants into the labor market; the projected output of the diversified
secondary schools will be able to help meet this need. In addition, the
project would reduce imbalances in the provision of secondary school places
between Bangkok and the provinces and would help curtail the migration of
secondary students into the Bangkok/Thonburi metropolitan area to complete
the upper cycle of secondary school.



- 15 -
44.       The adult education system established under the project would
help develop basic rural skills and improve the standard of living and
quality of life for the estimated 75 percent of Thailand's population who
have completed less than four years of formal schooling. It would encourage
grassroots participation in education, and would establish village organiza-
tions which could become the focus for further development activities. The
courses to be developed and tested in such areas as family planning, nutri-
tion, health, hygiene, sanitation, functional literacy, light industry,
crafts, and farm implement repair would be based on local research and eva-
luation of adult learning needs as determined by socio-economic differences
in each region. The adult education system would also include correspondence
courses reaching about 2,800 youths and adults annually and leading to primary
and secondary school certificates.
45.       The benefits expected from the project would depend mainly on the
following factors: for the secondary schools, on the competence of school
administrators and the quality of practical arts teachers; for the adult
education component, on the quality of teaching programs, their relevance to
adult learning needs, and the competence and dedication of staff. The project
includes provisions to help minimize these risks. Tracer systems to be
established at each of the secondary schools would suggest any modifications
which would be advisable in the diversified curricula by following the employ-
ment opportunities of graduates (Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
While the varied and changing needs of adults make it inevitable that some
approaches will be more successful than others, the continuous evaluation to
be introduced will help ensure that this distinction is made at an early stage
and only the successful programs retained.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
46.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft resolution approving the
proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Features of special interest include those referred to in paragraphs 33, 35,
36, 37, 38 and 45 of this report. An additional condition of effectiveness
is that the consultant architects referred to in paragraph 38 have been
appointed.
47.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 16 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
48.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President



Page 2. of I4 pages
TABLE S
MAITI                    0 SOCIAL. 3IRDCATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU XN2)
---------------           ------------H-AI- TI. --------------- R-EFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL         27.6                                         MOST RECENT
AGR IC.    .                              1 96 0     1 970   ESTIM4ATE          CAWEROON        HONDURAS        IVORY COAST *
GAP PER CAPITA (USA)                         90.0       110.0        130.0               210.0        270.0       320.0
POPULATION   AND VITAL STATISTICS
PO;0PULATION; (RIOYV. RILLIONI               3. 6        6. 2         4 .5                5 .8         2. 5        5. .
POPULAT IO,N DENSITY
PER SQUARE KR.                          12Z9. 0     1 51. 0     -162.0                12. 0       2 2 .0       16. 0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND....                                    .. 
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND..                      44.0         42.0                43.0        A9.O         46.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSANO              .         20.0         17.0                23.0         11.0        23.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/TMOU)          200.0 I/a       . .       150.0                  .
LIFE EUPEETANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)             .         45.0         46.0                41.0         69.0        41.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                     .         3. 0         3 .0                2 .7         3.4         3.1I
POPUILAT ION GROWTH RATE Ill
TOTAL                                     1 .5        1. A         1 .7                2.0          2.7         3.1.
URBAN                                      ...                     4 .0 /a             6 .0         T.9         7 . 5/a
URBASi POPULATION 1% Or TOTAL)             35.0           ..        19.0                20.0         32.0        28.0
ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 TEARS                           42.0        41.5        42 5        ~        463.0       46.7         42.4
IS TO 64 TEARS                           54 .9       5 4. 0      5 3.:21              5 :         50.:9        5 4.:9
65 YTEARS AND OVER                        3.1         4.5          4.31                3.0          2.4         2.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                        0.6          0.9         0.9                 U.9          1.0         0.9
ECON0NIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                   0.7 Al       0.7LIa       .                   1.2         1.5/a        0. 9A/
FAmILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS ICUMULATIRE. THOU)......                                                                2 0.7
USERS (C OF MARRIED HOMER)..                           .....
EMPLOY RENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)             2 300. 0    2 8 00.0         2.260 0. 0                    BOI.O      26 00. 0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (II             83.D0        60.0          8. 2.0                         65.0        78.0
U4EIPLOYEO (I OF LABOR FORCE)......                                                                   8.0         9. 0
INCOVE CISTRINUTION
0 OF PR~IVATE 1NCO4E REC'O RY-
HIGHEST   SO OF HDUSEHOLDS                 ......                                                  3 2.9lb     2 .'. I/c
HIGHEST 2AD OF HOUSEHOLOS                  .....                                                  6 5.3s79     5 8.5 72
LOWEST   201 oF HOUSEHOLDS                 ....                                                     1.A6        3.9 
LO3WEST  4600 OF 'AQUSTEHOLDS                                                                       6 .  .A47  10.6 rc
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND TWNERSMIP
Z OWNED BY TOP 101 OF OWNERS......                                                                   5 7.3
C DAN4ED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS......                                                                 0.5
HEALTH HAN NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                10400.0     10010.0      12310.0             05960.0       3710.0 14  12140.0
POPUJLATION PER NURSING PERSON           902 20. 0/c  7460.C1         ..              2 4 70 .0        ..      2 4 80. 0 /d
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED              1790.O0     1 3 70.0         ..480.0                       57 0.0      680.0 7-d
PER CAPITA SUPPLT OF 
CALORIES (I OF REQUIREMENTS)             81.0        76E.0        77.0                9 6. 0       9A6O       108. 0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                  40.0        39.C         39.0                59.0         58.0        40.0
-OF WHICH ANLIRAL AND PULSE             I. 8. 0                   ..23 .0/Ia                    25S.0        1A.0 1e
lOATH RATE C/THOU) AGES 1-4                '7.0         33.0...                                      10.0
EDUCAT ION
AOJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                           08.0 d      4 0.0/c.d    41.30 Ic            108.0        86. old     76. 0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                          3.01        4.0 Od        .                  9.0a14      10. o 7         1. 0If
YE ARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND 58008D LEVEL)                 1 3 .0      1 3.0        10. 0               14.0 O/c     1 2 .0      13S.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
CI OF SECONIARY)                         21. 0       19. 0          .                 22. 0        160.0         7.0
ADUL T LI TERACY RAT E CX                  1 0. 0       2 0.0         ...15. 0                                    20. 0
HOUSDING
PERSONS PE R ADOO  (AVERA GEI......
OCCUP IED DWELLIN4GS WI THOUT
PIPED VATER CU.                                          ....
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
CZ 0c' ALL OWELLINGS).                                               ..
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY 10)                         .            .. 
CONSUMPTION
RA8D10 RECE IVE RS ( PER THOU POP)          5. 0        1 7.0       1 7 .0               046.0       57.0         1 7.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)               2.3          S.C          3 .0                6 .0        5.0         11. 0
ELECTRICITY IOWA/YR PEP CAWP)               25.0a       28. 0        32.0 l b           2 0 1.0     1 2 7.-0     120. 0
NEWSPRINT TOG/YR PER CAP)                   0.1I         0.1I         0.1 I.                           1. 0        0.2
SEC 4OTES ANT    EF IANTT I9N S ON R VEER SE



Page 2 of I. pages
Unlesas other-ise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betosen 1959 sand 1961, for 1970 between 1968 -oc 1970, and for Host Recen.t Estimate bteiee
1971 and 1973.
-a The Ivory Conest has been selected as am objective country for Haiti since toth countries have a elilar cultural background and tbe Ivory Coas.t has
succeeded in achieving * high rate of economic growth.
HAITI           1960     Is  1962;     A   Ratio of popsulation coder 15 and 65 and over to total labor forte;         a    Including mini...;       /d  7-12 and
13-19 years of age respectively.
1970     Ia  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and Over to total labor force;          A    Including sideines and assistant nurses;
7- 1966; /d 7-12 and 13-18 yerar of age respectively.
MOST RECENT ESTIhATE:      Ia  1950-71;     /b   197h;     ac  7-12 year. of age.
CAMEROOR        1970     /a  196h-66;     /b  12-18 years of age;      ac   13 years for East Caneroon.
RONDURAS        1970     IA  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;          A   1967468;     ac  Registered, cot all practicing is
the country;     /d   7-12 and 13-18 years of age respectively.
IVORY ODAST     1970     IA  1965-70;     ab  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;          ac   Inco-, recipient;     Id  Goversoant
only;     a.  1966-66:     /f  12-18 years of age.
RS, Ray 13, i9Y6
DEFINITIONS OF SOCI.AL INDICATORS
Land cr00 (thou 1-                                                                          Popclction pcr osroinx p.t..n - Populatioc divided by comber of practicing
Total - Totci sorfoce coca c-ptiaiog lend cr00 and iniand woters.                             mai. and female graduate cre, 'train.ed"'or "certified" curses,. cod
Acric. - Moot rococ. ent .i-ta of              rniutuc  cc  woed tonporsnily or por-          suilitary persnosi with trc in ing or eperience.
c-nctly for rtopa     pacturo- narkec A kitchoo gcrdeno or to lie fallow.                 Popsictiou Par hospital bed - Pcpalation divided by comber of bcopita1
beds svcilabie in public and private geoercl sod opeciclitnd hospital
COP pet .aoit. (fiS$) - CNP pet capits enhati-ts ct carbt prima.. caIco-                      sod rebabiliraticon centers.   eocludeo nurcing bomec and estabIish-.enr
Sated by 000   c-vruino notbod on World Baok Atlon      (1972-74 basis).                    for cuotodic1 and praveotiveocare.
Pe  cot  ocly cfc1risa it of reociremnto) - Compited fr',,
Poociacico and vital atctiaoics                                        ene~P rgy eivlo     ofnt    odsuplies available io country Per
Poplarion (mid-yr. cillico) - As of Jicly firot:      if mot avilable, cverage                capita per day,    -vilcble suppliec c-pnise donootic productico, icoportt
of -w cod-year ecti-otes.                                                                   leo. emporto, and hboogos in tcock, set coppli.es oclude coioed       feed.
seedo. q-antitins coed in food proce-sing and lose         nt dictrib.tion,
Popalotico density - per que,re be - Mid-year population per square bile-                     requirmoont   were estimated by FA0 based on physiological needc for
"ecr (110 boct..res) of total ....                                                          noma    cotvty and health considering evircontnc1 temperature, hody
Population deonry     _Tpr esasre k of agri-. loan    - Cempetcd as obovo for                 weights, age a.nd oem diarrihutiecs of popelacic-      s-d .1tloaiog Ill for
agricultural land only.                                                                     waste at h.-.ehoid level.
Pe  aIta.upl    iorci(gaeprdy                - Protein content of per
Vital statistics                                                                              capita net supply of food per day, net supply of food Is defioed 03
Crudo birth rcte per thoasand - Anona1 live hirth. per thoueand of mid-year                   above; requ~irements for all countries established by ESDA Economic
pplt on, ancly five-yeor averages ending in 1982. 1970 and 1975 for                   Research Servioes provide for a minimmo a11o.aa-      of 60 gon    cf total
deuvoin     countries                                                                       Protein Par day, and 20 grse     of animal cod pulse protein, of whIch
Crude death rate per thousand - Annual dnaths per thousand of mid-year                        10 grass should be snim-l protein, these stend-rds are lower th-m
populetion, usualy five-year avreges ending in 1980, 1970 and 1975 for                      those of 75 gramo of total protein and 23 grac       of animal Protein as
developimg couotnin..                                                                       en average for the world, proposed by FAO io the Third world Poond
Infoot motality rote i/thou) -A Annual deaths of infanto ondor one year of                    Survey.
oge per thousand live births.                                                             Per caPita Protei     supy(rnaima        and pulen - Pr-ceo supply of
Lif osocoya          ith (yre) -Average masher of yearn of life ce-ainiogfntervdfo                                animals and pulses in grm      Pa pr day.
or birth, -s-aIy five-year averages ending in 1980, 1970 and 1975 for                     Death rate f/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousan.d in age group 1-4
developing countries.                                                                       years , to childrem In this age group. suggested as an indicator of
Crons recrodotion rate - Average onhber of live daughters o wono will                         malnutrition.
hoar in her norml reproduotive period if h.c esperinoces present age-
opecific fertility ra tes,    _usually five-year averags enoding in 1960, 1970            Edu...tion
cod 1975 for developing cocotrino.                                                        Adjisted enr  11,eent ratio - primary school - Etorlmeot of all ages a
Population growth rateI(-ttl-Compound annual growth rates of mid-                             Percentage of primary school-age population, includen children aged
year population for 1950-60ol 90-70, cod 1960 to moot recent year.                          6-it years but adjusted for different lengths of primary edu..stion,
Pocaro .goth rote it) - orban - Computed lihe growth rate cf total                      for countrien with universal educetico, emcie            -ny noceed lOOt.
Ppoplation, different definitions of urban cr000 may affect conpars-                        since some pupils are below or above the officisl school age.
bIIItyof dta aong countries.                                                              Adjusted enrollment ratio - seondary school - Casputed as above,
irbao population CC of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; diffe-                    se ondasy educatiom requires at least four ya-ro of approve.d pri_ory
rent defunitions of urban areas may ofiect coparohility of dots a-sMh                       instruction, providen general, vocatiooal or teacher training
coontriec.                                                                                  instructions for pwpiln of 12 to 17 yearu of age, -orreupondence
Ace  tructsre (percent) - Children (0-li years). -oring-ogo (15-64 yearn),                    coures ore generally ...cIoded.
sdrtired (65 years and over) as percetagno of mid-year popualtion.                     Yearn of schooling provikded (first and senund 1-vei) - Total years of
Acedepeodenc yrto- Rati       of popsatioo under 11 cod 65 cod over to                       schooling, at secondary level, vocational iostructiso may !e Partially
thos  of ages 15 through 6i.                                                                orrcmltely esuded.
Icomnic epedenc rato -Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and oe                     oainlerlmn              to   secondary) - Vocintiomal iostitutions
to the labor force in ago groap of 15-64 yesro.                                             include technical, industrial or other program      which operate lode-
Family Pa    in   ace    cr(culiv.thou) - Cunultive somber of                                 pendeotly or as deparomesto of secondary institstio_s.
acceptorn of birth-control devitec coder auspices of national family                      Adalt literacy rate it    - Literste adults (able to read cod mite) a
planing progr%s     inceC inception                                                         prcentage of rotal a~dslt population aged 15 year       and over.
Family clanging-ucr      fta  of mrried w-vn) - P-eretogen of married
w'one of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who con birth-control devices                    Hous ing
to all married =one in sam      age groop.                                                Persona Per ron (aversge) - Average mnsher of Persons Per ro-         in
occ upied conventional dwellings In orbamcms        dwellings -nolds moe-
fasploymeot                                                            perma~~~~~~~~~~~.= neot structures and unoccupied Parts.
Totl eho     force (thouad) - Erosomicolly active perso.., Including                        Ocuiddelling wihu             ie     ater CC) - Occupied conventional
armd focsand unemployed hot -oclding bo-sivice, students, etc.,                             dwelling   in urban and rral aress wIthout inside or ootside piped
definitions in, variouscountries ore not conporable.                                       wae     aclte        cc peretg     falonoiddelos
Labrfreenhroucr              t    - Ariculturs1 labor force (in farming,                    Access to electricity ft of al     delins        C- C entico..l dwellings with
foety  uting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force,                        electricity in living qusrrer     as Percent of total dwelinJgs in urban
Unemolovd' ft Ifgabo    force) - I.-lmepyod are usualy defined aso persons                    cod rural areas.
who ore able and willing to tohke a Job, out of o job on sgiven day,                      Rsral dwellingsgconnected to electricity()- Computed an above for
remioed out of a job, and seeking work for o sperified Mninou         period                roral dweIng      only
notcoceding one web, may nOct be comparable between coontries doe to
diffor-st defiinit io-s  f onemployed and Ounron of data, e.g., omploy-                   Cons '"tion
meot office statistics, scople -ureys, copolsory asempls.ysnt insurance.                  Radio rec,eivsr fter thojL2goj - All types of rece.ivers for radio broad-
cer  ogneral public per thoasaod Of Popuistion, e-elude- unliceosed
Inemne diotribution - Percentage of private Income (both in cash sod hind)                    receivers in countries ad in years when registration of rsdio sets wa
received by riohest 5t. riche-r 20%, poorest lOt,. sod Poorest 40t of                       in effect, data for recantYears may not he       onparable sinc    moot
households.                                                                                 coantries abolished licensin.-
M-tribut   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sn ~~~Passenger cars (per thou pop) - Pessenger cars comprise ostor -ar                                                eaotiog
Dist ibutio,fln      weoi      - P.rernetage  of land ownd by wn.oIthi-st                  less than eight percoos; -oludes anbulances. hearses cod military
ltadpoorest lOt of lend owesyehi.cls
Electiiy(w/y          e   a)-Annoual cononasptiso of iodus trial, cmae-r-
Health and Nutrition                                                                          cia,pbi        o    rvr      eletricity in kilowatt hours per capita,
Population per physician - PopulatiOs divided by nunber of practicing                         generally based on production date, without allowane for losses in
phyciciecs qoalifind from     o-dica1 school at university level,                           grids but elbowing for imports and emports of electricity.
Newnpnint (kg/yr per cap) - Per capita sn,,al cosnunption in kilograc
estimated from dcssatic production plus onet imports of newsprint.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 14 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1974                                                                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROiWTH
(7,constant prices)
USS Million          %                                                  Is                1965-70              1970-74
GNP at Market Prices                    13,550          100.0                                                 7.2                 8.5                  6.2
Gross Domestic Investment                3,400           25.1                                                14.4                15.4                  3.0
Gross National Saving                    3,388           25.0                                                14.6                11.5                  9.2
Current Account Balance                    -12             .1
Exports of Goods, NFS                    3,140           23.2                                                10.8                 7.1                10.7
Imports of Goods, NFS                    3,425           25.3                                                11.1                12.3                  4.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974
Value Added -1/                          Labor Force 2                             V.A. per Worker-
USS Million          %                    MiJl;ion             %                     US$                7
Agriculture                             4,311            31.8                   13.8                76.6                   312              41.4
Industry                               4,059             30.0                    1.3                 7.2                 3,122             414.6
Services                                5,180            38.2                    2.9                16.1                 1,786             237.2
Unallocated                              . 
Total/Average           13,550           100.0                   18.0              100.0                    753             100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE 3/
General Governrment                                                  Central Government
US$ Million         % of GDP                                        US$ Million_h of GDP
1974        1974        1972-74                                      1974       1974           1972-74
Current Receipts                        2,190        17.4         16.5                                       1,935       15.4           14.2
Current Expenditure                     1.457        11.8         12.7                                       1,385       11.0           12.0
Current Surplus                           733         5.8          3.8                                         550        4.4            2.1
Capital Expenditures                     655          5.2          6.1                                         345        2.7            3.7
External Assistance (net)                  76          .6           .5                                           6         .1             .1
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1969    1970    1971    1972    1973     1974
(Billions of Baht outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                   40.9    46.2    53.7    66.6    81.9    98.5
Bank Credit to Central Government (net) 8.5     13.0    19.6    27.0    29.6    25.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector           22.9    27.9    30.8    34.6    49.4    66.7
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP       31.7    34.1    36.9    41.0    38.2    37.3
GDP Deflator (1962 - 100)              114.2   112.6   111.5   120.5   144.8   174.Q
Annual percentage changes in:
GDP Deflator                                  -1.6     1.0     8.7    20.2    20,8
Bank Credit to Central Government (net)       52.9    50.7    37.7     9.6   -13.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 21.5    10.7    12.2    42.9    35.1
Note   Up to 1973 conversion rate to dollars is t 20.8; for 1973, 9 20.4; for 1974, 9 20.0.    1974 data based on preliminary filgures
which will be updated by the forthcoming economic mission.
1/ Value added at current market prices:
2/ Tentative estimates based on 1970 census.
3/ Thai Fiscal Years ending September 30 of calendar years shown.
4/ Estimates for GDP during fiscal year t were derived by adding 1/4 of GDP at calendar year t-I to the 3/4 of GDP for year t.
Not applicable.
Not available.



AITNE( I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE. PAYMENTS. AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1972-74)
1972    1973     1974    1975-                                        US$ Million           h
us$ Million
Exports of Goods, NFS               1,532   2,085    3,141   3,247     Rice                                    293              16,8
Imports of Goods, NFS              1.627    2 239    3,423  3.825      Rubber                                  188             10.8
Resource Gap (deficit = -)           -95     m    4   138    -578      Corn (maize)                           182              10.6
tapioca products                        130               7.5
Interest payments (net)                5        7       32  ) -27      Tin (metal)                             111              6.4
Other Factor Payments (net)           -21     -28      -37   )         Sugar                                   102              5,9
Workers' Remitt7nces                                                   Renaf and jute                           49               2.8
Net Transfers -                        59     146      275     129     All other commodities                   673             38.9
Current Balance                       -52     -29    ---      -476                          Total            1,728            100.0
Direct Foreign Investment (Net)-/      56      67       83      70     EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1974
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                       309     265      506     384A                                              USS Million
Amortization                        221     262      265     211     Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                 5l8
Subtotal                             88       3      241     173     Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                   632
Capital Grants       3.                        .                       Total outstanding & disbursed               1,150
other Capital (net) 3                  33      42        13      9
Other Items n.ei. 4/                   67      30       157     26     DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1974 -
Increase in Reserves (+)              192     113      482    -198
Gross Reserves (end year)           1,052   1,295    1,858             Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                 2.0
Net Reserves (end year)               969   1,082    1,564   1,366     Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                   8.7
Total outstanding & disbursed                10.7
Fuels and Related Materials
Imports                             150     229      629     712
of which:petroleum                  149     228      627     710     fBRD/IDA LENDING. April 30.      1976 (US$ Million)
Exports                              12      18        14     30
of which:petroleum                   12      18       14      30                                               IBRD         IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE 6/                                                    Outstanding & Disbursed                  307.6         5.0
Undisbursed                              294.4       27.0
Through July 1973                                                      Outstanding incl. Undisbursed            602.0        32.0
us$ 1.00 = $ 20.8
d 1.00 = uS$ 0.048
Since July 1973
uS$ 1.00 = d 20.0
d  1.00 = uS$ 0.05
Note: Balance of payments projections are not yet available as the balance of payments outlook is currently being reviewed with
the Government.
1/ Includes official and private transfers.
2E equity capital only.
:/ Includes short-term public and private capital and portfolio investment.
4/ Includes SDR allocations, profits from exchange realignments, and errors and omissions.
5/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
'6/ Par Value
; Not Applicable.
e/ Estimate



ANNEX II
Page 1
STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of April 30, 1976)
$ Million Amount
Loan or                                                      (Less Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year     Borrower              Purpose        Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Twenty-One Loans fully disbursed                         335.4   -         -
702-TH       1970    Port Authority of     Ports          12.5    -       2.1
Thailand
790-TH       1971    Electricity Genera-   Power          27.0    -       3.4
rating Authority of
Thailand
822-TH       1972    Kingdom of Thailand   Education      15.4    -      13.2
864-TH       1972    Telephone Organiza-   Telecommuni-   37.0    -      23.4
tion of Thailand       cations
870-TH       1972   Kingdom of Thailand    National       28.6    -      12.0
Highways
369-TH      1973    Kingdom of Thailand    Education      -      19.5    18.6
379-TH       1973   Kingdom of Thailand    Irrigation     -       5.5     2.4
898-TH       1973    State Railway         Railways       15.0    -       3.0
461-TH       1974   Kingdom of Thailand    Irrigation      -      7.0     6.0
977-TH       1974    Electricity Genera-   Power          75.0    -      62.5
rating Authority of
Thailand
992-TH       1974    Industrial Finance    Industry       12.0    -       3.3
Corporation of
Thailand
1021-TH     1974    Metropolitan Water-    Water Supply   55.0    -      50.8
works Authority
1149-TH     1975    Kingdom of Thailand    Irrigation     95.0    -      94.7
1198T-TH /a 1976    Kingdom of Thailand    Rural Devel-
opment        21.0     -      21.0
1199T-TH /a 1976    Kingdom of Thailand    Livestock       5.0    -       5.0
Total/c                                        733.9   32.0   321.4
of which has been repaid                    131.9     -
Total now outstanding                          602.0   32.0
Amount sold-/b                   65.2
of which has been repaid       25.9          39.3
Total now held by Bank and IDA                 562.7   32.0
Total undisbursed                              294.4   27.0
/a   Not yet declared effective.
/b   Of which US$41 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.
/c   A rubber replanting project ($50 million) approved in April 1976 and a
telecommunications project ($26 million) approved in May 1976 have not
yet been signed.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1976)
$ million Amount
Year         Company            Type of Business      Loan   Equity   Total
1959   Concrete Products and    Concrete Products     0.30     -       0.30
Aggregate Ltd.
1964   Industrial Finance       Industrial Finance     -      0.19     0.19
Corporation of
Thailand (IFCT)
1969   Siam Cement Group        Cement and Construc-
tion Materials        18.33   3.75    22.08
1971   Industrial Finance                                     0.19     0.19
Corporation of
Thailand (IFCT)
1975   Siam Cement Group        Cement and
Construction          10.00     -     10.00
Materials
Total gross commitments                        28.63   4.13    32.76
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                        16.22   2.09    18.31
Net held by the Corporation                    12.41   2.04    14.45



ANNEX II
Page 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 702-TH    Third Bangkok Port Project; $12.5 Million Loan of August 6,
1970; Effective Date: November 6, 1970; Closing Date:
original, July 31, 1974; current, July 31, 1976
The project is ninety percent completed and is scheduled to be
finished by July 1976. Construction progress is satisfactory, though some-
what behind the original schedule. The civil engineering work was let on
a fixed-price contract. Present estimated total project cost is, however,
Baht 580 million (US$29 million) compared with the appraisal estimate of
Baht 435 million (US$21 million). Cost overruns have arisen out of changes
in foreign exchange rates, and the Government's decision to compensate
contractors working on fixed-price contracts, for overall increases in
construction costs after June 1974. The closing date, currently July 31,
1976, will be postponed to July 31, 1977, to permit final disbursements.
The Port Authority's financial situation is sound.
Loan 790-TH     South Bangkok Thermal Unit No. 4 Project; $27 Million Loan
of November 11, 1971; Effective Date: January 27, 1972;
Closing Date: November 30, 1976
Project execution is on schedule. Costs have increased by
about 13 percent due to changes in currency exchange rates.
Loan 822-TH     Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15.4 Million
Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
Project implementation has been delayed by about 18 months
due to late appointment of campus master planner, late Cabinet approval
of executive architect's fees and, more recently, delays by the executive
architects in preparing adequate plans and specifications on schedule.
The causes of delays have now been overcome. Inspite of late appointment
of the campus master planner and executive architects, the campus masterplan
and architectural plans have now been completed. Site development works for
the Kamphaengsaen Campus and construction began in March 1976, civil works
are expected to be completed by mid1978. Contracts for equipment, valued at
US$1.6 million, were awarded in August 1975. Implementation of the technical
assistance program is well underway. Project costs are expected to exceed the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
appraisal estimate by about US$8 million due to cost overruns for civil works.
The Government has made budgetary provisions to meet the cost overruns. Dis-
bursements, currently US$2.2 million, are expected to reach US$2.5 million by
the end of FY76 and US$7.5 million by the end of FY77.
Loan 864-TH    Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December 5,
1972; Effective Date: March 1, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The project is one year behind schedule. The delay was caused
by general political conditions in Thailand, delay in finalizing the Japanese
bilateral credit which was to finance the local network expansion in Bangkok
and the transmission equipment in the rural areas, and domestic inflation
leading to significant increases in estimated prices especially for all civil
works, and to the consequent unwillingness of the contractors to continue work
on earlier quoted tenders which had to be renegotiated. The project is now
moving forward satisfactorily and it should be practicable for TOT to over-
come some of these delays. Procurement action is well advanced and equipment
deliveries are in progress. Increased prices have required TOT to-rephase
its project financing and to redistribute some foreign costs between Loan
864-TH and the Japanese credit. Reallocation of Loan 864-TH has been
approved. New tariffs, which came into effect in September 1975, are
expected to generate about 20 percent more revenues annually which will
help TOT finance its program.
Loan 870-TH    Fifth Highway Project; $28.6 Million Loan of December 26,
1972; Effective Date: March 26, 1973; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
Works under the project have been divided in nine contracts
of which four have been completed. Work on the remaining five contracts was
interrupted because the rapid increases in cost led to financial problems for
the contractors since, despite the Bank's recommendation, the contracts
provided only for costs escalation on petroleum products while costs of
materials, labor, equipment, and spare parts also escalated rapidly. One
contractor resumed work after re-negotiating the contract prices with the
Government. The other four contracts were terminated by agreement between
the Government and the contractors; new bids were obtained for completing
the works, contracts were awarded and work has been resumed. Because of
higher prices in the bids for completing unfinished work, total cost of
the project is expected to be around $75 million, or about 28 percent above
the appraisal estimate, with Government financing the overruns. In spite of
these difficulties the project is likely to be completed no more than one year
beyond the original schedule.
Credit 369-TH Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978
Project implementation remains about 12 months behind sche-
dule. Delays have been caused by weak project management, overcommitment



ANNEX II
Page 5
of the MOE design offices, lengthy and cumbersome approval procedures, tem-
porary lack of funds to cover cost increases resulting from inflation and
late recruitment of technical assistance. These problems are now being
overcome. Architectural plans have been completed. The project manage-
ment and procurement procedures will be improved through the proposed
fourth education project. Recently, adequate provisions were made to meet
the expected cost overruns and noticeable progress was achieved in civil
works, procurement and technical assistance. About 60 percent of the total
civil works contracts and 20 percent of the total furniture and equipment
contracts have been signed. Seven technical assistance experts are in place
and 50 Thais have been sent abroad for training under the project, represent-
ing over 50 percent of the revised and reduced technical assistance program.
Project costs are now estimated at US$54.5 million, 40 percent above the
appraisal estimate. Actual disbursements reflect delayed implementation;
they amount to US$0.9 million, but are expected to reach US$4.0 million by
the end of FY76. A one-year extension of the Closing Date will probably be
required.
Credit 379-TH Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $5.5 Million
Credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: August 23, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is expected to be completed by June 1977 as scheduled,
even though the progress in 1976 was less than forecast. Until recently,
project construction and disbursements were in line with appraisal estimates.
In 1976, force account construction continued satisfactory but a plan to
employ contractors for on-farm development has been deferred until the
1976/77 working season. A project extension service has been set up and
is operating satisfactorily.
Loan 898-TH     Fourth Railways Project; $15 Million Loan of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: September 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977
The project is behind schedule by about 18 months due to slow pro-
curement. However, except for rails required for track renewals yet to be
ordered, a large part of the material and equipment has been ordered and re-
ceived. The revised estimates of the project costs show an increase of about
U$16 million equivalent, mainly in local costs. Passenger traffic continues
to grow (6% per annum) but the growth of freight traffic during 1974/75 has
been marginal (2.5%) and lower than anticipated. Substantial increases
in tariffs for freight and passenger traffic were introduced in October/
November 1975 which will lead to significant improvements in the financial
situation. Even so, with increasing cost of wages, fuel and material the
SRT is not likely to reach the prescribed rate of return of 2%.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit 461-TH Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project; $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date: October 7, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project has fallen behind schedule through delays in appoint-
ing consultants and in procuring earthmoving equipment for construction
of tertiary canals. This is likely to postpone completion of the project
by about one year. Decisions on the award of equipment contracts have now
been made, and the equipment should be delivered in time for the 1976/77
construction season. Progress in rehabilitation of main canal systems has
been satisfactory although somewhat behind schedule. The estimated project
cost is US$16.7 million, or about 32 percent over the appraisal estimate.
In part, the increased cost is due to price inflation being higher than
foreseen at appraisal. Also, detailed mapping has shown more deficiencies
in the existing irrigation facilities than were apparent at appraisal.
Loan 977-TH    Ban Chao Nen Hydro-Electric Project; $75 Million Loan of
April 15, 1974; Effective Date: June 14, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Construction of the project is slightly ahead of schedule. Based
on the recent sector review, it appears that the Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand's (EGAT) financial position may become difficult,
unless tariffs are raised. This and other sector issues are being reviewed
in a sector report, which will be discussed with the Government in June,
1976.
Loan 992-TH     Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1978
The full amount of the $12 million loan has been committed.
The commitment was more rapid than originally estimated. Disbursements have
also been very satisfactory; as of April 30, 1976 total disbursements amounted
to $8.7 million. Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's operations
and financial condition has continued to be satisfactory.
Loan 1021-TH    Bangkok Water Supply Project; $55 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
After considerable delays, 20 contracts have now been awarded and
work on four of the civil works contracts has begun. Nine contracts have
still to be tendered, six of them for the second time. Project completion
may be delayed by about 12 months beyond the original schedule, or until
mid-1979; no change in the Closing Date seems necessary at this time.
Financial performance of MWWA continues to be less than satisfactory. Only
about half the water produced is billed to the consumers. The management
has, however, set acceptable targets for improving the billing and collection
and is examining proposals for increasing tariffs.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan 1149-TH   Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of
July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Due to delays in engaging consultants, now resolved, the start
of construction of the major works has been delayed by about a year. How-
ever, the on-farm works are proceeding on schedule, some urgently needed
canal and drainage works have been constructed, and an effective extension
service has been established. The consultants are now concentrating on the
detailed engineering and preparation of tender documents for the diversion
dam and main canals.



ANNEX III
Page 1
THAILAND - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Kingdom of Thailand
Beneficiary:          Ministry of Education
Amount:                $31.0 million
Terms:                 25 years, including 7 years of grace,
with interest at 8-1/2 percent per annum.
Project Description:  The introduction of diversified curricula in 50
provincial secondary schools through the provision
of additional classrooms, workshops, equipment,
technical assistance and training; the establish-
ment of a national adult education program
comprising a national and four regional adult
education centers responsible for research, curri-
culum development and training, and 24 life-long
education centers responsible for extending adult
education to 8,400 villages in their respective
provinces, including the provision of necessary
buildings, equipment, technical assistance and
training.
Estimated Cost:                      --------$ Million--------
Local    Foreign    Total      % of Total
Civil Works    24.0       10.4      34.4          44
Furniture       1.7        0.7       2.4           3
Equipment       2.7        8.0      10.7          14
Technical
Assistance    0.7        1.9       2.6           3
Professional
Services      1.9        0.2       2.1           3
Contingencies:
Physical      3.1        2.1       5.2           6
Price        13.1        7.9      21.0          27
TOTAL          47.2       31.2      78.4         100



ANNEX III
Page 2
Financing Plan:                      ----------$ Million------
Local    Foreign    Total      % of Total
Bank            0        31.0      31.0          40
Government     47.2        0.2     47.4          60
TOTAL        47.2       31.2     78.4         100
Estimated Disburse-
ments from Bank
Loan:                     IBRD             ----------$'000----------
Fiscal Year         Annual          Cumulative
1977                500               500
1978              2,500             3,000
1979              7,500            10,500
1980              8,500            19,000
1981             10,000            29,000
1982              2,000            31,000
Procurement
Arrangements:          Equipment contracts exceeding $50,000 would be
awarded on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding according to Bank guidelines.
Eligible domestic manufacturers would be accorded
a preferential margin of 15% of the c.i.f. price
of competing imports or the rate of applicable
customs duties, whichever is lower for purposes
of bid comparison. Civil works and furniture
contracts, and equipment contracts of less than
$50,000, would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally, in accordance with
Government procurement practices acceptable to the
Bank. Foreign firms would be allowed to participate.
Miscellaneous items of furniture and equipment not
exceeding $10,000 up to a total of $500,000 could be
purchased off-the-shelf on the basis of at least
three quotations.
Consultants
and Technical
Assistance:            About 110 man-years of specialist services and about
90 man-years of fellowships would be provided to help
implement the project and to train educators and admin-
istrators. The cost of technical assistance is
estimated at US$55,000 per man-year for expatriate
specialist services, and about US$12,000 per man-



ANNEX III
Page 3
year for fellowships. Retroactive financing up to
$50,000 for specialist services from March 1, 1976,
is recommended.
Appraisal Report:      613a-TH dated May 5, 1975.



I 00                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~104-
I                         ~~~~~THAILAND
BURMA       -A                          ~~~FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
20'                                        2?SECONDARY EDUCATION                                              20'
F'"jC,an[,/                                           TRAININO AND MAINTENANCE CENTER
rI  . - ).  W50 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                    fODIVERSIFICD SECONDARY SCHOOLS
0                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADULT EDUCATION
S0                                                               NATIONAL ADULT EDUCArION COORDINATINA UNIT
Ml'                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OREGIONUL ADULT EDUCATION CENTERS
i~~ /tam~~angg-~  1< ~~2Nofl~~21(  LAOS  j     Q~LIFE-LOSS EDUCTION CENTCRS
-      .  .,,   ()                                 -%_       LIST OF PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
- I>  I   ~~~PNhe  -   1ISAUTTACHED
Sukh.tht           [:52'    Udo.ionTa-o 
1        /      r'~~~~~~~  ~~~~'>'-                       L A OSk-   .k -  
(2                  )PEiCNHOQo\~~~~~~~~~~0  ILL                                  A /'  Sf
16'  ~ ~ ~  ~        ~   ~       -,,-~~~~~~--o-~_   _ _   I  Kh-   K-Kha\ 00 o  '   / i-
NaHo Sme      CN   L-     2     on,
EEc Na4)                        M
ChA,.,h-ra0                 OUaeI
~  ~             4      akEon  aeoEasroa  /  ~             IJ
N.khRun 0S-    ~       O           COo~i
ma4 -0    R a            o~     -~         22      O
/ 030~35 $QSttcaRc  N.k7t -~ R.              - n.....
'-1~~                .    -
NC-1h-       T-
O                                              '1:1'                     LESS THAN  SO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.'N ji
L  ~~~~             -'<-a 1    ~    CA     B0     D-I0 A
(2  A  - - -    MOR~~ESSTHANl.0
0  oD  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 ,0
-                                       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OETA   ,0
~/Raooog/  Gulf    o f    Th a i/a n d                 NRN-
'1C0                                                            '   1     CH N
Ct                                  4~~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDIA/ I
BURA             NORITH-
z  BURMA      X.:% \yIETNAM
TN  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                      J~~~~~LAOS<-
THA ILAND3
--  *1                           U                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(CAMBODIA
-~~~~ ~~~  -  - EhIa ~~~~~~~~~~~~Andaman       ,             SCOUTH
I  I '~~~~~~~~~              Se a ~~~~~~~VIETNAM
"'\i  '-5                  /                    ~~~~~~~~~~~South
0  IOCI  2 01)    300~   ~   ~~~~~~~- 
L          I                     I-!
Kilo-WS                                                        M~~~~~I  t  A ,L A Y S  IA
0           ~~~       ~      ~~~~~100  200   1        .N                                                 I- 
I   I                           RI"                                     --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SINGAPORE
100          MALAYS IA                  ~IN                     NE S I'A 






LIST OF PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
SECONDARY EDUCATION
TRAINING AND MAINTENANCE CENTER
1,. Bangkok
DIVERSIFIED SECONDARY SCHOOLS
1.  Chiang Mai                       26.  Surin
2.  Lampang                          27. Surin
3. Phitsanulok                       28. Uttaradit
4.  Songkhla                         29. Uttaradit
5.  Songkhla                         30. Phet Buri
6. Udon Thani                        31.  Satun
7. Phrae                             32.  Kalasin
8. Sisaket                           33. Nakhon Si-Thammarat
9. Chon Buri                         34. Phatthalung
10.  Phuket                           35.  Suphanburi
11.  Phuket                           36.  Suphanburi
12. Tak                               37.  Chanthaburi
13.  Tak                              38. Yala
14.  Maha Sarakham                    39. Narathiwat
15.  Chaiyaphum                       40.  Chumphon
16.  Buriram                          hi. Pattani
17. Kanchanaburi                      42. Krabi
18. Uthai Thani                       43. Prachuap Khiri Khan
19.  Sisaket                          44. Phichit
20. Loei                              45. Kamphaeng Phet
21. Nan                               46. Mae Hongson (Mae Sariang)
22. Lop Buri                          47. Nong Khai
23.  Chai Nat                         48. Yasothon
24. Nakhon Pathom                     49. Trat
25.  Trang                            50.  Chiang Rai (Phayao)
ADULT EDUCATION
NATIONAL ADULT EDUCATION COORDINATING UNIT
1. Bangkok
REGIONAL ADULT EIUCATION CENTERS
1.  Lampang (North)                   3. Rat Buri (Central Plains)
2. Ubon Ratchathani (Northeast)       4. Songkhla (South)
LIFELONG EDUCATION CENTERS
1.  Chachoengsao                     13.  Nakhon Sawan
2. Rat Buri                           14. Samut Sakhon
3.  Phetchabun                        15.  Surin,
4. Ubon Ratchathani                   16. Nakhon Si-Thammarat
5. Roi Et                             17. Ang Thong
6. Chiang Mai                        18.  Phatthalung
7.  Sisaket                          19.  Nan
8.  Phichit                          20. Chaiyaphum
9. Nakhon Ratchasima                 21. Satun
10.  Yala                             22. Ayutthaya
11.  Trang                            23. Kamphaeng Phet
12. Khon Kaen                          24. Uthai Thani



