Report No. 613a-TH
Thailand: Appraisal of a                                                       FLE Copy
Fourth Education Project
May 5, 1976
Education Projects Division
East Asia and Pacific Region
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       -         Baht (A)
US$1.00             -         A 20.00
A 1.00              -         US$0.05
1 million         -         US$50,000
1 1 billion                   US$50 million
MEASURES
1 m   -   3.28 ft.
1 m2           -         10.76 sq. ft.
1 km2                    0.39 sq. mi.
1 hectare                2.47 acres
1 rai          -         0.40 acre
GLOSSARY
AEC       -   Adult Education Center
AED       -   Adult Education Division
CIDA      -    Canadian International Development Agency
Fourth
Plan    -    Fourth National Economic and Social Development
Plan, 1977-81
LEC       -   Lifelong Education Center
MDE       -   Ministry of Education
.DI       -    Ministry of Interior
NCDC      -   National Curriculum Development Center
NEC       -   National Education Council
NESDB     -   National Economic and Social Development Board
PIU       -   Project Implementation Unit
Third
Plan    -   Third National Economic and Social Development
Plan, 1972-76
TUFEC     -    Thailand UNESCO Fundamental Education Center
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND  CONCLUSIONS  ..............................   i-iii
I.    INTRODUCTION  .........................................                              1
II.    THE  SETTING  ...................................1......
Socio-Economic  Background  .......................                          1
Development  Plans  and Prospects  .....                  ............       3
III.    THE  EDUCATION  SYSTEM  .................................                             3
Introduction  ....................................                           3
The Educational  Reform  ..........................                          4
Educational  Development  Priorities  ....                   ..........    11
Financing  Educational Development  ....                    ...........    12
IV  TEPROJECT.12
IV.    THE POECT  ..........................................                               1
Diversified  Secondary  Schools  ...................                       12
Adult  Education  .................................                         15
Technical  Assistance  ............................                        20
V.    PROJECT  COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND
DISBURSEMENT            ...................        ....................         21
Cost  of  the Project  ......              .......................         21
Project  Financing  ......              .........................          22
Project  Implementation  .....                .....................        23
Procurement  .......             ..............................            26
Disbursements  ...................................                         26
VI.    BENEFITS  AND JUSTIFICATION  ...........................                            27
VII.    AGREEMENTS  REACHED ...................................                             28
r  This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
APPFNDICES
1.   Summary of Previous World Bank Group Education Projects in Thailand
2.   The Education and Training System
3.   Technical Assistance
4.   Typical Program of a Lifelong Education Center
5.   Condition for Disbursement for Phase III of Adult Education
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   Actual, Planned and Projected Enrollment in Public and Private
Schools, 1967-81
3.   Indicators of Educational Disparity
4.   Enrollments, Enrollment Ratios and Diversified Schools by
Regions and Provinces, 1975
5.   Enrollment in Adult Education Programs, 1974
6.   GDP and Government Expenditure, Education Expenditure (Capital
and Recurrent), ActuaL 1968-74, Projections to 1980
7.   Project Schools by Size, Type and Degree of Provincial
Need, 1975-76
8.   Sample Cost-Efficiency Data for Six Diversified Secondary
Schools, 1975-76
9.   Summary of Project Costs
10.   Estimated Costs by Categories of Expenditure
11.   Contingency Allowances
12.   Project Implementation Schedule
13.   Forecast of Expenditures and Disbursements
CHARTS
1.   Educational Pyramid, 1973-74
2.   Structure of Thai Education, Existing and Proposed
3.   Organization of Education in Thailand, 1976
4.   Geographical Inequality of Enrollments by Level
5.   Proposed Project Implementation Organization
LPP
Location of Project Institutions



THAILAND
BASIC DATA /1
General
Population                                     42.0 million
Population growth rate                          3.0%
Area                                      514,000 km
Adult literacy rate                            82%
GNP/capita                            US$     270
Enrollments (including private schools and overage pupils)
Enrollment in primary schools (grades 1-7)             6,609,000
As a percent of 7-13 year age group                      86%
Enrollment in secondary schools (grades 8-12)          1,154,000
As a percent of 14-18 year age group                     20%
Enrollment in tertiary schools (grades 13-16)            123,000
As a percent of 19-22 year age group                      4%
Public Expenditures on Education
As a percent of central government expenditure                20.7%
As a percent of GDP                                            4.n7/
Per capita                                                   310 Baht ($ 15)
Administrative Units (Number)
Regions /2                                     12
Changwads (provinces)                          71 + Bangkok Metropolis
Amphurs (districts)                           600
Tambols (sub-district)                      5.000
Villages                                   50,000
/1   General data are for the calendar year 1975, enrollment data are for
the school year 1975-76 and expenditure data for the fiscal year 1976.
See also Annexes 1 and 6.
/2   The Ministry of Education defines 12 Regions for its own administrative
purposes. The Regions are not necessarily used by other ministries.






THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report covers the appraisal of a fourth education project in
Thailand, for which a loan of US$31 million is proposed. The first lending
by the Bank Group for educational development in Thailand (Loan 471-TH,
signed in 1966) provided US$6.0 million for improving vocational and agricul-
tural education. The project was satisfactorily completed in 1973. The
second Bank Loan (822-TH, signed in 1972) provides US$15.4 million for ex-
panding and relocating part of Kasetsart (Agricultural) University. The
third project (Credit 369-TH, signed in 1973) provides US$19.5 million to
establish a National Curriculum Development Center (NCDC) and to assist
32 diversified secondary schools, ten teacher training colleges and the
science faculty at a regional university. Delays have been experienced in
the implementation of each project. The proposed project includes specific
measures to avoid their recurrence.
ii.       A major weakness in the Thailand educational system has been its
inability to provide education of relevance and reasonable quality to people
outside major urban areas. Great progress was made over the last decade in
increasing enrollments, but fundamental problems remain. Only half of the
children are enrolled beyond the fourth grade; the quality of education is
low in provincial and rural areas; secondary education is concentrated in
Bangkok; and less than two percent of adults have access to non-formal
education programs.
iii.      In response to these and other pressing problems, the Cabinet
adopted a comprehensive reform program in early 1975. The reform includes
measures to unify and decentralize educational administration, to restructure
primary and upper secondary education, to consolidate separate specialized
secondary schools into comprehensive schools, to give students in rural areas
more access to secondary education and to reorient curricula. The changes
are intended to help equalize educational opportunity, introduce more flexi-
bility and diversity into the system and prepare students better for entry
to the labor force. The next crucial stage in the reform process is to pre-
pare detailed programs of implementation.
iv.       The proposed project is designed to assist the Government in imple-
menting its detailed program of educational reform in two key areas. It would
help: (a) extend the provision of diversified secondary education in provinces
outside Bangkok (total cost: US$37.1 million, excluding technical assistance
and contingencies) and (b) establish a natiorwide adult education system (total
cost: US$12.6 million, excluding technical assistance and contingencies).
v.        The proposed fourth project would help strengthen and accelerate
the Government's program of diversified secondary education, already being



-- ii -
supported under the third education project, to cover an additional 50 se-
condary schools in provinces outside the greater Bangkok area. Under the
project laboratories and workshops and a limited number of classrooms would
be constructed and equipped at the existing schools to permit an effective
application of diversified curricula consistent with the reform program.
When completed the schools would enroll 98,000 students in a six-year course
compared with 82,000 students at present in a five-year course. Measures
have been taken or are included in the project to ensure adequate training
for practical teachers and school administrators and economical operation of
the schools.
vi.       The adult education system to be established under the project
would include a national coordinating unit and four regional centers. The
purpose of these centers would be to identify adult learning requirements,
develop appropriate teaching materials, train adult teachers and evaluate
results. The operation of the system would be conducted initially through
24 "Lifelong Education Centers" (LECs) to be established in three phases at
the provincial level. The LECs would represent the start of a government
plan to establish one LEC in each of the 71 provinces. They would provide
courses directly to adults and also serve as headquarters for mobile teams
which would extend the adult teaching services to surrounding villages. The
establishment of some 8,400 village reading centers, to be constructed by
local self-help, would be promoted in this way. A total of 89 man-years
of fellowships and 110 man-years of local and expatriate specialists is
included in the project to support: detailed planning as well as implementation
of both the adult and secondary school components and preparation of future
education projects.
vii.      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$78.4 million
(US$70.6 million net of taxes), with a foreign exchange component of US$31.2
million or 40% of the total cost.  The proposed Bank loan of US$31.0 million
wotuld finance the foreign exchange component.
viii.     Arrangements for project, implementation would be strengthened
considerably to avoid a recurrence of delays experienced under the third
project.  The coordinating unit ir. the Office of the Undersecretary of the
MOE would be provided additional staff and given new responsibilities. The
existing divisions for diversified secondary schools and adult education
would be reinforced with additional staff. Key staff have already been
appointed to these offices. Consultant architects would be employed under
the project in view of the heavy workload and understaffing of the MOE
design offices. During negotiations: (a) agreement was reached on detailed
measures to make implementation procedures more efficient. and (b) recon-
firmation was received that adequate funds are being budgeted for initial
implementation. Appointment of consultant architects would be a condition
of effectiveness.
ix.       Contracts would be grouped to the maximum extent possible.  Equipment
contracts exceeding US$50,000 would be awarded following international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Local bidders



- iii -
would be allowed standard preferences below US$50,000 and civil works and
furniture contracts would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally, in accordance with present government procurement
practices which are acceptable to the Bank. Foreign firms would be allowed
to participate.
x.        The proposed project accords with the priority of the Government
on equity of educational opportunity and adult education. The proposed
provincial secondary schools would provide a better geographical balance in
secondary enrollments, would help improve the quality of education and would
help prepare more trainable and employable graduates for entry to the labor
market. The project would assist in expanding non-formal educational oppor-
tunities, in providing better adult education programs, and in redressing
inequalities between regions. The proposed adult education system would
train 9,300 adult educators and community workers annually. It would reach
about two million adults each year with teaching programs related to their
needs. Continuous evaluation of new and ongoing non-formal education activi-
ties would determine the impact of activities which are successful, and would
identify and eliminate at an early stage unsuccessful activities.
xi.       The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$31.0 million equivalent to the Kingdom of Thailand with a term of 25
years, including a seven-year grace period.






THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Bank Group made its first loan for education in Thailand (Loan
471-TH) in 1966 to expand and improve vocational and agricultural education
at the secondary level. The US$6.0 million loan helped finance the pro-
curement of equipment for 14 trade and industry schools, nine agricultural
schools, one vocational and one agricultural teacher training college. The
project was satisfactorily completed in 1973 within the original cost.
A second bank loan for US$15.4 million was made in 1972 (Loan 822-TH) to
finance the expansion and partial relocation of Kasetsart (Agricultural)
University. An IDA credit of US$19.5 million was approved in 1973 for
the third education project (Credit 369-TI) to establish a National Curriculum
Development Center, assist ten primary teacher training colleges and the
Faculty of Science at the Prince of Songkhla University, and provide facili-
ties and equipment to make curricula more practical at 32 diversified second-
ary schools. Delays have occurred in implementing each of these projects.
The status of the three projects and an analysis of past implementation
problems are given in Appendix 1.
1.02      This report presents the findings of an appraisal mission 1/ which
visited Thailand during August/September 1974 to appraise a fourth education
project, consisting of (i) educational radio, (ii) ETV, (iii) adult educa-
tion, and (iv) diversified secondary schools. After field appraisal, the Gov-
ernment withdrew its request for support of educational radio and television
because of differences of judgement with the Bank regarding the scope and
phasing of development of ETV, and proposed a modified project based on the
remaining components. Following discussions concerning the scope and nature
of the Government's financing request, the modified adult education compo-
nent was reviewed in the field in August 1975 2/ and the revised secondary
school component in January 1976 3/.
II. THE SETTING
Socio--Economic _Backound
2.01      The population, estimated at 42 million (1975), has been growing
at an average anrual rate of 3.0% since 1960. The great majority 80% of
1/   Messrs. M.H. You (mission leader), V. Freeman (economist), S. Futagami
(mass media specialist), A. Stam (architect), A. ter Weele (educational
planner), and C. Goodhew (broadcasting engineer, consultant).
2/   Messrs. ter Weele and Stam.
3/   Messrs. Stam, ter Weele and Farner (general educator).



the people live in rural areas. rhe urban population is concentrated in
Bangkok-Thonburi Metropolitan area with a population of 4.3 million, but the
rate of growth of population between 1960 and 1970 was greater in the larger
provincial capitals than in Bangkok. About 82% of the adults are estimated
to be literate, but this rate varies widely by province, from 39% in Mai Hong
Son to 91% in Roi Et. Since these figures are based upon school completion
figures and ignore the regression into illiteracy of rural school leavers,
they overestimate actual literacy rates. Thai, the official language of
the country, is spoken by a majority of the people. However, inter-regional
communication is complicated by language differences. In the North, many
people speak tribal languages (Meo, Karen and others); in the Northeast, Lao
and Khmer; and in the South, Malav.
2.02      The Thai economy achieved steady progress over the period 1960-
70. Real GDP grew at an annual average rate of 8%. Although the relative
share of the agricultural sector fell significantly, from 38% of GDP to
30%, the annual average growth rate of over 5% for agriculture was satis-
factory. The manufacturing and services sectors grew at average rates of
11.2% and 8.4%, respectively. While the rate of growth of GDP has slowed
somewhat in recent years, it nevertheless continues to be reasonable.
Between 1970-74, GDP grew at the annual average rate of over 6% in real
terms, with the growth rates in agriculture, manufacturing and service sec-
tors amounting to 4%, 9% and 6% respectively.
2.03      Two-thirds of the GDP arising from activities other than agri-
culture is generated in the Central Region of the country including Bangkok-
Thonburi. GDP per capita in 1975 was 7,000 Baht, ranging from 11,000 Baht
in the Central Region to 3,000 Baht in the Northeastern Region. Urban/rural
incomes are similarly disparate. Nearly 55% of rural households had incomes
of less than 4,000 Baht per annum in 1968, compared with only 5% of urban
households. Inter-regional differences in average farm income are also large:
1975 farm income averaged 9,000 Baht in the Central Region, 5,000 Baht in the
South, 4,800 Baht in the North, and 2,400 Baht in the Northeast.
2.04      In 1975 the labor force totalled about 20 million persons, or 48%
of the population. The proportion of non-agricultural employment increased
from 18% of the labor force in 1960 to 27% in 1975. The majority of persons
in the labor force have obtained only primary education: 19% had no education;
77% had some primary education; 3% had completed secondary education, 1/ and
less than one percent had completed any higher education. Employed persons
in urban areas generally have higher educational attainments than their rural
counterparts. About 17% of the labor force in urban areas had some secondary
education compared with only 1% for those in rural areas.
1/   Comparative figures for percentage of the labor force with some second-
ary education include: Indonesia (1971) 4%; Malaysia (1967) 8%; Korea
(1975) 15%; and Philippines (1971) 18% of heads of households.



-3-
2.05      The labor force grew more slowly than the population over the
last decade (2.5% p.a. compared with 3% p.a., respectively). Because of rapid
population growth the annual increment in the labor force has increased from
an average of 300,000 over the last decade to about 450,000 at present. Over-
all, the economy has been able to absorb the additional workers. Unemployment
was negligible through the 1960s, but recently has grown to about 7% of the
labor force. Unemployment among persons with secondary education has been
much lower than the overall rate, averaging less than 2% in 1973.
Development Plans and Prospects
2.06      Concern about income distribution was expressed in the Third Five
Year Plan (1972-76), which included objectives of reducing regional and
rural-urban income disparities, increasing employment opportunities, main-
taining rapid agricultural growth and raising public expenditures for health,
edtucation and social services. Considerable effort and resources have been
invested in regional planning. However, progress towards these objectives
has been minimal because of (a) institutional constraints to formulating and
implementing programs to achieve these objectives (e.g., lack of operational
programs for regional allocation of expenditures by sector), (b) a tight
fiscal situation in 1973 and 1974 and (c) an unwillingness to raise necessary
tax revenue. The Government has indicated an increased commitment to im-
proving the distribution of development benefits between regions, income
classes and urban and rural areas. It has supported this commitment, in part,
through increases in public expenditures to extend education and health
services to rural areas now lacking them and to reorient these services to
better suit the needs of the majority of the population. This commitment to
redistribution of resources is expected to be the principal focus of the
Fourth Five Year Plan (1976-81).
2.07      On the basis of past performance and present potential, the Thai
economy appears to be capable of achieving a rate of growth of at least 7%
per year. A rate of growth of this level would require growth rates in the
agricultural, manufacturing and services sectors of 5%, 10% and 8%, res-
pectively, or only marginally above those recently attained. The projected
growth rate would generate new jobs at the rate of 1%-3% over the next
decade. Included in new employment would be jobs for roughly 2.5 million
persons with secondary education (App. 2 para 20.8).
III. nIE EDUCATION SYSTEM
Introduction
3.01      A major weakness in the Thailand educational system has been its
inability to provide a well balanced education of reasonable quality and
relevance to people outside the Bangkok Metropolitan area. Great progress



- 4 -
was made over the last decade in increasing enrollments (Annex 2), but the
following fundamental problems remain:
(a) only about half of the age group 11 to 13 is enrolled
beyond the fourth grade (Chart 1);
(b) the quality of education is low in provincial towns and
rural areas mainly due to poorly trained teacher irrelevant
curricula, inadequate instructional materials and supervision;
(c) secondary and higher education are heavily concentrated
in Bangkok which, with 10% of the nation's population, has
60% of total upper secondary and about 85% of higher
education enrollments; and
(d) less than two percent of the adults have access to non-
formal educational programs related to their needs.
The Educational Reform
3.02      In response to these and other pressing problems, the Cabinet
appointed an Educational Reform Committee in June 1974 to conduct a com-
prehensive review of education in Thailand and make recommendations for
fundamental change in the education system. The Committee, in which about
150 Thais were actively engaged, consulted a wide range of opinions,
documents, research and local experts. The final report of the Committee
was submitted to the Cabinet in December, 1974. The National Education
Council, the organization responsible for formulation of public education
policies and plans, endorsed the recommendations of the Committee. The
Cabinet of the Government which assumed responsibility after the election
of January 1975 also approved the recommendations and instructed the
Minister of Education to prepare a program for implementing the reform.
It was also decided that the reform would provide the basis for the education
sector plans in the Fourth National Five Year Plan (1977-81).
3.03      The reform proposals are extensive and imaginative.  They are
rooted in Thai conditions yet accord with current educational thinking
outside Thailand in terms of equality, structure, curricula and administra-
tion. The reform proposals assert that a comprehensive overhaul is re-
quired in the education system and that piecemeal changes should not be
accepted. The salient features of the reform include:
(a) unification of all educational administration under the
Ministry of Education and decentralization of operational
responsibility to the provinces;
(b) restructuring the education system below university level
by replacing the dual cycle primary education (4+3) with



- 5 -
an integrated six year course, and extension of the upper
cycle of secondary education from two to three years
(Chart 2);
(c)  integration of separate specialized secondary schools
(academic, vocational, teacher training) into single compre-
hensive schools:
(d)  abolition of entrance examinations in favor of a geogra-
phical quota system for access to secondary schools; in-
crease of fees for secondary and higher education coupled
with liberal scholarship programs for needy students; and
(e) consolidation of fragmented curricula subjects around
flexible national core curricula with regional variations.
These changes are intended to provide more equitable opportunity, to
introduce more flexibility and diversity into the system, and to prepare
students better for entry to the labor force.
3.04      There is widespread support for the main recommendations of the
reform.  However, the adoption and implementation of these reforms is
likely to take place on different schedules. Recommendations on structure
and curricula (points b and e above) will probably be introduced quickly;
in fact, the present educational system is in the initial stages of being
transformed into the reformed structure. There is less agreement on proposals
related to examinations, fees, scholarships and integration of secondary
schools (points c and d above); consequently, these proposals may undergo
modification and execution over a longer period. Decentralization of
administration (point a above) has widespread support and is consistent
with the recent trend of administrative changes in Thailand, but the recom-
mendation on unification of administration faces strong opposition from
vested interests and may not be adopted in its present form. The following
profile by level and type of education describes the problems which gave
rise to the reform and indicates the reform measures designed to solve them.
3.05      Administration.  The responsibilitv for education in Thailand is
presently divided among three principal agencies of the central government:
primary schools administered by the Ministry of Interior, secondary education
by the Ministry of Education and higher education by the Bureau of Universi-
ties. In addition, the responsibility for non-formal education is shared
by several agencies (App. 2 and Chart 3). Little control is exercised by
the government over private education which forms an important part of Thai
education, accounting for 12% of primary enrollments and 32% of secondary
enrollments. The consequences of this pattern of administration are in-
adequate coordination between different levels of education and overcentral-
ization of responsibility, allowing little local initiative for the support
and operation of schools.
3.06      Under the reform, administration of all formal and non-formal
education from pre-school through university would be unified under the



-- 6 -
Ministry of Education (MOE). Responsibility for primary schools and
teachers would be transferred from the Ministry of Interior to the MOE
and the State Bureau of Universities would become part of the MOE. Educa-
tion administration would be decentralized through 12 regional offices to
the 71 provinces. Operational responsibility (including control of bud-
gets and employment of teachers) would be transferred to provincial boards
of management including laymen. The central Ministry of Education would
retain overall responsibility for policies, planning, curricula and bud-
geting. These administrative reforms are under discussion among the
agencies concerned.
3.07      Primary Education.  A major factor giving rise to the reform was
the inadequacy of education at the primary level. The seven-year primary
education is divided into two cycles of four and three years, respectively
(Gr 1-4 and Gr 5-7). The four year lower primary cycle, designed to provide
basic literacy and numeracy skills, encompasses virtually all youths 7 to 10
years old, but most students finish their formal education at the lower
cycle. Access to the upper cycle (Gr 5-7) is governed by performance in an
examination and availability of school places. Only about 65% of Grade 4
students enter the upper cycle; consequently, participation in the upper
cycle is limited to about half of the age group. Quality and equity are
major problems.  Curricula tend to require the teaching of twelve different
subjects, often unrelated to local enviroments.  Overall about 30% of the
teachers are not formally qualified. Instructional materials tend to be in-
adequate in quality and supply. There are major inequities in access to
primary education and the quality of instruction (the geographical inequality
of school places is shown in Chart 4). The percentage of students progress-
ing from the lower to the upper cycle in 1974/75 ranged from 45% in the
Northeast to 90% in Bangkok. The average score on standardized primary
school arithmetic tests in the same year was 51 in Bangkok and only 25 in
the Northeastern Region (Annex 3).
3.08      The program of reform seeks to overcome these weaknesses of equity
and quality. In terms of structure, the barrier between lower and upper
primary schooling will be eliminated by creating a unified six-year cycle.
The changwads with less access to the upper primary cycle will be developed
as rapidly as possible, receiving an increased share of educational resources.
Schools with low quality will receive special subsidies. Curricula will be
made terminal in character to serve better the needs of those who finish
their education with primary school. The present twelve subjects of the
curriculum will be consolidated into four interrelated areas: basic skills,
life experiences, work experiences and character development. Regional
variations will be encouraged within the context of a natioral core curriculum.
A program of curriculum development for the new integrated six year primary
school has been initiated by the National Curriculum Development Center,
being assisted by IDA under the third education project (para 1.01). The
Government is exploring the possibility of further Bank assistance in the
implementation of the new six-year primary school program.



3.09      Secondary education is presently divided into two cycles of three
and two years respectively (Gr 8-10, Gr 11-12). Two separate types of
institutions exist at the lower cycle (academic-diversified and vocational)
and three types at the upper cycle (academic-diversified, vocational and
teacher training, Chart 2). The lower cycle enrolls about 26% of the age
group 14-16, and the upper cycle covers about 8% of the age group 17-18. 1/
About 45% of all secondary students are females, a higher proportion than
in most developing countries. Access to lower secondary education is deter-
mined by student performance on an entrance examination and a quota of places
available in government schools established by the MOE. This system of res-
tricted access has helped to coordinate enrollment growth with labor market
developments but tends to favor selection of students from middle and upper
income families. About 70% of upper primary graduates enroll in lower
secondary schools and about 90% of the initial entrants complete the lower
cycle; of these about 40% go on to academic studies in the upper cycle,
about 40% proceed to vocational or teacher training and about 20% enter the
labor market. Repetition and dropout are high in the upper cycle academic
schools. Between a fourth and a half of the students who reach Grade 12
fail to pass the final examination and repeat the grade in the following
year. Many students thus spend three years to complete the two year upper
cycle. About 70% of the graduates of the upper cycle go on to some form of
higher education (35% to universities, 25% to teachers colleges and 10% to
technical colleges). About 30% enter the labor market. The proportion of
graduates directly entering the labor market is expected to increase with
expansion of secondary enrollments.
3.10      Regional differences are great in secondary school enrollments.  In
the Central Region, which includes Bangkok and its private schools, 42% of
the age group is enrolled in the lower cycle of secondary schools (Grades 8-10)
and 23% at the upper cycle (Grades 11-12), compared with 18% and 3%, respec-
tively, for the Northeastern Region. In the Northeast 15 out of 16 provinces
enroll less than 20% of the age group in the lower cycle and less than 5% in
the upper cycle (Annex 4). About 60% of all upper secondary places (public
and private) are located in the Bangkok-Thonburi area which has only 10% of
the total population. About 40% of the upper cycle secondary students in
Bangkok come from other provinces, indicating the migration of students from
the provinces to Bangkok to gain access to upper secondary education. These
regional disparities are greater at upper secondary level than either lower
secondary or primary education (Chart 4).
1/   Comparative enrollment ratios for other Asian countries include:
(Enrollments as Percentage of the Relevant Age Group)
Lower Cycle          Upper Cycle
Thailand (1975                     26%                     8%
Burma (1973)                       36%                    20%
Indonesia (1972)                   17%                     8%
Korea (1973)                       60%                    32%
Malaysia (1972)                    51%                    23%
Philippines (1974)               -46…--------------



- 8 -
3.11      Secondary education in rhailand has been dominated traditionally
by the academic stream intended to prepare students for higher education.
Ilowever, less than 20% of those who enter Grade 8 are eventually accepted
into colleges and universities. The many dropouts and those who terminated
their studies after the lower or upper cycle have been ill-prepared by their
theoretical education to enter the labor market. In recognition of these
weaknesses in the secondary school curriculum the diversified secondary school
was introduced to Thailand in the early 1960s. Diversified secondary educa-
tion provides in one school a varied curriculum combining general and pre-
vocational subjects (agriculture, home economics, business education and
industrial arts), thereby preparing students both for continued education or
entry to the labor market. The majority of students in diversified secondary
schools devote about one-fourth of their time to practical arts. Students
may choose to devote as much as half of their time to practical studies.
During the past nine years the government has introduced diversified secondary
education in 20 schools (originally covering 10% of secondary enrollments)
with the assistance of the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA).
In addition, over 300 schools have received equipment assistance from UNICEF
and USAID. So far no extensive evaluation has been made of the results of
these comprehensive schools, but graduates have been generally of high
quality in comparison with academic schools and have had little difficulty
in continuing their education or in finding employment. Thai authorities
have felt, however, that the diversified schools initially established
were excessively costly in terms of equipment and facilities. Consequently,
the Government has followed a less expensive standard of equipment and
facilities in providing assistance to an additional 32 diversified secondary
schools with IDA assistance under the third education project (para 1.01 and
Annex 4). The Government is undertaking periodic studies on the cost-
effectiveness of diversified secondary schools to achieve further economies
in capital and operating costs. The proposed fourth education project would
extend the program of secondary diversification in provinces outside Bangkok.
3.12      The education reform movement supports and will further extend the
diversification of secondary schools. The three separate types of institu-
tions (para 3.09) will be merged eventually into a single diversified system.
Existing vocational schools over the long term will become diversified
secondary schools. The teacher training cycle at upper secondary level
(Chart 2) will be phased out. Remaining academic secondary schools will be
converted to diversified schools by adding the prevocational curriculum.
Secondary education will become a six-year program by the inclusion of grade
seven. The upper cycle will be extended from two to three years in recog-
nition of the high repetition rate among students in the present two year
cycle (para 3.09). Flexibility and equality will be enhanced by more offering
of electives and the practical orientation of the new curriculum. Entrance
examinations to secondary schools are to be replaced by a system of quotas
by primary schools so that primary graduates from low income families can
have greater access to secondary education. School fees will be increased
sharply to cover about one third of actual costs. Scholarships will be
provided for needy students. A credit system will be introduced to allow
students to progress at varying rates, or re-enroll after dropping out.



3.13      Higher Education.  During the decade of the sixties, tertiary level
enrollment grew at a modest rate of 6% annually. The main achievement was
a decentralization of university education through the establishment of the
Universities of Chiang Mai and Khon Kaen and of the Prince of Songkhla (in
Pattani and Haadyai). Thailand's other universities, with 86% of the total
enrollments, are all located in Bangkok. At present only 6% of the students
in higher education come from farm families even thouRh this group makes
up about 75% of the population. In addition to this inequality the internal
efficiency of universities has tended to be low. Annual dropout rates from
some departments average 30-40%. In 1971 the Government acceded to pressures
to increase university enrollments more rapidly and established Ramkamhaeng
University (also located in Bangkok). Ramkamhaeng University is known as
the "open university" because of its policy of accepting all candidates who
hold secondary school certificates. In 1971, its first year, 37,000 students
enrolled, many on a part-time basis. Enrollment in the country's other
universities totalled 46,000 in the same year.  The Government is finding it
difficult to maintain Ramkamhaeng's open enrollment policy and is considering
its modification.
3.14      Under the reform, existing post-secondary institutions (univer-
sities and colleges providing specialized education such as teacher training,
agriculture, technical studies and nurses training) will come under the
aegis of State Bureau of Universities within the MOE (para 3.06). The ins-
titutions will be given greater autonomy within the overall guidance of
the Bureau on policy, planning and budgeting. Special-purpose colleges in
each region will be grouped together to form community colleges for providing
relevant training to meet local conditions. In addition, it is proposed that
universities be oriented toward specific subjects, faculties of universities
situated nearby each other be amalgamated and some Bangkok universities be
moved to the provinces. With respect to teacher training, completion of
upper secondary education (Grade 12) will be made the entrance requirement
compared with Grade 10 in the past.
3.15      Non-formal Education.  Since 1960 the Government has developed a
wide variety of non-formal education programs through the Adult Education
Division (AED) of the MOE (Annex 5). These presently include instructional
activities (e.g. functional literacy, second-chance education, skill train-
ing) and programs such as recreation activities and radio information cam-
paigns. During 1975, 300,000 adults participated in instructional activities,
another 300,000 availed themselves of reading services, and somewhat more than
two million were reached by public information campaigns. Thus, apart from
the information campaigns, only about one percent of the adult population was
reached by adult education programs.
3.16      On-going non-formal education programs in Thailand are generally
more appropriate to urban adults with some education than to rural adults
with little or no schooling. For instance, second-chance education courses
prepare participants for white-collar clerical positions, and 94% of the
participants have completed five years of primary school. The contents of
vocational and trade training programs are also largely inappropriate to
rural life since they are designed primarily to prepare participants for
modern sector jobs. Two on-going programs which do cater to rural adults



-- 10 -
are the "special interest group" and "village reading center" programs. The
former provides $ 30 (US$1.50) per hour up to a maximum of 30 hours through
the changwad government council for the instruction of any group which requests
a course and identifies a villager capable of teaching it. Courses have been
organized about interests such as sewing, handicrafts, nutrition, engine
repair, animal breeding, and maintenance of water pumps. The village reading
center program provides three daily newspapers to any village which constructs,
at its own expense, a reading center. Both these programs are focused on the
most rural areas and depend on local initiative. Although their impact in
terms of any single group or center is still modest, their cost is low, and
their cumulative impact on a nation-wide scale could be substantial.
3.17      This system of non-formal education has developed in Thailand
with insufficient planning and coordination. Although much has been ac-
complished, analysis of adult learning needs has been unsystematic, develop-
ment of special curricula has been ad hoc, insufficient numbers of adult
educators have received special training, and evaluation has been piecemeal.
Teaching materials have been largely adopted from the formal academic and
vocational school system. Special needs of adults such as a regular flow
of information (e.g., marketing, employment and government development
activities and services) and skill training (e.g., cottage industry, agri-
culture, animal husbandry, hygiene, nutrition and child care) have not been
adequately addressed. Most teachers have been trained to teach in the formal
school system, but few are acquainted with instructional methodologies used
with adults. Evaluation has not been an integral part of programs and has
not provided the continuous stream of information which is necessary if
administrators are to determine early the successful and unsuccessful programs
and practices. Coordination of programs at the local level has been insuffi-
cient. Non-formal education activities are particularly lacking in remote
areas, where transportation and language problems (para 2.01) and illiteracy
make communication difficult.
3.18      The Education Reform Committee recognized the vital need to provide
relevant educational services to the 15 million rural adults with less than
full primary education. The Committee stressed repeatedly the importance of
non-formal education, the need to expand programs rapidly (especially those
directed at rural areas) and the need to increase sharply budget allocations
for non-formal education. Througlh these measures it is intended to provide
continuing lifelong opportunities for education for the majority of the
Thais who have limited formal schooling opportunities. However, if govern-
ment plans to expand non-formal education programs are to be effective, this
expansion must be accompanied by improved management and planning, by in-
creased research on adult learning requirements, by development of suitable
courses and materials, by training of teachers specifically for adults, by
consolidation and coordinaticn of existing programs, and by continuous
evaluation of activities. The proposed fourth education project includes a
program to strengthen adult education in each of these areas.



- 11 -
Educational Development Priorities
3.19      Educational planning in Thailand, apart from the annual budgeting
process, is carried out within the preparation of the national five year
plans. The Third Plan (1972-76), as previous plans, emphasized the train-
ing of skilled workers, teachers and professional manpower. The Fourth Plan
(1977-81) is expected to indicate a significant shift in priorities towards
implementation of the educational reform. Although the Fourth Plan is still
embryonic, most of the groundwork has been done in the studies of the Educa-
tional Reform Committee. Several major objectives have emerged. First, ex-
pansion of basic educational opportunities, in terms of non-formal and primary
education, will be assigned high priority. Second, improvements in equity,
quality and relevance will be stressed, particularly in reducing the disparity
of educational quality between urban and rural areas. Third, all academic
secondary schools are to be converted to diversified curricula. At the rate
achieved thus far (para 3.11) diversification of all secondary schools would
be achieved by 1990.
3.20      Over the past five years public enrollments in grades 1-6 and
8-12 grew at a rate of 6% p.a. and 20% p.a., respectively. During the next
five years the Government plans to reduce the growth rate in enrollments,
as follows:
Annual                    Annual
Actual       Growth    Projected        Growth
Enrollment      Rate      Enrollment       Rate
(thousands)               (thousands)
1970    1975              1976    1981
Grades 1-6           4,690   6,210    6%       6,660   8,510       5%
Grade  7               140      360   21%        440      610      7%
Grades 8-12            260      650   20%        830   1,550      13%
Source:   Ministry of Education (Annex 2)
During the Fourth Plan primary enrollments would grow at approximately the
same annual rate as in the Third Plan to achieve universal primary education
by 1981. The proportion of primary graduates entering secondary education
is expected to decline from the current rate of 80% (1975/76) to about 50%
(1980/81). The growth rate in secondary enrollments is projected to decline
from 20% p.a. to 13% p.a. In absolute terms 720,000 more students would be
enrolled. This increase is reasonable in view of (a) the natural increase
in school age population, (b) increased enrollments in the final year of
primary education, and (c) the need to equalize educational opportunities
among regions. The projected secondary growth is also broadly consistent
with employment prospects for graduates given the (a) low educational attain-
ment of the labor force (para 2.04), (b) present low unemployment among
secondary graduates (para 2.05), and (c) projected growth in the stock of
emploved persons with secondary education (para 2.07).



- 12 -
Financing Educational Development
3.21      Between 1968 and 1973, total government public education expendi-
tures grew at an annual rate of 6.5% in 1968 prices compared to a growth of
3.6% p.a. for total central government expenditure. Between 1968 and 1975
public education expenditures increased from 16.1% of total central govern-
ment expenditure to 20.7%. Public education expenditure as a proportion of
GDP grew to slightly over 4.0%. Achieving the improvements in educational
quality and equity sought by the reform is expected to require an increase
in central government education expenditures in 1975 prices from % 11.7 bil-
lion in 1975 to about % 22 billion in 1980. This would entail an increase in
central public education expenditures to almost 5% of GDP, but the proportion
of such expenditures would remain substantially unchanged at 19% of total
central government expenditure (Appendix 2 and Annex 6). The plans of the
Educational Reform Committee to expand non-formal education services in par-
ticular would increase the budget of the AED tenfold. Education expenditures
in these prqportions would not overburden the Government's finances.
3.22      These overall estimates of the financial implications of the reform
are only tentative and may change substantially after the costs and pace of
implementation of specific programs have been determined. The crucial next
step in the reform process is to prepare detailed programs to introduce the
reform measures. Government departments are already at work preparing such
detailed programs; programs for secondary and adult education are the most
advanced. Sector survey work is underway by the Unesco/Bank Cooperative
Program to help the Government develop and estimate the costs of programs
currently less well defined in primary and higher education.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The proposed project is designed to assist the Government in
implementing a detailed program of educational reform in two key areas. It
would help: (a) extend the provision of diversified secondary education in
provinces outside Bangkok, and (b) establish a nationwide adult education
system.
Diversified Secondary Schools (Grades 7-12) (proposed outlay: US$37.1
million excluding technical
assistance and contingencies)
4.02      Description.  The proposed project would help strengthen and ac-
celerate the Government's program of diversified education to an additional
50 secondary schools beyond the 32 now assisted under Credit 369-TH. This
project would bring diversification of secondary education to an additional
30% of Thailand's upper secondary schools outside the greater Bangkok area
(Annex 4). Under the project 50 existing schools would be equipped and
expanded to permit the effective application of the diversified curricula
developed in accordance with the reform program. Laboratories and workshops
would be constructed and equipped at all 50 schools, and a limited number



- 13 -
of classrooms would be provided in about half the schools. All schools would
have both lower (Gr. 7-9) and upper cycles (Gr. 10-12). In accordance with
the reform proposals (para 3.13) the upper cycle would be extended from two
to three years in duration. The lower cycle would, in some cases, enroll only
one sex; the upper cycle in all schools would enroll both sexes. 1/ No
boarding facilities would be required because catchment areas, available
transportation and population density permit commuting. Following established
customs students in the upper cycle coming from beyond commuting range would
reside with local families or boarding facilities attached to temples. An
average of 10-14 staff housing units would be provided at each project school
to assist in staff recruitment and retention.
4.03      Enrollments.  Together with the 32 secondary schools being financed
under the third project (para 1.01), the proposed project would bring to 82
the number of diversified secondary schools (10% of total secondary schools)
supported by the Bank Group. When completed in 1981, the proposed project
schools would have a total enrollment of 98,000 compared with 82,000 at pre-
sent, an average increase in enrollment of 320 students per school.
4.04      School Locations.  The proposed project accords with Government
policy of reducing the imbalance of educational opportunities between Bangkok
and the rest of the country (para 3.10). All 50 schools to be assisted by the
project would be located in provinces outside the Bangkok-Thonburi area
(Annex 4 and Map). Selection of the 50 schools was based on the following
criteria: (a) lack of upper secondary schools in the province, (b) below
average secondary enrollment ratios, (c) absence of diversified secondary
schools in the province, (d) geographical balance among Thailand's four major
regions, and (e) enrollment, catchment area and availability of land for
expansion. Specifically, the project would introduce upper secondary education
in 20 provinces and diversified secondary education in 26 provinces. Eighty
percent of the project schools would be located in provinces with upper cycle
enrollment ratios of six percent or less (Annex 7).
4.05      Students.  Students in the lower cycle would be recruited primarily
from the provincial capital district 2/. Students for the upper cycle would
be recruited from the lower grades of each respective school and from a net-
work of surrounding district lower secondary schools which have been assisted
in the past by Unicef and USAID (para 3.11). To encourage upward social
mobility project schools would participate in a special system of selection
and scholarships. 3/ Tracer studies have been undertaken in early diversified
1/   Twenty-one project schools would be for boys, 14 for girls and 15 would
enroll both sexes in the lower cycle.
2/   Two of the 50 schools are located in larger districts instead of pro-
vincial capitals.
3/   In 1975, needy students received about 12,500 places in secondary schools
including 4,500 scholarship and 2,000 fee waivers.



- 14 -
schools and are now underway in the schools assisted by Cr 369-TH. During
negotiations the Government agreed to: (a) establish a tracer system to
follow the careers of students who enroll in the project schools; (b) sub-
mit to the Bank for comment its design for the system including an imple-
mentation schedule; and (c) furnish to the Bank summaries of information
gathered.
4.06      School Size and Management.  The 50 schools at present have an
average enrollment of 1,650 students ranging from 760 to 2,700. Upon com-
pletion of the project, the average enrollment per school would be 1,970
(Annex 7). Four standard school sizes with enrollments of 1,680, 1,920,
2,160 and 2,400 were selected to make optimum use of specialized facilities.
Field observation in Thailand suggests that a desirable diversified secondary
school enrollment is about 2,000 on the basis of administration of curricula
and staff, composition of the student body, site size and relations with the
community. Because of the importance of efficient management of the schools
the project would include fellowships and expert services for administrative
staff. This training would include, in particular, techniques in scheduling
of classes and spaces.
4.07      Curricula.  The project schools would follow curricula adapted
and refined during use in existing diversified schools (para 3.11) and would
include about 25-30% of class time in laboratory and practical subjects.
The practical subjects include science, agriculture, home economics, business
education, and industrial arts. All educational planning of curricula for
the proposed project is based on the newly issued diversified curricula in-
tended to be used in all secondary schools. These curricula were developed
by the National Curriculum Development Center and include the changes
envisaged under the reform program (para 3.03).
4.08      Teachers.  The expansion of enrollments would require an addition
of about 800 teaching staff, including an additional 300 teachers of practical
subjects. The overall supply of new teachers is sufficient to meet this
demand. Maintenance and improvement of the quality of instruction in practical
subjects is essential to the success of diversified schools. Therefore the
proposed project includes support of a training center near Bangkok for in-
service courses for practical arts teachers. The center would have classrooms,
laboratories and workshops for realistic training on equipment identical to
equipment in the schools. Housing and food services facilities would be
provided for up to 90 trainees at any one time. Maintenance of practical
arts equipment and, warehousing and distribution of new equipment would
also be functions of the center.
4.09      Cost Effectiveness.  Experience in other countries 1/ indicates that
initial capital outlays per pupil place and recurrent costs per graduate often
tend to be much higher in comprehensive schools than in other secondary
1/   Colombia Education Project (Loan CO-552), Completion Mission Full Report
May 16, 1975.



- 15 -
schools. This is largely because of the high costs of workshops, small class
size and low number of weekly teaching periods for staff. A preliminary re-
view in Thailand of existing diversified schools found these costs to be
reasonable. Capital costs per pupil place are about US$600 in project
schools, approximately 20% higher than in schools which are not diversified.
Recurrent costs per student are about US$75-80, about 90% of which is teacher
salaries (Annex 8), about equal to those in schools which are not diversified.
These figures suggest that the Government's plans to convert all secondary
schools to the diversified curriculum (para 3.19) are feasible. However,
to ensure that resources continue to be used economically in the further
extension of diversified schools, the Government is instituting a periodic
review of cost-effectiveness of its operating diversified schools.
Arrangements have been made to share the findings of these periodic
reviews with the Bank.
Adult Education (proposed outlay: IUS$12.6 million excluding technical
assistance and contingencies)
4.10      The overall purpose of the project is to develop the institutional
capacity of the Government to manage and operate a national program of adult
education. The project is designed to address the existing problems (para
3.17) of administration, program development, training and evaluation. It
would enable Thailand to forge a coherent, nationwide organization for adult
organization from existing ad hoc activities. The project would:
(a) improve program planning and administration by
strengthening the Adult Education Division of the
MOE in Bangkok;
(b) provide presently lacking program support services
in curriculum development, training of adult educators
and evaluation by establishing four regional centers
responsible for these activities (Appendix 5);
(c) unify existing adult education activities into a
consolidated program by establishing 24 Lifelong
Education Centers (LECs), each to manage and coordinate
the adult education program within a changwad
(Appendix 5); and
(d)  develop an infrastructure to serve as an outlet at the
level of the community for non-formal education by
providing services necessary to establish 8,400 village
reading centers and their supporting committees.
The adult education system to be established by the project is designed
to (a) identify systematically national and regional educational needs of
adults, (b) develop and test flexible skill training programs, curricula
and reading material for neo-literates, (c) train 9,300 adult educators
and community development workers annually, (d) develop correspondence



- 16 -
education materials and offer correspondence education to 2,800 youths adults
annually, and (e) evaluate results. The project thus would provide a
service of non-formal education to an estimated 1.8 million adults annually.
It would be the first step towards establishing an LEC in each changwad
and a reading center in every second village, and would be followed by
further expansion, as follows:
To be
Number      Assisted
Type of Adult                     Presently      under       Target
Education Institution   Level        Existing     Project      by 1990
Coordinating Unit       National        0             1            1
Research, Develop-
ment and Training
Center                  Regional        0             4           4
Lifelong Education
Center                  Provincial      1 /a         24           71 /b
Village Reading
Center                  Village       3,000      8,400       24,000 Ic
/a   In addition, there exists an LEC in Ubon Ratchathani which would be
converted into one of the four Regional Research, Development and
Training Centers under the project.
/b   The target for LECs is one per province (changwad).
/c   The target for reading centers is one in every second village.
4.11      Adult Education Coordinating Unit.  The national adult education
coordinating unit would be established in Bangkok in existing MOE facilities
as a unit of the AED to direct and coordinate the activities of the four
regional research development and training centers (AECs). The unit would
help to provide the coordination and planning of adult education which
presently is lacking. Bank financing would be provided to help furnish
and equip the unit.
4.12      Regional Centers.  Four regional centers would be established,
each having responsibility within their region (a) to identify non-formal
education target groups and their learning needs and develop appropriate
curriculum materials (b) to train adult educators, and (c) to provide
feedback and evaluation on non-formal education activities. Present adult
education programs suffer since these functions have been ignored or treated
in an ad hoc manner. The regional centers would design materials to suit
the specific learning needs within their regions, while the national coor-
dinating unit with the support of other units of the AED would develop those



- 17 -
core materials which could be used nationally. Training of personnel con-
ducted at each center would be aimed at supporting adult education services
within the region. Through the training program, the centers would serve
to coordinate non-formal education activities within each region, and they
would provide a means for regular interaction between adult educators involved
in various programs. The four regional centers proposed are:
(a) Ubon Ratchathani, responsible for 16 provinces in the
Northeast;
(b) Lampang, responsible for 15 provinces in the North;
(c) Rat Buri responsible for 26 provinces in the Central
Plains;
(d) Songkhla, responsible for 14 provinces in the South.
4.13      An integral part of the project would be a pilot program in the
use of radio for adult education. No additional broadcasting facilities
would be required as Thailand presently has 194 radio stations and broad-
casting time could be purchased from them. The pilot effort would focus
on the design, production and testing of radio correspondence courses. The
national coordinating unit in Bangkok would produce core materials, and each
of the four regional centers would modify and supplement these materials to
suit their regions.
4.14      Facilities at each of the regional AECs would include classrooms,
a library, offices, workshops, a dormitory, housing units for some staff,
a cafeteria and a small printing facility. Bank financing would be provided
to help construct and equip three of the centers, and to help convert and
re-equip the Thailand UNESCO Fundamental Education Center (TUFEC) at Ubon
Ratchathani as a fourth center. The activities of the AECs should be linked
to those of the NCDC and of agricultural extension. During negotiations the
Government gave assurances that it would submit within one year after the
signing of the Loan Agreement a plan for coordinating (a) the curriculum
work of the NCDC with that of the AECs and (b) the activities of the AED
with extension activities of the Ministries of Agriculture, Health and
Interior.
4.15      Lifelong Education Centers.  During the project period it is
proposed that 24 LECs be established in three phases. Since recruitment of
personnel may be difficult, the last 12 LECs (Phase III) would not be con-
structed until it has been demonstrated that adequate numbers of qualified
personnel have been hired to staff the national coordinating unit, the
regional AECs and the first 12 LECs (para. 4.20). Locations of LECs have
been selected to ensure wide geographic distribution and to facilitate
transport and communication with as many villages as possible. Activities of
the AED existinR within a changwad would be consolidated under the admin-
istration of an LEC. The LECs would manage and coordinate the non-formal
education program of the MOE within each chanwad, would be the center from
which mobile teams would extend adult teaching to nearby villages, and would
provide courses directly to adults. Each LEC would (Appendix 4):



- 18 -
(a) promote education extension activities, particularly
the on-going special interest group and village reading
center programs by providing villagers with appropriate
training and field support;
(b) operate a film truck to show films at villages within
the changwad;
(c) accommodate mobile units to provide skill training
to villages throughout the changwad, and offer skill
training at the LEC;
(d) organize functional literacy and second-chance education
courses at meeting places within the changwad and at the
LECs;
(e) house a public library and serve as a local community
center.
The specific operational program for the LECs would be formulated by the
national coordinating unit of the AED in cooperation with the regional AECs.
During negotiations the Government provided assurances that within two
years of loan signature the Ministry of Education would submit to the
National Education Council for its review, and to the Bank for its informa-
tion, the proposed operational and teaching program of the LECs and that the
Council would send the Bank a copy of its evaluation of the program.
4.16      Facilities at each of the LECs would include five classrooms, four
multi-purpose workshops, a library, a meeting hall and boarding accommodations
for 12 persons. Facilities would be of simple construction, and the LEC
grounds would be designed to be attractive and appealing. Bank financing
would be provided to help construct, equip and furnish the LECs.  Construction
of a library would not be necessary at the sites of 12 LECs where libraries
already exist.
4.17      Village Reading Centers.  The project would support indirectly
through the activities of the LECs the establishment of 8,400 village reading
centers.  Villagers would appoint a three-man committee to organize self-help
construction of the centers which would be simple, one-room shelters, often
located at a wat (temple). Once built, the Government would provide each
center with three newspapers daily, a wall newspaper for neo-literates
and pamphlets related to such subjects as animal husbandry, agriculture,
health, family planning and cottage industries. The centers and their com-
mittees would act as focal points for LEC education extension activities,
including the organizing of special interest group, functional literacy and
mobile trade training courses. The village committee would receive training
at the LECs and would visit reading centers in neighboring villages. Villagers
themselves would provide materials and laborers for construction of the read-
ing centers. Bank financing would be used to construct and furnish the



- 19 -
necessary boarding facilities at the LEC (para 4.16), to provide vehicles
for the transport of village committee trainees and for LEC staff to visit
villages periodically, and to finance related technical assistance for staff
training and evaluation.
4.18.     Evaluation.  Non-formal education programs must be innovative, and
they must develop new courses and materials continuously if they are to meet
the multiple and changing educational needs of adults. It is inevitable
that some new programs and course materials will be unsuccessful. Moreover,
courses which are successful must be phased out when demand for them declines.
It is imperative in this situation to conduct continuous evaluation which
will (a) indicate the impact of successful courses, (b) identify unsuccessful
courses at an early stage, and (c) determine when courses have saturated
demand. A unit would be established in the AED and each of the four regional
AECs to provide the required feedback through data collection, surveys and
evaluation. Appropriate local and expatriate expert services in research
design, statistical analysis and development of questionnaires would be
provided under the project to assist the units in their work. As a part
of project reporting procedures, the Government would send the Bank annually
during the implementation period a summary of the research programs and
evaluation results of the national coordinating unit and regional centers.
4.19      Staff and Staff Trainin.  Each regional AEC would require about
80 full time professional staff. Each LEC would require about 27 full time
and 35 part time professional staff. Thus, together with the national coor-
dinating unit, a total of more than 1,000 full-time and 800 part-time profes-
sional staff would be required by 1980 to operate the national adult education
network to be established under the project. Approximately 500 of the 1,000
full-time staff are presently employed by the AED or will be transferred to
it from elsewhere within the MOE. The remaining 500 persons would be hired
from among teachers, development workers and university graduates specializing
in adult education. Village reading centers would be operated by people
in the villages in which they are located. Overseas training for 46 of the
staff would be provided under the project, and all staff would participate
in regular, in-service training programs operated in cooperation with local
universities and using the services of local and foreign experts. The Bank
and Government have agreed on a plan for in-service training of staff. During
negotiations, agreement was reached on a schedule for appointment of sufficient
staff to the AED to implement the project. Assurances were obtained that the
Government would provide for the appointment of staff in accordance with this
schedule. A condition of disbursements for the last 12 LECs would be
(a) provision of evidence that qualified persons are serving full time in
designated key positions (Appendix 5) in the national coordinating unit,
the four regional AECs and the first 12 LECs, and (b) completion of a detailed
staff recruitment and training plan acceptable to the Bank.
Technical assistance: (proposed outlay: US$2.6 million excluding con-
tingencies)



- 20 -
4.20      Overall, the project includes 89 man-years of fellowships, 19.5 man-
years of expatriate specialist services and 90 man-years of local specialist
services. The secondary school component of the project includes 50 man-
years of fellowships and 3.5 man-years of expatriate specialist services (Ap-
pendix 3). Two administrators from each project secondary school would
receive six months of training abroad in school management techniques such
as scheduling, budgeting and accounting. Specialists in school time-tabling
would provide follow-up courses on classroom scheduling in Thailand.
4.21      The adult education component of the project includes 39 man-years
of fellowships, 70 man-years of local specialist services, and 9 man-years
of expatriate specialist services. About 34 staff of the AED would partici-
pate in short study tours, mainly apprenticeships with existing non-formal
education projects in other Asian countries. Four AED staff would undertake
training abroad at the doctorate degree level, and eight at the master's
degree level. This training would focus on educational research design,
statistical techniques and radio correspondence. Courses of this type and
at this level are not offered in Thailand. Local specialist services would
be provided to complement AED staff and assist in staff training, course
development, research and evaluation. About ten man-years of expatriate
specialist services would be recruited to assist in project implementation,
radio correspondence and further development and testing of AED programs.
All fellows would be bonded to serve twice the term of the fellowship in
positions related to the project. In order to facilitate overall project
implementation and preparation of future education projects, 20 man-years
of local specialist services and seven man-years of expatriate specialist
services would be provided to the coordinating unit in the office of the
tlndersecretary (para 5.10). During negotiations the Government and Bank
agreed on selection criteria, procedures for awards of fellowships, and
procedures for approving programs of study to be financed by the proposed
loan.



- 21 -
V. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT
Cost of the Project
5.01      The estimated costs and foreign exchange component of the proposed
project are given in Annexes 9 and 10 and summarized below:
Baht (millions)        US$ (millions)
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total
A. Secondary Education
1 Training & Main-
tenance Center       9.7      4.7      14.4      0.48   0.24        0.72
50 Diversified
Secondary Schools 456.9   270.1    727.0        22.84  13.51       36.35
Sub-total          466.6   274.8    741.4       23.32  13.75       37.07
B. Adult Education
1 Coordinating Unit   0.3       0.5       0.8       0.01   0.03       0.04
4 Regional AECs       33.0    29.5       62.5       1.66   1.48       3.14
12 LECs, first phase  53.4    40.5        93.9       2.67   2.02       4.69
12 LECs, last phase   53.4    40.5        93.9       2.67   2.02       4.69
Sub-total          140.1   111.0    251.1        7.01   5.55       12.56
C. Technical Assistance
Secondary Education   2.4    13.5        15.9       0.12   0.67       0.79
Adult Education        8.9    17.1       26.0       0.45   0.85       1.30
Project Unit Support
and Preparation
Future Education
Projects               2.9      6.7       9.6       0.14   0.34       0.48
Sub-total             14.2    37.3       51.5       0.71   1.86       2.57
Total Base Cost      620.9   423.1  1,044.0        31.04  21.16      52.20
D. Contingencies
Physical              62.1    42.3    104.4         3.10   2.12       5.22
Price                260.9   157.7    418.6        13.05   7.88      20.93
Sub-total            323.0   200.0    523.0        16.15  10.00      26.15
TOTAL PROJECT COST       943.9   623.1  1,567.0       47.19  31.16      78.35
5.02      Base cost estimates refer to early-1976 prices.  Construction costs
have been estimated on the basis of functional and economical accommodation
schedules. Use factors in the secondary schools for classrooms, workshops
and laboratories would range from 75% to 90% based on 35 weekly teaching
periods. In addition all project schools utilize facilities for evening adult



- 22 -
classes.  Unit building costs, derived from 5ecent construction in Thailand,
vary from US$70/m  for workshops to US$100/m  for classrooms.  Capital cost
per student in the diversified secondary schools would amount to US$400 for
construction of academic and communal facilities, US$80 for site development,
US$40 for furniture and US$66 for equipment. Staff houses cost US$5,400
per unit and would make up 8% of the total base cost. The above unit costs
compare favorably with other Bank Group projects.
5.03      Preliminary furniture and equipment lists were reviewed and re-
vised during appraisal and are reasonable in scale and cost. The cost of
technical assistance is estimated at US$55,000 per man-year for expatriate
specialist services, and about US$12,000 per man-year for fellowships. Pro-
fessional fees are estimated at US$2.1 million representing six percent of
cost of civil works.
5.04      The estimated project costs include a contingency allowance of
US$26.2 million (Annex 11) calculated as follows: (a) physical contingencies
for unforeseen factors estimated at 10% of base cost, and (b) price contin-
gencies calculated on the undisbursed balance of base cost plus physical
contingencies, and estimated on the basis of expected annual price increases
on a declining basis between 1976 and 1980 as follows:
Annual Percentages
1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
1.   Civil Works                    12      12     12     10      10
2.   Furniture                      10      10     10      8       8
3.   Equipment                       9       8      8      7       7
4.   Technical Assistance            8       8      8       7      7
5.05      The foreign exchange component totals US$31.2 million, 40% of total
project cost. Foreign exchange costs were calculated on the basis of: 30%
of civil works, 30% of furniture, 75% of equipment, 80% of technical assist-
ance, and 10% of professional services.  These percentages have been derived
from (i) detailed cost estimates for the components of civil works including
materials and labor, and (ii) awards under Cr. 369-TH for furniture and
equipment including origin, taxes and transportation costs.
5.06      Customs Duties and Taxes.  The total customs duties and taxes are
estimated at US$7.8 million, or 10% of the total project cost, including con-
tingencies. Thailand does not participate in any regional arrangement that
allows reduced import duties for specified import suppliers.
Project Financing
5.07      The total project cost of US$78.4 million would be financed as
follows: (a) the proposed Bank loan of US$31 million (40% of total project
cost) would meet the foreign exchange cost; (b) the Government would finance
the remaining cost of US$47.4 million (60% of total project costs).



- 23 -
5.08      At full operating capacity project institutions and programs would
require annual recurrent expenditures of X 238 million (1976 prices), in-
cluding $ 60 million in additional expenditures, as follows:
Secondary School   Adult_ Education
g_US$        _     US$
------------(millions)------------
Present Recurrent Expenditure (1975)         148      7.4        30 /a   1.5 /a
Projected Increase                            30      1.5        30       1.5
Projected Total Recurrent Expenditure
(1980)                                    178     8.9         60       3.3
Percentage Increase over Present
Recurrent Expenditure                          20%                  100%
/a   represents existing programs and personnel to be transferred to the
project.
Project recurrent costs for each project component would be less than one
percent of the public expenditures on education projected to be made in
1980. Full implementation of the adult education system with one LEC in
each of the nation's 71 changwads (para 4.10) would require an estimated
recurrent expenditure of about $ 200 million, less than one percent of projected
total public recurrent expenditures on education in 1990. The Government
assigns high priority to expanding and improving both adult education and
diversified secondary schools (para 3.20) and can accommodate the additional
recurrent costs without undue difficultv within the anticipated growth of
education expenditures.
Projtct Implmentation
5.09      The organization within the Ministry of Education responsible for
implementation of the third education project (para 1.01) would be strengthened
to administer in addition the implementation of the proposed fourth project.
Administration of the third project is done by a coordinating unit within
the Office of the Undersecretary and three units in the Departments of General
Education, Teacher Training and Educational Techniques. Performance under
the third project has not been satisfactory and implementation has been
delayed by (a) overcommitment of the design offices of the MOE, (b) under-
staffing of the units, (c) temporary lack of funds because of rapid price
inflation and (d) cumbersome approval procedures for procurement (para 1.01
and App. 1). Existing implementation problems are now being overcome,
but to prevent their recurrence in this project the Government has reviewed,
together with the Bank, the causes of implementation delays. Under the pro-
posed project specific measures would be adopted to prevent similar problems
and to strengthen substantially implementation capacity. These measures would:



- 24 -
(a) provide additional staff to the project coordinating
unit and increase its responsibilities for overall
project coordination;
(b) reinforce the existing executing divisions for secondary
schools and adult education;
(c) delegate design work to consultant architects outside
the MDE;
(d) simplify procedures for obtaining approval of procure-
ment contracts;
(e) reconfirm that adequate funds have been budgeted for
initial implementation; and
(f) accelerate the appointment of project staff, advisers
and consultant architects.
5.10      The coordinating unit in the office of the Undersecretary would be
provided additional staff and given greater responsibility. The unit would
have responsibility for overall project coordination, liaison with other
agencies, and correspondence with the Bank. To avoid time-consuming approvals,
the unit would be authorized to review and arrange for the timely approval
of tender documents, bid invitations and evaluations and contracts. To
carry out these new responsibilities, the full-time staff of the unit would
be increased from two to seven specialists, including the following staff:
project coordinator, architect, procurement officer, accountant and expatriate
adviser experienced in project management (para 4.21). During negotiations
the Government provided assurances that these positions would be filled by
suitably qualified staff. The project coordinator and architect have already
been appointed.
5.11      At the operating level two existing divisions of the Department of
General Education (diversified secondary education and adult education) would
be strengthened to carry out the additional work implied by the project. The
number of staff assigned to the diversified secondary division, at present
responsible for the rural secondary schools in the third project, would be
increased from two to five with the addition of a deputy director, a procure-
ment officer and an accountant. Within the AED, staff would be designated
to implement the adult education subproject as follows: director, deputy
director, architect, procurement officer and expatriate adviser (Chart 5).
The Government has agreed that these positions will be filled by suitably
qualified persons and has already designated six of the key staff. Many
of these staff already function in operating capacities in the Department.
During negotiations agreement was reached on detailed proposals for making
implementation procedures more efficient, including assignment of greater
authority for procurement decisions to the project coordinating unit. The
Government also provided assurances that: within six months of loan signa-
ture a study would be completed on and submitted to the Bank for review



- 25 -
procedures for procurement in externally financed education projects, in-
corporating specific recommendations on ways to expedite the necessary
approvals.
5.12      Professional Services.  In view of the heavy existing workload
and understaffing of the design offices of the MOE, consultant architects
would be employed under the project. The design offices would furnish the
consultants with standard designs for secondary schools and standard plans
for staff housing. The consultant architects would provide a full range
of professional services, including sketch plans for the LECs, site surveys
and plans, soil studies, detailed drawings and site supervision. The Govern-
ment brought to negotiations a short list of consultant architects which had
been approved. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that one
or two qualified consultant firms would be appointed on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. Appointment of consultant architects would be a
condition of effectiveness.
5.13           Technical Assistance.  The Government has made contacts with a
universitv and adult education agency for providing on a contract basis the
expert assistance to be provided under the project. During negotiations,
assurances were received that qualified technical assistance specialists
would be appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
5.14           Sites.  For diversified secondary schools and AECs all sites have
been acquired: for LECs all sites have been selected and 80% acquired. The
Government would have no difficulty in completing the acquisition of titles
for each site prior to the scheduled start of construction.
5.15           Implementation Schedule.  Physical implementation is scheduled to
be completed in five years, and disbursements within six years, of the date
of effectiveness (Annex 12). Considerable preparatory work has been done.
In terms of architectural work, standard designs and working drawings have
been completed by the MOE's design unit for the components of the secondary
schools (classrooms, laboratories, workshops and administration) and staff
houses. A short list of architectural consultants (para 5.12) for the
remaining work has been approved. Detailed equipment lists, standard
furniture drawings and tender documents acceptable to the Bank also exist.
Site acquisition is well advanced (para 5.14).  Recruitment has commenced
for additional project staff required (para 5.11). The 1976 budget has funds
for construction of four schools in the first phase and allocations have
been made in the FY77 budget to cover construction of the remaining phase
one institutions. Consequently, part of the first phase institutions are
ready for tendering in mid-1976 and for construction in the fourth quarter
of 1976. During negotiations the Government reconfirmed its agreement with
the initial implementation schedule (Annex 12) and confirmed that adequate
budget has been allocated for scheduled implementation expenditures during
FY77.



- 26 -
Procurement
5.16           Contracts would be grouped to the maximum extent practicable to
form attractive bid packages. Equipment contracts exceeding US$50,000 would
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines. Local manufacturers would be allowed a preferen-
tial margin of 15% on the c.i.f. cost of equipment over competing foreign
bidders. Bank review would be required prior to award of: civil works con-
tracts exceeding US$200,000; and equipment and furniture contracts exceeding
US$50,000. Equipment contracts below USS50,000 and civil works and furniture
contracts would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally, in accordance with Government procurement practices which are
acceptable to the Bank. Foreign firms would be allowed to participate.
This option was deemed appropriate for civil works because construction
firms not yet established in Thailand are unlikely to be interested in the
relatively small and scattered works involved; no bids were received from
foreign-based firms for similar works under the third education project.
Similarly, furniture manufacturing is well-established local industry and
foreign firms are unlikely to be interested in competing for these contracts.
Furniture and equipment contracts not exceeding US$10,000 equivalent, subject
to an aggregate total not exceeding US$500,000 equivalent, could be purchased
on the basis of a minimum of three price quotations.
Disbursements
5.17      The proposed loan of US$31 million equivalent would finance 40% of
the total project costs to cover 100% of the estimated foreign exchange costs.
The loan would be disbursed over a period of six years as follows:
(a) 30% of the cost of civil works and professional
services;
(b) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported, or the ex-
factory cost of locally manufactured furniture
and equipment, or 65% of the cost of furniture
and equipment procured locally off-the-shelf;
(c) 100% of the foreign cost, or 80% of the total cost, of
technical assistance.
5.18      As an exception to the above disbursement percentages the Bank
would reimburse 1001% of total cost of expert and professional services
incurred between March 1, 1976 and January 1, 1977, subject to a maximum of
US$200,000 including up to US$50,000 retroactive financing. This would enable
the MOE to finance those key initial activities for which no funds have been
included in the FY 1976 budget. 'Extraordirary" budget funds would be obtained
from the Government to finance expenditures prior to January 1, 1977. During
negotiations the Government confirmed that such financing arrangements are
being made. A schedule of estimated expenditures and disbursements is shown



- 27 -
in Annex 13. A condition of disbursement for the last twelve LECs would be
arrangements for staff recruitment and training satisfactory to the Bank
(para 4.19). Disbursement is expected to be completed by mid-1982.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The proposed provincial secondary school component would strengthen
and accelerate the Government's program to diversify secondary education and
reduce existing geographical imbalances. 11nder the project diversified
secondary education would be introduced to an additional 98,000 students
outside the greater Bangkok area, about one fifth of present lower cycle, and
80% of upper cycle, enrollments. At full implementation the 50 project
schools would graduate annually about 19,000 students from the lower cycle
and 12,000 students from the upper cycle. Although at present about a fourth
of the graduates from each level enter the labor market, the proportion is
expected to increase with enrollment expansion. At present most secondary
graduates are ill-prepared for employment, only about 3% having received pre-
vocational education. With the practical education received under the project,
under the project, students would enter the labor market better trained and
more employable. With the overall prospects for the economy to generate growth
and employment and the low educational attainment of the present labor force
there is a growing need for better qualified entrants into the labor market;
the projected output of the diversified secondary school will be able to help
meet this need. In addition, the project would reduce imbalances in the
provision of secondary school places between Bangkok and the provinces and
would also help curtail the migration of secondary students into the Bangkok/
Thonhuri metropolitan area to complete the upper cycle of secondary schools.
6.02      Adult education has high priority in Thailand because:
(a) most adults have received only an incomplete primary
education;
(b) the benefits of adult education can be realized
quickly, without the time lapse required for
formal education;
(c) the costs of providing adult education are comparatively
low and this service can be provided feasibly and
equitably throughout the country, in rural as well as
urban environments; and
(d)  adult training in key areas such as trades, agro-business,
nutrition and health can make an important impact on rural
development.



- 28 -
The adult education system established under the project would aim at devel-
oping basic rural skills and improving the quality of rural life for
the estimated 75% of Thailand's population who have completed less than
four years of formal schooling. It would encourage grassroots participation
in education, and would establish village organizations which could become
the focus for further development activities. It would train about 9,300
adult education and community development workers each year, who would in
turn teach about 1.8 million adults annually. Courses would be developed
and tested in such areas as family planning, nutrition, health, hygiene,
sanitation, functional literacy, light industry, crafts, and farm implement
repair. These courses would be based on local research and evaluation of
adult learning needs as determined by socio-economic differences in each
region. The adult education system would also include correspondence courses
reaching about 2,800 youths and adults annually and leading to primary and
secondary school certificates.
6.03      Risks.  The benefits expected from the project would depend mainly
on the following factors: for the secondary schools on the competence of
school administrators and the quality of practical arts teachers; for the
adult education component on the quality of teaching programs, their relevance
to adult learning needs, and the competence and dedication of staff. The
proposed project includes reasonable provisions to minimize risks in these
areas. The varied and changing needs of adults, and the innovative character
of the non-formal programs, make it inevitable that some approaches will
fail. Continuous evaluation would be an integral part of the project to
identify and purge unsuccessful programs at an early stage.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with the Government
on:
(a)  a schedule for anpointment of staff to the AED (para
4.19);
(b)  selection criteria, procedures for award of fellowships,
and procedures for approving general programs of study
to be financed by the proposed loan (para 4.21);
(c)  detailed measures to make implementation procedures
more efficient (para 5.11);
(d)  a short list of consultant architects (para 5.12); and
(e)  an initial implementation schedule (para 5.15).



- 29 -
In addition, the Government provided assurances that: (i) adequate bud-
get has been allocated for scheduled implementation expenditures during FY77
(para 5.15), and (ii) arrangements are being made to finance immediate
implementation expenditures (para 5.18).
7.02      During negotiations, the Government gave assurances on the
following:
(a)  establishment of a tracer system for project
secondary schools (para 4.05);
(b)  submission to the Bank of a plan for coordinating:
i) the curriculum work of the NCDC with that of the
AECs, and (ii) the activities of the AED with the
Ministries of Agriculture, Health and Interior (para 4.14);
(c)  submission to the National Education Council (NEC), the
operational and teaching program of the LECs and to the
Bank a copy of the NEC's evaluation of this program would
be sent to the Bank (para 4.15);
(d)  appointment of staff to the AED (para 4.19);
(e)  completion of a study on procedures for review of procurement
in externally financed education projects (para 5.11); and
(f)  employment of qualified persons for project management
(para 5.11) and qualified consultant firms and qualified
technical assistance specialists on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank (paras 5.12 and 5.13).
7.03      A condition of effectiveness would be appointment of consultant
architects (para 5.12).
7.04      A condition of disbursement on the third phase of 12 LECs would be
completion of a detailed staff recruitment and training plan satisfactory to
the Bank and demonstration that qualified persons are serving full-time in
designated key positions (para 5.18).
7.05      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$31 million equivalent to the Kingdom of Thailand for a term of 25 years,
including a seven-year grace period.






APPENDIX 1
Page 1
WORLD BANK GROUP
EDUCATION PROJECTS IN THAILAND
AND THEIR IMPLEMENTATION
Education Project I (Loan 471-TH)
1.        The first education project in Thailand under Loan 471-TH of 1966
aimed at improving the quality and increasing the output of trade and in-
dustry schools and agricultural schools to alleviate a shortage of skilled
manpower.
2.        The project comprised the following:
(a) new construction, renovation of existing buildings, and
equipment for the following institutions:
(i) 14 trade and industry schools (grades 11-13);
(ii) one vocational teacher's college (grades 14-15);
(iii) nine agricultural schools (grades 11-13); and
(iv) one agricultural teacher training college (grades 14-15);
(b) technical assistance as follows:
(i) six expatriate consultants to assist in a 5-year
vocational teachers' training program;
(ii) five expatriate consultants to assist in a 5-year
agricultural teachers' training program; and
(iii) overseas training for Thai teachers in both
agriculture and trade and industry.
3.        The estimated cost of the project (excluding technical assistance)
of US$21 million was financed by the Bank loan of US$6 million (29%), a loan
from the Bank of Thailand of US$8 million (38%), and the remainder by the
Government of Thailand. Technical assistance was provided through a grant
by USAID. The Bank loan was used to finance equipment while the financing
of land, construction and furniture was the responsibility of the Thai Govern-
ment and the Bank of Thailand.
4.        During implementation, the Closing Date was first extended to
February 28, 1972, then to August 31, 1973 and finally to December 31, 1973,
due primarily to problems in procurement. US$95,062.34 (1.6% of the Loan)
was cancelled on the Closing Date.



APPENDIX 1
Page 2
5.         The project was evaluated by a Project Completion Mission in
July 1973. The principle findings of this mission were as follows:
(i) final costs (US$21.8 million) were close to the appraisal
estimates (US$21.0 million) despite increases in building
costs;
(ii) project school facilities were in good condition, satis-
factorily maintained and well utilized;
(iii) the technical assistance program in industrial and agri-
cultural teacher training provided by USAID were well
integrated with the Bank-financed program and of high
quality;
(iv) the project school teachers were qualified and well-
motivated but teaching loads could be heavier;
(v) the project has been successful in increasing the number
of vocational school graduates and has achieved the
projected target (3,700 graduates p.a.). It was also
successful in reaching all segments of the Thai society,
particularly those at the lower end of the income scale; and
(vi) project school graduates were in demand and the unemploy-
ment rate (4%-7%) was low considering the age group.
Increasing percentage (from 13% in 1967 to 40% in 1972)
of trade and industry school graduates proceeded to further
education and greater numbers of agricultural school
graduates (45% in 1972) entered employment outside agriculture.
Education Project II (Loan 822-TH)
1.        The second education project under Loan 822-TH of 1972 was
estimated to have a total project cost of US$28.3 million of which US$15.4
million is being financed by the Bank. The project involves the expansion
and partial relocation of Kasetsart Agricultural University which is to
increase enrollment capacity by 1,520 places and to help produce the qualified
manpower needed in agriculture and related sectors.
2.        The project finances:
(i) site development, construction, furniture and equipment
for specialized teaching and research premises for the
Faculties of:



APPENDIX 1
Page 3
Existing Campus        New Campus
(Bangkhen)        (Kamphaengsaen)
Agriculture                       380 places           955 places
Fisheries                         165   "
Forestry                          170
Veterinary Science                                     400 places
Engineering                                            130
Economics and Business
Administration                   90 places            35   "
Science and Arts (Agric.
related fields only)           740   "
TOTAL                1,545 places         1,520 places
Central Lecture Premises             -               1,100   "
Multi-purpose Hall                                   1,550
Students' Dormitories                                1,550
Staff Housing                                          380 units
Primary School                                         300 places
Administration and Communal Facilities
Administrative officers, a university center, two central
libraries, two health centers; faculty club and farm and research
premises.
(ii)  Technical Assistance:
A total of 42 man-years of technical assistance are
provided: 27 for curriculum development, 6 for studies,
9 for university management and project unit support;
together with 400 man-years of overseas fellowships.
3.        Most of the project relates to the development of the new campus
at Kamphaengsaen. The new campus provides a site for the production-
oriented research and teaching programs of the University, where students
can acquire on-farm experience. In particular, the new campus will offer
complete programs for: (i) 3rd and 4th year students in soils, animal
science, plant science, agricultural economics and farm mechanics; (ii) 4th
year students in agricultural engineering, irrigation and agricultural
education; and (iii) 3rd to 6th year students in veterinary science; all
incorporating facilities also for the Graduate school.



APPENDIX I
Page 4
4.        Project implementation has been delayed by about 18 months due to
late contracting of campus master planner, late Cabinet approval of Executive
Architect's fees and, more recently, delays by the Executive Architects in
preparing adequate plans and specifications on schedule. The causes of delays
have now been overcome. Despite late contracting of the campus master planner
and the Executive Architects, the campus master plan, architectural plans, and
specifications have been completed. Site development works for the Kamphaengsaen
Campus and construction began in March 1976. Civil works are expected to be com-
pleted by mid-1978. Contracts for equipment, valued at US$1.6 million, were
awarded in August 1975. Implementation of the technical assistance program is
well underway. Project costs are expected to exceed the appraisal estimate by
about US$8 million due to cost overruns for civil works. Overruns will be met
by the Government. Disbursements, currently US$2.2 million, are expected to
reach US$2.5 million by the end of FY76 and US$7.5 million by the end of FY77.
Education Proj_t  III (Credit 369-TH)
1.        The third education project under Credit 369-Tl of 1973 was esti-
mated at a total project cost of US$39 million, of which US$19.5 million is
financed under the Credit. The project is designed to assist the Government
in implementing its education development strategy by:
(a) improving and extending primary teacher training
facilities in the provinces;
(b) introducing a diversfied program in existing rural
secondary schools;
(c) improving educational research and curriculum design; and
(d) extending science programs and formulating a long-range
development plan at a regional university.
While the main purpose of the project is to assist in improving curricula
and modernizing facilities, particularly in the provinces, it would also
contribute to alleviating shortages of teachers and scientists.
2.        The project components and places to be provided under the Credit
are as follows:



APPENDIX 1
Page 5
Student
Student   Boarding   Housing
Places     Places       Units
(a) Ministry of Education Project
(i) Site development, construction,
furniture and equipment for;
- seven new primary teacher
training colleges         14,000    8,400           434
- extensions to 21 existing
rural secondary
schools                   35,000 /a                 177
- Curriculum Development
Center                        150 /b
(ii) Furniture and equipment for:
- 11 existing rural secondary
schools                   10,700 /c
(iii) Equipment for:
- 3 primary teacher training
colleges                   6,000
(b) Songkhla University Project
Site development, construction,
furniture and equipment for
extensions to Science Faculty         2,500 /d
(c) The cost of 61-1/2 man-years of specialists' services and
184 man-years of fellowships for the project institutions and
assistance in planning, curriculum development, and new media.
/a   Including 12,440 existing places.
/b   In-service training of school inspectors and administrators,
in addition to research and production of educational materials.
/c   Including 3,440 existing places.
/d   Including 600 existing places.



APPENDIX I
Page 6
3.        Project implementation is about 12 months behind schedule.  Delays
have been caused by weak project management, overcommitment of the MOE design
offices, lengthy and cumbersome procedures, temporary lack of funds to cover
cost increases resulting from inflation and later recruitment of technical
assistance. These problems are now being overcome. Architectural plans have
been completed. The project management and procurement procedures will be
improved through the proposed fourth education project. Recently, adequate
provisions were made to meet the expected cost overruns and noticeable pro-
gress was achieved in civil works, procurement and technical assistance.
About 60 percent of the total civil works contracts and 20 percent of the
total furniture and equipment contracts have been signed. Seven technical
assistance experts are in place and 50 Thais have been sent abroad for train-
ing under the project representing more than 50% of the render and reduced
technical assistance program. Project costs are now estimated at US$54.5
million, 40 percent above the appraisal estimate. Actual disbursements
reflect delayed implementation; they amount to US$0.9 million, but are ex-
pected to reach US$4.0 million by the end of FY76. A one-year extension of
the Closing Date will probably be required.



APPENDIX 2
Page 1
THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
1.0       General Structure.  (Chart 5466)  The Thai education system con-
sists of two levels a seven-year primary level, divided into a four-year
lower cycle (grades 1-4) and a three-year upper cycle (grades 5-7), and a
five-year secondary level, divided into a three-year lower cycle (grades 8-10)
and a two-year upper cycle (grades 11-12). In vocational schools the upper
cycle (grades 11-13) is three rather than two years. Higher education in-
cludes two-year diploma courses in colleges (grades 13-14) and four-year
degree courses (grades 13-16) as well as subsequent graduate programs in
universities. Non-formal training is provided in a variety of forms in-
cluding agricultural extension, polytechnical schools, mobile trade train-
ing schools, adult vocational schools, industrial promotion activities, and
state enterprise training.
2.0       Administration and Planning.  Responsibility for the management
of formal education is divided among the MOE, the Ministry of the Interior
(MOI), the Bureau of Universities and the private sector. The percent of
students enrolled under the jurisdiction of each agency at each level is:
Primary Secondary Teacher Training Higher
Ministry of
Education            3%        57%            100%           -
iMinistry of
Interior            82%                        -             -
Bureau of
Universities         -          -              -            100%
Private Sector        15%        43%             -             -
Total          100%        100%            100%          100%
The MOE has jurisdiction over curriculum and standards for all primary and
secondary pupils, and its staff is responsible for supervising the pedagogic
aspects of all schools at these levels.
2.1       The responsibilities for non-formal education are shared by
numerous agencies. Second-chance general education courses are offered
by the MOE, the Departments of Correction and Public Welfare, the Navy and
some private groups. The largest programs of skill training are the MOE's
Adult Vocational Schools (19,000 students), its Mobile Trade Training Schools
(22,000 students) and its polytechnical schools (15,000 students). Other
important programs are those operated by the Department of Agricultural
Fxtension to train young farmers (2,000 trainees/year) and farmers' wives
and children (5,000 trainees/year), and those of the Ministry of the Interior
to train village development committee members (37,000 villagers/year) and
youths (14,000 youths/year).



APPENDIX 2
Page 2
2.2       The MOE divides the country administratively into 12 education
regions (5-6 provinces each). Each region is headed by a regional education
officer. Under the regional office are 71 provincial or "Changwad"
education offices and under them 540 district or "Amphur" education offices.
2.3       Educational planning is the responsibility of a number of insti-
tutions.  The National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB) and the
National Education Council (NEC) are involved with overall educational plan-
ning. The Bureau of Universities and the individual universities themselves
share the responsibilities for university planning. The planning unit of
the MOE and the MOE's individual departments plan secondary and primary
education. The MOI, local authorities and municipalities are also involved
with primary school planning. Finally, annual budgets are determined by
the Budget Bureau in conjunction with individual universities, the MOI, or
departments of the MOE.
Formal Educationi
3.0       Overview.  The following table provides some basic statistics on
the Thai educational system in 1975.
Enrollments
Growth
Rate              Tran-   Pupils      %
Number   p.a.       % Age  sition    per    Teacher
Level & Type of School  ('000) (1970-75)  Group/a  Rate /b  Teacher  Qualified
Primary
Lower                5,627      3.5      114       -
Upper                1,799    15.0        52        .65
Total                7,426      5.6       90       -        34         70
Secondary
Lower                  845    13.5        26       .81
Upper                  116    13.5         6       .47
Total                  961    13.5        22        -       24         90
Higher Education              90    27          3
/a   Computed by dividing total enrollment including overage pupils by the
population in the relevant age group.
lb   Rate computed by dividing enrollment in the first year of a higner cycle by
the enrollment in the previous year in the last year of the next lower
cycle.
Source: MOE, 1976.



APPENDIX 2
Page 3
4.0       Primary Education.  Participation in the four-year lower primary
cycle is virtually universal, though many pupils at this level are over age.
About 65% (1975) of grade four pupils progress to the upper primary cycle,
and enrollment as a percentage of the relevant age group for grades 5-7 is
about 50%. These figures have doubled in the past 5 years.
4.1       In principle, primary schools in Thailand must provide children
who will not continue in the educational system with an education that is
terminal and relevant to their future lives, as well as prepare children
who will continue in school for their future studies. In practice, the
system fulfills neither of these goals. The curriculum is largely irrelevant,
textbooks are poorly designed and produced, and teachers are provided
insufficient in-service training, supervision and instructional materials.
The situation is worse in remote areas where such conditions as multiple-
class teaching compound teaching problems. The comparative weakness of
remote area schools is borne out for instance in primary school achieve-
ment test scores in arithmetic which in the Northeast Region average 25,
compared to 51 in Bangkok (Annex 3).
5.0       General Secondary Education was until recent years provided by
academic secondary schools which offered academic subjects alone. In 1966
a number of pilot schools called comprehensive secondary schools were erected
whose curricula included such practical subjects as agriculture, carpentry,
automobile mechanics, metal working, home economics, typing and electronics.
The experimentation was assisted by CIDA, Unicef and USAID. Tracer studies
indicated that over the period 1969-1972, 57% of the pupils who completed the
new lower secondary comprehensive schools either continued their education in
vocational programs or joined the labor force, and that over the period
1971-1972, 28% of the pupils who completed upper secondary comprehensive
schools did not continue on to college or university. These figures, which
are expected to grow in the years ahead, appear to confirm the wisdom of
the diversification program.
5.1       The diversified curriculum, developed over the past nine years.
At the early stages of the program, four practical arts periods per week
were the common load for a first year pupil in academic secondary school.
Presently, students are required to take eight practical subjects per week.
The numbers of elective courses, many of which are practical also has in-
creased in later secondary school grades. The Bank Group provides a credit
for the diversification of 32 rural secondary schools as part of the third
education project. CIDA had previously provided for the diversification of
26 secondary schools, and Unicef & USAID had provided a modest amount of
assistance to another 300. The proposed project of this report would extend
assistance to an additional 50 schools, to bring the total number of schools
assisted to 408, of the 820 MOE general secondary schools. Outside of Bangkok
progress in diversification has been even more pronounced. Of the 744 schools
(1975) offering the lower cycle 403 are included in the existing or proposed
projects.



APPENDIX 2
Page 4
6.0       Vocational and Technical Education.  During the past decade the
development of vocational and technical education has been given first
priority in the education sector. Lower cycle vocational schools are being
phased out (enrollment is planned to be 1,700 in 1976, down from 25,000 in
1959) and emphasis has been placed on upper cycle vocational schools (grades
11-13) whose enrollment has increased at an annual rate of 6.7% p.a. from
28,300 in 1963 to 50,800 in 1972.
6.1       Boys' vocational education curriculum is focused on six basic
trades, namely auto mechanics, welding/sheet metal, construction, electricity,
radio/telecommunications, and machineshop. The curriculum for girls focuses
on home economics, food and nutrition, clothing, handicrafts and commerce.
6.2       Technician training (post secondary) is offered at 11 technical
institutes (grades 11-13) with an output of 1,200 technicians in 1972. The
institutes offer a wide variety of courses for both boys and girls, including
the six trades taught at vocational schools plus others such as farm mechanics,
architecture, surveying, industrial design, accounting and heavy equipment.
7.0        Agricultural Education and Training.  Agriculture is included in
the curriculum of the upper cycle of rural primary schools and in the lower
cycle of a few secondary schools. There were 26 vocational agricultural
schools with an output of 2,400 in 1972; 23 of these schools offer a three-
year certificate course at the upper secondary level (grades 11-13), and
three of them offer a two-year post secondary diploma course (grades 14-15).
In addition, two agricultural schools offer three-year courses to young
farmers, and one agricultural teacher training college offers a two-year
diploma level course to student teachers.
7.1       Kasetsart, Khon Kaen and Chiang Mai Universities produce some 600
graduates annually in agriculture, agricultural engineering, agricultural
economics, agricultural education, forestry, fishing and veterinary science.
8.0       Teacher Training.  Teacher training is given at the secondary
and post-secondary levels. Enrollment of full-time student-teachers
increased at an annual rate of 14.7% p.a. from 24,600 in 1966 to 56,100
in 1972. 1/ In addition, another 66,000 pupils were enrolled in 1972 in
twilight teacher training programs,
8.1       Four levels of teacher training are offered.  They are:  (a) the
Certificate in Education (grades 11-12); (b) the Higher Certificate in
Education (grades 13-14); (c) the degree (grades 13-16); and (d) the graduate
degree (grades 17-18 or 17-19). Academic teacher training is given in four
teacher training schools, 21 teacher training colleges, 2/ the seven branches
1/   Includes technical and vocational student teachers.
2/   Excludes seven additional colleges being built as part of the Bank
Group's third education project.



APPENDIX 2
Page 5
of the College of Education and five university faculties of education. Agri-
cultural teachers are trained at the Bangphra Agricultural Teacher Training
College and some agricultural schools; trade school teachers at the Theves
Vocational Teacher Training College and several technical institutes; and
technical institute teachers at the Thonburi Campus of the King Mongkut
Institute of Technology. Degree level training for vocational teachers is
offered at the College of Education and at universities.
8.2       Teacher training curricula include courses in subject matter as
well as in pedagogy. Practice teaching is generally included on a limited
scale.
9.0       University Education.  Specialized tertiary education is offered
at the College of Education and the Institute of Technology as discussed
above. In addition, tertiary education is offered at 11 universities and
the National Institute for Development Administration. Together these
institutions enrolled 66,000 students in 1975. About a third of the students
were enrolled in faculties of social science, and 22% in faculties of education
or the College of Education. The remainder of the students pursued courses
in humanities, fine arts, natural sciences, engineering, medicine and
agriculture. In addition to those listed above another 13 institutions
offer post-secondary instruction in agriculture and technical subjects. They
enrolled 24,000 students, bringing total enrollment in 1975 in higher educa-
tion to 90,000.
10.0      Educational Radio and Television.  The MOE and a variety of other
agencies are involved in ERTV broadcasts. Only the MOE and Bangkok Metro-
polis ETV (BMETV) transmit programs for use in schools, but non-formal
ERTV programs are broadcast by the PRD, by the Ministries of Agriculture
and Public Health, by Kasetsart, Chulalongkorn, Thammasat and Chiang Mai
Universities, by Jitapawan Buddhist College, by the Bangkok Entertainment
Company and by the Thai Army.
10.1      Despite almost 20 years of experience with educational radio and
six years with ETV, the quality of the broadcasts is poor. Budgets are too
small, programs are rarely pre-tested, and procedures rarely observe their
programs being used in the classroom. Educational objectives or programs
are often vague or overly broad. Technical quality of production and trans-
mission needs improvement. Teachers are inadequately trained in the use
of ERTV and are provided with insufficient support materials.
Non-Formal Education
11.0      Overview.  Established in 1938, the Adult Education Division (AED)
of the HOE is the government agency principally responsible for the conduct
of adult education activities. AED's primary asset is its flexible organi-
zation with an effective network of adult education programs spread through-
out the country. It maintains ties with other agencies interested in adult



APPENDIX 2
Page 6
education and has succeeeded in achieving a certain degree of coordination.
Some of AED's programs are responsive to local needs and demands of partici-
pants, and have been shown in evaluations to be effective. The popularity
of adult education within MOE and in Thailand's districts, indicated by
demands that AED activities be expanded, serves as a measure of the pro-
gram's success. Its effectiveness, however, is limited by a lack of pro-
fessional expertise in adult education, resulting in poorly conceived cur-
ricula and instructional methodologies. Furthermore AED lacks trained adult
teachers and must employ inappropriately qualified personnel on an irregular,
part-time basis. it also does not plan systematically the nature and distri-
bution of its programs, so that many participants are not those for whom pro-
grams were intended, while other popurlation groups likely to benefit from
adult education are not offered courses.
12.0      Administration.  Headquartered in Bangkok, AED is a unit within
the MOE's Department of General Education. Administratively, it coordinates
activities of adult education officers within each changwad education office
and of 2-5 supervisors at the changwad and amphur levels. The adult educa-
tion officer is directly responsible to the changwad education officer while
the supervisors are responsible to the MOE Supervisory Unit, also within the
Department of General Education. AED also provides professional coordina-
tion for adult education activities. Adult education teachers are recruited
locally with AED participation, trained by AED and paid by AED through the
Changwad Education Office. AED's primary roles are in program development,
curriculum development and production, teacher training and program imple-
mentation through the framework described.
12.1      In addition to AED, several other government agencies also spon-
sor adult education programs. These include: (a) youth programs, community
development activities, and vocational training conducted under the auspices
of the Ministry of Interior; (b) youth programs and technical training for
youth conducted by other departments of the Ministry of Education; (c) agri-
cultural extension and training conducted by the Ministry of Agriculture;
(d) promotion of home and industries conducted by the Ministry of Industry;
(e) adult education for members of the armed services conducted by the
Ministry of Defense.
12.2      A fourteen member National Coordinating Committee for Adult and
Non-formal Education, chaired by the Under Secretary of State for Education,
was appointed by the cabinet (19714) and meets periodically. This body is
primarily intended to coordinate the various programs but has no policy
making authority. All positions within the committee (Chairman, Deputy
Chairman, Secretary, and Deputy Secretary) are held by Ministry of Educa-
tion officials. Representatives of the Ministries of Health and Interior,
as well as of the Bureau of the Budget and the National Education Council
are members. Additionally, the committee has a number of representatives
at large not affiliated with any agency directly involved in adult educa-
tion.



APPENDIX 2
Page 7
13.0      Programs.  The objectives of AED are:
(a) literacy: the eradication of illiteracy among the adult
population by providing permanent literacy skills (equiva-
lent to grade 4-5 reading level);
(b) vocational skill training: provision of training in skills
necessary for modernizing rural life and relevant to the
demands of the labor market;
(c)  "responsible citizenship":  provision of civics education
intended to increase participation in and awareness of
local, regional and national affairs;
(d) improvement of living standards: provision of education
in the areas of health, nutrition, family planning, child
care, agriculture and family economics;
(e) profitable use of free time: provision of public libraries
and general information and recreation (lectures and films)
services.
13.1      Adult education is accorded a high priority because:
(a) An estimated 75% of Thailand's population has either received
no formal schooling or has completed only the lower primary
cycle (4 grades). As a result most adults have received no
formal skill or trade training, little or no training in the
areas of agriculture, nutrition, health, and are either
illiterate or semi-literate. This situation is seen as a
major obstacle to development and rural development in
particular.
(b) Adult education supports primary education by sustaining
the benefits of formal schooling and inhibiting a loss of
literacy skills.
(c) Adult education is directed at a population which can util-
ize learning immediately, whereas pupils ir formal schools
will not be members of the productive population for a
number of years.
13.2      AED programs include the following:  (a) functional literacy
classes; (b) general education - basically second chance adult education
programs; (c) mobile trade training schools; (d) vocational training
courses; (e) short term vocational technical trade training courses;
(f) public libraries; (g) village newspaper reading centers; (h) mobile
recreation and public information units; (i) radio programs - largely
informational.



APPENDIX 2
Page 8
13.3      During 1974 these programs reached an estimated 2.7 million people
(Annex 3). Of these, 170,000 attended the classroom activities (program
categories a-e); 580,000 participated in library and recreation unit activ-
ities; and 1.9 million were reached by the radio programs. (The participa-
tion figures provided by AED for program categories f-i are gross estimates.
There exists no mechanism in Thailand for gathering such statistics and they
tend to be based upon the opinions of AED's supervisory staff.)
13.4      Programs run by agencies other than AED enrolled an estimated
100,000 participants in 1973, approximately half in Ministry of Interior
sponsored programs. In addition, several private agencies and universities
conduct adult education activities, mostly short-term and sporadic. Their
enrollment is negligible (Annex 3).
13.5      AED provides its services on the basis of requests, i.e. provinces
request patticular programs and are provided them subject to availability of
funds, facilities and teachers. AED activities are nationwide with programs
in each of the regions. Those regions with fewer ongoing programs are those
with higher school enrollment rates.
13.6      AED appears to do little planning of its adult education activi-
ties. The activity which has the largest enrollment is second chance edu-
cation whiie the smallest is the functional literacy program. Vocational,
technical and trade training activities constitute approximately 25% of class-
room based instructional programs. Second chance education predominates
mostly because it is easy and cheap to mount, and not necessarily because
it is what is most needed. Teachers for second chance education are more
readily available, classrooms are generally facilities borrowed from schools,
needs for equipment is minimal, and AED does not have to devote much atten-
tion to curriculum development since the majority of the curriculum is bor-
rowed from the formal school system. Levels 3 and 4, corresponding to school
grades 5-7 and 8-10 are by far the most popular of the second chance educa-
tion courses, indicating that adult education is being provided primarily
to those adults who have already completed the regular primary school sys-
tem and desire further education so as to gain employment either as white-
collar workers or more highly skilled laborers, rather than to adults with
little or no prior schooling. Although the functional literacy program is
small, it is both popular and effective. The drop out rate is only 18% while
a follow up study conducted (1972) showed that participants made significant
gains in literacy and modified both attitudes and practices in the areas of
family planning, agriculture, health and nutrition. The program has proven
well founded in terms of content and well conceived in terms of instructional
methodology.
13.7      Content in the vocational and trade training programs is often
poorly planned, particularly in the rural areas, where curricula designed
for urban populations is often used (e.g. typing courses for semi-literate
rural adults). AED has begun phasing out some irrelevant courses. It has
also initiated "special interest groups" in which skill or trade training
courses are offered to groups of rural adults who request them. AED allo-
cates $ 30 (1.50) for each hour of instruction (courses run 15-30 hours)



APPENDIX 2
Page 9
and approves up to $ 900 ($45) for each such mini-course. Teachers are not
required to have any training, nor are they provided with any curricular
materials or supervision, so quality is uneven.
13.8      The village reading center program initiated by AED three years
ago institutionalizes adult community learning at the rural, village level.
Generally AED has little contact with the 3,000 existing centers other than
providing them with three daily newspapers each. AED should experiment with
expanding the education activities of the centers. For this purpose it would
be necessary to provide supervision, specialized staff training, and training
for members of the village communities responsible for organizing and oper-
ating the centers.
14.0      Staffing.  In 1974 a total of 11,600 (largely part-time) teachers
and supervisors were employed in AED activities. Additionally, the division
employed 60 administrative staff memberq. Adult education activities spon-
sored by other agencies employed approxmately 1,500 teachers and supervisors.
Most AED teachers are school teachers (primary, secondary and vocational
schools) and their work in adult education programs represents second job
undertaken largely to supplement income. Only about a tenth of those teach-
ing in adult education activities have received any specialized training for
their jobs. AED does not have a regular teacher training program, nor is it
in contact with universities or teacher training colleges in order to plan
appropriate training activities. Since 1970 periodic teacher training courses
and workshops have been organized for people intending to teach in the func-
tional literacy program. Those trained have become the most qualified of
AED's teachers. Most of the supervisors employed by AED do not have spe-
cialized adult education training. A small number of them have received
training of one sort or another (either towards a degree or in short dura-
tion workshops) outside the country. A majority of the supervisory staff
are former school teachers who rose through the ranks and eventually were
employed by AED. This general lack of qualification among AED teaching per-
sonnel compromises the effectiveness of programs.
15.0      Clientele.  The target population of AED activities consists of
out-of-school youth and adults ages 15-60, approximately half of Thailand's
population. While the stated focus of activities is rural, approximately
60% of the classroom based activities are conducted in urban and semi-urban
areas. Emphasis should shift to rural areas where the predominantly illi-
terate or semi-literate population could benefit.
15.1      The popularity of the small functional literacy program and not
of the new interest groups (drop-out 5%) indicates that those activities
which emphasize relevance and functional content are appropriate for the
rural population and should be expanded.
15.2      Approximately 80% of participants in AED programs are between
the ages of 15-35, equally divided into males and females. In this respect
AED is addressing itself to the priority group among the adult population.



APPENDIX 2
Page 10
16.0      Facilities.  Classroom based adult education classes are usually
conducted in borrowed premises, e.g., schools and temples. Vocational courses
are conducted in special facilities of their own in urban areas. These are
small complexes with classrooms, equipped workshops, and office space. They
are usually situated within or close to the intended target population areas.
Mobile vocational schools function in rural areas and have their own equip-
ment but use borrowed facilities. After conducting courses in one spot for
six months they move this equipment to a new location. Public libraries are
AED facilities and are adequate structures, in many cases quite elaborate.
17.0      Teaching Materials and Equipment.  Many of the materials and
equipment used by AED in its programs are inadequate. Materials used in
second chance classes tend to follow closely those used in the formal
schools and are not adapted for use by adults. Materials used in the
functional literacy courses are based on an instructional methodology
developed for rural adults and are well written and produced. Equipment
in vocational courses is often either out-dated (e.g. motor mechanics) or
inappropriate (e.g. gas stoves in rural working classes).
18.0      Finance and Budget.  There has been substantial growth in govern-
ment expenditures on adult education over the past few years.  In 1974 AED's
budget was % 59 million (US$3 million) while the approved budget for 1975 is
39% larger - $ 82 million (US$4 million). The 1973 expenditure on adult
education conducted by agencies other than AED (the last year for which
figures are available) was $ 51 million (US$2 million). The outlay for
adult education by MOE in 1974 represented 1.3% of the total central recur-
rent expenditure on public education increasing to 1.5% in 1975. Recommenda-
tions from the National Education Council are to increase the AED budget
approximately ten-fold.
19.0      Plans and Policies.  In the Fourth Thailand Development Plan
(1977-1981) high priority has been accorded to adult education. Plans
call for:
(a)  Integrating AED's current activities into a national
system of adult education through the establishment
of a network of institutions at national, regional
and local levels;
(b)  Decentralizing AED activities further to District
level so that content would be more responsive to
local needs;
(c)  Increasing enrollments in adult education courses
drastically;



APPENDIX 2
Page 11
(d) Improvement of the quality of AED programs through
research on target population learning needs, devel-
opment of appropriate curricula and, training of
teachers;
(e) Expansion of the Village Newspaper Reading Centers
by approximately 2000 centers per year;
(f) Expansion of the "special interest" program in
rural areas (para. 13.7) by a yet undetermined
factor;
(g) Expansion of the functional literacy program by
a yet undetermined factor (subject to availability
of personnel);
(h) Restructuring the vocational training program into
urban and rural components and expansion of enroll-
ments; and
(i) Placing priority emphasis on activities intended for
rural adults.
19.1      Qualitative rather than quantitative aspects of adult education
need be emphasized during the next five year period. Any expansion of AED
activities should be preceded by research to identify needs and demands.
Then appropriate instructional formats, curricula and materials should be
developed and accompanied by training of adult educators in the general
techniques of adult education as well as the specifics of the new curricula
materials.
Education Finance
20.0      The central government has primary responsibility for financing
education; local governments and parent associations provide limited support
in the form of land, labor, or cash payments. The Budget Bureau, in
consultation with the NESDB, allocates central government educational funds.
Actual amounts allocated to various levels and types of education are worked
out in negotiations between the Budget Bureau and individual departments of
the MOE, the Local Administration Department of the MOI, and the universities.
Allocations to various programs and to regions usually follow established
patterns, making it difficult to change the educational system. Amounts
expended on non-formal education by ministries other than the MOE and MOI,
such as the Ministries of Agriculture and Public Health and the PRD, are
generally undocumented. This system of financing leads to a lack of coordi-
nation in educational development and to a perpetuation of inequities in
the regional pattern of expenditures. Possible measures to improve the
budgetary process are being considered by the Government.



APPENDIX 2
Page 12
20.1      Between 1970 and 1975, total government expenditure on education
tripled from $ 3.9 billion to i 11.9 billion. During the same period total
governmental expenditures for purposes other than education slightly more
than doubled from $ 20.9 billion to $ 44.8 billion. As a result educational
expenditures as a percent of total expenditures increased from 15.8% to
20.7% (Annex 6).
20.2      Public education expenditure as a percent of GDP also increased from
2.9% in 1970 to 4.0% in 1975 (Annex 6). This change brought Thailand from
below the lower quartile to the 1975 median for developing nations (Annex 1).
20.3      The distribution of educational expenditure has been quite
constant over the past decades, reflecting the influence of previous budgets
on succeeding budgets (para 12.0). The following distribution is typical: 1/
Primary Schoools          60%
Secondary Schools         12%
Vocational Schools         7%
Teacher Training           5%
Universities              15%
Adult Education            1%
20.4      Unit costs of education are summarized in the following table:
Average Unit Recurrent
Level                Expenditures (1973)
(Baht/year) (US$/year)
Primary                   500           25
Secondary               1,200           60
Vocational              3,000          150
Teacher Colleges        2,300          120
University
Social Science    1,500           75
Education         5,200          260
Engineering       13,000         650
Medicine          21,000       1,050
Source: MOE.
Employment of Second level Manpower
Stocks of Second-level Manpower
20.5      The stock of manpower in the labor markets with academic secondary
school training is estimated by NESDB at 664,000 (1973). The stock is esti-
mated to have increased at 10.5% p.a. over the period 1970-1975. Projecting
coefficients of entry into the labor market and applying them to planned
1/Source: MOE Educational Planning Division, NBC and NESDB.



APPENDIX 2
Page 13
(public and private) enrollments in the last year of both cycles of secondary
schools, the increase in second-level manpower stocks (those with some
secondary education) is estimated at 13.5% p.a. for the period 1976-1981. If
this raCe were to continue, it would result in addition to 2.4 million persons
with secondary education to the labor force between 1976 and 1985.
20.6      Growth of GDP.  Real GDP grew at an annual rate of 8% between 1960
and 1970. The rates for the;agricultural, manufacturing and services sectors
were 5%, 11% and 8% respectively during this period. Between 1970 and 1974,
overall GDP grew at an annual rate of 6% in real terms, and the respective
sectoral rates were 4%, 9% and 6%. The NESDB plans an overall annual growth
rate of 6.5%-7X for the period 1977-1981. The respective sectoral rates
in agriculture, manufacturing and services would then be approximately 5%,
10% and 8%.
20.7      Past employment and unemployment.  Overall employment has grown at
1.1% per annum over the period 1970-1974. Agricultural employment has
declined over this period by 4.1% per year, and non-agricultural employment
has grown at 16.1% per year. The employment situation by year is summarized
as follows:
Average
Annual
1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    Growth Rate
Employment (millions)
Agricultural        13.1    13.3    11.9    12.2    11.2        - 4.1%
Non-agricultural    3.3      3.6     4.6      4.7     6.0        16.1%
Total         16.4    16.8    16.5    16.9    17.2           1.1%
Unemployment              0.6%    0.6%    5.3%    5.5%    6.8%
Unemployment has increased over the period to 6.8%, due to the decline in
employment in the agricultural sector.  Unemployment of second-level man-
power has historically been lower than average unemployment. In 1973, it is
estimated that only approximately 1.6% of second-level manpower was unemployed.
20.8      Expected employment prospects.  The preceding figures suggest that
employment prospects for secondary school graduates/leavers will be good
in the coming years. Whereas the stock of second-level manpower is expected
to increase at a rate of 13%, (a) second-level manpower is expected to be
employed in the non-agricultural sector, where growth of employment has
averaged 16% during the recent past; and (b) upgrading of entry requirements
for existing jobs and concentration of new jobs in high technology sectors is
expected to generate employment for second-level manpower at a rate of 13% to
20% (twice the rate of overall GDP to twice the rate of GDP in the manufac-
turing sector). The present low unemployment rate of second-level manpower



APPENDIX 2
Page 14
(1.6%) indicates that employment demands for second-level manpower have been good
in the recent past. It is another indicator that they may be good in the
future. Overall, it is estimated that 2.4 million persons with secondary
education will join the labor force between 1976 and 1980, and that there
will be 2.6 million places for them in the labor force. Despite the apparent
surfeit of employment, imperfections in the labor market and unrealistic
aspirations of graduates will result in continuing unemployment amongst
secondary school graduate/leavers. It is expected that this unemployment will
remain at currently acceptable levels.



APPENDITX 3
Page 1
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.        The proposed project includes the cost of 89 man-years of
fellowships for training 146 professionals overseas in the fields of
school administration and adult education. It also includes the cost of
19.5 man-years of foreign expert services and 85 man-years of local expert
services. The implementation period would be about five years. Fellowship
training and foreign expert services for the secondary school component would
be provided by a single institution with experience in asseisting diversified
secondary schools in Thailand.
2.        The distribution of fellowships would be as follows:
Man-months                               Fellows
Ph.D                             Ph.D
Training   M.A.                  Training   M.A.
or equiva- Train- Short   To-   or equiva- Train- Short   To-
lent       ing    Courses tal   lent         inr    Courses tal
Diversi-
fie.A Secondary
Schools          -         -      600    600       -        -      100    100
Adult
Education        144      152     172    468       4        8       34     46
Totals       144       152     772   1068       4       8       134    146
Degree training would be limited to 12 AED officials and would focus largely
on research design, statistical analysis, program development, materials
development and radio correspondence. Non-degree training in adult educa-
tion would consist of short apprenticeships with ongoing non-formal educa-
tion projects in other, generally Asian countries. Two administrators from
each of the diversified secondary schools would receive six months of training
in school administration, including scheduling, budgeting, accounting and
planning. Such training has been provided successfully in the past in Canada.
All project fellows would be bonded to serve in activities related to the proj-
ect and their courses of study for a period twice as long as the duration of
their fellowship.
3.        The foreign expert services required to implement the project
would be:



APPENDIX 3
Page 2
Title/Area of Expertise             Man-Months          Timing
a. Diversified Secondary Schools
Advisory Services                       36             10/76 - 9/79
Local short term school tabling
workshops                                6             vacation periods
1978 and 1979
42
b. Adult Education
Project Technical Consultant            48              8/76 - 7/80
Radio correspondence                    24              9/76 - 8/78
Correspondence Education Training        6             12/76 - 2/77
Materials Production Training            3             12/76 - 2/77
Skill Module Curriculum Development    3               12/76 - 2/77
Research and Evaluation                 18              1/77 - 3/80 /a
Programmed Materials Training            6             12/76 - 5/77
108
c.   Project Unit Support and Preparation of
of Future Education _ oijects
Project Advisor                         60              8/76 - 7/81
Advisory Services                       24
Total                             234
/a   Research to be contracted with a consulting group.  The 18 man-months
of service will be spread over the indicated period, with the major
portion concentrated near the start of the period at the time research
design is developed, and again near the end of the period when data
analysis and report writing are undertaken.
4.        Local expert services would be needed as part of the adult
education component to assist in the in-service training of AED staff and to
help with course development and evaluation, and in the project implementation
unit to facilitate implementation, as follows:



APPENDIX 3
Page 3
Man-months         Timing
a.   Adult Education
Staff Training                          240 /b         7/76 - 6/81
Course Development                      480 /b         7/76 - 6/81
Research and Evaluation                 120 lb         7/76 - 6/81
Sub-total                         840
b. Project IJnit Support and Preparation
of Future Education Projects
Project Coordinator                      60            7/76 - 6/81
Project Architect                        60            7/76 - 6/81
Project Procurement Officer              60            7/76 - 6/81
Project Accountant                       60            7/76 - 6/81
Sub-total                         240
TOTAIL                          1 ,080
/b   The services would be distributed over the life of the project.
Many of the adult education experts would be university personnel,
specialists in cottage industries, agriculture, animal husbandry,
nutrition and child care, or staff of other agencies working in
community and rural development, radio and other fields related to
adult education. They would assist in preparing and conducting
workshops for staff of the AED, its regional centers and its LECs.
They would assist in developing course modules and in their tryout,
and they would assist in developing sample surveys, questionnaires
and other tasks related to research, evaluation and feedback. In
these jobs, Thai nationals with their knowledge of their country,
its culture and its languages would be more effective than expatriates.
Qualified, competent persons exist within Thailand who would be
available to the AED as consultants but not as permanent staff.



APPENDIX 4
Page I
Typical Program of a Lifelong Education Center
Annual Enrollment
LEC     Extension
Special Interest Groups
The LEC would organize 200 special interest          400        2,600
groups annually averaging 15 persons per group.
They would meet three times per week during a
one-month period, each meeting two hours long.
24 of the groups would convene at the LEC, and
176 in the villages. The villager nominated by
the interest group to teach the course would
receive $ 900 for a 30-hour course through the
changwad council. Each course would necessitate
two trips to the village by LEC staff. Courses
could be expected to include such areas as sewing,
handicrafts, engine repair, hairdressing and per-
sonal care, cooking, car and truck driving, repair
and maintenance of electrical appliances, elec-
tricity, Thai culture, water pump maintenance,
orchid and mushroom growing, animal breeding and
caponizing.
Training Interest Group Leaders
As part of the interest group program, it would 200 -
be necessary to train the interest group leaders.
Each leader would receive five days of instruc-
tion at the LEC, which would include visits to
villages with ongoing interest group teaching.
Twenty such sessions each involving about 10.
people would be held annually.
Organizing Village Reading Centers (VRCs)
The LEC staff would act as the catalyst for the    -           35,000 1/
organizing of 70 new village reading centers
annually, or 350 centers over the five year
project period. This is necessary if the
5-year plan target of a VRC in one-half the
villages in the country is to be achieved.
Organization of a VRC would entail four
trips to a village by LEC staff.
1/   Each center is expected to serve approximately 100 adults.  At the end
of five years, the 350 centers associated with a typical LEC would
therefore serve some 35,000 persons.



APPENDIX 4
Page 2
Annual Enrollment
LEC   ,  teasion
Training Village Reading Center Volunteers;
As part of the VRC expansion project, it            200
would be necessary to train 3-man village
teams for a one-week period (5 days) at
the LEC. Sixteen such sessions involving
twelve persons each would be held annually.
Domestic Science
The LEC would arrange to have the local              80          200
health workers lead discussion groups
for young mothers in child care and
rearing, nutrition, health, and family
and life planning. Four such discussion
groups would be convened annually at the
LEC, meeting an hour per day for five
days. In the villages, 10 such discuss-
ion groups would be organized annually,
meeting once for two hours.
Farmer Training
The LEC would cooperate with agricultural            80         2800
extension personnel in arranging discussions
based on providing information to farmers
about government programs in agriculture
and rural development, and about new agri-
cultural practices and research related to
such matters as seed strains, insecticides,
fertilizers and irrigation. These two-hour
discussion periods would be led by the local
agricultural worker. Two would be held
annually at the LEC, and 70 would be held in
provincial and district agricultural exten-
sion centers and wats or other available
village meeting places.
Films/Lectures/Demonstrations
A program of films, lectures and demon-             400       30,000
strations would be organized. Four such
programs would be held at the LEC annually,
and the mobile film unit would travel every
night (300 nights per year) to a different
village to show a film.



APPENDIX 4
Page 3
Annual Enrollment
LEC     Extension
Functional Literacy
Two six-month courses would be offered                40         440
annually at the LEC, and 22 such courses
would be offered through the extension
services. Courses are taught in groups
of 20 persons.
Skill Training
The LEC would offer training in areas                640          320
such as welding, electricity, automobile
mechanics, telecommunications, boat building,
construction, machine shop, typing, home
economics, radio and television repair,
tailoring, food preparation, barbering
and hairdressing on an ongoing basis at
the LEC. Courses would be of varied
length, generally three hours per day.
It is assumed that participants would
attend training sessions for an average
of three months. At any one time 160
pupils would be enrolled at the LEC. In
addition, the LEC staff would provide 16
one-week courses (30 hours each) in
villages throughout the changwad. Additional
courses would be organized, as demand warrants,
in secondary schools and other facilities.
General (second-chance) Education
Courses include mathematics, science, Thai           350         510
language, social studies, health education,
and physical and health education, taught at
levels 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. One of each of
the courses would be offered at the LEC
throughout the year, and all other courses
would be provided through extension in primary
and secondary schools.



APPENDIX 4
Page 4
Annual Enrollment
LEC     Extension
Library Services
The LEC would provide library services at         1,000
the center. A library of 2,500 volumes,
periodicals and daily newspapers would be
open to the public. The library would
supervise provision of newspapers and
other pertinent literature to village
reading centers. It is expected that
1,000 adults would avail themselves of
the library services.
Rounded Totals               3,400        72,000



APPENDIX 5
Page 1
Thailand - Fourth Education Project
Conditions for Disbursement for Phase III of Adult Education.
1.  The last phase of the Adult Education Sub-project would consist of
construction, equipment and furniture related to 12 Lifelong
Education Centers, as follows:
(i)     Nakhon Sawan
(ii)    Samut Sakhon
(iii)   Surin
(iv)    Nakhon Si-Thammarat
(v)     Ang Thong
(vi)    Phattahalung
(vii)  Nanw
(viii)  Chaiyaphum*
(ix)    Satoon-*
(x)     Ayuthaya*
(xi)    Kamphaeng Phet*
(xii)   Uthai Thani*
2.  Prior to disbursement of Loan Funds for expenditures related to the
last phase of the Adult Education Sub-project, the Government
would be expected to:
(a) recruit personnel as follows:
- to the national adult education coordinating unit within
the Ministry of Education's Adult Education Division, the
Chief of the coordinating unit
Coordinator of the regional centers
Coordinator of the LECs and
Coordinator of radio correspondence;
-  to each of the four regional centers of Ubon, Ratchathani,
Lampang, Songkla and Ratburi, the
Director of the center
Chief, administration
Chief, materials production
Chief, research and development
Chief, training
Chief, operations and
Chief, radio correspondence;
* Centers where libraries already exist.



APPENDIX 5
Page 2
- to each of the 12 lifelong centers of Chacheongsao,
Ratchaburi, Phetchabun, Si Sa Ket, Phichit, Nakhon
Ratchasima, Ubon*, Roi Et*, Chiang Mai*, Yala*, Trang*,
and Khon Kaen*, the
Director
Chief, adninistration and
Chief, operations;
(b) complete a detailed staff recruitment and training plan
acceptable to The Bank.
* Centers where libraries already exist.



COMPARATIVE EDUCATION  INDICATORS                                                     ANNEX I
M Iay 12,  1976)
898*883osums.
I        I              I          I    II                           I        I          I       I            I            a         I      I         I
I        I GNP/ I I GNP   at TOTALIX   OF PUBLIC a                   I        I          aPR!. iAV.PRI. a                  a        aSEC.  a 
I        ICAPITAZ  DEVOTEDUPU8LIC  a EDUCATION    aLITER.  a PRI. ICOMPLE-  ISTU.  1SCN.TEACMaPRDGRESS-t SEC. ISTU.  a 
I   AT   I TO EDU.:   EXP.  a RECURRENT    aACY                 IENROLLfTION         IDENT80SALARY  INIrON RATE  IENPOLLOiDNT3saaIGa4IRs
a      aN:A7QOET; (PU.LIC;.EVOTEDaI0P  ALLOCATED I  RATE aRATIO IRATE FORPIPR   IRELATION aPROM PRI.tRATIO aPER   aENR7OLLs
IPP    PR CESI  EO P.       TO    a       Vo0        mC  Df~ a NET   fPRI.SCM4,jTEACI4   TO QNP/ aT   SEC.   a NET   iTEACHI. RATIO:
YR3(000) I (USM)  ONLY)   a  EDU. aPR!. SEC. 41.14DULTB)a  (5)   IMOLEMS)ER    I CAPITA   I  (0)                              I (5    019    a (5)   a
a(10  a:   (2) I  (3)    a  (4)   a           (5)        a (6)    o (7)   a  (a)    a (83  I  (10)    a (11)              a(12)   2113)  MaiO       a
ADVANCED
4297914     ~~~73    7.5C 2.olOC       4.3      9.9      470   250   200    99         98         93        26        2.0         99         Si       09       8.00
CANADA            72  21.0   4, 440         7.7    19.4       30    38    19       98       89        98         28        2.0         99        82        II       9. 00
GER4AN4Y P.REP.72   61.6   3.390            4.0    14.2       *..  741** 26        99       90        99         33       ...          99        91        22     17.OOCY
JAPAN             71 106. PC 2.3207         4.3    20.7       39    38    02       99       990       99C        287       2.0         997       940      207    28.000
NETHIERLANDS5   72   03.3   2,040           4.5    19.10    32    45    19         99       95        95         29        3.0         97        73       20      10.00
'IEA ZEALAND    73    2.97  2,SoOC          5.2    ...        39    24    29       99       99        99         26       ...          99        67       19      24.00
N0Q.W0y           72    3.9   3,340         7.o    15.2       So    23    13       99       99        98         20        1.9         99        76       14      11.00
3WEDEN            73    8.17  4.400C        8,9    06.0       36    14    03       99       99        99         17       ...          go        85        10     34. 00
J.V.              72  S5.8   2,600          6.3    12.7        26    39    22    98         98        *..        26       2.0          ...       63       i7      01.00
Li.S. A.          72 208.0   5. S590        6.0    15.4       ...  73** 27         99       99        99         25U       2.0         ...       93        09U    29.0
GREECE      ~~~~71    0.9C t.0607      2.2    10.1       54Y  29Y   14Y    82A         OSY        ...       320      ...          704        5OY      43Y    11.0 0
IRELAND           72    3.0   0,560         5.1    13.90)   43Y  407   14lY    985          97        994        35       ...          954       75       19       7.004
PORTUGAL          72    9.7      730        ...    ....        ..       ..........                                                     ..,       6SXY       .       7.boy
SPIJN             71  34.17  1,100c         2.48   15.2A    490   227   15Y    94A          91A       .          34        .            .        294      3        6.004
;:L;;7;           73   14.2C    43OC        9.0A     ..       43    32    16       2SA      67        86        43         6.0         37        1ox      26       3.50
BE~~I4       73    2.9C    1107        5.3    32.0       AT    23    1o       II       3208       708       Soo      25.08        438         78      398      0.447Y
OOTSAANA          74    0.7      3 00       5.0    20. 0      38    *0    is       PS       700       TS         35        5.0         24        13X       i8       Q.30Y
OUNiJND1         72    3.6        60        ...       . ..        . . .2...    ..           ... 2XY3687    ...                         ...         2080   1 )67k   0. 1587Y
CA 4ERIIN .             6.2C    250C        5.9    2 0. 0     380   297   177       .       70         ..         ID10    ...          .                  2370    09077
7.4.9.  ~~~~'0 ~  1,67    1607       4.0N  20.0        56    19  .647...25                                65C0    ...18%Y                           28       007
CHAD              T5    41.OD      SOD      3.0    10.0       T0    22      0      15       29XBY    30          6500    15             8          2080   3 0       0.0197
CONGI(S)          73    1.37    300C        0.g    20.4       450Y 3587  158 so     4S?    1300       ...        63       ...          ...       29       437      2.44C7
ET-10190A         73  25.9C        030      3.1    20.0       42    29    t8        7       17C       4 2        s0        3.0         63          2      so       0.20
G A 4 )'j    73    0.5C    SoOC        5.0    20. 6      25      9    1       ..      184X80    25C         46C       5.0         184        207      217 C    I.40CY
14404A            71    0.07    300C        4.7    24.40)9   380   159   230       ..       56XCY    62          30C0    ...           14        110      0677    0,7487
00147  COAST    72    3.4        340       6.3    24.7        2757  335Y 13Y        94      52        57A       40        ...          ...       10       25        1.287Y
40N74       ~~~~73   12.07    170C     6.4    27,0       63    i1    II       40      005         ..        40        8.0         04         12       23       1.0397y
LE.E0THN0         73    0.47       907      4.7    22. 0      457   157   247    00         65         .         45        ...         ...         8      22        0.03
LIBERIA           74    0.67    3337        2.7    13.9       25    13    22       ...      59        ...        39        1.8         ...       20       20        1.1040
941ALA4           74    4.7C    1007       3.0t   20.9... .. .  , 25                        560x      o0        so         7.0         40         40      20       0.267Y
TMAL'I            70    5.17       7OC      4.6N   32. 3      368   528   12p   I10         18        22        40        14.0         37         a       17        4.1607
~4J90TAN0A        70    1.27    1807c       4.5    20 .0.....              1.I0             150       . ..       22        . ..        ...         3      24             
4AJRITIUS         72    0.8      300        3.7    10.70    71    10        4     s0        86        99        31         ...         ...       31       30        1.0777
14O9OC70          74   15.87    2707        5.07   16.S       04    97      9     26?       Sax       2I        37         ...         31        130      21       2.0
413ERIA           7t  69.51'    1307        3.2N   ...        40A  244  20A    ...          39077    ...        34C7       ...         ...        4       2077    0.3770
RWANDA       73    3.7C       6047    3.2C  28.00  ...                . ..    33       52         ...       S1         ...        ...         2       13       0.23C7
SENEGAL           71 I  40C    2507C        4.04N  2Z. SDR   38A   44       58      0       380       ...       46         ...         ...       010      25        1.7177
SIERRA LEONE   73    2.7C    1907           3. 4    23.4      31    36    30       1S?      380       85         32        4.OE        68        130      2 1      0.5380
S0RALIA           73    2.97      see       ...      7.0      57    1 6    III      5       13        91         is       15.0         85         3       10       3I.0
SUDAN             72   16.S      120        4,5    13.2       43    29    a8       is       38        75        as         o.0         25        II       20        1.237
SWAZILAND         72L   0.47    260         4.3A   19.7       37    26    is a      s       66        22        38         7.0         ...       1600    20         2.0
7A4ZA44(A         7 4   13.2PC    I10 5o.IN   17.0            36    ...   12       63       44X       ...        49        *.           7          2      21C      0.3
TUN1s1A          73    5.3C    3807        6. 3    23.4       37    43    18      Ss        72        8I        Al         6.0         31        14       21       3.0
UG4NOA            70   10.47     1507       5.24   17.6C8  8009  220   250    iSA           488C7    ...         36        ...        1OlA        41070   21        0.588Y
UPPER VOLTA    72    5.6          64       4.0    23.9        61    10o     6       5       10        ...       as        18.0         20         2       23       0.0187
ZAIIRE            73   23.4      027        S.27N Pi1.3C    547   077   woe    i5          63         38         844       6.0         03         8       28        0.9080
ZAMOO1A           73    4. 57    3807       5.6    16.5       99    22    1 8      43       958       ...        so        ...         20        150      2O        0.4847
CENTRAL AMERICA 04D THEl CARIBBEAN
COSTA  8074  71~;    1.7-6307          5.2    22,7       ST    2S    1 2      69       86CE       65        IV          3.0       s8         2270    25       I 2. 117CY
D0090074N PEP.72    4.2          080        2.5    05.108   42    24    22        St       s0         17        58          3.80       63        II3      24       7.80
EL SALVADOR    75    3. 77    3400C         3.6    23.8       hI      5    at      38A0    708EV    ...         39C0        ...        ...       16070   2170    4.3587
GUATENALA         73    5.6 0c 20C          1.9    16. 0      5S    23    1 4      47       64        26         3S         3.0        69q         a      ZS        4.090
4401T             72    0.4      030        0.9      b.60    61 t   I I            208      3         as?        45         5.0        s0          3      23        1.00?
4000tjRAS         7 2   2. 7     320        3.9    26.50,   64    1 3      1 S     52       810       18a        37         6.0        75        14X       1 4      3.00
JA'4A(CA          72    )*.9     01I0       6.50   19.7       33Y  122 V    7      84     106X0       . ..      52          ...        ...       3307    19         4,797
MEXICO            70   54.17    7507        2.6      9.3      gla   28    la       76       71        31         46         3.0        63        19       23        8.3277
NICARAGUA         74    2.17    630         ?.S    18.8       01    13 5   13      ST       65        21         37         2. 0       93        1 7       24       7. 0
TRTIADAD & T.    I    1.07    9400          5.1    18.9       53    27    1 2      90       950       87        35          4.0        I S       49       25        2.5640
OR;l0L            70   90.27    5307        4.3    12.O7    42    20        37    79        80x       ...        2770       ...        ...       18o       1570    6.008
CHIILE            72   10 .      80so0      0.60   10.6Y    3400  15QY 400",  ...   I1I1I007    ...              3780        ...       ...       48X00   ...        ...
COLOMBIA          70   23.97    4007        4.0    1 0.9      35    1 9    20      73       67        20         36         4. 0       90        1 7      3 4       4.00
EC JlORn          72    6.S      360        3, 7    27.77    4500  4200  10el7  69          72          . .      38         ...        ...       18a      1 4       4.9780
GUY ANA           70    0. 77    4007       5.8N   14.70    47    3S    1 4        834      920       39         33         6.0        1 9       620       24       1 .00
PARAGUAY          70    2.47    3207        0.0    t7.9       57    IS    28      81        88        26         29         1.9        65        150       10       4.00
PERU              71 t1 4.17    sZoC        4.5    24. 1      50s   22    2 5      72       80        38         390Y       3.0        70        30       2300   12.00
VENEZUELA         73   1 1 .0I    12407     4 .6    19.9      300   280   350    774        81        ...        33         2.4        ...       33        ...    12.637Y



COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS  (CONTD)                                   ANNEX I  PAGE 2
33 333333.333333333-3* 333
( May 12,  t97b6
*-zszzs-z=szm
I       I       I         S        I               I         I       I         S      S          3           I       t      3       5
I      I GNP/ I X GNP  IS TOTALIX  OF PU8LIC I              I        I         IPRI. IAVIPRI   a             I       ISEC
I       sCAPIT4: DEVOTEDtPU8LIC I EDUCATION    iLITER- I PRI. ICOMPLE- ISTU- ISCH.TEACHiPROGRESSI1 SEC. ISTU- I                     I
I  ,  AT  t TO EDU.:  EXP. i RECURRENT    IACY               IENROLLITION      IDENTSISALARY INIION RATE tENROLLlDENTSlHIGHERi
I       IMARKETt (PUBLICiDEVOTEDaEXP ALLOCATEDI  RATE gRATIO IRATE FORIPER  aRELATION IFROM PRI.sRATIO sPER  IENROLLs
I PIP. gPRICESS EXP.   ,  TO   :          TOI      I(I  OF  I NET  IPRI.SCHM.TEACHt TO GNP/ ITO SEC.  I NET  :TEACH- RATIO:
YRI(OOO) I tUSS)l ONLY)  a  EDU. sPRI. SEC. 4,I.ADULTS3)  (I)  ICYCLECtIlER    I CAPITA  (I              )     i (1) t   ER   I (X)  a
I       I       I         I        I               I         a       I         3      3          I           I       I      *       3
3 (1) tl  (2) I  (3)    :  (4i  I         (S)      I (6)   I (7)  a  (8)    a (9) 1  (10)   a (31)           V(12)  3(13) 1(14)
ASIA AND OCEANIA
RA'GLADESH      73  72.SC    7OC  1.2   20.2.23                                  56X       ...      48        ...       ...      13X    28
CHINA(TAIPAN) 73  I5.IC   490C         l.3   t4.0      28   41   22    82        98        94       40       14.0       84       55      26    15.00
INOI&           71 Sb3.5C 11oC         2.6VY  ...9                               79        ...  , A           ....      ..       28X     2OAY   400AY
INIONESIA       73 123.0C   120C       1.8   11.0    b3   23   14    62          63        40       32        5.0      91        12      16      2.00
IRAN            73  29.SC   450C       3.3   12.6      50S  3t8   128   5O       77        74A      32        5.08     80A       24      32      4.32CY
TRA4           72  10.1    370         6.7   lb.3DQ,                     26      bCY       ...      22        ...       ...      26XCY  26       6.28Cy
IORDAN          73   2.4C   270C    7.0    8.8    52   15   23    59             91X      78        38        5.00     84        soX    22       4.00
KOREA           73  32.3C   310C    2.9   19.3    b4   2b           8    92      97        90       53        3.00      71       51      39      6.00
LE3A4ON         72   2.9    700        3.5   35.0    39   40   10    68          86        65       19        2.00     83        2bU     2S    23.00
MALAYSIA        72  11.7E    430       6.4   22.7D                       60       99EX     ...      32        ...       ...      52EX    26      ...
OMAN            72   0.6    530        2.3    3.8    96    .   .         20      24X       99       33        7.00      ,,,      0.4X     9       .,
PAKISTAN        75  66.71C   130C      1.6     6.2    45   25   is    21         47X       50       39        2.00     ,,,       17X     18      6.00
PHILIPPINES   74  39.DC   220C         2.5   14.9    73   15   12    87         104X      ..       34        IS        ...    04X       ...   21.00
SINGAPORE       72   2.1   1200        3.IN  16.2    44   31   15    75I    107X           72       33        ...      99        47      24      8.25Y
THAILAND        73  38 S    220C       3,ON  18.7    65    9   15    82          87X       93C      32        3.0OU   91C        21X    24       2.00
T114KEY         72  37.0    370        ...   13.0DQ...   105XCY   .,.                              34DY      ...       ...      22XY   27DY   5,31RY
YE4EN           73   6.3    100        0.5    4.0      45P  21P  23P   30        ISX       18       36        5.00      75        2X     19      005RY
YEMEN P.D.R.  72   1.5    100          2.3A  12.b    79   12             30      70X       31       29       10.00    99         12X    20       0.08AY
SLM4MAY FIR DEVFLPITNG COUNTRIESt
NJMSER IF COUNTRIESS                   67    67       63   59   59    b2        73       41        72         38      41        73      69       67
RANGE:                             (0.5-  (3.8-  (25- (0-  (0-   (5-          (10-     (17-     (19-      (t.8-   (7         (.4.    (9.      (.01-
9.0 I  32.3)  96 1 52)  40)   98)         184X)   99         66 1      25.0)   991        75.01   43)    23.01
IUARTILES:UPPER :                   4.7   21.0    57   36   20    68           91       76       45          7       76       26      26      4.79
MEDIANt                  4.0    18.2    50   27   15    50         71        56       38          4       63       06      23      2.00
LOwER 3                  3.0   14.0    42   17   It    20          48        25       33          3       25        8      19      0.53
____.______....................................... ____.......................______...........................
RYMMOLS: ... DATUM UNAVAILABLE                Am3970 OR BEFORE           MECURRENT PRICES                         SOURCESI
MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE Ra1971                            NiGOP                                   .......
?  IUESTInNA8LE                    C-1972                      P%INCLUOING FOREIGN AID                  COLUMNSI1 AND 2 WORLD BANK
*  INCLU3ES PART.TIME STUDENTS 030973                         QOCENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                         ATLAS
.a  COMOINED WITH PRTMARY           E31974                      R3MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY                 3 TO 14 IRD MISSIONS
SaWOE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                  AND/OR UNESCO
T3EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                   STATISTICAL
UPPUBLIC ONLY                                               YEARBOOK
V3INCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
XxINCLUDING nVERAGED STUDENTS
YsUNESCO SnURCES
….______............................................................................................................................
COPARATIVE EOUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUJCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEAELOPMENT 8ETWEEN VARIOIUS COUNTRIES. HOWEVER.ON THE 8ASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CAITION. DATA PRESFNTED TN THE AROVE TABLE HAVE BEEN CnLLECTED LARGELY BY THE SANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCESI THE
RE4AINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA FROM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE 8EEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHECK THE
ACCURACY 9f THE DATA. NEVERTHELESSSUJCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PRIGRESSIVELY nN THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING oUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
41 D:
(W)EDUCATION' AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING. FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL:
(2)-PRTMARY EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS nF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL. TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) I
(3)"LITERACY RATESI(COL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
DlJRTFUL THAT ANY U41FORM DEFINITION nF *LITERATE" HAS SEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY:
(4A)'U8LIC EXPENDITJRE IN EDUCATION'(COLS.3,4 AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL ANn RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED Tn EDUCATION BY
PJRLIC AND ODJAST-4USLIC AGENCIES:
(S)-EN0DLLMENT RATIOO'(COLS 7, 12 AND 141 REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE APPRnPRIATE SCHOrIL, PURLIC AND PRIVATE By LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COJNTqIES OWIN. T1 VARIATION IN THE ACCuRACY OF BASIC DATA(I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



THAILAND PROPOSED FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Graded Enrollment in Public and Private Schools, 1967-1981
(Thousands of Students)
Primary                                         Secondary
1      2       3       4      5       6       7        8        9       10       11       12                Totals
Year/Grade       Pi      P2      P3     P4      P5      P6    P7/MI   Msl/M2  Ms2/M3  Ms3/M4  Ms4/M5  Ms5/M6  Primary  Secondary  Total
Actual
1967  Total   1,413  1,102    996    869    242    196    165           120      100       88       32      18      4,983        358      5,341
Public  1,225  1,006    909    791    148    116          96       54       48       44       14      8      4,291         168     4,459
1968  Total   1,438  1,136  1,034    863    266    215    172           134      144       97       31      19      5,124        395      5,549
Public  1,241  1,036    943    780    167    126          95       60       54       47       15      9      4,388         185     4,573
1969  Total   1,492  1,166  1,063    911    308    242    200           158      129      100       33      19      5,382        449      5,821
Public  1,297  1,057    963    821    208    150          85       79       60       52       16      9      4,581         216     4,797
1970  Total   1,493  1,192  1,108    947    374    286    235           181      147      122       39      23      5,635        512      6,147
Public  1,293  1,083  1,006    850    271    191    143            97       75       58       20     12      4,837         262     5,099
1971  Total   1,578  1,223  1,149    976    405    325    266           205      172      141       40      26      5,922        584      6,506
Public  1,377  1,112  1,043    880    304    229    174           113       94       73       24     14      5,119         318      5,437
1972  Total   1,568  1,269  1,168  1,011    463    366    305           236      195      164       41      28      6,150        664      6,814
Public  1,396  1,174  1,067    929    374    280    222           134      111       89       27      17     5,442         378      5,820
1973  Total   1,600  1,339  1,216  1,042    506    413    342            264     217      181       52      32      6,458        746      7,204
Public  1,384  1,221  1,106    911    405    314    245           160      130      104       35     20      5,586         449      6,035
1974  Total   1,668  1,401  1,253  1,077    602    499    395           303      242      202       57      39      6,895        843      7,738
Public  1,450  1,281  1,141    975    501    399    295           198      154      124       41     26      6,042         543      6,585
1975  Total   1,748  1,472  1,294  1,113    722    617    460           341      278      226       72      44      7,426        961      8,387
Public  1,528  1,350  1,180  1,009    621    514    358           233      188      146      56      30      6,560         653      7,213
Pro_jected
1976  Total   1,827  1,546  1,336  1,153    876    771    546           399      323      267       85      70      8,055      1,144      9,199
Public  1,605  1,423  1,219  1,046    774    589    441           289      232      186       68     56      7,097         831      7,928
1977  Total   1,698  1,588  1,543  1,384    840    641    521           428      368      315      104      72      8,215      1,287      9,502
Public  1,458  1,430  1,421  1,205    778    555    460           325      261      217       90     60      7,307         953      8,260
1978  Total   1,727  1,615  1,582  1,396  1,004    804    535           480      407      351      119      85      8,128      1,977    10,105
Public  1,476  1,438  1,427  1,286    903    704    407           361      295      248      106      73     7,234       1,490      8,724
1979  Total   1,756  1,692  1,562  1,460  1,347    942    632           532      476      396      131    102       8,759      2,269    11,028
Public  1,494  1,446  1,432  1,350  1,246    842    464           407      359      288      117      90     7,810       1,725      9,535
1980  Total   1,785  1,630  1,810  1,447  1,442  1,287    710           627      530      463      145    118       9,401      2,593    11,994
Public  1,513  1,464  1,444  1,337  1,341  1,181    529           464      409      350      131    106      8,280       1,987    10,269
1981  Total   1,838  1,742  1,639  1,792  1,390  1,391    769            706     622      401      166    136       9,792      2,800    12,592
Public  1,556  1,482  1,460  1,440  1,289  1,287    609           529      464      284      152    124      8,514       2,162    10,676
Note:  1967-1977 primary includes grades 1-7 and secondary grades 8-12;  1978-81 primary includes grades 1-6; secondary grades 7-12
Source:  Ministry of Education, 1976



ANNEX 3
THAILAND
INDICATORS OF EDUCATIONAL DISPARITY
A      B      C      D       E       F      G     H     I
Bangkok        160    119    88    n.a.    n.a.    51    51    92    85
Central        107    119    55      41       10     34    33    88    68
(including
Bangkok)
South          107    10h    56      30        4     31    3h    Bh    6
North           69      79    41     20        4     29    30    69    h8
Northeast       47      51    36     15        1     26    25    65    42
National                                     1/
Average     74     82    44      28        6     3h    35    77    58
A: Caoital expenditure ner pupil in Baht, lower primary schools, 1970.
B:  Capiltal expenditure per pupil in Baht, lower primary schools, 1972.
e:  Per,entige of students .progressing from Ph to P5 (1971/1972).
D:  Pprrcent of 1  to 16 year olds in lower secondary schools (MS1-MS3) in 1973.
E:  Percent of 17 and 18 ye.nr olds in upper academic secondary schools in 1973.
Fr Ave-rage rrimary school a2hievement test score, Thai language.
G:  Average primary school. a,hievement test score, arithmetic.
H:  Fer_ent of primary school pupils possessing required textbooks in Thai
and arithmetic.
i:  heroent of primary scho-'  upils reported to always have exercise books.
1/  If vocational and teache- trairing enrollments are included, participation
inoreases from 6% to 13%.
Source:  MOF nrd NEC
December 197'h



ANNEX 4
Page 1
THAILAND PROPOSED FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Enrollments, Enrollment Ratios and Number of Schools
by Regions and Provinces, 1975
Estimated/'            No. of Diversified
Estimated/                     _Secondary Schools, 1976_
Poptulation      Public Secondary         Enrollment        No. of                     Prop.
1970     School Enrollment, 1975         Ratios  _    Schools              Credit   4th
Regions/Provinces           ('000)      Lower    Uer    Total   Lower  Upper  Lower  Upper  CIDA  369-TH  Proj.  Total
Grand Total                  34,397    565,593  88,161  653,754    23         6      820    223
Bangkok Metropolitan
area                        3,077    101,391  36,836  138,227    42    23          76      58      5                     5
Provincial Total             31,320    464,202  51,325  515,527    21         4     744    165
Region 1                      1,452      36,010   5,651   41,661    37        9       53      18
Nonthaburi                    269      10,446   2,399   12,845    54    20           9      4             2               2
Pathumthani                   234       5,376      595    5,971    46       6       10      3
Samutprakan                   329       7,599   1,238    8,837    31        8       11      5             2               2
Samutsakhon                   200       3,862      373    4,235    27       5        6      3
Nakhon Pathom                 419       8,727   1,046    9,773    30        6       17      3                     1       1
Region 2                        973      17,629   2,344   19,973    28        5       29      9
Pattani                       330       5,376      539    5,915    25       3        9      3                     1       1
Yala                          199       4,375      940    5,315    34    10          6      2      1              1      2
Narathiwat                    327       5,367      642    5,999    27       4       10      3                     1      1
Satul                         117       2,521      223    2,744    32       5       4       1                     1      1
Region 3                      2,528      39,072   5,163   44,235    23        5       64     14
Songkla                       622      10,364   2,166   12,530    25        9      12       3     1       1       2      4
Phatalung                     305       5,496     720    6,216    26        6       6       2                     1      1
Nakhon Srithamarat            929      11,656   1,017   12,673    19        3      20       2      1      1       1      3
Suirat-thani                  437       5,943      679    6,622    24       4       17      4             1              1
Clitimphon                    235       5,613     581    6,194    36        7       9       3             1       1      2
Region 4                        770      17,296   2,515   19,811    21        9       29      9                      bI
Phuket                        100       3,709   1,028    4,737    14    23          4       2                     2-     2
Trang                         327       5,479   1,041    6,520    18        9       8       2             1       1      2
Krabi                         149      .3,368      108    3,476    25       2       5       1                     1      1
Phang-nga                     135       3,191     212    3,403    36       4        8       3
Ranong                         59       1,549      126    1,675    39       6       4       1
Region 5                      2,075      37,384   3,611   40,995    26        4       57     16
Rajburi                       483       8,539      952    9,491    26       5      11       5             4              4
Phetburi                      290       6,334     901    7,235    32        8       8       2             1       1      2
Prachuab Kirikhan             249       4,377     204    4,581    25        2       7       2                     1      1
Suphanburi                    562       8,432     615    9,074    21        3      13       2                     2      2
Kanchanaburi                  329       5,711      366    6,077    25       3      13       2             1       1      2
Samutsongkhram                163       3,991      573    4,564    34       8       5       3
Region 6                      2,141      45,161   4,023   49,184    30        4       73     11
Pranakhon Sriayuthaya         502      10,876      874   11,750    31       5      19       2     1       1              2
Angthong                      217       5,134     415    5,549    34        2       9       2
Singburi                      165       5,670      356    6,026    48       5       9       1             1              1
Lopburi                       464       7,550   1,162    8,712    23        6       10      2     1               1      2
Saraburi                      353       7,648      670    8,318    30       5      13       2     1                      1
Chainat                       262       5,148      179    5,327    28       2       6       1                     1      1
Uthaithani                    178       3,135      367    3,502    25       5       7       1     1               1      2
Region 7                      3,498      49,011   4,713   50,725    19        3       75     17
Phitstunuloke                 492       6,451   1,273    7,729    18        6      10       2     1               1      2
Nakhon Sawan                  759       8,497   1,034    9,531    16        3       14      2     1       1              2
(titradit                     323       4,932     672    5,604    21        5      10       2                    2       2
P'hichit                      440       5,729     233    5,962    18        1      10       1                     1      1
K-nnpIiaeng Phet              340       3,582      167    3,749    14       1       5       1                     1      1
Skiklhothai                   402       6,674      393    7,067    23       2       10      3
Tala                          217       3,497      505    4,002    23       6        7      3                     2      2
Petchahoon                    525       6,649     436    7,085    26        2       9       3
Pegion 8                      3,813      46,638   6,671   53,309    17        4       85     20
Chiengmai                   1,026      10,290   2,107   12,397    13        5      17       3     1       1       1      3
Cliiengrai                  1,112      10,988      925   11,913    13       2      23       4     1               1      2
Lampang                       583       7,739   1,529    9,268    19        6      15       3     1       1      1       3
Lamphun                       311       3,752     608    4,360    15        5       6       2
Prae                          366       7,553   1,023    8,576    28        7      11       3                     1      1
Nan                           311       5,059      398    5,457    24       3        9      4             1       1      2
Maehongson                    104       1,257       81    1,338    19       2       4       1                     1      1



ANNEX 4
Page 2
No. of Diversified
Estimated                        Secondary _Schools   976
Population       Public Secondary        Enrollment        No. of                     Prop.
1970     School Enrollment, 1975       Ratios         Schools             Credit   4th
Rep,oi ns/Provinces       _('000L.   L wer    Up er    Total   Lower  HUp          Lower  Upper  CIDA  369-TH  Pro.  Total
Region 9                      3,529    43,326    3,715  47,041       18      3       66       9
Udonthani                  1,113    11,761    1,266  13,027        16      3       18       2     1              1       2
Nongkhai                      444     6,11B       307   6,425      20      2        9       1            1       1       2
Loei                          325     4,387       184   4,571      19      1        9       1            1       1       2
Khonkaen                    1,049    12,791    1,379  14,170       18      3       18       3     1      2               3
Sakon Kakhon                  598     8,269       579   8,848      21      2       12       2     1                      1
Region 10                     4,019    50,707    4,752  55,459       19      3       84      13
Ubonratclhatliani          1,485    12,853    1,118  13,971        17      2       22       3     1      1               2
Yasothon                              4,030       115   4,145      17      2        8       1                    1       1
Roi-et                        785     9,360    1,479  10,839       18     5        15       2     1      1               2
Mahasar,ikh:mi,               613     8,035       893   8,928      19      3       10       3                    1       1
Kznla.sin                     571     8,681       298   8,979      22      1       14       1            1       1       2
Nakhon Ph.nom                 565     7,748       849   8,597      21      3       15       3     1                      1
Regioni 11                    4,477    49,543    3,992  53,535       16      2       71      12
Nakfion RaLtchasima        1,494    17,687    1,982  19,669        17     3        26       3     1                      1
cluy.1piphuim                632      6,574       492   7,066      15      2       12       3                    1       1
1:,urir;mi                   800      9,416       375   9,791      17     1        11       1                    1       1
Stirin                        755     8,414       815   9,229      16      3       11       3            2       2       4
Srisa;ket                     796     7,452       328   7,780      14      1       11       2                    2       2
;w,gion 12                   2,044    35,425    4,175  39,600        27     6        58      17
Chachcengsao                  356     5,898    1,028   6,926       24     7        10       2     1      1               2
Prachinburi                  424      5,936       441   6,377      20     3        12       3
Ccnlburi                     542      9,569    1,382  10,951       25     6        13      4
(hanthaburi                   216     4,054       527   4,581      28     6         8       2                    1       1
It.iyong                      251     4,047       367   4,414      23     4         5       2            1               1
Tritd                          94     1,945       173   2,118      31     5         5       2                    1       1
Nakhon Nayok                  163     3,976       257   4,233      34     4         5       2
a/ Enrollment ratios estimated by dividing 1975 enrollment by 1970 population.  This method of estimating
overstates the ratio by about 1W/ but does not affect the relative position of provinces.
b/ Included to introduce diversified secondary education to the province.
Source: Ministry of Education, 1976



ANNEX 5
Page 1
THAILAND
Participation in Adult Education Programs
1974
No. of
Operating Agency                   Program                    Participants
Ministry of Education   Functional literacy                      5,100
General education, level 1              2,800
IT     It    , level 2              3,200
It      "     , level 3            59,000
it     ii             14          146,000
5            8,600
Mobile trade training schools          22,000
Vocational adult mobile school          6,100
Vocational adult permanent school    13,000
Special interest groups                 1,900
Village reading centers              130,000
Public education unit                240,000
Mobile public libraries                5,300
Changwad public libraries             69,000
Ampur public libraries                130,000
Radio programs                     1,900,000
Polytechnical schools                  15,000
Youth training                            300
Ministry of Interior    Youth centers                             n.a.
Youth training                          4,000
Youth training in sensitive areas    10,000
Training for women                      3,000
Village development committee trg.   37,000
Adult vocational schools                3,800
In-service training for employed wkrs 2,500
Child development center                   65
Ministry of Defense      Youth training in sensitive areas         300
Ministry of Agriculture Training of housewives and children   5,000
and Cooperatives         of farmers
Training of advisors to young farmers   300
Training of young farmers               2,000
Training in silk worm raising             200
Training in cotton plantation            100
Training in rubber plantation             500
Institute of cooperative promotion    4,700
Ministry of Industry    Home Industries                          1,200
Promotion of Industry                     770



ANNEX5
Page 2
No. of
Operating Agency                   Program                 Participants
Pirayanu Kraw Foundation  Training in maternal and               15
child care
Community Centers          Short courses for housewives         n.a.
Women's Association        Vocational skills to rural women   250
Agriculture University    Orchid and farmer groups              n.a.
Santi Satarana             Training youth in agriculture        n.a.
Association                 and carpentry



THAILAND - PROPOSED FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
ENTROILLMENT, GRADJATES, TEACHERS AND
''L;..SE53 OF TIHE ADUL'r EIXJCATION DIVISION
Groups
Enrollment                   Graduates             Teachers   (Classes)
M         F         Total      M         F        Total
General Education            86,000    34,000   120,000      20,000   7,1400    28,000     9,900      3,500
Level 1                   2,000      850      2,800      1,600      710     2,300        220       130
2                  2,300       940      3,200      1,700      710     2,1400      240       140
3                 42,000   17,000      59,000     10,000    3,1400   14,000    4,600     1,800
4                 33,000    13,000     46,000      6,400    2,600     9,000     3,800     1,200
5                   6,000     2,700     8,600      1,200      510     1,700     1,130        210
Functional Literacy            3,200    1,900      5,100      2,600    1,600     4,,200       210       210
Mobile Trade Training Unit    8,700    13,000     22,000      4.800   8,100    13,000         410     1,400
Adult Vocational School        4,300    9,000     13,000       2,900    6,000    9,000        730       370
Adult Mobile Vocational School 2,400     3,100     6,100      2,000    3,100     5,200        170       170
Interest Groups                 690     1,300      1,900        630    1,200     1,800         67        67
OI3
CD 
x-  I



THAILAND
Gross Domestic Product
Government Exenditure and Education Expenditure-,
and Projection ror 1951
1968     1969     1970      1971     1972       1973      1974      1975     1981.gl/
Gross Domestic Product               116.8    128.8    136.3    143.9       161.7     214.8    271.0        292        554
Central Government Expenditure:      20,844   23,162   24,791   28,449   30,325    32,177    35,653   56,500   130,000
- Recurrent                        13,830   15,705   16,620   18,641   20,979    23,735    27,710   42,,400    70,000
- Capital                           5,800    6,159    6,464    7,906    7,871       6,893     6,923   13,300    58,000
- Transfers                         1,214    1,299    1,707    1,902    1,475       1,559     1,020      -
Central Public Education
Expenditure:                        3,348    3,770    3,918    4,895    5,712       5,936      7,588   11,700    25,0oo
- PRcurrent                         2,452    2,734    2,968    3,102    4,359       4,379     5,786    9,000    20,000
- Capital                             896    1,036       950    1,793    1,353      1,557     1,802    2,700      5,000
Private Education Expenditure3/         845      975    1,012    1,174    1,1644/   1,313        1,481    1,6004-    3,400W4
Total Fducation Expenditure           4,193    4,745    4,930    6,o69    6,876       7,249      9,069   13,300    28,400
Public Education Expenditure: GDP    2.9%      2.9%      2.9%     3.4%     3.5%       2.8%       2.8%     4.0%       4.5%
Public Education Expenditure:        16.1%    16.3%    15.8%    17.2%    18.8%       18.5%      21.3%     20.7%    19.2%
Total Government Expenditure
1/  Fiscal years ending September 30.   GDP in billions of current year Baht, all other amounts in millions of
current year Baht.
2/ Projections based on the assumptions of the Bank Public Finance Mission contained in "A Study of Public
Finances in Thailand", Annex C, August 1974, as detailed in Appendix 2 of this report.
3/ Net of government subsidieS, which are already counted in line 2.
:7/  Estimated.
Source: Bank of Thailand, NESDB, and the Fducational Planning Division of the MOE.                                           \
March 1976



ANNEX 7
Proposed Project Four Schools by Size, Type and Degree of Provincial Need
1975-76
Size Category             A        B       C        D
No. of Class Groups      60       54      48       42               Mean
Planning Enrollment  2,400   2,160   1,920   1,680   Total   Enrollment
1.  Total                 7       13      13       17      50      1,968
. By Type:
Lower   Upper
Boys    Both          2        6        5       8       21     1,943
Girls   Both           2       2        4       6       14     1,920
Both    Both          3        5       4        3       15     2,048
3.  By Region:
Central               1        2       4        5      12      1,900
South                 2        4       3        4      13      1,994
North                 3        3       1        6      13      1,975
Northeast             1        4       5        2      12      2,000
4.  By Provincial Enrollment Ratio, All Schools:
Lower               N                  Upper                  N
Under 15%             7                  1-3%                  25
15-19%               14                  4-6%                  16
20-24%               10                  7-9%                   6
25-29%               13                  10 or more             3
30% or more           6                     Total              50
Total             50
5.  By Number of Other Public Secondary Schools in the Provinces, All
Schools:
Lower              N                  Upper                  N
0-77-              4                    0                   20
5-sc              19                    1                   18
10-1L              21                    2                    9
15-19               4                  3 or more              3
20 or more          2                    Total               5
Total            X
Source: Ministry of Education, 1975



ANNEX 8
THAILAND PRPOSED FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Sample Cost-Efficiency Data for Six Diversified
Secondary Schools, 1975-76
School                      1           2        3 |               5      6
Province              Chachoen-   Chonburi         Tak             Lampang
gsao
Project               Cr. 369-TH   Proposed Project IV            C I D A
Type                     Coed        Girls    Boys   Girls   Girls    Boys
1.  Enrollment, 1975:
Lower                          5j        1 ,1 83      867    738   1 ,560    1 ,315
Upper                            0         439        249    137      646        661
Total                          580       1,622    1,116    875   2,206    1,976
Increase over 1974 (%):
Lowr->i                       _ 10            9         7      11        7         6
Unnp!r                                       17        83    1o4        35        32
T:.rrn . I                  _ __             1 2       18      2O       114       14
2.  1"roda't,es in 197h:
Li.owe r (Ms3)                 160         323       193    171       318        355
lpper (Ms5)                      0          115         9       3      116       175
As g of enrol-3ment:
Inwer                           <3.(       100         95    100        77        97
Upper                                        85       100      37       82        93
T.eaching Staff in 1975
36          78        56      49      111       118
'ra.cticel -A1rts                         12        11       8       19        26
Pu;il-Teacher Ratio               1           21         20      18       20        17
F,-eurrent Budget in 1975
(mni llions of Bah ..):
Pqrsonnel                    1 .f,15     1 .7 39    1 .637  1 .L10   3.306    3.196
't   'r .0.8                          .1L5     .483   .259               3.999
1 n al                   1 .0bI3      1.886    2.1 20  1.669   3.306    7.195
r s tudent:  /               1,773       1 ,161    1,900  1,907   1,,499    3 ,6h1
US $             37          58Q       95      95       75       182
T £eacher Load in Per8Eds
per weelk  1 9 75 - 76_
ii->hest                        22           25        23      22       23        27
Mode                            20           20        19      20       18        18
Lo west                         11          13         13      14        8        10
I'.  Boom uce in periods per
week (max. = 35):
Under 25                         1            4         6       6)                27
25-29                            3           13         9       7) Data not,    17
30-3!                          1V            29        18      18) Compar-        13
35                               5  -J                  2       0)   able          8
Mean                            3.           30        29      29)                26
1/ reacher -load   *1ida'c        strators but inc.ludes department heads.
Souroe:  Data supplied by school principals, January 1976



C ... Ey   THAILAND            fOet Fourth Education Project                                                                                                                            IBR1/IDA Ed -tiS, ?,oj-t
AoArc,App,-,i..E Fore 'T-A
U M MA RY  O F  EST IM A T ED  P ROJE9C T   CO0S T
EST IMATED  COS TS  ISN   0 00 0OF             Baht          (19 76    P R ICEI )                                         E ST.  TO0T A L  
PiOJscr              sit.    ______           BUILPIS'        _______       ____      FIIEITSRE   ______  _____      EQUIPMENIT    ______   TOTAL       P'ROFESSIONAL  TECHS-   i.  '000      i
Develp-   Ardi,Saf                                    A-ode,ei.                       Aedmt.,                          PHYSYICAL      SERVICES     NICAL.     of           o
SECONDARY EDUCATION
Physical Facilities--
1 Training_and Min-_
teac   eter ITNq)-   _,5         ,        47A526___   800-_10,553    _         228  _ 675          903-   1 20I___                  200-   13_711        697_  -                 1 4,408        720
-50  -Diversified Se-condary
Schools (DSS)            87,718   393,687                 44,910  438,597         39,340 _            39,340  129,695               129,695    695,350 3,0                            726, 950      36,348
Sub-Total              88,773   398,914        4,526   45,710  449,150          39,568        675  40,243  130,895                130,895    709,061   32,297                       741,358      37 068
(Foreign Exchange-   ----- - --     
Component)            26,632                                    13,4)(12,073) ___    ___   (98,171: (271,621)   (3,230)                                                           (274,851)   (13,743) 1
Technical Assistance
3.5  Man-Years Experts           ___ ____              -                  -__                      __       ___        ___
Services                                                                                                                                                                     3,__ __ _ _ __ _ _ _ -5_ _   - 1 ( 
50   Man-Years_Fe11cyships --                                                                                                               __              __ __                 12,00C
Sub-Total                                                                                                                                                               15,85C      15,850          793
(Foreign Exchange                                                                                                      _________
Ccrnponent)                                                                                                                                                           :13,472   (13,473)          (673)
TOTAL SECONDARY
EDUCATION             88,773                                    449,150                           40,243                         130,895    709,061    32,29,           15,85C   757,208        37,861
Component)           26,632,                                  (134,745)   _                     (12,073)  ___          ___   (98,171   (271,621)   (3,23()            (13,47--  (288,324) -(14,416)
ADULT EDUCATION
Phvsical. Facilities
I   Coordinating Unit                                                                     232                 232        600                  600         832                                   82-          42jJ
4   RegionWel Adult Educa-
__ tion Centers   ACL   6,830           16,000      4,450    6,420   26,870           1,600        445    2,045   24,800  __             24,800      60,545      2,022                     62,567       3j,128
24   Lifelong Education                                                                 ___                 ___        ___    ___                         ___
C_!enters   LECsJ      -                           _  __                     _-              -           _   __                 _       _  -     _   _    _   _  _
First Two Phases (12) 13,908         29,760      3,420   11,040   44,220           2,976        342   3,318   28,920                  28,920      90,366      3,488                     93,854   4693
--Last Phase  12)  _        13.908      29.760   3_20          ,~04     4.22         2,~976       342   3,318   28,920  _        _      28,920      90,366      3,481                     93,854       4,693
_   Sub-Total              34,646      75,520    11,290   28,500  115,310            7,784     1,129   8,913   83,240_           _    83,240    242,109        8,99                     25,01256
Component)           '10,3941 _____ ___    ___   (34,593)                     ____                 (2,674)                       (62,430   (110,091)         90___(110,991i  (5,550),:
sh.et I 00 2 ~b,i~



Country__T_HAILAND              ..roer Fourth Education Pro~ject -                                                                                                                                           thtrl    -OE,lPr t,
S U MM ARY   OPF  E STIM14A T ED   P ROJ EC T   CO0S T
ES TTIM ATES DCO0S tfS   IN 5l        5   0      F ____abL..._...(I 9 7.    P R I CES)                                                ES T.  TOT A L   C C-r 
PROJECT                 Sit.                      BUILDINGS                        _____ FURNITURE                   _____EQUIPMENT                        TOTAL         PROFESSIONAL   TECM-      In  550        5  O'    4
No.  ITEM                ~~~~~~Devlop-  Aosde,.R.1            St ff                   Ac,d-e,oI                         A.adoI                               PHYS ICAL       SERVICES      NICAL         f            of
N..  ITEM  ~   ~ ~ ~ret             Adi..,       Boo_di.g    Nonoi.      Toto1        Adei. &   B-odiosR    TotD    SAtBie &   Boerdiog         Tot.1       PACCILITIES    Con..lt.      ASSIST-                     u05*
Technical Aasistance                    o,tnS_____                                        CoeBICetot                                                          EePrfee         AohNE
79  Man-Years Experts                         __--__                                                                                                    ___         __
Services__                                                                                             ____                      ___- -                        ____    6,720   290 _            16,620           831   ~
39  Man-Years FellowRhipa                   ____                                                                      _______                                          ___                 __    9,360          9,360           468
Sub-Total                           _____              ______6,720 19,260                                                                                                                               25,98         J,9
__  Component)                          _____                          -__                                                                                             __(672 16,371?   (17,043)                            (852)
__  TOTAL    ADULT                      _   _  _  __                 _   _      _  _   _   _   _                    _  _                   _                           -       ~----            -          -   -   -_             
__  EDUCATION                           ____34_ 646__                         115,310                              8-913             ---    _        83,240    22,109          8,96,720 192                27,07         13 855
__ (Foreign_Exchange________
Component)  i-10,394  -______                                             (34,593)                 -          (2,674)                       -   (62,430   (110,091)          (90()  (672 16,371   (128,034)    (6,402)
AND PREPARATION OF                        ___                                                                                                                  ____           __
FUTURE PROJECT______________________
27   Nan-Years Experts___                                            ______ _________
Services                                 ____________                                                                                                                               _1,92a   7,70C            9,620           481
__ (Foreign    _E xchange                  _  _ _  ___ _ _ _                                                       ______ __           _  _ _ __ _    _ _ _ _      _ _  _ _  _                              _ _  _  _
Comoonent)  ---.   -=----   -  ---.--- -       .     -                                     _______                                          (192  (6,54         (6,737~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--_192(6,4 L _(337)37
TOTA.L.BAR  CONT     _ __SooS 1 2_3I  ______                                     5_64,460_                             49,156         _ ____    214,135,  951,170    41,29. 8,640 42,81( 1,~043,915
EBOBOdLBI  )  IS$            6,17                              ___          28,223                              2,458   _ ______                  10,707       47,559       2,065    432   2,141                      52,197
(c.oti.gen.ies)      F.r. Ex.h. %   30       -             ____    ____               30       ____       ____           30      ____75                                  40         10       10      85         41             41
CONTINGENCIES        % B..e Cost                             55 ---   --               5-                                46                                 40_5   _41                       38      38          50            50
'SSU   08O                                            31100                                22 764~                            85,025    486,790    16,901 3,23C 16,04(    522,960
US$    -000   3,40)                            15,5_______                         1,138                              4,251       24,339       845    162    802                       -  6,148
F., E..h. %  30                       30                                 ~~~~~~~30    _____                  75           39          10     lo1       85         38             3 8 
TOTAL PROJECT COST    ____'o0  191,42                                             87,4071,920                                                            299,160 1,437,960    8,194 11,87C58,850   1,566,874
(olCootiog.nofe)  U5$    '500   9514 73                                                                              3,596               --      -    1,5            1898~ 2,1            9       ,4                        8,3451        "
TOTAL FOR. EXOH.      % Tot.l Cost--30__30                                                                                                                 75           39          10       10      85          40            40~
COHMPOENT         us$    .,,O 2,871   _-                                                                               ,7                               128         28,300    21          59    2,502
*C--eey Equivalent:  -S10                                                                                  Sheet  = of __  hets..



ANNEX 1 0
THAILAND
FOURTH EDJCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS BY CATEGORIES OF EXPENDITURE
Baht (millions)                US$ (millions)    t
Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign   Total
Civil Works
Site Development           86.4     37.0    123.4        4.32      i.85      6.17
Construction             395.2    169.3    564.5        19.75      8.47    28.22
Professional Services    37.2        4.1      4'.3       1.86      0.21      2.07
Sub-total             518.8    210.4    729.2        25.93    10.53    36.46
Furniture and Equipment
Furniture                  34.4      14.8     49.2       1.72      0.74      2.46
Equipment                  53.5    160.6    214.1        2.68      8.03    10.71
Sub-total              87.9    175.4    263.3         4.40      8.77    13.17
Technical Assistance
Foreign Experts             3.3      18.2     21.5       0.16      0.91      1.07
Local Experts               7.7      0.9       8.6       0.39      0.04      0.43
Fellowships                 3.2     18.2      21.4       0.16      0.91      1.07
Sub-total              14.2      37.3      51-5       0.71      1.86     2.57
Base Costs                  620.9    423.1  1,044.0       31.04    21.16    52.20
Con'ingencies
Physic7al                  62.1     42.3    104.4        3.10      2.12      5.22
Prir!e Innrease           260.9    157.7    418.6       13.05      7.88    20.93
Sub--total            323.0    200.0    523.0        16.15    10.00    26.15
TOTAL                       943.9    623.1  1,567.0       47.19    31.16    78.35
April 1976



THAILAND
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Contingency Allowances (UL$'000)
SiLe Develoonoct         ___n trctijon                      Furnitc       -              Equip-ent             Profo.cicool Sorvices         Technicol Assistance                TOTAL
Local   Fotaign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total         c     Paceiga   Total    LoctaTtl    Local   Foreig    Total    Local   Foreign   Total    total   F-reign   Total
1. Total loon Const                           4,320    1,851    6,171    19,756   8,467   28,223    1,721          737    2,458    2,677    8,030   10,707    1,858         207    2,065        710     1,863   2,573   31,042    21,155   52,197
2. Phyai-al Contingencies
Amon                                     432    (185    (IO)       (10)       (847   2(b22    (10)7         (10)   (10)      (1026    (10)    (10)        (10)3      (10)   (10)         (10)      Id6)    257    3,104       2,116    5,20
An... t                                  432       185      617      1,935     847    2.822       172        74      246       268      803    1,071        186       21       207        71       I86      257    3,104      2,116    5,228
3.  Nab-total inoluding
Physical Contiogeocios                  4,752    2,036    6,788    21,731   9,314   31,045    1,893          811    2,704    2,945    8,833   11,778    2,044         228    2,272        781     2,049   2,83o   34,146    23,271   57,417
4.  Frito Intreo.e Contingenties
(%)                                    (41)     (43)      (41)     (41)      (41)      (41)     (33)        (33)   (33)      (27)     (27)    (27)       (28)        (28)   (28)         (25)    (25)    (25)    (38)        (34)      (36)
A.o.nt                                 1,948       835    2,783      8,909   3,819   12,728       624       268      892       795    2,385    3,180        574       64       638       195       512      707   13,045      7,883   20,928
5.  Tosa1 CootioRg-cDo
Physical ond Price Increase             2,380    1,020    3,400    10,884   4,666   15,550          796      342    1,138    1,063    3,188    4,251         760       85       845       266        698     964   16,149       9,999   26,148
6.  Total Ocojet Canto
I    dtaldiog Cantingeccinn             6,700    2,871    9,571    30,640  13,133   43,773    2,517    1,079    3,596    3,740   11,218   14,958    2,618              292    2,910       976      2,561   3,537   47,191    31,154   78,345
April 1976



T H A I T. A N D
PPJ)EC1  NPLNN lAIUNSCiHEDULE
Calendar   Years      7__ __ ___ __ _7___ _19__ _0__                                            '981                                  .
_____________________     ~        ~2           3             2                      3         1   2     i3  4    lj  2   3    4 1
PHSCA    ACILITIES                            I- ---
SiL-a elezrion Acquiisition . 
an.d   S-irvevs                           ______   --     -
Prep.of Tender  Phase IX     X.
Documm ts        Phase II---
Phase 'III             tX 
Evaluation,Con- Phase III                                                    NI
tract Avarding  Phase III                                                   XI               i    NX
Construction    Pr"ase I                                           N   X                         I
Phase II                                                lx        x          
Phase ITT                                                   I           x                     x  Ix        II                  I
Liability         Phase I                                               -:* 
Period      ~    Phase II            II       Hx 
Furniture & EauiDnmert -P'e_I_                                                                                      f4
Tender Docu-    Phiase ii                                                            Ill 
mnonts           Phase TllI
Tcnderi ig, Bid   Phiase I 
Evaluation,Con- -Phase -II                                                       x 
tract AwF!rding  Phas9e ITT          I                                                -     t                -             -1
M1afufac:uring,  Phase I                                      -        x   x    x~ 
eivery,         Phase IIX                                                                      X
Installo-tion      lh a -a III                          -X .X                                                                            -
Period           rhase                                             *x  x                                          
Liabiliry    tPhase:l                                                                 XX      X                          xx1x    x
TECH.NI:CAL ;ASS1S:A\CE±'r                                                                                 -L 
Sneci'al4St: SŽ"ces                                     I
Adult 7-ucazioa                       IX               xX      N   N  N   X    N                           
.secon.dory. ScIhools                                                                                           lxii       x xx      
1roj. ''nit Suport                          X. X      X   XN    X    X   X   X X   I           X  X   K;I         XX 
>Proj. Unit Support      I                  N~~~~~ X   X                 X   X  X  i                                
Adult Education                            I     N             XIN    X  X   X    X          
Secon-dary Schools                             I      Xx X     X XX X            X
April 1 976



ANNEX 13
Page 1
THAILAND
Forecast of Expenditures
(US Dollars millions)
Financial                                                       Accumulated
Year              Semester           Expenditures            Expenditures
1977                  1                 0.5 (0.2)               0.5 (0.2)
2                 2.5 (0.8)              3.0 (1.0)
1978                  1                 5.0 (2.0)               8.0 (3.0)
2                 7.5 (3.5)             15.5 (6.5)
1979                  1                10.0 (4.0)              25.5 (10.5)
2                10.0 (h.o)             35.5 (14.5)
1980                  1                12.5 (4.5)              4U.o (19.0)
2                12.5 (5.0)             60.5 (24.0)
1981                  1                13.0 (5.0)              73.5 (29.0)
2                 2.5 (1.0)             76.0 (30.0)
1982                  1                 2.4 (1.0)              78.4 (31.0)
j Amounts between brackets are reimbursable.
April 1P476



ANNEX 13
Page 2
THAILAND
Forecast of Disbursements
(US Dollars millions)
Financial                                       Accumulated       Undisbursed
Year        Semester      Disbursements      Disbursements        Balance
1977           1               0.2               0.2               30.8
2              0.3               0.5               30.5
1978           1               0.5               1.0               30.0
2              2.0               3.0                28.0
1979           1               3.5               6.5               24.5
2              4.0              10.5               20.5
1980           1               4.0              14.5               16.5
2              4.5              19.0                12.0
~9d1           1               5.0              24.0                7.0
2              5.0              29.0                 2.0
i982           1               1.0              30.0                1.0
2               1.0             31.0
February 1976



THAILAND
EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID, 1973 - 1974
ENROLLMENT
YEARS                                                                                                                      RATIO
8                                                        620       440
GRADUATE                                                                                                                                            0.7%
9,610     17                                                     5,010     3,540
HIGHER
16                                                     9,440     6,670
15                                                     9,600     6,780
UNDERGRADUATE                                                                                                                                               2.9%
90,700    14                               l                     15,200    10,700
13                                                   18,900     13,400
12                                                 43,800   1   41,000
UPPER                                                                                                                                           13%
206,000     11                                                 62,600         58.600
SECONDARY                                      MALE                                                                    FEMALE
10                                             107,000             79,400
LOWER       9                                             128,000               95,400                                                          26%
677,000
8                                            153,000                 114,000
7                                         189,000                     144,000
UPPER      6                                1      230,000                          176,000                                                     42%
1,247,000                                                    I
PRIMARY  5                          288,000                                220,000
PRIMARY_
4                 547,000                                                                       492,000
3          640,000                                                                                    576,000
LOWER                       ,li                                                                                       .F116%
5,133,000     2       686,000                                                                                          617,000
1       829,000                                                                                                  7460
800,000       600,000       400,000        200,000           0          200,000        400,000        600,000        800,000
I             1              1 i                          i              I              1              I            j
Note: Enrollments at each level include overage pupils.
December, 1974                                                                                                             World Bank-15517



THAILAND
PRESENT AND PROPOSED STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
PRIMARY EDUCATION       - |          SECONDARY EDUCATION-]                     HIGHER EDUCATION
PRESENT                                                                                TEACHER TRAINING
ACADEMIC STREAM
LOWER PRIMARY           UPPER PRIMARY          LOWER SEC.         UPPER SEC.            UNIVERSITIES
VOCATIONAL STREAM
KEY
LOWER SEC.         UPPER SFCONDARY       TECHNICAL
() MAJOR EXAMINATIONS
* CERTIFICATE
< DIPLOMA
BACHELOR'S DEGREE
PRIMARY EDUCATION    N                  SECONDARY EDUCATION                      H GHER EDUCATION N.
PROPOSED                                                                            I   
PROPOSEDLOWER- UPPER                          TEACHER TRAINING
UNIVERSITIES
VOCATIONAL StREAM
{of]0~~
GRADE 1    2      3    4         5     6    7          8    9    10         11   12        13   14         15   16   (17)
AGE   7     8    9    10         11   12   13          14   is   16         17   18        19   20         21   22   (23)
World Bank-1 5827



CHART 3
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM OF THAILAND (1976)
(SIMPLIFIED)
CABINET
Prime Minister
1onal E                            Ofice of
|    Council  l         ~~~~the -Prime Minister
rII ~          ~                      _~~~__  -        ---______   ------ 4
BUREAUOMis e o                                                       tio                                             Ministry of Interior
Eleven                                Teacher Training                                                                 Department of
Universities                              Department                              partment                            Local Administration
National Institute
for Development                              Educational                          General Educ
Administration                              Techniques                            Department
S Private School l 1 ~~~~Secondr tcol   iiion of Rural|
_ Secre~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~taryiatucation
| Adult Education     |
National Level
Regona LeRegional
|   Inspector        |
Regional Level                                            Regional
SupervDsors e
ng Education                              Changwat Council 
Sciool  Sch Superintendent      P                           El
Schoolswat                L                                                         Local Authority
L  Supervisors       rEducation Section
Provincial Lev,el,,,                                              
Municipat~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Muiia Levlu_._.c..l
WaorldBn-53
_[    Amphoe o                                                                   DISTRICT OFFICER  |
-|Education Section
D....  istrict Level
Private                     Secondary              [ l   ME Operation                    Municipal                       Rural
Schools        |Schools                            |       Primary         |     |     Elementary,                     Elementary
(2,000)                         (820)                Schools  (200) |      |       Schools  (400)                  Schol (27,0001
-- - - - -       -- - - -  - -  .. ..... ....   .   .. -  -- -- - -- -- - -- - -- -- - -- - -   ... . .......................... .................................. ------------------ ....... . 
SOURCE: MOE, Feb. 76WodBn-53



CHART 4
LORENZ CURVES AND REPRESENTATION INDICES
SHOWING REGIONAL INEQUALITY IN
PRIMARY, SECONDARY AND ADULT EDUCATION, 1973
KEY:                    GRA  ES
Lower Primary     .... 1-4                                                 7  i1
Upper Primary   -  o     5-7 7                                                         I
Lower Secondary- -_"--8- 10                                              '        I
____Upper Secondary.... ..11--12              ____.                                  
.0 _
50 _
.    40                      7         t      /    /        <                     ,O A~~~~a. 
40
1                                              _u
30          10                            -47
Cumulative Population in Appropriate Age Groups
Representation Index
='rnnary      | Secondary       l
Region  Broad Region Principal City  Low,    Upper   Lower   Upper  Adult Education
1      Central     Bangkok        1.64     2.04     2.72     4.17        1.68         Example: Looking at the
2      South       Yala           .79       .83      .82     .51         1.98         curve for the distribution
3      South       Songkla        .91      1.17     1.14      .72        1.10         of apper secondary places.
4      South       Phuket          .91     1.19     1.10      .73        1.04         point A indicates that 88%
5  Central  Ratchburi                          adult education .9Su.of the population grouped
5      Central      aLtpburd      .8       1.6      1.95        .55       .87         in the 11 least advantaged
8            Cenra   Lopr            .49     1. 11.18                70     .87          rgion onyha080     oh
7      North       Phitsunuloke     93       81       65      32 A74 Age Grouf
~~',imary  Secondaryupe scoday  laes
8      North       Chiengmai       .88      .77       71      .65        1.22           upper  secondare   places,
9      Northeast       Udorn      .93       .68       56      .22        1.10         doinga Bng) weiotha 12%
10     Northeast   Ubon            .90       .87      .52     .26          .75         of the population has 62%
11      Northeast   Korat9 .9               .63       .49     .30          .48         of the upper secondary
12     Central      Chonburi       .85      1.01      .91    _             .75    _    eofothenupperssecondarv
7  Nrt     Phtsnulke       .9      -8       -6       -3           34          upper___   sp cnaypaces.
GINI Coeffic ent  ga            =          .221    .326    .566          .212
Definitions:
Lorenz Curve - Cumulative percentage of distributed good (enrollment) plotted
against the cumulative percentage of the distributive basis (population in age group).
The greater the resulting curve bows away from the diagonal, the greater is the dis-
tributional inequality.
GINI Coefficient - The area between the diagonal and the curve as a percentage of
the entire triangular area to the right of the ciagonal. It represents the distributional
picture in a single number.
Representation Index - The ratio of percent of total enrollment to percent
of population in the age group. A number above 1.00 indicates above average
representation. A number below 1.00 indicates below average representation.
World Bank-15828



THAILAND                              CHART -
Proposed Pro ect Implementation Organization
Credit, 36 -TH and Proposed Project IV
MINISTRY
OF
E3DUCATION
UNDER
3ECR.S~TkRY
PROJECT      ~~PROJECT           l;Pr T -C          XEACUTIVE
ADVI3OR           DIPRCTOR                              3E.aETAiY
ARCHIThCT
ACCOUNTANT
P.OCUREME NT
OFFICER
_  I  .   l                     l               ~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONJAL
DIVER3IFIED            AULT                TACHER             CURRICULUM
SECONDARY           a)UZATION             TRAINING           DEVELOPMENT
SCHIOOLSCl{<
ADVISRS            _P                    A R                     -- |AIO
STAFF               STAFF               STAFF               3TAFF
3oalce: MOE
Xtre' 197?6






C104°
THAILAND
B U R M A                                                                    FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
-20'                    t                     rf        D   n                                                          SECONDARY EDUCATION                        20-
C\                                                                   Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~[TRAININGC AND MAINTENANCE CENTER
*DIVERSIFIED SECONDARY SCHOOLS
fADULT EDUCATION
^NNeI-Dn" n                                                                                     * ®NATIONAL ADULT EDUCATION COORDINATING UNIT
LIFE LOND EDUCTIOUN CENTERS
898 MEe sErletlE) gt                                    g        L A                              O S                           T
,  t=0J                                    N /  5   ,f7-   r   -  LIST OF PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
- \S      >Jt ISh>f ATTACHES
jr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
X~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~*7                                                            02 rk< 1,3   n l h   1 t                       JF 1    
>t A                                                                    ½L 0 6
=-        T-O$ i3tt    WA' 41                                                                                           LAOSl
>as                                                                                                          tZ =9"E,;;Qt (<^ t =--'0'    0   i     _ 5-
U     4.  k t)
023  -2$LY    .   1                            *        r'f Ct                    > M    - 0 D I. 
N   ~~~~'  '~~~~~"  <~~~~>    /    >9  U-    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~LSSUHA-'
N, :     ,MSUTL                      N   ,S                                                                    v. -.- ,. . 7 8 j aF   a  0   0  00    0  X  :  X  :=0  _   MDRE THANT1.0W
a 0 S t f Z2 -~~~~~~ n S Q S ;= 0 ; N f 9 g gL ~~~~~~~~PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
0 0  0   tV   0 -0; -    Xi3 0    X   t    2  - 0t 00 =   ;      X tX 0  $ (1 2   ~~~~-- -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
:                                        Ni.,=00  -X '  r f ' ' :;fft0 .;0 =             0's.  EjtV                 PR UT   DENIT  perl kin
CT                     P'$}                                                                      &      'i                     MOR THAN 1,5U50
J11  40 5-                                                             ;    , 0 ;_ g t Sumt ThkYqSj-- -  PR_  _  _OVINCIAL _  _OUNDRIE
i         -        -  IN TERNATIONALAUNDARIE         :j
Ny~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NI
:I                         ,         ,                                                         Se a ,U(             ;   ,^  Vl TNAM
~~~  2  ~            fLO
0~~~y  1/T)                        [0         3       f       J       0        ""                                    I'         ITUI o' ',n.n.,.,.I, Cif5e
4'>meer JlfUnnnn- RARi ,LA Y SI    A                                                                                                             ii
CHINATNA
,10 I?                              200          0      i0r                     wf.>                                                           IGPR 
t:   . toor      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M A L A Y S I A_                          ND_ONESI.A z
MALAYSIABM  N D_RTH0
100-                                                                                   A~~~~~~~~~  \ITAM N'






LIST OF PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
SECONDARY EDUCATION
TRAINING AND MAINTENANCE CENTER
1. Bangkok
DIVERSIFIED SECONDARY SCHOOLS
1. Chiang Mai                         26.  Surin
2. Lampang                            27.  Surin
3.  Phitsanulok                       28. Uttaradit
4.  Songkhla                          29. Uttaradit
5.  Songkhla                          30. Phet Buri
6. Udon Thani                         31.  Satun
7. Phrae                              32. Kalasin
8.  Sisaket                           33. Nakhon Si-Thammarat
9.  Chon Buri                         34.  Phatthalung
10.  Phuket                            35.  Suphanburi
11. Phuket                             36.  Suphanburi
12. Tak                                37.  Chanthaburi
13.  Tak                               38. Yala
14.  Maha Sarakham                     39. Narathiwat
15.  Chaiyaphum                        40.  Chumphon
16. Buriram                            41.  Pattani
17.  Kanchanaburi                      42. Krabi
18.  Uthai Thani                       43. Prachuap Khiri Khan
19.  Sisaket                           44. Phichit
20. Loei                               45. Kamphaeng Phet
21. Nan                                46. Mae Hongson (Mae Sariang)
22.  Lop Buri                          47.  Nong Khai
23.  Chai Nat                          48. Yasothon
24. Nakhon Pathom                      49.  Trat
25.  Trang                             50.  Chiang Rai (Phayao)
ADULT EDUCATION
NATIONAL ADULT EDUCATION COORDINATING UNIT
1. Bangkok
REGIONAL ADULT EIXJCATION CENTERS
1.  Lampang (North)                    3. Rat Buri (Central Plains)
2. Ubon Ratchathani (Northeast)        4.  Songkhla (South)
LIFELONG EDUCATION CENTERS
1.  Chachoengsao                      13.  Nakhon Sawan
2. Rat Buri                           14.  Samut Sakhon
3.  Phetchabun                        15.  Surin
4. Ubon Ratchathani                   16. Nakhon Si-Thammarat
5. Roi Et                             17.  Ang Thong
6.  Chiang Mai                        18.  Phatthalung
7.  Sisaket                           19. Nan
8.  Phichit                           20. Chaiyaphum
9.  Nakhon Ratchasima                 21. Satun
10.  Yala                              22. Ayutthaya
11.  Trang                             23. Kamphaeng Phet
12. Khon Kaen                           24.  Uthai Thani



