Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10668
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
FELDA PALM OIL MILLS PROJECT
(LOAN 2530-MA)
MAY 29, 1992
N C
.} ~~~~~ \
a)a,~~~~~~~~~,
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
Currency Unit        =         Malaysian Ringgit (M$)
Year             Exchange Rate
US$1.00                         1984                 2.34
1985                 2.48
1986                 2.58
1987                 2.52
1988                 2.62
1989                 2.71
1990 (Completion)   2.69
1991                 2.69
ABBREVIATIONS
BOD             -         Biological Oxygen Demand
CPO             -         Crude Palm Oil
DBMS            -         Data Base Management System
DOE             -         Department of Environment
EDP             -         Electronic Data Processing
FELDA           -         Federal Land Development Authority
FELMILL         -         FELDA Palm Oil Mills Corporation
ffb            -          Fresh Fruit Bunches, of oil palm
MIS             -         Management Information Systems
ppm             -         parts per million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
eashington, DC. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of DOrec:or-General
Operations *valuatlon
May 29, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Malaysia - Felda
Palm Oil Mills Proiect (Loan 2530-MA}
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Malaysia - Felda Palm Oil Mills Project (Loan 2530-MA)"
prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower.  No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MATAhI
FELDA PALK OIL MILOS PROJECT
(LOAN 2530-MA 
Table of Contents
PPfe
Preface . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Evaluation Summary  .. .       . ..  .    .  .   . . . . . . . . . ...   .       ii.
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . .       .  .  .  .    .  1
Project Identity  ....     . . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .    . . . .   .   1
Background  ............................
Project Objectives and Description  . ...  ...  .        .  .  .  .    . .. 2
Project Design and organization. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Project  Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
Project Results .....  .  ..  .  .  ..  .      .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .    ..  6
Project Sustainability  ....  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  . . .    .  .    . .  .   .    8
Bank Performance . . . .                 ..... . . . . .   9
Borrower Performarce ..... ...........    9
Project Relationship . . ...............    10
Consulting Services ...               ..     .........              .      10
Project Documentation and Data  ....  .  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . . . . .10
PART IIs PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTI   . . . . . . . . . . .   11
PART IIIs STATISTICAL INFORMATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Related Bank Loans  . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . .   15
Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . .     .  .    . . .17
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursements  . ...    18
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
Project Cost and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . .   20
Project Results .... .. ....... .. . .21
Status of Covenants ...   .. ........  .  .  .  .  ..  .        .  .  .  .   .   23
Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
ANNEXES
1. Mills Construction Costs   . ...   . . . .  .       .......  .   .  .  27
2. Mills Production      ....  . .    .  ..... . . ......... . . . . .29
3. Mills Processing Costs   . . . . . . .                 . . . * . .      30
4. Project Economic Rate of Return   . . . .  0 .        ... .. . 38
5. Project Financial Rate of Return   . . . . . . . .   . . . .            40
Map   IBRD 23564
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
FELDA PALM OIL MILLS PROJECT
(LOAN 2530-MA)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Rbport (PCR) for the FELDA Palm Oil
Mills Project in Malaysia, for which Loan 2530-MA in the amount of US$31.2
million was approved on May 7, 1985. The loan was made to the Federal Land
Development Authority (FELDA). Loan cancellations amounted to US$13.3
million. The reduced loan amount was fully disbursed and the last
disbursement was on December 10, 1990. The loan was closed on schedule on
June 30, 1991.
The Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared
by the Agriculture Operations Division of the East Asia and Pacific Country
Department I. Part II was prepared by FELDA.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission for the Project in June 1990, and later completed on the
basis of a separate evaluation of the Electronic Data Processing (EDP)
component in July 1, 1991 and information provided by the Borrower. The PCR
is also based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan, Guarantee
and Project Agreements; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower and
the Guarantor; and internal Bank documents.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FELDA PALM OIL MILLS PROJECT
(LOAN 2530-MAI
Evaluation Summary
Proiect Obiectives
1.        In support of the Government's smallholder land settlement program,
the project objectives were to: (a) strengthen FELDA (Federal Land
Development Authority) and FELMILL (FELDA Mills Corporation) palm oil mill
operations; (b) strengthen FELDA's corporate planning, budgeting and
accounting, and management information systems; (c) promote the Government's
policy of making public commercial enterprises become financially self-
sufficient; and (d) contribute to overcoming Malaysia's balance of payments
and fiscal constraints. The Project included: (a) construction and
commissioning of seven palm oil mills with a total capacity of 351 ton
ffb/hour during 1984-1989; and (b) provision of about 24 man-months of
technical assistance to FELDA fo: developing and implementing an Electronic
Data Processing System (EDP), with emphasis on a Data Base Management System
(DBMS).
Implementation Experience
2.        FELDA had enjoyed a long and close relationship with the Bank under
six earlier successful smallholder settlement projects, but this was the first
operation for which the Bank and the Government agreed that FELDA should be
the direct Borrower given the commercial nature of the activities involved.
Although FELDA's top management were fully committed to the objectives of this
seventh project, they were reluctant to borrow directly and assume the foreign
e;ichange risk of the Bank loan, which caused a delay in Board presentation of
the project by nearly two months. The deadline for loan effectiveness was
extended once due to delays in finalizing and signing the Subsidiary Mill
Transfer Agreement between FELDA and FELMILL. Thereafter, project
implementation was generally free of problems, and the loan closed on schedule
on June 30, 1991.
3.        Mill construction was fully completed by loan closing.  However,
the number of mills was reduced from seven to six, and the installed capacity
was scaled down from 351 to 270 ton-ffb/hour, in line with the revised ffb
production pro,ections. In compliance with Malaysian strict environmental
standards, all project mills were provided with effluent biological treatment
facilities. The three mills in Peninsular Malaysia were completed and
commissioned on or ahead of schedule, while the other three in Sabah were all
delayed by about one year.
4.        Early during implementation FELDA decided not to finance the EDP
consultants out of the Bank loan, since the Government had agreed to provide
budgetary support for this purpose. This effectively reduced the Bank's
direct involvement with the EDP component. Nevertheless, as had been agreed



- iv -
with the Bank, the TOR of consultants who had been retained prior to
negotiation- were amended to include development of a DBMS and an "Automationi
Plan for FE JA and FELDA Corporations", thus retaining the objectives and the
main thrust of the EDP component. FELDA also continued to share information
with tho Bank from tire to time and was receptive to its suggestions on the
implementaticn of the EDP. Later, FELDA extended the consultants' contract to
assist in the implementation of the Automation Plan for FELDA and to prepare a
more specific automation plan for the corporations.
5.        Actual Project costs were US$37.8 million (M$97.9 millionj compared
to US$62.1 million (MS154.7 million) estimated at appraisal. Of this, US$37.2
million (M$96.4 million) were for palm oil mill construction, compared to
US$61.8 million (M$154.0 million) estimated at appraisal, and US$0.6 million
(M$l.5 million) for EDP consulting services (US$0.3 million at appraisal).
About one-third of the cost difference for mills was due to the deletion of
one mill and the reduction of insta.led capacity in two others. The rest was
primarily due to much lower than expected price increases. As a result of
lower project costs and FELDA's concern about the cost of Bank funds, the Loan
was reduced from US$31.2 million to US$17.9 million, which was j.ully disburse'4
on December 10, 1990.
Results
6.        Overall the project was satisfactory and project results,
particularly in respect of FELDA/FELMILL palm oil mills operations, were close
to appraisal expectations. Decisions taken during project preparation and
appraisal to review ffb production projections and reschedule/scale down the
installed capacity of some mills were timely and appropriate. Overall, mill
capacity utilization, and consequently FELMILL's financial position, are much
stronger today as a result.
7.        The EDP component brought benefits to FELDA and its corporations.
It made a significant contribution to improving FELDA's operations --
particularly regarding decentralization of data entry and improvement of
settler accounts. Establishment of PRODATA has been instrumental in the
overall improvement of data management and also cost savings through the
sharing of equipment and software.  The cha:ge-back system adopted by PRODATA
ensures recovery of investments and introduces discipline among FELDA user
departments and corporations. Nonetheless, the objective of establishing a
DBMS was not fully achieved. The achievements and shortcomings in this regard
have to be seen in the light of the complexity of FELDA's functions and the
concerns of FELDA staff about data security and the risks involved in
migrating from one system to another. It should also be noted that separate
data bases for various FELDA functions had to be established before proceeding
with the implementation of an overall DBMS. In hindsight, the original EDP
objectives were valid, but the specific targets were overly ambitious for the
time and resources estimated at appraisal.
8.        With regard to the Government's policy of promoting financial self-
sufficiency of public commercial enterprises, to some extent this was
undermined when Government funds on concessional terms were made available to
FELDA for various activities. However, Government lending terms to



parastatals have been adjusted and are now close to market terms. In the case
of FELDA, the Government has continued to reduce budget support for
develcipment activities, and FELDA is increasingly relying on its own resources
to finance investments in ,nill construction and land development.
9.        The combined economic rate of return (ERR) for the six mills
financed under the project is nlow cal-lated at 13%, which is satisfactory.
At appraisal, the ERR was estimated a'; 16% for seven mills. The re-estimated
ERR is lower primarily because processing charges, which were assumed at
appraisal to remain constant in real terms have actually declined. Other
reasons for the lower ERR are longer construction period3 and delayed benefits
from some mills, and a higher weig'-. of the more expensive Sabah mills, due to
the exclusion from tile project of one mill in west Malaysia. The financial
rate of return is calcul ad at 11%, which is lower than the appraisal
estimate of 14%, for Lhe same reasons.
Sustainabilitv
10.       FELMILL operations in general and project-financed mills in
particular are sustainable. With FELDA's oil palm areas reaching maturity,
ffb production and mill capacity utilization are increasing, thus promising a
steady flow of benefits during the economic life of the mills. The high
quality of FELMILL commercially-oriented technical and financial management
further assures sustainability.
Findincqs and Lessons Learned
11.       The main fintings and lessons learned are as follows.
(a)  Public sector corporations can function very efficiently, from both
a technical and financial standpoint, if they are provided with
adequate incentives, management and operational autonomy. FELMILL
and several other corporations in the FELDA group are good
examples. FELDA's own operational efficiency and the growth of its
managerial cadre could be further strengthened with some
dec:entralization of decision-making power and improved
communications (PCR, para. 9.1).
(b) Inconsistent Government policieb can affect project implementation.
In this case, the Government compelled FELDA to borrow directly
from the Bank, in line with its policy of promoting the financial
self-sufficiency of public commercial enterprises, but at the same
time made low-cost loans and grants available to FELDA during
proiect implementation, thus reducing FELDA's incentive to utilize
the Bank loan for various activities (PCR, paras. 4.5, 5.3 and
6.3).
(c) Allocation of specialized Bank staff or consultants during project
preparation and implementation is necessary, particularly in those
areas in which the Borrower is less experienced. In this case,
Bank technical input for the EDP component could have been stronger
despite the fact that FELDA chose not to use loan funds to .inance
implementation (PCR, para. 8.2).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
FELDA PALM OIL MILLS PROJECT
(LOAN 2530-MA)
PART I: IROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Proiect Identity
Name        : FELDA Palm Oil Mills Project
Loan Number : 2530-MA
RVP Unit    : East Asia and Pacific Region
Country     : Malaysia
Sector      : Agriculture and Agro-Processing
2. Background
2.1        FELDA.  The Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA),
established in 1956 as a Statutory Body attached to the Ministry of Lands,
currently operates under the Ministry of Rural Development. -ince its
inception, FELDA has played a major role in addressing the Government's
poverty alleviation through the development and planting of State lands with
rubber and oil palm settlement by poor rural families. FELDA's full
integrated program includes land development and smallholder settlement in
group farming schemes and the provision of community organization, management,
agricultural extension, inputs, credit, processing, marketing and other
services. For its development services and downstream activities, by the time
of project appraisal FELDA had established eight subsidiary corporations and
entered into six joint venture arrangements with the private sector since
1972. The largest among FELDA's corporations was and still is the FELDA Mills
Corporation (FELMILL), which at t..e time of its establishment was charged with
the processing of oil palm fruits and rubber. FELMILL's rubber operations
were later transferred to another corporation.
2.2       By the time of project appraisal in 1984, FELDA had developed and
planted around 360,000 ha with oil palm t66%), rubber (30%) and other crops
(4%), and had emplaced about 85,000 settler families. FEIMILL operated 56
palm oil mills with a combined throughput capacity of about 2,750 ton-
ffb/hour. A large number of development schemes were reaching the producL.on
stage and FELDA was concerned about consolidating them through the prcvision
of roads, village infrastructure and processing facilities, particularly palm
oil mills.
2.3       FELDA and its corporations had generally been efficient and well
managed and had long been considered a success story of Government-organized
land development and settlement. However, FELDA's management, financial and
information systems were in need of some further improvement to cope with the



increasing complexity and size of its operations brought about by the
exceptional growth experienced during the 1970s. In particular, FELDA's
accounting system which had been established and autonmated in the early 1970s
required modernization, and there was a need for decentralization of data
processing. With increasing reporting requirements, it was also necessary to
establish an efficient management information system capable of integrating
the various management functions, (e.g., budgeting, contracting, settler
accounts, etc.) with the genaral accounting system. FELDA management was
committed to addressing these needs and in July 1984, before loan
negotiations, FELDA retained a consulting firm for the development 3nd
implementation of improved management, financial and computer systems.
2.4       FELDA's financial position was healthy.  It had accumulated  a
substantial cash surplus resulting from the spread in its re-lending of
government fundc to the settlers and subsidiary corporations, management
levies, replanting reserves and returns from investments.  The Government,
however. was facing budget constraints and had embarked on a policy of
encouraging the financial self-sufficiency of revenue-earning entities. It
had, therefore, started to reduce FELDA's dependence on the official budget.
In 1983, the Government covered only 80% of FELDA's administrative costs out
of the general budget, and the spread on FELDA's re-lending operations was
eliminated.
2.5       Bank Involvement and Project Origin.  The Bank had supported FELDA
since 1968 through six loans for tree crop development and oil palm and rubber
processing. Those projects had bee. highly satisfactory, and through their
implementation the Bank had made a significant contribution to the
institutional development of FELDA. During FELDA-Bank discussions in 1983, it
was agreed that the most effective way for the Bank to further support FELDA
was by providing assistance to critical components (palm oil mills, roads and
water supply facilities) of its settlement program on a time-slice basis,
rather than financing individual schemes. It was also agreed that the Bank
would assist FELDA in its efforts to improve its financial and management
information systems, with emphasis on the development and implementation of a
modern electronic data processing system. Finally, as a step towards the
financial self-sufficiency of FELDA's commercial operations, it was agreed
with the Government that the Bank loan would be nmde directly to FELDA with
FELDA/FELMILL bearing the full cost of borrowing.
3. Project Obiectives and Description
3.1       Proiect Obiectives.  In support r,f the Government's smallholder
land settlement program, the project objectives were to: (a) strengthen
FELDA/FELMILL palm oil mill operations; (b) strengthen FELDA's corporate
planning budgeting and accounting and management information systems; (c)
promote the Government's policy of financial self-sufficiency of public
1/    After approval of the Palm Oil Mills project, the Bank approved two
other loans to GOM for FELDA for the Land Settlement Infrastructure and
Sabah Land Settlement and Environmental Management Projects (Loans 2642
and 3039-MA), both of which are currently under implementation.



-3-
commercial enterprises; and (d) help to alleviate Malaysia's balance of
payments and fiscal constrai.lts.
3.2       Project ComD_nents  The Project included:  (a) construction and
commissioning of seven palm oil mills with a total capacity of 351 ton
ffb/hour during 1984-1989; and (b) provision of about 24 man-months of
technical assistance to FELDA for developing and implementing an Electronic
Data Processing System (EDP).
4. Proiect Desian and Organization
4.1       Overall, the project concept and obiectives were clear, and the
design of the two major components was well-3u_ced to the prevailing needs of
FELDA.
4.2       Palm Oil Mills Component.  FELDA/FELMILL palm oil milis engineering
designs, construction and operation had been developed and constantly _.mproved
through several years of experience.  The project, therefo;3, did not aim to
make a major contribution to these aspects, although some refinements were
proposed through the exchanges between Bank and FELDA technical staff during
preparation and implementation. The mill component focused primarily on the
review and improvement of FELDA/FELMILL mill development program, adjusting
mill construction timing and capacity on the basis of updated ffb harvest
projections. This approach was timely since FELDA had embarked on an
accelerated mill construction program because it expected high ffb yields from
the introduction of weevil pollination. These yields did not materialize
resulting in a lower than anticipated overall mill capacity utilization of
about 40% at that time, so the decisions taken during preparation to
reschedule the construction of some prospective mills and scale down the
capacity of others were appropriate.
4.3       Although FELDA and FELMILL management and staff were quite
interested in receiving Bank support for their palm oil mill construction
program, they were not enthusiastic about borrowing directly from the Bank.
For this reason, FELDA's Board was initially reluctant to approve the loan as
negotiated with the FELDA staff, and later during implementation the scope of
the project was reduced and the loan was partially cancelled. Institutional
responsibility for the palm oil mills component was clearly defined and worked
very well during implementation. Mill design and construction were initially
the responsibility of FELDA's Process Department (PD), and operation that of
FELMILL. The design and construction functions, and the Processing Department
itself, were later transferred to FELX ;L, which was a further institutional
improvement.
4.4       Electrisnic Data Processing (EDP) Component.  Inclusion of the EDP
in the project wai very timely and, t- a certain extent, innovative. FELDA
had retained a corsulting firm for development and implementation of improved
management, financ. al and computer systems, but the scope of the work proposed
was focused only on general accounting, settler and MIS improvements, without
addressing the more basic need for a full Data Base Management System (DBMS)
as a precondition for reliable information management. The DBMS concept was
to be introduced under the project, designed to suit FELDA's rccournting and



-4-
MIS requirements and to integrate all data pertaining to FELDA and the
corporations through proper coding and simultaneous transmission of data
from/to the settlement schemes and palm oil mills to/from regional offices and
headquarters.  The need for procuvement of mini- and micro-computers for on-
line transmiasion of data from the field was alco identified. Implementation
of the EDP wae to be baLed on the recommendatJons and an action plan to be
prepared by the consultants. The project was to finance adaitional consulting
services for design and implementation of the DBMS, but the resources
allocated were not sufficient for the complex task of developing a DBMS and
MIS and overhauling FELDA's accounting syst-m. This later .esulted in
implementation shortcomings.
4.5       The EDP component was developed by the Bank in cooperation with
FELD4'u Data Processing Department staff, who fully supported it. FELDA's
management was also committed to these improvementa. However, as in the case
of the mills component, they were reluctant to use Bank funds to finance
consultants and computer equipment, because Government grar, funds were
available for these purposes. In retrospect, direct discussions on this issue
with FELDA top management during preparation and appraisal would have been
very useful.
5. Proiect Imolementation
5.1       Bank Board presentation was delayed by nearly two months because of
the reluct.nce of FELDA's Board to borrow directly from the Bank (para. 4..).
The deadline for loan effectiveness was extended once due to delays in
finalizing and signing the Mill Transfer Agreement between FELDA and FELMILL.
Project implementation was generally free of problems and the loan closed on
June 30, 1991, the original closing date.
5.2       Mill Construction.  Mill construction was fully completed by loan
closing, but the number of mills was reduced from seven to six and the mill
installed capacity was scaled down from 351 to 270 ton-ffb/hour.  During
implementation, one of the original mills was re-scheduled and another
substituted in its place and an eighth mill was added to the project, but both
of these were later excluded from financing when a portion of the loan was
cancelled at the request of FELDA. The installed capacity of two mills was
reduced from 54 to 27 ton-ffb/hour. The three mills in Peninsular Malaysia
were completed and commissioned on or ahead of schedule, while the other three
in Sabah were all delayed by about one year.
5.3       The changes in the project scope during implementation mostly
reflected FELDA's concern about the cost of Bank funds and the foreign
exchange risk. At one time FELDA wanted to utilize the loan rapidly to avoid
paying commitment charges, and later decided to use the loan to finance only
six mills. Other decisions about mill rescheduling and reduction of installed
capacities were made in response to changes in ffb production projections.
Construction delays in two of the Sabah mills were due to more difficult
access and working conditions than had been foreseen at appraisal.



-5-
5.4       Mills Environmental Imoact.  In compliance with Malaysian strict
environmental standards, all project mills were provided with effluent
biological treatment facilities. Mill discharges after treatment are subject
to maximum BOD (Biological Oxygen Demand) level of 100 ppm, which hae
gradually been dropped to 50 ppm. The Department of the Environment (DOE)
closely monitors palm oil mill effluents and ensures strict compliance with
the standards.
5.5       Procurement.  Palm oil mill construction and procurement of
equipment did not encounter major problems. In fact, during implementation
emphasis was given to improvLng procurement practices and to the drafting of
standard procurement documents which were later used in other Bank financed
projects in Malaysia.
5.6       Electronic Data Processing (EDP).  During implementation, FELDA's
decision not to use the Bank loan EDP consultants effectively limited the
Bank's direct involvement in this component. Nevertheless, as had been agreed
with the Bank, the consultants' TOR were amended to include development of a
DBMS and an "Automa_ion Plan for FELDA and FELDA Corporations", thus retaining
the objectives and the main thrust of the EDP component. FELDA also continued
to share information with the Bank from time to time, and was receptive to the
Bank's suggestions on the implementation of the EDP. Later, FELDA extended
the consultants' contract to assist in the implementation of the Automation
Plan for FELDA itself and to prepare a more spe'ific automation plan for the
corporations.
5.7       Overal.l, the EDP brought about many of the improvements envisaged
in the original project objectives and design. During the first two years of
implementation, data entry points were decentralized to the regional offices
and FELMILL factories, and these offices were provided with micro-computers.
This led to the improvement in data transmission, substantially reducing the
time required for clean up and r..conciliation of settler accounts. During the
subsequent implementation of the Automation Plan, FELDA acquired IBM 38 and
400 syetems and application software for selected departments (Finance, Budget
and Planning, Engineering and Personnel) leading to furthar improvements. In
addition, a MIS, called Development Information System (DIS), covering five
independent subsysteme, was developed during the latter part of the project.
Implementation of the EDP was quite successful in the corporations, which are
now on line to the main frame in a multi-company arrangement with multi-
company payroll, a common fixed assets system and shared links among the
corporations and FELDA.
5.8       A recommendation in the Automation Plan, to centralize computer
services to an independent company outside FELDA, led to the merging of FELDA
and FELMILL Data Processing Departments and the establishment of FELDA Data
Corporation (PRODATA) in 1987. PRODATA was entrusted with the task of
providing computer services to FELDA and all FELDA corporations and took over
implementation of the Automation Plan. Implementation of FELDA's Automation
Plan is still in progress, with generally positive results. Additional
hardware and applications software, including general accounting packages,
have been acquired. However, no significant progress was achieved on either
DBMS or in streamlining the general accounting system. To this day, FELDA's



-6-
general accounts are being processed on the outdated IBM 4341 system.
Development of DBMS and streamlining of FELDA's general accounting and
transfer to the IBM 400 system remain among FELDA/PRODATA's objectives. In
the meantime, development of a fully effective MIS is still constrained by the
lack of a DBMS capable of linking accounting, budgeting, contract, payroll,
and other relevant functions.
5.9       Proiect Costs.  The final cost of the six mills financed under the
project wa' US$37.2 million (M$96.4 million), compared to US$61.8 million
(M$154.0 million) estimated at appraisal for seven mills. About one-third of
the cost difference reflects the deletion of one mill and reduction of
installed capacity in two others. The rest was primarily due to much lower
than expected price increases. In fact, the final cost of the six mills in
Malaysian Ringgit was about the same as the baseline cost estimated at
appraisal (the SAR allowance for price contingencies was 17% of the baseline
cost). Another contributing factor to the lower final cost in US Dollars was
a 15% depreciation of the Malaysian Ringgit during the implementation period.
The final cost of consulting services for the EDP component was US$557,448
compared to US$278,000 estimated at appraisal, due to the increase of
consulting services from 24 to 48 person-months.
5.10      Loan Amendments/Cancellations.  After loan signing, FELDA and
FELMILL remained very concerned about the cost of Bank funds. Early during
in.plementation, FELDA decided not to use loan funds to finance consultants.
In February 1987, mill construction costs and disbursement projections were
reviewed on the basis of actual contract prices. This review resulted in the
first loan amendment reducing loan proceeds from US$31.2 million to US$26.1
million. In 1988, FELDA wanted to expedite the use of loan funds and
requested the inclusion of an additional mill in the Project. For this
purpose, a second amendment was agreed on February 24, 1988. Finally on
September 7, 1989, a third amendment was signed limiting Bank financing to
only six mills and further reducing the loan amount by US$8.2 million, to
US$17.9 million. The reduced Bank loan of US$17.9 million was fully disbursed
on December 10, 1990.
6. Proiect Results
6.1       Overall, the project was satisfactory.  The mill construction
component was successful, and the decisions taken during project preparation
and appraisal to review ffb production projections and reschedule/scale down
the installed capacity of various mills were timely and appropriate. Overall
mill capacity utilization has now reached 60% and, consequently, FELMILL's
financial position are much stronger today as a result.
6.2       Implementation of the EDP component contributed significantly to
improving FELDA's operations, although the objective of establishing a DBMS
was not fully achieved. These achievements and shortcomings have to be seen
in the light of the complexity of FELDA's functions and the concern of FELDA
staff about data security and the risks involved in migrating from one system
to another. It should also be noted that separate data bases for various
FELDA functions had to be established before proceeding to implement a
relational overall DBMS. In hindsight, the original EDP objectives were



-7-
valid, although the targets were overly ambitious for the time and resources
estimated at appraisal.
6.3       With regard to support for the Government's policy of encouraging
the financial self-sufficiency of public commercial enterprises, to some
extent this was undermined when Government funds on concessional terms were
made available to FELDA. Nonetheless, the terms of Government loans to
parastatals have been adjusted and are now closer to the market terms. In the
case of FELDA, the Government has also continued to reduce budget support for
development activities, and FELDA is increasingly relying on its own resources
to finance investments in mill construction and land development.
6.4       Proiect Benefits.  All six mills financed under the project have
been commissioned and are fully operational. Total mill throughput for 1990
was 721,000 ffb-ton and is expected to peak at around 1,040,000 ffb-ton in
1995, and from then on drop and remain constant at around 1,020,000 ffb-ton
per year. The crude palm oil (CPO) and palm kernel yearly production value at
full development is estimated at US$74.0 million in 1990 constant dollars, on
the basis of the July 1991 Bank Price Projections. Total and individual mill
throughput are higher than projected at appraisal, particularly from one-line
mills. Two-line mill throughput is expected to range between 160 ffb-ton/year
from Peninsular Malaysia mills to 210 ffb-ton/year in Sabah mills, compared to
160 ffb-ton/year appraisal estimate. One-line mill throughput ranges between
120 and 130 ffb-ton/year, compared to 80 ffb-ton/year projected at appraisal.
The higher throughputs are due to several factors, including design
enhancements, higher palm oil yields in Sabah and better mill utilization,
resulting from better mill construction planning and ffb processing for non-
FELDA settlers.
6.5       On the basis of an average yield of 20.6 ffb-ton/ha, the six mills
constructed under the project will satisfy processing requirements of some
49,500 ha, compared to 52,600 ha for seven mills at appraisal. Regarding
beneficiaries, FELDA's policies on settler beneficiary/land ratios for areas
settled after December 31, 1989 have been doubled to 20 ac/family (8.1
ha/family). Assuming that about half of the palm oil areas served by the
Project-financed mills will be affected by this change, the number of FELDA
beneficiary families (i.e., the number of settler families whose palm oil
production would be processed in the six project mills), is estimated at
9,200, compared to 13,00C families (served by seven mills) appraisal
projection.
6.6       Implementation of the EDP benefited FELDA and its corporations.
PRODATA in particular has been instrumental in improving data management and
achieving cost savings through the sharing of equipment and software. The
charge-back system adopted by PRODATA ensures recovery of investments and
introduces discipline among FELDA user departments and corporations.
6.7       Cost Recovery.  FELDA financed mill construction investments to
FELMILL in accordance with terms and conditions spelled out in the
FELDA/FELMILL Mill Transfer Agreement signed under the Project, as follows:
(i) the Bank financed portion of mill construction costs (about 48% of the
total) under the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan to FELDA,



-8-
including FELMILL's bearing of the foreign exchange risk; and (ii) the local
portion of the mills cost under the same terms and conditions as given by the
Federal Treasury to FELDA, including 7.5% annual interest. Individual loan
amortization schedules which are set out at completion and commissioning of
each mill are strictly adhered to by FELMILL. This is not strictly in
compliance with the Loan Agreement which required that FELDA should receive
25% of mill construction costs as equity and 75% as loan. However, in line
with the spirit of this covenant, FELMILL's debt to equity ratio is 1.3:1,
which reflects a sound and strong financial base.
6.8       FELMILL recovers its mill construction and operating costs through
ffb processing fees (discount) charged to settlers on the basis of ffb
processed. Processing fees are fixed by FELMILL's Board on the basis of
processing costs and a reasonable return on equity and reserves. Over the
life of the Project, milling rates were increased from M$29.00/ffb-ton in
1984, to M$32.00/ton-ffb in 1986 and later reduced to M$31.00/ffb-ton in 1988
for all Malaysia, and M$28/ffb-ton in 1990 for Peninsular Malaysia only.
Higher milling rates in the mid-80's reflected higher milling costs due to low
mill capacity utilization brought about by the relatively large number of new
mills commissioned during that period. Higher milling rates fixed for Sabah
since 1990 are in line with higher costs than in Peninsular Malaysia, which
was a requirement under the Loan Agreement. Also as required in the Loan
Agreement, FELMILL's ffb processing costs have remained competitive with those
in the private sector, which are around M$30/ffb-ton. During the initial
years after commissioning, project mills unit milling costs are higher than
the processing fees charged to settlers due to low capacity utilization.
However, three of the six project financed mills have already reached break-
even and the other three are expected to do so by 1992.
6.9       Economic and Financial Rate of Return.  The combined economic rate
of return (ERR) for the six mills is now estimated at a satisfactory 13%,
compared with an appraisal calculation of 16% for seven mills. Although
actual mill construction and operating costs were not higher than at
appraisal, the rate of return is lower due to a significant reduction of ffb
processing fees in real terms (para 6.8), while it was projected at appraisal
that the fees would remain unchanged in real terms. Furthermore, as FELMILL's
overall mill capacity utilization should continue to improve and FELMILL's
management is committed to reducing costs to settlers, processing fees are
projected to grow slower than inflation and, therefore, further decrease in
real terms during the 25 year period of analysis. Other reasons for the lower
ERR are longer construction periods and delayed benefits from some mills, and
a higher weight of the more expensive Sabah mills, due to the exclusion from
the project of one mill in west Malaysia. The financial rate of return for
the six project mills is calculated at 11%, which is lower than the appraisal
estimate of 14% for the same reasons.
7. Prolect Sustainability
7.1       FELMILL's operations in general and project-financed mills in
particular are sustainable. With FELDA's oil palm areas reaching maturity,
ffb production and mill capacity utilization are increasing, thus providing a
steady flow of Lenefits during the economic life of the mills. While mill



-9-
processing fees are not directly linked to international palm oil prices, the
sustainability of FELMILL operations depends on the sustainability of the palm
oil ind'sstry in general and FELDA operations in particular. The major factors
that could impair sustainability would be a collapse of international palm oil
prices and a drastic reduction of FELDA schemes' ffb production, which do not
appear likely in the foreseeable future.
7.2       The high quality of FELMILL's commercially-oriented technical and
financial management further assures sustainability. FELMILL's financial
position is strong and is expected to remain so. FELMILL operates on a
commercial basis and its operations are practically free of Governmont or
FELDA subsidies. While FELMILL has access to Government loans, current
repayment terms and interest rates are close to those prevailing in the
banking system and, therefore, carry practically no subsidy.
8. Bank Performance
8.1       Bank performance and contribution to the project were, in general,
satisfactory considering the sophistication of FELDA and FELMILL. In respect
of palm oil mills, during preparation the Bank made a positive contribution to
the review and updating of FELDA/FELMILL mill development program, adjusting
mill construction timing and throughput on the basis of ffb harvest
projections. During the initial years of implementation, Bank involvement
concentrated on mill design, procurement and construction aspects. A
technical dialogue was established between the Bank and FELDA/FELMILL and some
specific recommendations for improving mill design and performance were put
into effect.
8.2       The Bank's main contribution to the EDP component was made during
preparation and appraisal. Bank consultants and FELDA staff identified the
main weaknesses affecting FELDA and specific solutions were agreed for
implementation under the project, as recorded in the SAR. Unfortunately, no
specific Terms of Reference for the consultants' work were agreed in advance
of project start-up. Also, during implementation, the Bank allocated only
limited technical staff resources to this component, to a great extent because
of FELDA's decision not to use the Bank loan for EDP financing. Shortage of
relevant specialized Bank staff and budget constraints were also reasons for
the limited Bank supervision of this component.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1       FELDA and FELMILL are generally very strong organizations and their
performances under the project were satisfactory. However, some problems
which affected implementation included: (i) an excessive concentration of
decision-making power at the top and an inadequate upward communication from
middle to high level management. An example of the latter was that, although
the SAR and legal documents were made available to FELDA before negotiations,
FELDA's top management was apparently not fully informed about the financial
implications of borrowing directly from the Bank and was, therefore, initially
reluctant to approve the Bank loan; (ii) FELDA's reluctance to authorize the
consultants to employ additional technical experts for system analysis and
DBMS development, primarily for cost-saving reasons; and (iii) shortage of



- 10 -
qualified system analysts and programmers of the quality required to develop
an advanced DBMS. The last problem has in part been overcome with the
establishment of PRODATA, but relatively low salaries may still be a
constraining factor in attracting qualified personnel.
10. Project Relationship
10.1      Bank-FELDA/FELMILL relationships during project preparation and
appraisal were positive and cordial, as they have been over the long years of
association on this and other projects. FELDA/FELMILL were usually receptive
and ready to consider Bank suggestions. Differences of opinion were usually
resolved and agreements aatisfactory to all parties concerned were usually
reached. The GOM-Bank relationship during the whole project cycle was also
quite satisfactory. The Treasury, as GOM's representative, was most helpful
in resolving initial difficulties, following up implementation and processing
of loan amendments.
11. Consulting Services
11.1      Consulting services were used for the design and implementation of
the EDP. The consultants were appointed by FELDA on the basis of past
association and knowledge of their work. Although Bank involvement with the
consultants was limited, they were always cooperative and ready to discuss
their work and implementation of the EDP with Bank staff. Apparently, the
consultants faced difficulties in convincing FELDA management about the
technical requirements for their assignment, which eventually resulted in
lower than expected results. Moreover, the Finance and Data Processing
Department staff were reluctant to agree to the consultants' recommendations,
because of concerns about data security and the difficulty of migrating from
one system to another, and this eventually affected the EDP results. All
things considered, however, the role and performance of the consultants was
satisfactory. They had a major impact on the decentralization of data entry
points which led to a significant improvement in FELDA's operations, on the
improvement of the corporations' EDP, and on the establishment and development
of PRODATA. On the other hand, they did not develop an umbrella system for
FELDA's DBMS before proceeding with hardware and software purchases and
solutions for individual departments and regional offices, which\resulted in
some mistakes that delayed EDP improvements. In hindsight, the\consultants'
work could have benefitted from more DBMS-proficient staff.
12. Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1      The SAR and legal documents provided an adequate framework for the
project, although the inclusion of detailed consultants' TOR would have
facilitated a better dialogue with FELDA and implementation follow up. The
information for the preparation of this PCR was readily provided by
FELDA/FELMILL. Thanks to its EDP system and on-line transmission from the
mills, FELMILL generates detailed and timely data for mill operations which
could serve as a model for similar development projects and institutions.



- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
FELDA PALM OIL MILLS PROJECT
(LOAN 2530-MA)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE 1/
Adeguacy and Accuracy of Part I and Part III
There are thirteen corporations and eight joint-venture companies. The reported figure of eight
and six respectively is likely to be the situation as existed at time of loan initiation.
Mill capacity utilization of 40% as reported understates the true situation which is of the order
of 60%. The others are minor errors and do not materially change the general picture or any of
the conclusions.
2.    FELDA's Overall Comments
2.1.   Evaluation Summarv
Item In PCR
6     Data entry points were decentralised to FELDA regional offices and data
transmission to head-office was made available through direct link-up via Maypac
services. FELMIL factories were provided with micro-computers but data
transmission was made through FELMIL regional offices.  Direct data
j     transmission from mills to head-office cannot immediately proceed due to poor
I   telephone communication services. However, it is our long term objective to
have direct link-up.
On the development of DBMS, progress was not as speedy as initially expected.
It is our finding that S38 software does not meet our need fullv and we have to
resort to in-house system development. Towards this direction several modules
have been completed and are in operation whilst several others are in various
stages of development. 2/
1/ The final version of the Evaluation Summary and Part I incorporate some of the
Borrower's comments in Part II. Also, the paragraph numbers referred to in
Part II may have changed.
2/ Paragraph 6 was deleted from the Evaluation Summary. See para. 5.7 of Part I.



- 12 -
9      As rightly mentioned, the original EDP objectives were valid, but the specific
targets were not achieved within the time framne partly due to loss of several
experienced staff in PRODATA. The replacement needs more time to attain the
level of efficiency and expertise required. 1/
2.2.   Part I: Proiect Review From The Bank's Perspective
item In PCR
4.4    FELDA's management engaged consultants to assist in the development and
implementation of improved management, financial and computer systems.
However, the consultants' contract expired before full implementation of the
proposal.
5.7   The software package for Felda general accounting was acquired. However, this
was found to be unsuitable for Felda's applications, and thus in-house system was
designed to meet the requirements. 2/
6.3    The statement that Felda prefered to use the Government funds on concessional
terms rather than Bank funds was quite inaccurate. The loan amount was
reduced twice; in the first instance due to lower estimated project costs and
secondly due to higher cost of borrowing. As a result of the second reduction,
two mills were excluded, thus limiting the loan to six mills only. To reduce the
burden of high cost of borrowing i.e. variable interest rates, commitment charges
and foreign exchange risks, FELMIL is forced to resort to FELDA for its funds.
Similarly the two mills excluded from the project were financed out of FELDA
own sources and not from Government funds.
The Bank's presentation of the mill component of the loan is satisfactory.
However there were changes in the number of mills and processing capacity in
the course of implementation, because, as borrowers, we are guided by the cost
of funds and our expectation of crop yield at that point in time. In retrospect,
we are of the view that these changes have added to the cost effectiveness of the
project.
1/ See para. 7 of Evaluation Summary.
2/ See para. 5.8 of Part II.



- 13 -
The issue of the relatively high cost of funds has been raised with the Bank's
staff in the course of our discussions with them and we consider this as an issue
which the Bank may wish to reexamine.
9     TnIe statement that FELDA's top management was apparently not informed in
time about the implications of the loan and FELDA's Board was therefore,
initially reluctant to approve the loan is inaccurate. FELDA's Board approved
the loan on the 28th. March 1985 with the decision that the management
negotiated certain terms in the loan agreement with the Federal Treasury. The
terms to be negotiated included the commitment charge, appointment of
consultants, conditions of transfer agreement and the loan amount in view of high
cost of borrowing. However, the decision from Federal Treasury on the above
terms was only received in late April, 1985.  Subsequently the Letter of
Authority for the Ambassador for Malaysia to U.S.A to sign the Loan Agreement
on behalf of FELDA was issued on 17th. May 1985. In fact, FELDA's top
management and FELDA's Board were fully aware of the implications of the
loan and were taking necessary steps to minimise problems arising from the high
cost of borrowing.
3.    Evaluation of Bank's Performance
The Bank made positive contributions which led to the successful completion of the project. The
following observations sum up Bank's performance;
i)    The time-slice concept of this loan has provided flexibility in project implementation and
has greathy expediated loan disbursement.
ii)    The Bank had extended valuable assistence to help improve FELDA financial system.
Through the various discusions held with Bank's supervision missions, Felda become
more sensitive towards the need for institutional development.



- 14 -
iii)    As mentioned in the PCR, inclusion of the EDP in the Project was very timely.
However, we are of the opinion that the Bank has over emphasised it's concern in the
EDP. At the time of Project Appraisal, FELDA Management has already appointed a
consulting firm for development and implementation of improved management, financial
and computer systems. The formation of PRODATA is proof that we were addressing
seriously the EDP issue. We have long identified the neccessity of having a DBMS.
However as mentioned earlier, the development of DBMS was slow since S38 software
does not meet our requirement fully and we have to resort to in-house system
development.
4.    Evaluation of Governments Performance
The Government had fulifilled it's task as the guarantor of the loan. As cited by the Bank, it
helped to resolve difficulties surrounding the loan, follow-up implementations and process loan
amendments.
5.    Assessment of Effectiveness of Relationship
Between the Bank and Government
The relationship oertween the Bank and the Government has always been excellent. The Bank
was supportive of the Government's policy of financial self-sufficiency of public commercial
enterprises. However, this objective could not be fully realised since Government loans and
grants were still made available to FELDA during project imvlementations.



PART lIlt STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
Loan Title                Purpose                Year of      Status
and Number                                      Approval
Jengka I      Land Development of 12,150 ha        1968    Successfully
533-MA        and Settlement of 2,770                      completed.
families                                     PPAR No. 2122
issued 06/30/78
ISSN 1011-0924
Jengka II    Land Development of 12,065 ha         1970    Successfully
672-MA        and Settlement of 2,770                      completed.
families                                     PPAR No. 3024
issued 07/18/80
ISSN 1011-0984
Jengka III   Land Development of 16,475 ha         1973    Successfully
885-MA        and Settlement of 3,848                      completed.
families                                     PPAR No. 3978
issued 06/18/82
ISSN 1011-0984
Johor         Land Development of 30,301 ha        1974    Successfully
Tenggara      and Settlement of 7,500                       conpleted.
967-MA        families                                     PPAR No.4221
issued 12/13/82
Keratong      Land Development of 20,960 ha        1974    Successfully
1044-MA       and Settlement of 5,100                      completed.
families                                     PPAR No. 6780
issued 06/85
FELDA VI      Land Development of 28,300 ha        1978    Successfully
1590-MA       and Settlement of 7,400                      completed.  PCR
families                                     issued 10/30/87



- 16 -
Land          Construction of access and           1985    In progress;
Settlement   village roads and water supply                behind
Infrastruc-  facilities for FELDA schemes                  schedule.
ture          comprising 105,000 ha and some
2642-MA       26,000 settler families
Sabah Land   Complete Agricultural                 1989    Agriculture and
Settlement   development of 61,000 ha and                  infrastructure
and           settlement of 3,560 families,                works are
Environmen-  and protection of a 120,500 ha                progressing
tal           Wildlife Reserve                              satisfactorily.
Management                                                  Settler
3039-MA                                                    emplacement is
delayed.
Environmental
component is
proceeding
satisfactorily



- 17 -
2.  Proiect Timetable
Item                Date             Date
Planned          Actual
Identification                                03/83
Preparation               06/83-10/83      06/83-10/83
Appraisal Mission 1/         01/84             06/84
Loan Negotiations 2/                         02/04/85
Board Approval ./          03/19/85          05/07/85
Loan Signature                               06/14/85
Loan Effectiveness 4/      09/17/85          10/28/85
Closing Date               06/30/91          06/30/91
Completion Date             12/31/90         12/31/90
l/ As reflected in the Decision Memorandum, the Loan Committee
agreed that in view of the advanced institutional development of
FELDA, the Bank contribution was necessarily rather limited. The
Loan Committee also dAcided that FELDA/FELMILL should be required
to pay to GOM a 1% guarantee fee above loan charges. However,
this fee was not acceptable to GOM and was dropped during
negotiations.
2/ During negotiations, computer equipment financing was excluded
because FELDA preferred financing such expenditures out of GOM
grants. It was also agreed to drop the proposed 1% loan
guarantee fee.
3/ Board presentation was delayed because FELDA's Board was
reluctant to borrow the loan directly from the Bank and pass it
on to FELMILL, assuming the full cost of borrowing and foreign
exchange risk.
4/ The date of Loan effectiveness was extended once due to a delay
in finalizing the FELDA/FELMILL transfer agreement.



- 18 -
3. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursements
USSMillion
FY    Ouarter                 Appraisal           Actual          Actual as
Estimate                          % of Estimate
86    Dec 31, 1985                                   .9
Mar 31, 1986                                  1.3
Jun 30, 1986                1.9               2.4               12;
87    Sep 30, 1986                 2.8              3.9                139
Dec 31, 1986                3.8               4.6               121
Mar 31, 1987                5.6               5.7               102
Jun 30, 1987                7.7               6.8                88
88    Sep 30, 1987                 9.6              8.1                 84
Dec 31, 1987               11.5              9.2                 80
Mar 31, 1988               13.4               9.7                72
Jun 30, 1988               15.3              10.2                67
89    Sep 30, 1988                17.2             10.6                 62
Dec 31, 1988               19.2              11.1                58
Mar 31, 1989               20.8              11.7                56
Jun 30, 1989               22.4              12.0                54
90    Sep 30, 1989                24.u             12.9                 54
Dec 31, 1989               25.7              14.1                55
Mar 31, 1990               26.9              15.0                56
Jun 30, 1990               28.2             16.8                 60
91    Sep 30, 1990                29.7             17.1                 58
Dec 31, 1990               31.2              17.9                57
The date of the last disbursement was December 10, 1990. Loan
cancellations amounted to US$13.3 million.   The reduced loan amount was fully
disbursed.



- 19 -
4. Proiect ImDlementation
Indicators                      Appraisal                Actual or
Estimate              PCR Estimate
I. Mill Construction
ULU BELITONG
ffb-ton/hour % o of lines)        54 (2)                  54 (2)
Start construction date          01/01/84                09/15/84
Commissioning date               06/30/87                08/23/86
SIMPANG WA HA
ffb-ton/hour (no of lines)        54 (2)                  27 (1)
Start Construction date          01/01/85                08/26/86
Commissioning date               06/30/87                11/17/87
PALONG TIMUR (SERTING HILIR)
ffb-ton/hour (no. of lines)       54 (2)                  54 (2)
Start Construction date          01/01/86                11/01/85
Commissioning date               06/30/88                08/10/87
PAPULUT
ffb-ton/hour (no. of lines)       27 (1)
Start Construction date          01/01/86                 Dropped
Commissioning date               06/30/88
SAHABAT A
ffb-ton/hour (no. of lines)       54 (2)                  54 (2)
Start Construction date          03/01/84                03/15/85
Commissioning date               06/30/86                03/14/87
SAHABAT B
ffb-ton/hour (no. of lines)       54 (2)                  54 (2)
Start Construction date          01/01/87                04/04/88
Commissioning date               06/30/89                05/15/90
KALABAKAN
ffb-ton/hour (no. of lines)       54 (2)                  27 (1)
Start Construction date          01/01/87                11/10/87
Commissioning date               06/30/89                01/15/90
SUMMARY OF PROJECT MILLS
ffb-ton/hour (no. of mills)      351 (7)                  270 (6)
Start Construction date          01/01/84                09/15/84
Commissioning date               06/30/89                05/15/90
Data Base Program                 12/31/86                  12/92
Hardware Purchase 1/              12/31/88                   1988
1/ Hardware purchases and consulting services were not financed under the
Loan.



- 20 -
5. Proiect Coat and Financina
A. Proiect Coat
(USAwi l lion)
AppraiLal Estimate                  Actual
Local  Foreign             Local   Foreign
Item                      Costs  Exchanae Total      Costs   Exchange  Total
Palm Oil Mille             25.9    26.0      51.9      18.1      19.1     37.2
EDP                         0.0      0.2      0.2       0.0       0.6      0.6
Base Coat                  25.9    26.2      52.1      18.1      19.7     37.8
Contingencies
Physical                   0.5      0.5      1.0
Price                      4.5      4.5      9.0
Total Contingencies         5.0      5.0     10.0
Total Project              30.9    31.2      62.1      18.1      19.7     37.8
B. Proiect Financina
(US$Million)
Source                                      Planned    Revised        Final
IBRD
Palm Oil Mills                                30.9         17.9        17.9
EDP                                            0.3          0.0         0.0
Total IBRD                                 31.2         17.9        17.9
FELDA
Palm Oil Mille                                30.9         19.3.       19.3
EDP                                            0.0                      0.6
Total FELDA                                62.1         19.9        19.9
Total Project                                 62.1         37.8        37.8



- 21 -
6. Proiect Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                Aooraisal       Estimated at    PCR Estimate at Full
Estimgte at   Closing Date 1/         Development
Full Development
Full Development Year          1992                                1995
Number of Mills                    7                 6                 6
Installed Milling Capacity
ffb-ton/hour 2/                351               270               270
Yearly Output
FFB ton processed ('000)      1,139               721             1,040
Palm oil ton ('000)             228               141               208
Palm kernel ton ('000)           46                35                 57
Production Value
In 1984-US$000 3/              114                84               111
In 1990-US$000 A/              131                36                74
Hectares Served              52,600            33,300            49,500
Settler families Served      13,000              n.a.             9,200
Permanent jobs in
factories                      750               750               750
1/ Estimates at December 31,1990
2/ Installed milling capacity reflects expected design throughput per hour of
operation. Actual mill throughput depends on the time that the mill operates.
3/ Value calculated on the basis of IBRD Price Projections of 1984
4/ Value calculated on the basis of July 1991 IBRD Price Projections



- 22 -
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal           PCR
Estimate        Estimate
Economic
Rate of Return
All Project Mills                            16%                 13%
Ulu Belitong Mill                           n.a.                 11%
Simpang Wa Ha Mill                          n.a.                 16%
Serting Hilir Mill                          n.a.                 19%
Sahabat A Mill                              n.a.                 10%
Sahabat B Mill                              n.a.                 13%
Kalabakan Mill                              n.a.                 11%
Underlvic-. Assumptions
Export Duty Oil                               8%                  0%
Export Duty Kernel                            5%                  0%
Physical Contingencies on civil works         5%                n.a.
Physical Contingencies on consultants        10%                n.a.
Bank Commodity price projections of        10/84               07/91
Prices in constant US$ of                   1984                1990
C. Financial Im2act
Appraisal             Current
Estimate           Estimate
Financial
Rate of Return                               14%           11%



- 23 -
7. Status of Cove,iants
Section of
the Loan
Agreement                 Covenant                   Status of Compliance
3.02(i)     The Borrower to employ consultants  Consultants for mill
to review FELDA fruit harvesting    operations were
practices and FELMILL operations by employed.
December 31, 1985.                    FELDA/FELMILL continued
to monitor ffb harvest-
ing practices closely,
but specific consultants
were not employed to
review this issue. FELDA
is now imposing a sur-
charge on the settlers
to improve handling of
ffb.
3.02(ii)   The Borrower to employ consultant   Complied with.
to develop a data-based computer
system by December 31, 1985.
3.06        FELDA to ensure that the execution  FELDA and FELMILL stri-
of the Project and the operation of ctly adhere to the De-
the Palm Oil Mills are carried out  partment of Environment
with due regard to appropriate eco- provisions on water ef-
logical and environmental factors   fluent quality.
in accordance with standards pre-
scribed from time to time by GOM.
3.07 and   FELDA shall prepare and carry out   This covenant was sub-
Schedule 5 the construction of each mill in    stantially complied
Section A  accordance with implementation gui- with.  A mill was ex-
delines satisfactory to the Bank,    cluded from the project
including the review of justifica-  and the capacity of two
tion and construction timing in       others  was reduced be-
light of updated oil palm crop pro- cause ffb production of
jections and corresponding milling  the schemes they served
requirements.                         was lower than original-
ly projected.



- 24 -
Section of
the Loan
Aareement                 Covenant                  Status of Compliance
3.08       After construction and commission-  Complied with.
ing, FELDA shall transfer Project
mills to FELMILL in accordance with
a transfer agreement to be entered
between FELDA and FELMILL under
terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank.
Schedule 5 FELDA shall transfer Project mills  Complied with.  Overall
Section B1 to FELMILL at cost.  FELDA shall    FELMILL debt equity ra-
receive 25% of mill costs as equity tio is: 1.3:1 (57% Loan;
in FELMILL; FELMILL shall repay the 43% Equity) reflecting a
75% balance of the cost to FELDA in sound and strong finan-
accordance with terms and conditi-  cial base.
ons acceptable to the Bank, includ-
ing: (i) same interest rate as that
of the Bank loan to FELDA; (ii) 15
years repayment period; and (iii)
FELMILL to bear foreign exchange
risk.
5.01 and   FELDA shall maintain and cause        FELDA and FELMILL have
5.02       FELMILL to maintain accounts and    well established ac-
have them audited and copies sent   counting systems and
to the Bank in accordance with Bank their annual accounts
standard requirements.               and financial statements
are audited by private
auditors for the Auditor
General. Although some-
times delayed, accounts
and satisfactory audit
reports were sent to the
Bank every year.
Schedule 5 FELMILL to make periodic revisions  Complied with. Process-
Section B3 of palm oil processing fees to en-  ing fees have been re-
sure adequate cover of operating    vised downwards reflect-
costs and returns to FELMILL.        ing lower operating
costs due to increasing
mill capacity utiliza-
tion.



8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (Staff-Weeks)
STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE      TOTAL   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88    FY89   FY89    FY91   FY92
Ident./Preparation           23.1    4.1  19.0
Appraisal                    24.6           4.3   20.3
Negotiations/Board            5.1                   5.1
Supervision                  52.4                   0.4   19.9   11.0   4.4    5.8    8.3    2.6
Completion                    6.1                                                                0.1     6.0
TOTAL:                      111.3    4.1  23.3   25.8   19.9   11.0   4.4    5.8    8.3    2.7           6.0
1n
* Planned data not available.



- 26 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
B. Missions
Number Man-days                 Performance
Stage of                     of       in                      Rating
Pro-ect Cycle     Mo/Year Persons  Field   SDecialties        Status
Through Appraisal
Identification      02/83    1          5         A            n.a.
Preparation         06/83    3         18       A/B/C          n.a.
Preappraisal         11/83    3        30       A/D/C          n.a.
Appraisal            06/84    2        28        A/D           n.a.
Post-Appraisal      01/85    2         5         A/E           n.a.
Supervision 1       09/85    2         10        A/C             1
Supervision 2 1/    02/86    2         4         A/B             1
Supervision 3 1/    06/86    2         5         A/B             1
Supervision 4       02/87    3         15       A/B/C            1
Supervision 5 l/    03/88    1         2          A              1
Supervision 6        06/89    2         5        A/F             1
Supervision 7       06/90    3         21       A/B/F            1
Completion 2/       07/91    1          5         D
SPECIALTY:  A =  Rural Development Engincer
B = Financial Analyst
C = Mechanical Engineer/Palm Oil Mill Specialist
D = Financial Management Specialist
E = Agricultural Economist
F = Tree Crops Specialist
PERFORMANCE RATING:  1 = No problems   2 =  Minor problems  3 = Major problems
1/ Brief follow-up missions carried out concurrently with other operational work in
Malaysia.
2/ This mission was for evaluating the EDP component only. PCR preparation was
initiated during the final supervision mission in June 1990.



mALAYSIA
FELDA PALM OIL MILLS PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (LOAN 2530-MA)
Hills Construction Costs
(M$S000)
Total    F.E.   Local  Foreign
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991  Cost          t      Cost  Component
Ulu Belitong
Civil Works              518    3232    1687       224                                      5662       47    3001      2661
M. &  E. Works                   1175    2572      643                                      4390       57    1888      2503
Equipment                295    2179      748      324                                      3546       58    1489      2057
Eng. & Sup.               20      165     125       30                                       340        5     323        17
Total                  833    6751    5132    1221                                       13938       52    6701      7237
Simpang Wa Ha
Civil Works                               306    3491    1434       168                     5399       47    2861      2538
M. &  E. Works                                    2376     359      144                     2878       57    1238      1641
Equipment                                         2314     246      121                     2681       58    1126      1555
Eng. & Sup.                                 8      205      51       11                      274        5     260        14
Total                                   314    8385    2089       444                    11232       51    5485      5747        1
Serting Hilir
Civil Works                              2025    2788      464       75                     5352       47    2837      2516
M. &  E. Works                            572    3127      537      171                      5407      57    1895      2512
Equipment                                         3446     228      420                     4094       58    1720      2375
Eng. & Sup.                                65      234      31       17                      346        5     329        17
Total                                  2662    9596    1259       683                    14200       52    6780      7420
Sahabat A
Civil Works             3270      953    3112    2678      341                             1A353       47    5487      4866
M. A  E. Works                           4305      733     285                              5323       57    2289      3034
Equipment                 32       33    2903      341     209                              3518       58    1478      2041
Eng. & Sup.               83       25     258       94      21                               480        5     456        24
Total                 3384    1011   10579    3846       856                             19675       51    9710      9965
Sahabat B
Civil Works                                               1424    4761    3479       441   10105       47    5356      4749       m 
M. &  E. Works                                                     4926    1226      363    6514       57    2801      3713       m Z
Equipment                                                  712    1330    1502       288    3832       58    1609      2222
Eng. & Sup.                                                  53     275     155       27     511        5     486        26
Total                                                   2190   11293    6362    1118   20963         51   10252    10711



MALAYSIA
FELDA PALM OIL HILLS PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (LOAN 2530-MA)
Mills Construction Costs
(M$'000)
Total   F.E.   Local  Foreign
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991  Cost           t     Cost  Component
Kalabakan
Civil Works                                        691    2938    2783    1503               7915      47    4195       3720
M. &  E. Works                                                     3870    1131       81    5082       57    2185      2897
Equipment                                                   406    1500      980      88    2973       58    1249       1724
Eng. & Sup.                                         17       84     204       90       4      399       5      379        20
Total                                            708    3428    8356    3704       173   16370       51    8009      8362
Total Six Hills
Civil Works             3788    4185    7131    9872    6601    7787    4982         441   44787       47   23737    21050
M. &  E. Works                   1175    7449    6879    1181    9111    2357        444   28596       57   12296    16300
Eguipment                326    2213    3651    6426    1801    3371    2481         375   20645       58    8671    11974
Eng. & Sup.              103      189     456      579      240     507      246      32    2351        5    2233        118     I
Total                 4217    7762   18687   23757    9822   20776   10066    1292   96378           51   46937    49441
0
I-ti
Z



FELDA PALM OIL MILLS PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (LOAN 2530-MA)
Mills  Production
YEARS                                 1987    1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998  99-07
Actual --------        --- ----- Projected  --
FF9 Processed (ton'0001
Ulu 8elitong                        68       89    104    137    135    180    180    170    170    160    160    160    160
Simpang Wa Ha                        4       96    110    118    140    130    130    130    130    120    120    120    120
Serting Hilir                       43      125    185    113    200    200    200    200    200    200    200    200    200
Sahabat A                           19       41    130    200    244    200    210    210    210    210    210    210    210
Sahabat 3                                                   79    160    180    190    190    200    200    200    200    200
Kalabakan                                                   74    110    130    130    130    130    130    130    130    130
Total                         134     351    529    721    989   1020   1040   1030   1040   1020   1020   1020   1020
CPO Production (ton'OOO)
Ulu Belitong                        15       18     22     28      28     36     36     34     34      32     32     32     32
Simpang Wa Ha                        0       21     23     24      29     26     26     26     26      24     24     24     24
Sorting Hilir                        9       25     37     22      41     40     40     40     40      40     40     40     40
Sahabat A                            0        8     25     38      48     40     42     42     42      42     42     42     42
Sahabat B                            0        0      0      14     30     36     38     38     40      40     40     40     40
Kalabakan                            0        0      0      15     22     26     26     26     26      26     26     26     26
Total                          23      72    106   1'1    199    204    208    206    208    204    204    204    204
Kernel Production (ton'000)
Ulu Belitong                         4        5      6       8      8     10     10      9      9       9      9      9      9
Simpang Wa Ha                        0        6      7       7      8      7      7      7       7      7      7      7      7      s
Serting 8ilir                        2        6      9       6     11     11     11     11     11      11     11     11     11
Sahabat A                            0        2      5       9     11     11     12     12     12      12     12     12     12
Sahabat B                            0        0      0       2      7     10     10     10     11      11     11     11     11
Kalabakan                            0        0      0       2      5      7      7      7       7      7      7      7      7
Total                           6       19     28     35     50     56      57     57     57     56     56      56     56
CPO Extraction (%)
Ulu 8elitong                      21.3    20.8   20.8   20.3   20.9   20.0   20.0   20.0  20.0   20.0  20.0  20.0   20.0
Simpang Wa Ha                      0.0    21.4   20.6   20.1   21.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0  20.0  20.0   20.0
Sorting Hluir                     20.7    19.8   19.8   19.4   20.4   20.0   20.0   20.0  20.0   20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0
Sahabat A                          0.0    19.9   19.4   19.2   19.5   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0
Sahabat B                                                18.0   19.0  2'.0  20.0   20.0  20.0   20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0
Ralabakan                                                20.1   20.4   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0
Total                        17.5    20.5   20.1   19.6   20.1   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0
Kernel Extraction (%)
Ulu Belitong                       5.6      5.4    5.4    6.1    5.7    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5
Simpang Wa Ha                      0.0      6.2    6.5    6.1    6.0    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5
Sorting  iluir                     5.0      5.1    5.1    5.3    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5
Sahabat A                          0.0      3.8    4.0    4.5    4.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5
Sahabat B                                                 3.0    4.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5             M
Kalabakan                                                 3.2    4.4    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5
Total                         4.4     5.3    5.2    4.9    5.1    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5



FELDA PALM OIL MILLS PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT {LOAN 2530-MAI
Hills Processing Costs
1987    1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
--- Actual ----------                           Projected ---
I. MILLS AVERAGE (M$/ffb-ton)
Ulu Belitong
Variable Cost                     4.82    4.00   4.15   3.13   2.87   2.87   3.01   3.01   3.16   3.16   3.32   3.32   3.49
Spare Parts/Maintenance           2.45    2.65   3.86   3.63   5.25   5.25   5.51   5.51   5.79   5.79   6.08   6.08  6.38
Fixed cost                        5.00    4.68   3.91   3.96   4.78   3.59   3.77   3.99   4.19   4.45   4.67  4.67  4.90
H.Q. Ind. Cost                    4.06    2.77   3.00   2.51   2.58   1.94   2.03   2.15   2.26  2.40   2.52  2.52   2.65
Fin. Charge & Deprec.            37.45   28.33  20.02  13.79  14.07  10.10   9.69   9.87   9.51   9.77   9.47   9.19   9.19
total                         53.78   42.43  34.94  27.03  29.55  23.75  24.01  24.53  24.91  25.57  26.06 25.79  26.62
Bukit Wa Ha
Variable Cost                              3.92   3.95   3.54   3.38   3.38   3.55   3.55   3.73   3.73   3.91   3.91   4.11
Spare Parts/Maintenance                    1.94   3.18   3.37   4.98   4.98   5.23   5.23   5.49   5.49   5.76   5.76   6.05
Fixed cost                                 3.22   3.25   3.93   3.23   3.48   3.65   3.65   3.83   4.15   4.36  4.36  4.58
H.Q. Ind. Cost                             2.55   1.41   1.50   1.38   1.49   1.56   1.56   1.64   1.78   1.87   1.87   1.96         l
Fin. Charge & Deprec.                     18.19  11.64  11.16  10.58  10.90  10.45  10.05   9.70 10.15   9.84   7.55   7.55
Total                                 29.82  23.43  23.50  23.55  24.23  24.45  24.05 24.39  25.31  25.74  23.45  24.25
Serting Hilir
Variable Cost                     4.92    3.98   3.16   4.25   2.68   2.68   2.81   2.81   2.95  2.95   3.10  3.10   3.26
Spare Parts/Maintenance           1.44    1.86   3.47   5.90   4.60   4.60   4.83   4.83   5.07  5.07  5.33   5.33   5.60
Fixed cost                        3.69    3.05   2.89   5.97   3.48   3.48   3.65   3.65   3.83   3.83   4.03  4.03   4.23
H.Q. Ind. Cost                    2.70    1.96   1.68  3.05   1.74   1.74   1.83   1.83   1.92   1.92   2.02   2.02   2.12
Fin. Charge & Deprec.            25.40   17.86  10.67  17.08   9.91   9.47   9.08   8.72   8.40  8.11   7.85   7.62   7.62
Total                         38.15   28.71  21.87 36.25  22.42  21.98  22.20  21.84  22.18 21.89 22.32  22.09 22.81
Sahabat A
Variable Cost                              6.96   4.50   6.40   5.34   5.34   5.61   5.61   5.89  5.89   6.18   6.18   6.49
Spare Parts/Maintenance                    5.86   5.39  10.24   4.80   4.80   5.04   5.04   5.29  5.29   5.56   5.56   5.84
Fixed cost                                 9.11   4.52   3.40   2.86   3.48   3.48   3.48   3.66   3.66   3.84   3.84   4.03
H.Q. Ind. Cost                             5.97   2.40   1.72   1.43   1.74   1.74   1.74   1.83   1.83   1.92   1.92   2.02
Fin. Charge E Deprec.                     85.03  22.44  12.76  10.36  12.05  10.98  10.54  10.14   9.78   9.46   9.16   9.16             >
Total                                 112.9  39.25  34.52  24.79 27.41  26.86 26.41  26.81  26.45  26.96  26.67  27.54
0



FELDA PALM OIL MILLS PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (LOAN 2530-HAl
Hills Processing Costs
1987    1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997  1998   1999
Actual ---             ----- --     ---- Projected ----
I. HILLS AVERAGE IHS/ffb-ton)
Sahabat B
Variable Cost                                             6.87   4.83   4.83   5.07   5.07   5.33   5.33   5.59  5.59   5.87
Spare Parts/Maintenance                                   3.51   4.47   4.47   4.69   4.69  4.93   4.93   5.17   5.17   5.43
Fixed cost                                                4.93   4.17   3.71   3-69   3.69   3.68   3.68   3.86   3.86   4.06
H.Q. Ind. Cost                                            3.13   2.42   2.15   2.14   2.14   2.14   2.14   2.24   2.24   2.36
Fir, Charge & Deprec.                                    35.23  17.16  14.53  13.15  12.59  11.48  11.06  10.67  10.32  10.32
Total                                                 53.67  33.06  29.69  28.74  28.18  27.56  27.13  27.54  27.19 28.03
Kalabakan
Variable Cost                                             5.94   5.85   5.85   6.14   6.14   6.45   6.45   6.77   6.77   7.11
Spare Parts/Maintenance                                   2.07   4.01   4.01   4.21   4.21   4.42   4.42   4.64   4.64   4.87         1
Fixed cost                                                5.42   3.68   3.11   3.27   3.27   3.43   3.43   3.60   3.60   3.78
H.Q. Ind. Cost                                            4.64   1.76   1.49   1.56   1.56   1.64   1.64   1.73   1.73   1.81         -
Fin. Charge & Deprec.                                    39.70  17.83  14.68  14.32  14.00  13.71  13.44  13.21  12.99  12.99
Total                                                 57.76  33.13  29.15  29.50  29.18  29.65  29.39 29.94  29.73  30.57
II. MILLS TOTAL (MS'OO0
Ulu Belitong
Variable Cost                       329      354    431    428    388    517    542    512    537    506    531    531    558
Spare Parts/Maintenance             167      235    401    497    709    945    992    937    984    926    973    973   1021
Fixed cost                          342     415    407    542    646    646    678    678    712    712    747    747    785
H.Q. Ind. Cost                      278     245    312    344    349    349    366    366    385    385    404    404    424
Fin. Charge L Deprec.             2559    2510   2081   1887   1901   1819   1744   1678   1618   1563   1515   1471   1471
Total                          3675    3759   3632   3697   3992   4275   4322   4170   4235   4092   4170   4126   4259
Bukit Wa Ha
Variable Cost                                377    435    418    473    439    462    462    485    448    469    469    493           0 
Spare Parts/Maintenance                      187    350    398    697    647    680    680    714    659    691    691    726
Fixed coat                                  310    358    465    452    452    475    475    499    499    523    523    550
H.Q. Ind.  Cost                             245    155    178    194    194    203    203    214    214    224    224    236            o
Fin. charges and Dep.                      1751   1282   1319   1481   1417   1359   1307   1260   1218   1181    906    906            m
Total                                   2870   2581   2778   3297   3149   3178   3126   3171   3037   3089  2814   2909             O



FELDA PALM OIL MILLS PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (LOAN  v30-MA)
Mills Processing Costs
1987    1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   2993   1994   1995   1996   1997  2998  1999
Actual --------                       -- Projected ----
II. MILLS TOTAL (MSO0001
Sorting Hilir
Variable Cost                      210      496    585    479    536    536    562    562    590    590    620    620   651
Spare Parts/Maintenance             62      232    642    666    920    920    966    966   1014   1014   1066  1066   1119
Fixed cost                         158      380    535    674    696    696    730    730    767    767    805    805    845
H.Q. Ind.  Cost                    115      244    311    344    349    349    366    366    385    385    404    404    424
Fin. charges and Dep.             1086    2227   1974   1926   1983   1895   1816   1744   1680   1622   1570   1523  1523
Total                          1632    3580   4046  4089   4483   4395   4440   4369   4435   4377   4465   4418  4563
Sahobat A
Variable Cost                               286    584   1279   1301   1068   1178   1178   1237   1237   1298   1298   1363
Spare Parts/Maintenance                     240    699  2047   1169    960   1058   1058   1111   1111   1168  1168   1226           1
Fixed cost                                 1136    836    679    696    696    731    731    768    768    806    806    847        w
H.Q. Ind.  Cost                             745    444    344    349    349    366    366    385    385    404    404    424
Fin. charges and Dep.                     10604   4152   2550   2525   2410   2306  2213   2129  2054   1986   1925   1925           1
Total                                 13011   6715   6899   6040   5483   5640   5547   5629  5554   5661  5600  5784
Sahabat B
Variable Cost                                             542    773    869    963    963   1066   1066   1118   1118  1174
Spare Parts/Maintenance                                   277    715    805    891    891    986    986   1034   1034   1086
Fixed cost                                                389    667    667    701    701    736    736    773    773    811
H.Q. Ind.  Cost                                           247    388    388    407    407    427    427    449    449    471
Fin. charges and Dep.                                    2777  2746   2615   2498  2392   2297   2211   2134   2065  2065
Total                                                 4230   5289   5344   5460   5354   5512   5426   5507  5438  5606
Kalabakan
Variable Cost                                             441    644    761    798    798    839    839    880    880    924
Spare Parts/Maintenance                                   154    441    521    547    547    575    575    603    603    633
Fixed cost                                                402    405    405    425    425    446    446    468    468    492
H.Q. Ind.  Cost                                           344    194    194    203    203    214    214    224    224    236
Fin. charges and Dep.                                    2945   1961   1909   1862   1820   1782   1748  1717  1689   1689
Total                                                 4285   3644   3789   3836   3793   3855   3820  3893  3865   3974
0
OD



FELDA PALM OIL HILLS PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT ILOAN 2530-MA)
Hills Processing Costs
1987    1988   1989   1990  1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997  1998  1999
----- Actual ---        - ---              -- Projected
III. SUMMARY OF PROCESSING COSTS
Total by Major Itea (M$'000)
Variable Cost                     540    1513  2035  3587  4114   4190  4505  4475  4754  4685  4916  4916  5162
spare Parts/Maintenance           229      894  2093  4037  4652  4798  5135   5079  5384  5271  5535  5535  5812
Fixed cost                        500    2241   2135  3150  3562  3562  3739   3739  3927  3927  4123  4123  4329
B.Q. Ind.  Cost                   393    1480   1222  1800  1821   1821   1912   1912  2008  2008  2108  2108  2214
Fin. charges and Dep.            3646   17091   9489 13567 12596  12064  11585  11154  10765 10416 10102   9578  9578
Total                         5307   23219  16975 26141 26745 26435 26876 26359 26837 26306 26784 26261  27095
Total by Hill (M$'000)
Ulu Belitong                     3675    3759   3632  3697  3992   4275  4322  4170  4235  4092  4170  4126  4259
Siupang Wa Ha                       0    2870  2581   2778  3297  3149  3178  3126  3171  3037  3089  2814  2909
Serting Bilir                    1632    3580  4046  4089  4483  4395  4440  4369  4435  4377  4465  4418  4563
Sahabat A                           0   13011   6715  6899  6040  5483  5640  5547  5629  5554   5661   5600  5784
Sababat a                           a        0      0  4230  5289  5344  5460  5354  5512  5426  5507  5438  5606    w
Kalabakan                           0        0      0  4285   3644   3789  3836  3793  3855  3820  3893  3865   3974
Total                         5307   23219 16975 25979 26745 26435 26876 26359 26837 26306 26784 26261 27095
Average by Item (M$/ffb-ton)
Variable Cost                    4.03    4.32  3.85  4.98  4.16  4.11  4.33  4.34  4.57  4.59  4.82  4.82  5.06
Spare Parts/Maintenance          1.71    2.55   3.96  5.60  4.71  4.70  4.94   4.93  5.18  5.17  5.43  5.43  5.70
Fixed cost                       3.73    6.39  4.04  4.37  3.60  3.49  3.60  3.63  3.78  3.85  4.04  4.04  4.24
H.Q. Ind.  Cost                  2.93    4.22  2.31   2.50   1.84   1.79  1.84   1.86  1.93   1.97  2.07  2.07  2.17
Fin. charges and Dep.           27.20   48.76  17.94  18.82  12.74  11.83 11.14  10.93  10.35  10.21   9.90  9.39  9.39
Total                        39.60   66.24  32.09  36.27 27.05 25.92 25.84  25.59 25.80 25.79 26.26 25.75 26.56
Average by Hill (M$/ffb-ton)
Ulu Belitong                    53.78   42.43  34.94 27.03 29.55 23.75 24.01  24.53  24.91 25.57 26.06 25.79 26.62
siupang Wa Ha                           29.82  23.43 23.50 23.55 24.23 24.45 24.05 24.39 25.31  25.74 23.45 24.25
Serting Hilir                   38.15   28.71 21.87 36.25 22.42 21.98 22.20 21.84  22.18 21.89 22.32 22.09 22.81
8ahabat A                              112.93 39.25 34.52 24.79 27.41  26.86 26.41 26.81  26.45 26.96 26.67 27.54
Sahabat B                                             53.67 33.06 29.69 28.74 28.18 27.56 27.13 27.54 27.19 28.03                   w
Kalabakan                                              57.76 33.13  29.15 29.50 29.18 29.65 29.39 29.94 29.73  30.57              0
Average                      39.60   66.24  32.09 36.05 27.05 25.92 25.84 25.59 25.80 25.79 26.26 25.75 26.56                  m



FELDA PALM OIL MILLS PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT (LOAN 2530-HA)
Mills Processing Costs
2000   2001   2002  2003   2004   2005   2006  2007   2008   2009  2010
-- Projected                  ---
I. MILLS AVERAGE (MS/f fb-tonl
Ulu Belitong
Variable Cost                     3.49   3.66   3.66  3.84   3.84   4.04   4.04   4.04   3.32   3.32  3.32
Spare Parts/Maintenance          6.38   6.70   6.70  7.04   7.04   7.39  7.39   7.39  6.08  6.08  6.08
Fixed cost                       4.90   5.15   5.15  5.41   5.41   5.68   5.68   5.68  4.67  4.67  4.67
H.Q. Ind. Cost                   2.65   2.78   2.78  2.92   2.92  3.07   3.07  3.07   2.52   2.52  2.52
Fin. Charge & Deprec.            9.19   9.19   9.19  9.19  9.19  9.19   9.19   9.19   9.19   9.19  9.19
Total                        26.62  27.49 27.49 28.40 28.40 29.36 29.36  29.36  25.79  25.79 25.79
Bukit Wa Ha
Variable Cost                    4.11   4.31   4.31  4.53  4.53   4.75   4.75   4.75   3.91   3.91   3.91
Spare Parts/Maintenance          6.05   6.35   6.35  6.67   6.67   7.00   7.00   7.00   5.76   5.76   5.76
Fixed cost                       4.58   4.81   4.81  5.05   5.05   5.30  5.30  5.30   4.36   4.36  4.36
H.Q. Ind. Cost                   1.96   2.06  2.06  2.16   2.16   2.27  2.27  2.27   1.87   1.87   1.87
Fin. Charge & Deprec.            7.55   7.55   7.55  7.55   7.55   7.55   7.55   7.55   7.55   7.55   7.55
Total                        24.25  25.08 25.08 25.96 25.96  26.88  26.88  26.88 23.45  23.45  23.45
Serting Hilir
Variable Cost                     3.26   3.42   3.42  3.59  3.59   3.77   3.77   3.77   3.10   3.10  3. 10
Spare Parts/Maintenance          5.60   5.88  5.88  6.17  6.17   6.48  6.48   6.48  5.33   5.33   5.33
Fixed cost                       4.23   4.44   4.44   4.66  4.66  4.89  4.89  4.89  4.03  4.03  4.03
H.Q. Ind. Cost                   2.12   2.23   2.23   2.34   2.34   2.45   2.45   2.45   2.02   2.02  2.02
Fin. Charge & Deprec.            7.62   7.62   7.62   7.62   7.62   7.62   7.62   7.62   7.62   7.62   7.62
Total                        22.81  23.57 23.57 24.37 24.37 25.21  25.21  25.21  22.09 22.09 22.09
Sahabat A
Variable Cost                    6.49   6.81   6.81   7.15   7.15   7.51   7.51   7.51   6.18  6.18  6.18
Spare Parts/Maintenance          5.84   6.13   6.13   6.44   6.44   6.76   6.76  6.76   5.56   5.56  5.56
Fixed coat                       4.03   4.23   4.23   4.44  4.44   4.67   4.67  4.67   3.84   3.84   3.84
H.Q. Ind. Cost                   2.02   2.12   2.12  2.23  2.23   2.34   2.34   2.34   1.92   1.92   1.92
Fin. Charge & Deprec.            9.16   9.16   9.16  9.16   9.16   9.16   9.16  9.16   9.16   9.16  9.16
Total                        27.54  28.46 28.46 29.42 29.42  30.44  30.44  30.44  26.67  26.67 26.67                             m X
w
00



FELDA PALM OIL MILLS PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (LOAN 2530-MA)
Mills Processing Costs
2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010
----- ------------------ ------ Projected
I. MILLS AVERAGE (MS/ffb-ton)
Sahabat B
Variable Cost                     5.87   6.16   6.16   6.47   6.47   6.79   6.79   6.79   7.13   7.13   5.59
Spare Parts/Maintenance           5.43   5.70   5.70   5.98   5.98   6.28   6.28   6.28   5.17   5.17   5.17
Fixed cost                        4.06   4.26   4.26   4.47   4.47   4.69   4.69   4.69   3.86   3.86   3.86
H.Q. Ind. Cost                    2.36   2.47   2.47   2.60   2.60   2.73   2.73   2.73   2.24   2.24   2.24
Fin. Charge & Deprec.            10.32  10.32  10.32  10.32  10.32  10.32  10.32  10.32  10.32  10.32  10.32
Total                         28.03  28.92  28.92  29.85  29.85  30.82  30.82  30.82  28.73  28.73  27.19
Kalabakan
Variable Cost                     7.11   7.46   7.46   7.84   7.84   8.23   8.23   8.23   6.77   6.77   6.77
Spare Parts/Maintenance           4.87   5.12   5.12   5.37   5.37   5.64   5.64   5.64   4.64   4.64   4.64
Fixed cost                        3.78   3.97   3.97  4.17   4.17   4.38   4.38   4.38   3.60   3.60   3.60                       l
H.Q. Ind. Cost                    1.81   1.90   1.90  2.00   2.00   2.10   2.10   2.10   1.73   1.73   1.73
Fin. Charge & Deprec.            12.99  12.99  12.99  12.99  12.99  12.99  12.99  12.99  12.99  12.99  12.99                      l
Total                         30.57  31.45  31.45  32.37  32.37  33.34  33.34  33.34  29.73  29.73  29.73
II. MILLS TOTAL EMS'000)
Ulu Belitong
Variable Cost                      558    586    586    615    615    646    646    646    531    531    531
Spare Parts/Maintenance           1021   1073   1073   1126   1126   1182   1182   1182    973    973    973
Fixed cost                         785    824    824    865    865    908    908    908    747    747    747
H.Q. Ind. Cost                     424    445    445    467    467    491    491    491    404    404    404
Fin. Charge 6 Deprec.             1471   1471   1471   1471   1471   1471   1471   1471   1471   1471   1471
Total                          4259   4398   4398   4544   4544   4698   4698   4698   4126   412S   412t
Bukit Wa Ha
Variable Cost                      493    517    517    543    543    570    570    570    469    469    469                         eD
Spare Parts/Maintenance            726    762    762    800    800    840    840    840    691    691    691                         OQ z
Fixed cost                         550    577    577    606    606    636    636    636    523    523    523                            > 
H.Q. Ind.  Cost                    236    247    247    260    260    273    273    273    224    224    224                            w
Fin, charges and Dep.              906    906    906    906    906    906    906    906    906    906    906                         o
Total                          2909   3010   3010   3115   3115   3225   322 5   3225   2814   2814   2814                        X



FELDA PALM OIL HILLS PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (LOAN 2530-MA)
Hills Processing Costs
2000  2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010
--- Projected
II. KILLS TOTAL IMS'OOO
Serting Hilir
Variable Cost                      651    684    684    718    718    754    754    754    620    620    620
Spare Parts/Maintenance           1119   1175   1175   1234   1234   1296   1296   1296   1066   1066   1066
Fixed cost                         845    888    888    932    932    979    979    979    805    805    805
B.Q. Ind.  Cost                    424    445    445    467    467    491    491    491    404    404    404
Fin. charges and Dep.             1523   1523   1523   1523   1523   1523   1523   1523   1523   1523   1523
Total                          4563  4715   4715   4874   4874   5042   5042   5042   4418  4418  4418
Sahabat A
Variable Cost                     1363   1431   1431   1502   1502   1577   1577   15'7   1298   1298   1298
Spare Parts/Maintenance           1226   1287   1287   1352   1352   1419   1419   1419   1168   1168   1168
Fixed cost                         847    889    889    933    933    980    980    980    806    806    806                     l
H.Q. Ind.  Cost                    424    445    445    467    467    491    491    491    404    404    404
Fin. charges and Dep.             1925   1925   1925   1925   1925   1925   1925   1925   1925   1925   1925
Total                          5784   5977   5977   6179   6179   6392   6392   6392  5600   5600   5600
Sahabat B
Variable Cost                     1174   1233   1233   1294   1294   1359   1359   1359   1427   1427   1118
Spare Parts/Maintenance           1086   1140   1140   1197   1197   1257   1257   1257   1034   1034   1034
Fixed cost                         811    852    852    894    894    939    939    939    773    773    773
H.Q. Ind.  Cost                    471    495    495    519    519    545    545    545    449    449    449
Fin. charges and Dep.             2065   2065   2065   2065   2065   2065   2065   2065   2065   2065   2065
Total                          5606   5784   5784   5969   5969   6165   6165   6165   5747   5747   5438
Kalabakan
Variable Cost                      924    970    970   1019   1019   1070   1070   1070    880    880    880
Spare Parts/Maintenance            633    665    665    698    698    733    733    733    603    603    603
Fixed cost                         492    516    516    542    542    569    569    569    468    468    468
H.Q. Ind.  Cost                    236    247    247    260    260    273    273    273    224    224    224
Fin. charges and Dep.             1689   1689   1689   1689   1689   1689   1689   1689   1689   1689   1689
Total                          3974   4088   4088      08  4208   4334   4334   4334   3865   3865   3865                          z
00



FELDA PALM OIL MILLS PROJECT COMPLETIOW REPORT (LOAN 2530-MA)
Hills Processing Costs
2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010
------Projected
III. SUMMARY OF PROCESSING COSTS
Total by Major Item (M$1000)
Variable Cost                     5162   5420   5420   5691   5691   5976   5976   5976   5225   5225   4916
Spare Parts/Maintenance           5812   6102   6102   6407   6407   6728   6728   6728   5535   5535   5535
Fixed cost                        4329   4545   4545   4773   4773   5011   5011   5011   4123   4123   4123
8.Q. Ind.  Cost                   2214   2324   2324   2441   2441   2563   2563   2563  2108   2108   2108
Fin. charges and Dep.             9578  9578   9578   9578   9578   9578   9578   9578   9578   9578   9578
Total                         27095  27971  27971  28890  28890  29856  29856  29856  26570  26570  26261
Total by Mill (M$'000)
Ulu Belitong                      4259   4398   4398   4544   4544   4698   4698   4698   4126   4126   4126
Simpang Wa Ha                     2909   3010   3010   3115   3115   3225   3225   3225   2814   2814   2814
Sorting Hilir                     4563   4715   4715   4874   4874   5042   5042   5042   4418   4418   4418
Sahabat A                         5784   5977   5977   6179   6179   6392   6392   6392   5600   5600   5600
Sahabat B                         5606   5784   5784   5969   5969   6165   6165   6165   5747  5747   5438                       w
Kalabakan                         3974   4088   4088   4208   4208   4334   4334   4334   3865   3865   3865
Total                         27095  27971  27971  28890  28890  29856  29856 29856  26570  26570 26261
Average by Item (M$/ffb-ton)
Variable Cost                     5.06   5.31   5.31   5.58   5.58   5.86   5.86   5.86   5.12   5.12   4.82
Spare Parts/Maintenance           5.70   5.98   5.98   6.28   6.28   6.60   6.60   6.60   5.43   5.43   5.43
Fixed cost                        4.24   4.46  4.46  4.68   4.68  4.91   4.91   4.91   4.04   4.04   4.04
H.Q. Ind.  Cost                   2.17  2.28   2.28  2.39   2.39  2.51   2.51   2.51   2.07   2.07   2.07
Fin. charges and Dep.             9.39   9.39   9.39   9.39   9.39   9.39   9.39   9.39   9.39   9.39   9.39
Total                         26.56  27.42  27.42  28.32  28.32  29.27 29.27  29.27  26.05  26.05  25.75
Average by Mill (M$/ffb-ton)
Ulu Belitong                     26.62 27.49  27.49  28.40  28.40  29.36 29.36  29.36  25.79  25.79  25.79
Simpang Wa Ha                    24.25  25.08  25.08  25.96  25.96  26. t8 26.88 26.88  23.45  23.45  23.45                         1 
Sorting Hilir                    22.81  23.57  23.57  24.37  24.37  25.21  25.21  25.21  22.09  22.09  22.09                        P 
Sahabat A                        27.54  28.46  28.46 29.42  29.42  30.44  30.44  30.44  26.67  26.67  26.67                            X
Sahabat B                        28.03  28.92  28.92  29.85  29.85  30.82  30.82  30.82  28.73  28.73  27.19                        0
Kalabakan                        30.57  31.45  31.45  32.37  32.37  33.34  33.34  33.34  29.73  29.73  29.73                        0
Average                       26.56  27.42  27.42  28.32  28.32  29.27  29.27 29.27 26.05  26.05  25.75                          m



HALAYSIA
FELDA PALM OIL MILLS PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (Loan 2530-MA)
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN O
(In Constant 1990 M$)
------------ ---- ----  Actual 1/    --------------   Projected - ----
YEAR                                     1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
ffb Processed  (ton'000)  2/
In Peninsular Malaysia                                            115     310      399     368      475     510      510     500      500
In Sabah                                                           19      41      130     353      514     510      530     530      540
ffb Processing fees (M$/ffb-ton) 3/
In Peninsular Malaysia                                             36      33       31      28       27      26       27      26       26
In Sabah                                                           36      33       33      32       30      29       30      29       29
BENEFITS
ffb Processing Charges (M$'000) 4/                                4839   11613   16804   21414   28073   28390   29865   28476   28800
COSTS (M$'000)
Mills Operating Costs 5/
Variable Costs                                                  864    2634    4335    7625    8349    8153    8327    7860    7943 I
Fix Costs 6/                                                   1003    4070    3525    4950    5126    4882    4882    4650    4650
Total Operating Costs                                             1867    6704    7860   12575   13475   13035   13209   12510   12592
Mills Construction  7/                  4934    8990   19847   23782    9417   19600    8960    1092                                         l
TOTAL COST                               4934    8990   19847   25649   16121   27460   21534   14567   13035   13209   12510   12592
NET CASH FLOW  (M$'000)                 -4934   -8990  -19847  -20811   -4508  -10656    -121   13506   15356   16656   15967   16207
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN 8/                13%
1/ Actual benefits and costs for the period 1984 through 1990 are based on FELMILL records converted to constant 1990 M$.
2/ FELMILL's ffb processing projections, except for Kalabakan.
3/ It was assumed that milling fees will be adjusted by 5% every three years, thus, declining in real terms.
4/ Hills only income are ffb processing charges.
5/ Mill operating costs are based on FELMILL projections.                                                                                  e >
6/ Fixed operating costs are exclusive of depreciation and interbet.                                                                         Z
7/ Investment costs are net of identifiable import duties and taxes.                                                                         X
8/ Benefits and cost cover a 25 year stream.
!| Details regarding economic and financial analyeee are in the working filee of the PCR la Asia Information Center.                       o



HAASIAYI
rrLDA PALM OIL HILLS PROJCT COMPLETION RZP30T (Loan 2530-MA)
ECONOMIC RATE or RnTURU
(In Constant 1990 NS)
Projected
YEAR                                     1996    1997    1990    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007
ffb Processod  (ton000)  2/
In Peninsular Malaysia                 480      480     480      480     430      480     480     430      480     480      480     480
In Sabah                               540      540     540      540     540      540     S40      540     540     540      540     540
ffb Processing f-e. (M$/ffb-ton) 3/
In Peninsular Malaysia                   25      25      24       24      23       24      23       23      22      22       22      22
In Sabah                                 28      28       27      27      26       26      25       26      25      25       24      25
BENEFITS
ffb Processing Charges (N$000) 4/  27144   27517   26306   26463   25340   25573   24617   24916   24049   24402   23609   24008
COSTS IN$S000)
Mills Operating Costs 5/
Variable Costs                      7429    7427    7074    7074    6737    6737    6416    6416    6111    6111    5820    5542
Fix Costs 6/                        4428    4420    4218    4218    4017    4017    3825    3025    3643    3643    3470    3305  1
Total Operating Costs                  11857   11856   11291   11291   10754   10754   10241   10241    9754    9754    9289    8847  W
Hills constructLon 7/
TOTAL COST                              11857   11056   11291   11291   10754   10754   10241   10241    9754    97S4    9289    8847
NET CASH FLOW  (H$000)                  15287   15661   15015   15172   14586   14819   14375   14674   14295   14649   14319   15161
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN 8/
0
NQ 



MALAYSIA
FELDA PALM OIL HITLS PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (Loan 2530-MA)
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
(In Constant 1990 MS)
Actual 1/  -    - -     ----- --   ----------   Projected -----
YEAR                                     1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
ffb Processed (ton,O0O) 2/
in Peninsular 3lalaysia                                          115     310      399     368      475     510     510      500     500
In Sabah                                                          19      41      130     353      514     510     530      530     540
ffb Procssaing fees (H$/ffb-ton) 3/
In Peninsular Malaysia                                            36      33       31      28       27      26      27       26      26
In Sabah                                                          36      33       33      32       30      29      30       29      29
BENEFITS
ffb Processing Charg-s (M$'0001 4/                               4839   11613   16804   21414   28073   28390   29865   28476   28800
COSTS (H$0000)
Hills Operating Costs 5/
Variable Costs                                                 864    2634    4335    7625    8349    8153    8327    7860    7943
Fix Costs 6/                                                  1003    4070    3525    4950    5126    4882    4882    4650    4650
Total Operating Costs                                            1867    6704    7860   12575   13475   13035   13209   12510   12592   1
Mills Construction                     5494   10128   22237   26754   10541   21916   10066    1230
TOTAL COST                              5494   10128   22237   28622   17245   29776   22640   14705   13035   13209   12510   12592
NET CASH FLOW  (H$'000)                -5494  -10128  -22237  -23783   -5632  -12972   -1227   13368   15356   16656   15967   16207
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN 7/               11%
1/ Actual benefits and costs for the period 1984 through 1990 are based on FELMILL records converted to constant 1990 MS.
2/ FELHILL's ffb processing projections, except for lower projections for Kalabakan.
3/ It was assumed that milling fees will be adjusted by 5% every three years, thus, declining in real terms.
4/ Hills only incom, are ffb processing charges.
5/ Mill operating costa are based on FELMILL projections.
6/ Fixed operating costs ar- exclusive of depreciation and interest.
7/ Benefits and cost cover a 25 year stream.
0



MALAYSrA
FELDA PALM OIL MILLS PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (Loan 2530-HA)
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
(In Constant 1990 M$)
Projected    -
YEAR                                     1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007
ffb Processed (ton0OOO) 2/
In Peninsular Malaysia                  480     480      480      480     480      480     480      480     480      480     480      480
In Sabah                                540      540     540      540     540      540     540      540     540      540     540      540
ftb Procssaing fees (MS/ffb-ton) 3/
In Peninsular Malaysia                   25       25      24       24      23       24      23       23      22       22      22       22
in Sabah                                 28       28      27       27      26       26      25       26      25       25      24       25
BENEPITS
ffb Processing Charges (MS'000) 4/  27144   27517   26306   26463   25340   25573   24617   24916   24049   24402   23609   24008
COSTS (M$'000
Mills Oper.iting Costs 5/
Variable Costs                       7429    7427    7074    7074    6737    6737    6416    6416    6111    6111    5820    5542
Fix Costs 6/                         4428    4428    4218    4218    4017    4017    3825    3825    3643    3643    3470    3305
Total Operating Costs                  11857   11856   11291   11291   10754   10754   10241   10241    9754    9754    9289    8847   1
Hills Construction                                                                                                                            H
TOTAL COST                              11857   11856   11291   11291   10754   10754   10241   10241    9754    9754    9289    8847
NET CASH FLOW  (1$-000)                 15287   15661   15015   15172   14586   14819   14375   14674   14295   14649   14319   15161
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN 7/
VQZ
0
Ni 



IBRD 23564
100-       1|3^                                         105-                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~112  1 Is-
MALAYSIA
FELDA PALM OIL MILLS PROJECT                                                                                             PHILIPPINES
T HA IL A ND                                                                                         Project Pralm Oil Mills,
Road$
s                                                                   - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railways 
--    State Boundaries
Al., S0.'                    W.o                                                              -.--  Internationol Boundaries                                                        Kol   os,St='
0         1OO       200        300        400
C 'A.   A  t    |)  _  4  -\_Kuolo T..nrgo                                               KILOMETERS                                                                                                  f         o
N DONE S IA                                                                                                                                     I N              N ESAINDONESIA
GU WRO                                                     -IITCNG                                                                                         1                                   199
T 5 r, t ~~~~~~~SUAPANlGWA HA ,   
I14GPORE                                                                      t                 .aesolhWdF
I N  D O N E S l/A                                                                                                                                  I  N    D    O)  N   E    S    I A                  POF.d,i',,e,^
;                                                                                                     /S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~       ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A I / M4 A IV T A A/IVl~,elaeo



