Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Ripwo No. P-3961-MA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US531.2 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERAL LAND DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF MALAYSIA
FOR THE
FELDA PALM OIL MILLS PROJECT
February 28, 1985
rThis documt as a estited distribution and may be ued by recipienls only in the pefonnce of
t    oicid ges Its cotetnts may not otherwise be disclosed without World BDank athorizaion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit     =      Ringgit (M$)
Calender 1984                 January 1985
US$1.00        M$2.35             US$1.00 = M$2.50
M$1.00    =    US$0.43            M$1.00  = US$0.40
FISCAL YEAR
Government and FELDA: January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                  =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)             =   0.62 mile (m)
I hectare (ha)               =   2.47 acre (ac)
1 square kilometer (sq km)  =   0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 liter (1)                  =   0.26 gallons (gal)
1 kilogram (kg)              =   2.2 pound (lb)
1 metric ton (ton)           =   1,000 kg = 2,200 lb
ABBREVIATIONS
CPO          -   Crude Palm Oil
FELDA        -   Federal Land Development Authority
FELMILL      -   FELDA Mills Corporation
FFB          -   Fresh Fruit Bunch
MIS          -   Management Information System
NAP          -   National Agricultural Policy



FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
FELDA PALM OIL MILLS PROJECT
Loan and Project Sumnuary
Borrower:          Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA)
Guarantor:         Malaysia
Beneficiaries:     FELDA and FELDA Mills Corporation (FELMILL), a FELDA
subsidiary.
Loan Amount:       US$31.2 million equivalent
Terms:             Repayable in 15 years, including three years grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
On Lending
Terms:           FELDA would onlend to FELMILL about US$30.9 million of the
loan amount for 15 years, including three years of grace,
during which interest would be capitalized, at the standard
variable interest rate. FELILL would bear the foreign
exchange risk on its part of the.Bank loan.
Project
Description:     The project would support FELDA's palm oil mill construc-
tion program which, under the responsibility of FELMILL,
provides fruit processing services to FELDA's smallholder
land settlement schemes. It would strengthen FELMILL's
mill planning and operation and would assist in construct-
ing seven palm oil mills with a total capacity of 351 ton -
fresh fruit bunch of oil palm (FFB)/hour. The project
would also support FELDA's ongoing efforts to strengthen
its corporate and financial planning and accounting
systems. It would provide consulting services to design a
computerized data-base system for FELDA. The main risk
associated with the project would be reduced milling
utilization due to lower than expected crop production.
This could result from lower planting rates, crop damage,
and reduced yields due to weather or other factors. The
risk of underutilization would be reduced by reviewing,
prior to the start of construction of each mill, the
justification and timing in light of updated crop
projections.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. [Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- it -
Estimated Cost:                                     Local       Foreign      Total
-  ----- US$ milian ------
Hill construction              25.9           26.0        51.9
Electronic data processing   -  0.2            0.2
Base Cost                    25.9           26.2        52.1
Physical contingencies         0.50.5          1.0
Price contingencies            4.54.5          9.0
Total project cost           30.9           31.2        62.1/a
Financing Plan:                                    Local        Foreign      Total
US$ million
IBRD                           - 31.2         31.2
FELDA                          30.9             -         30.9
Total                        30.9           31.2        62.1
Estimated
Disbursements:   Bank FY              1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
US$ million ---
Annual               1.9    5.8    7.6    7.1    5.8    3.0
Cumulative           1.9    7.7   15.3   22.4   28.2   31.2
Rate of Return: 16Z
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 5324-MA, dated February 20, 1985.
MAP: IBRD No. 18433
/a ,Total cost net of taxes and duties is estimated at US$55.6 million.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE FEDERAL LAND DEVELOPMENT AUTHOPTTY WITH THE GUARANTEE OF MALAYSIA
FOR THE FELDA PALM iL MILLS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA), with the guarantee of the
*         Government of Malaysia, for the equivalent of US$31.2 million to assist the
FELDA Palm Oil Mills Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, includ-
ing three years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. About
US$30.9 million of the proposed loan would be onlent to the FELDA Mills
Corporation (FELMILL) for 15 years, including three years of grace, during
which interest would be capitalized, at the standard variable interest rate.
The foreign exchange risk would be borne by FELDA and FELMILL on a pro rata
basis.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 11
2.        The latest economic report, "Malaysia: Structural Change and Stabi-
lization" (No. 4829-MA), was issued on November 15th, 1983. This section also
incorporates the tentative findings of a public expenditure mission in
May/June 1984 and a domestic resource mobilization mission in November 1984.
3.        By most economic indicators, Malaysia's economic performance was
outstanding in the 1970s. The per capita income of US$1,870 in 1983 is among
the highest in Southeast Asia. In the last decade, per capita GDP growth has
averaged about 5.5% p.a., somewhat higher than the 4Z p.a. per capita growth
achieved in the 1960s. This sustained good performance was a reflection of
several factors, including the country's wealth in natural resources, especi-
ally ample reserves of cultivable land; an outward-oriented growth strategy;
favorable developments in the world economy; good economic and financial
management; and, not least, stable social and political institutions. Three
specific elements have been important: first, substantial attention and
priority has been given to agriculture, resulting in high productivity gains
*         in the sector which have cushioned against occasional steep price declines;
second, manufacturing growth has been rapid, at about 12% p.a., in the last
two decades, following first an import substituting pattern, but later
increasingly oriented towards exports; third, in a very open economy with
exports and imports recently averaging more than 50% of GDP, exports have
diversified from an initial large dependence on rubber and tin to include palm
oil, petroleum, and manufactured goods.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Small Scale Enterprise Project approved by the Board of Directors on
October 16, 1984.



-2-
4.        Malaysia is a multiracial society with approximately 55X of the
population indigenous Malays, 35Z Chinese, and the remainder largely Indian.
The country has inherited deep divisions in the distribution of income between
ethnic communities, and has also been struggling with a serious poverty prob-
lem. The incidence of poverty covers all ethnic groups, but remains dispro-
portionately high among Malays. In 1971, the Government declared a New
Economic Policy , and accorded the highest priority to eradicating poverty and
reducing the racial imbalances in income, employment, and ownership of
assets. Specific quantitative targets, to be achieved by 1990, were estab-
lished for these objectives. Particular emphasis has been given to accelera-
ted growth of the modern sector (i.e. outside traditional agriculture), as
about 1 million jobs (or 90Z of all new employment) need to be created in the
non-agricultural sectors during 1985-90. In the mid-term of this program,
substantial progress has been nade. By 1983, che incijlnce of poverty had
declined to about 30% of all households, the Bumiputra- share of corporate
assets had increased, and there have been significant changes in the ethnic
distribution of employment.
5.        The Malaysian economy has been undergoing some important structural
changes. Industry has replaced agriculture as the major contributor to GDP,
and exporting manufactured goods has replaced import substitution as the
cutting edge of industrial growth. In particular, there has been a remarkable
and dominating increase in exports of electronic goods over the last 15 years.
Export diversification (particularly through palm oil, petroleum, and more
recently LNG) has proved important, as some of Malaysia's traditional major
foreign exchange earners show signs of flagging vitality. Tin production has
steadily declined in the face of weak prices, the exhaustion of many mines,
and increasing costs of extraction. Although timber production has recently
been buoyant, exploitation of the resource has led to detrimental environ-
mental consequences, and the Government has plans for restricting logging in
the future. Finally, rubber production has been fluctuating around a
declining trend for several years. While factors specific to the cultivation
of rubber have been at work, an important reason has been the migration of the
young and educated from the farms to the towns. This has fostered a major
structural change in the Malaysian economy, as it appears that the agricul-
tural labor force may now be peaking in absolute numbers. In turn, this sug-
gests rather different strategies to be followed in the agricultural sector in
years to come, both to maintain agricultural production as well as to tackle
the large extant problem of rural poverty. In recognition of this, the
Government has recently published a policy document to guide future agri-
cultural development which takes into account the emerging trends in the
sector (para. 21).
6.        While, in general, the economy has performed well in the last few
years, this progress has been punctuated by periods of occasional diffi-
culty. This has been particularly true in the most recent international
commodity price cycle. Between 1977 and 1980, prices for palm oil, rubber,
2/   "Bumiputra" literally means "son of the soil."  The word is used to refer
to Malays and other indigenous groups.



-3-
timber, and petroleum increased rapidly, and export receipts nearly doubled.
The terms of trade improved by about 25% in the same period, and real national'
income grew by more than 11% p.a. In 1980, however, the prices of virtually
all of Malaysia's export commodities began to fall and, over the next two
years, the terms of trade declined by more than 8%, representing a loss of
national income of about 5%. Anticipating, in 1980, a short internacional
recession, the Government introduced a countercyclical fiscal policy, compris-
ing large expenditure increases and tax cuts, in an attempt to maintain domes-
tic income levels. This combinaticn of falling commodity prices and an expan-
sionary fiscal stance led, in 1981 and 1982, to large fiscal and balance of
payments deficits; thus, in 1981-82, the current account deficit on the
balance of payments averaged 11% of GNP, while the overall public sector defi-
cit averaged 18% o.F GNP. Overall GDP growth averaged 6Z p.a., and inflation
initially accelerated before falling to 6% in 1982.
7.        To finance these large deficits, the Government had to borrow
heavily, both domestically and abroad. Domestic borrowing was largely non-
inflationary, from the Employees Provident Fund, the national oil company, and
the commercial banks.  Even so, the ratio of domestic debt to CNP grew from
about 37% to nearly 50% between 1980 and 1982. Increasing proportions of the
deficits had to be financed from abroad, and the level of disbursed public
external debt almost doubled between 1980 and 1982 (from 16% to 32% of GNP);
there was, in addition, an important shift in the sources of borrowing, away
from project financing towards market borrowings. Because of the low levels
of external borrowing of the previous decade, this surge in the 1980-82 period
did not give rise to an immediate, high burden of debt service. As a
proportion of exports, debt service on public and publicly-guaranteed debt is
estimated at about 9% in 1983 and 11.7% in 1984.
8.        The unsustainability of deficits of the magnitude experienced in
1981 and 1982 has been clearly recognized by the Government, and a policy of
expenditure restraint was implemented through 1983 and strongly affirmed in
the 1984 budget. In the course of 1983, development expenditures of the
Federal Government fell by 202, and the federal deficit gas reduced substan-
tially - from 17.7% of GNP in 1982 to 10.2% in 1983. However, due to a con-
tinuing expansion in expenditures by other parts of the public sector, the
overall public sector deficit did not decrease as sharply as the federal
deficit. In addition, private sector investment expenditures rose by 12% in
real terms, reflecting largely the impact of high7r outlays by quasi-public
agencies currently misclassified in this sector.3   This offset, to an extent,
the adjustments being made by the Federal Government. As a result, the
balance of payments current account deficit registered only a small improve-
ment - declining from 12.4% of GNP in 1982 to 10.5% in 1983. In 1984, greater
control over the consolidated public sector, combined with continued
restrictions on federal government spending, helped to improve the current
account deficit to the level of 9.0Z of GNP.
3/   According to the classification of the Government, major off-budget
agencies like PETRONAS (the petroleum company) and HICOM (the heavy
industry corporation) are not included in the public sector.



- 4 -
9.        Assuming a sustained international economic recovery and continued
expenditure restraint by the Government, the fiscal and external deficits of
Malaysia should reach manageable levels over the medium term. With the heavy
borrowing recently undertaken, and with anticipation of future, albeit lower,
external deficits, the debt service ratio will increase later in the decade.
It is expected , however, to stabilize at acceptable levels (between 15Z-20X
of exports). At the same time, the present and o.ngoing expenditure retrench-
ment, although starting from a high level, has placed the public investment
budget under strain, and is likely to affect future growth prospects. In this
regard, it is becoming increasingly important for the Government to ensure the
efficiency of the public sector investment program. Recognition has also been
given by the Government to the need to tackle some of the economy's structural
difficulties. As noted above, a National Agricultural Policy has been announ-
ced. A comprehensive review of development strategy is contained in the
recent mid-term review of the Fourth Malaysia Plan (1981-85) released in April
1984; among the initiatives already announced is proposed "privatization" and
financial self-sufficiency of revenue-earning public sector activities.
Industrial studies (on export and production incentives) are being undertaken,
in conjunction with the Bank, to ensure the continued contribution of this
important sector to the economy. A series of initiatives are thus underway to
sustain development, albeit in more difficult financial circumstances than
were foreseen before the onset of the recession.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
10.       The Bank has, to date, made 60 loans to Malaysia, totalling
US$1,608 million for projects in agriculture, education, population, power,
water supply, sewerage, telecommunications, ports, railways, roads, and urban
transport. As of September 30, 1984, the effective loans to Malaysia held by
the Bank amounted to US$1,298 million; 37 loans to Malaysia have been fully
disbursed. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans and IFC investments.
11.       In recent years, the Bank's lending strategy towards Malaysia has
aimed at assisting the Government to alleviate poverty. The Government thrust
has been twofold: first, to maintain a high economic growth to encourage a
labor shift from low to higher wage occupations; second, as most poverty is
concentrated in the rural areas, to raise the productivity and incomes of
farmers directly through a variety of agricultural projects and programs. The
Bank has been associated with both aspects of this strategy - by assisting the
Government to overcome impediments to growth (for example, by lending for
vocational education and power) and also by lending for a long sequence of
agricultural projects. These have indeed enjoyed major success in raising the
incomes of beneficiaries, substantially increasing the foreign exchange earn-
ings of the country, and contributing to a high economy-wide growth.
12.       The Bank intends to continue to address the poverty issue.
alaysia's commitment to assist its low-income groups has not diminished in
the wake of the recent economic difficulties, and Bank assistance would con-
tribute to alleviating poverty in both rural and urban areas. Accordingly,
several agricultural and education projects to assist the target groups are in



- 5 -
preparation and over the next year or so, we expect to submitito the Executive
Directors a comprehensive school development project, a project to improve
infrastructure faciLities for settlers in the newly developed areas and an
integrated agricultural development project in Johore. Sabah, one of the
poorest states in the country, will be assisted with a forestry technical
assistance loan presently being negotiated. While significant progress has
been made in alleviating poverty in the country, the hard-core poor have been
difficult to reach, and the Government is engaged in a review of its poverty
eradication programs. FoLlowing this study, we propose to identify new areas
for support to the Government in it efforts to eradicate poverty.
13.       Responding to the recent changes in Malaysia's economic situation
and prospects (paras. 5-9), we are expanding and diversifying the operational
program. The Bank would aim at promoting the development of the productive
sectors and at strengthening the supporting physical and social infrastructure
to maximize their contribution to economic growth and employment. An indus-
trial training project to alleviate critical shortages of technical personnel
and a water supply project for Johore have been appraised, and would be
submitted to the Executive Directors in the coming months. Projects to
strengthen transport infrastructure are in preparation and over the coming
years we propose to assist in development of Port Klang, in completing some of
the important links of the North-South Highway along the western industrial
belt of Malaysia, and possibly in strengthening the transport institutions in
improving maintenance and rehabilitation of roads. Projects for promoting
private investment in industry, for strengthening power development and
distribution network, and for expanding water supply, sanitation, and urban
facilities are under discussion.
14.       Although overall implementation of Bank-assisted projects in
Malaysia has been satisfactory, it has recently been seriously affected by the
country's budgetary constraints. This has also been reflected in project dis-
bursements, which dropped from US$111 million in FY82 and US$137 million in
FY83 to US$87 million in FY84. Disbursement performance, measured in terms of
the rates of actual disbursements to cumulative undisbursed amounts, was 0.19
in FY82, 0.22 in FY83 and 0.14 in FY84 (compared to regional averages of 0.19,
0.20, and 0.20, respectively, in the same years).
15.       Apart from lack of counterpart funding, the major problems causing
disbursement delays in Malaysia are: delays in project start-up due to man-
power shortages and time-consuming land acquisition procedures, and the limi-
ted capacity of the Public Works Department and the local contracting indus-
try.  To improve the situation, the Bank has held various project implementa-
tion reviews with the central and implementing agencies in Kuala Lumpur.
These reviews and the corrective action taken by the agencies subsequently is
having a positive impact on project implementation and disbursements. In this
respect, the recent approval of project restructuring and/or increased
disbursement rates for five agricultural projects under the SAP is also of
help. In addition, further reviews will be undertaken with the Malaysian
authorities when necessary. It is also proposed to reinforce the implementa-
tion reviews with occasional seminars on disbursements and procurement (a dis-
bursement seminar was arranged in June 1982 and a procurement seminar was
conducted in March 1983, both in Kuala Lumpur) for the benefit of the
implementing agencies.



-6-
16.       IFC has made six investments in Malaysia totalling US$21.2 million.
The total investments held by IFC, as of September 30, 1984, amounted to
US$12.50 miLlion (Annex II).
17.       As noted earlier, at end-1984, Malaysia's debt service ratio on
public and publicly guaranteed debt was about 12X. In 1983, debt service on
Bank obligations constituted about 62 of total debt service. With the rapid
increase in market borrowings in the Last three years, the proportion of Bank-
disbursed debt in total disbursed debt has fallen from about 15% in 1979-80 to
less than 92 at end 1983. Various projections, on a variety of assumptions,
suggest that the Bank share in debt service and total disbursed debt of
Malaysia is likely to remain well below 10Z through the rest of the decade.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
18.       The agricultural sector plays a dominant role in the Malaysian
economy, though its relative importance is declining as the country proceeds
toward industrialization. The sector accounts for about 23% of CDP, 40% of
merchandise exports, and 35% of employment. In the 1960s and early 1970s,
agriculture grew at 7Z p.a., but since 1976, growth slowed down to, on
average, 5.52 p.a. during 1976-80 and 3.72 p.a. during 1981-83. Halaysia is
the world's largest producer and exporter of rubber and palm oil, supplying
about 402 of the world's natural rubber output and more than half of palm oil
production. Its contribution to world exports is about 452 for natural rubber
and 70% for palm oil. Malaysia is also a major exporter of natural wood and
timber.
19.       Malaysia has a strong comparative advantage for tree crop develop-
ment, particularly rubber and oil palm. About one-third of Peninsular
Malaysia and less than 52 of Sabah and Sarawak are under cultivation. The
total cultivated area is about 4.5 million ha, of which about 2.0 million ha
are under rubber, 1.3 million ha oil palm, 300,000 ha coconut, 200,000 ha
cocoa, and 500,000 ha rice. Other crops include sugarcane, pineapple,
tobacco, and pepper. The entire rice area and about two-thirds of the tree
crop area are in smallholdings averaging 1.2 ha; the remainder is mainly in
commercial estates.
20.       With the, until recently, strong performance of the Malaysian
economy, poverty incidence has been greatly reduced from about 492 in 1970 to
302 in 1983. However, poverty remains high in the rural areas particularly
among rice, rubber, and coconut smallholders and fishermen, primarily because
of small farm sizes and low productivity. With increasing industrialization
the rural youth are migrating to urban areas, reducing the agricultural labor
force, and further contributing to the slowdown of agricultural output.
Government Policies and Strategy
21.       Government efforts in agriculture have traditionally been oriented
to poverty alleviation in rural areas. In view of the slowdown in agriculture
and increasing migration to urban areas, the Government, with Bank assistance,
recently reviewed its sectoral objectives and announced its National



-7-
Agricultural Policy (NAP). Maintaining the emphasis on poverty alleviation,
the NAP objectives are: (a) maximization of farm incomes to retain productive
labor in the sector; and (b) expansion of production of traditional and new
export and food crops to revitaLize the agricultural sector and to achieve
food security.
22.       The Government's main objectives have been pursued through two basic
strategies: (a) land development and settlement to provide viable farm sizes
and adequate incomes, and to expand tree crop production for export through
well-organized and managed settlement schemes; and (b) in-situ development
projects designed to consolidate smalL farms, rehabilitate idle lands,
increase productivity, and improve farm management. This has led to develop-
ment of Land settlement schemes by the state governments and FELDA; Large
irrigation projects by the Ministry of Agriculture; land rehabilitation pro-
grams by the Federal Land ConsoLidation and Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA);
and rubber replanting and mini-estate development programs by the Rubber
Industry Smallholders Development Authority (RISDA). Under the NAP, these
strategies will continue, but greater attention will be paid to the problems
of uneconomic farm units, unremunerative crops, and low productivity in the
in-situ development projects. These include mechanization and promotion of
group farming with centralized management and the intensification of
integrated support services and credit for selected crops.
Bank StrategY
23.       The Bank has consistently supported the Government's poverty alle-
viation objectives and institution buiLding efforts in agriculture. Ini-
tially, Bank lending in agriculture concentrated on land development and
irrigation. More recently, emphasis has also been given to programs designed
to raise smallholder productivity, such as irrigation and drainage
improvement, tree crop rehabilitation, land consolidation, and agricuLtural
research and extension. To date, the Bank has made 23 agricultural loans
anmounting to US$731 million. An important thrust of future Bank assistance to
Maliysia will continue to be for agriculture, along the lines proposed in the
NAP. Particular attention will be paid to resolving structural problems
facing the sector, especially through Land consoLidation and improved manage-
ment of smalLholder agriculture, and to further strengthening the land
development and settlement programs.
Land Development and Settlement
24.       Malaysia has a long and successful history of government-sponsored
and organized land development and settlement. The factors behind this
success include the availability of large tracts of agriculturally suitable
forest land; the introduction of commercially valuable cash crops: well
designed and profitabLe large-scale land development programs; and management
models adapted from the private estate sector. The pacesetter and predominant
land development agency has been FELDA.



- 8 -
FELDA/FELHILL Organization and Management
25.       FELDA was established in 1956 as a Federal Statutory Body.  It oper-
ates within the Ministry of Land and Regional Development under policy guid-
ance and general supervision of a Board consisting of 13 members, including
government and private seccor representatives. Day-to-day administration is
under the Director General. At field level, FELDA is organized by geogra-
phical area and development schemes. Most senior managers began in junior
positions, many of them in the settlement schemes. FELDA staff totalled some
8,000 in mid-1984.
26.       Since 1972, FELDA has established seven subsidiary corporations and
entered into six joint ventures with the private sector to provide specific
development services and down-stream activities to the settlement program.
The largest subsidiary is FELDA Mills Corporation (FELMILL), established in
1975 to process oil palm and rubber from FELDA schemes. FELDA owns about 93Z
of FELMILL's equity. The remaining 7Z belongs to the settlers and FELDA
staff. The Board of FELMILL comprises the Chairman and the Director Ceneral
of FELDA, FELMILL's Managing Director, two representatives of FELDA's Board
and four settler representatives. FELMILL operations are the responsibility
of a Managing Director, a Depucy Managing Director and six line managers.
Mill operations are organized into six regionaL zones. FELMILL staff, which
has been largely recruited from FELDA, is qualified and experienced, and
totals 1,680; labor at the mills totals 4,350.
27.       FELDA's Department of Planning and Budgeting prepares annual plans
and budgets related to scheme operations, mill construction, and the admin-
istrative expenditures of FELDA. FELDA's present budgeting system requires
strengthening. It does not cover all FELDA operations, does not account for
revenues from operations and does not allow for effective monitoring of
expenditures. These deficiencies have reduced FELDA management effectiveness
in routine corporate and financial planning. FELDA's present management
information system (MIS) also requires strengthening. The system is complex
since FELDA is a financial institution, equity investor, contractor, develop-
ment planner, and provider of services for smallholders. The present report-
ing system inundates managers with separate reports on smallholders' income,
loan and arrears accounts, crop yields, etc. and accounting and financial
statements from branch, zone and head offices.
28.       Shortly before project appraisal in mid-1984, FELDA engaged
consultants to propose improvements to its budgeting, accounting, and MIS, and
to assist FELDA staff in their implementation. This would require changes in
FELDA's Electronic Data Processing (EDP) systems, and would be addressed under
the project (para. 40).
29.       FELMILL's short- and long-term planning and budgeting is sound.
FELMILL routinely provides FELDA with mill construction requirements, and its
MIS is effective for decision making. Reports of mill operations and cost
accounts are excellent, as are operational briefs for senior managers.
FELMILL prepares monthly and quarterly profit and loss statements, manpower
reports, and production and factory throughput statements, which are routinely
and easily evaluated.



- 9 -
FELDA's Development Strategy and Performance
30.       FELDA's development strategy consists of an integrated package com-
prising: land clearing, planting and initial maintenance; development of
settler villages, including housing, roads, water supply and basic infrastruc-
ture services; seLection and empLacement of settlers; provision of agricuL-
tural services such as credit, technical assistance, inputs, processing and
marketing; and community organization and social amenities. Agricultural
development is focussed on oil palm, rubber and cocoa. To ensure efficient
farming and land use. settLers are provided with a house and an unidentified
4.0 ha landholding within a 96 ha bLock of land shared by 24 settLers. The
block is jointly farmed by the group; individual settlers are paid wages and
share the profits. By processing and marketing the produce, FELDA ensures
loan repayments after settlers receive a reasonable income.
31.       As of March 31, 1984, FELDA had settled, mainly in Peninsular
Malaysia, some 83,700 families in 367 settlement schemes comprising some
612,600 ha (66% in oil palm, 30Z in rubber, and 4% in cocoa, sugar and
coffee). The total area currently in production is some 353,000 ha, over
250,000 ha in oil palm. During 1981-83, FELDA developed new land at an
average annual rate of 34,700 ha, and it is expected to develop an additional
57,000 ha in 1984-85. Urtil 1978, FELDA was limited to Peninsular Malaysia,
but in 1979, it began operations in Sabah, where the State Government
allocated 100,000 ha for FELDA development. Land development in Sabah
involves more complex socioeconomic and physical conditions than in West
Malaysia, and progress is expected to be slower.
FELMILL Oil Palm and Rubber Processing Facilities
32.       As in large private oil palm estates, FELDA provides its settlement
schemes with processing facilities to ensure timely fruit processing. FELMILL
was established in 1975 and assumed mill ownership and operation responsibil-
ity, with FELDA retaining responsibility for planning and construction.  By
mid-1985, FELMILL will have in operation 56 palm oil mills with a total capa-
city of about 2,750 tons fresh fruit bunch (FFB)/hour, making FELMILL the
largest palm oil producer in Malaysia. During the last four years, construc-
tion of palm oil mills was accelerated to service new production areas and to
cater for expected production yield increases due to weevil-assisted pollina-
tion. Eight mills were commissioned in 1984 and one more will be commissioned
in 1985. Mill operation is generally satisfactory, but some mills are
affected by low oil extraction and recovery rates due to unripe fruit and
processing Losses. These problems are being addressed and would be pursued
further under the proposed project. FELMILL also operates 10 rubber factories
with a totaL capacity of about 545 tons/day, which process about 75% of the
rubber produced in FELDA settlement schemes. After initial setbacks, FELMILL
rubber operations are now satisfactory and profitable.
Bank Lending for FELDA
33.       Since 1968 FELDA has completed implementation of five Bank assisted
projects (Loans 533, 672, 885, 967 and 1044-MA) and is nearing completion of a
sixth (Loan 1590-MA). These projects cover some 66 settlement schemes, com-



- 10 -
prising development of 120,750 ha, settlement of 29,450 families and estab-
lishment of 15 palm oil mills, with a totaL capacity of 751 FFB ton/hour.
This represents about 202 of FELDA's land development. Through its involve-
ment, the Bank has been able to assist FELDA in its settlement program and
institution-building through development of long-term integrated planning and
implementation strategies; improvements in accounting, management and procure-
ment procedures; strengthening of staff and operations of palm oil mills;
ontainmant of settlement costs per family; introduction of improved planting
materials; and wild life preservation and control measures.
34.       Four Project Performance Audit Reports 4/ and a recently issued
Completion Report state that all five projects have been successful in meeting
project objectives. Achievements in land development, crop yields, settler
emplacement, incomes and economic returns have been satisfactory, although
implementation was sometimes delayed due to deficient planting techniques,
crop damage by wild animals, and slow construction of roads and other social
infrastructure by other government agencies.
35.       Although FELDA is one of the world's most experienced land develop-
ment agencies, it will require further strengthening to deal with changing
circumstances. With the shift in focus from Peninsular Malaysia to Sabah and
Sarawak, the need to consolidate development, accelerate crop replanting and
retain young people in t02 settlements, FELDA's management will become
increasingly complex. FELDA's accounting and management information system
require strengthening (para 27), and some organizational changes may be needed
to allow for more decentralization and increased participation of middle level
management in decision making. FELDA may also require a change in its
financial policies. It has, so far, been dependent on government grants and
concessional loans for its investment program. With the fiscal constraints
now facing Malaysia, and the Government's stated policy of privatization and
financial self-sufficiency of revenue-earning entities, FELDA can progressive-
ly rely less on government funding and should consider using private capital
and its own funds to finance its commercial operations. Future Bank
assistance to FELDA would address the above issues, but is expected to be
phased out over the medium-term, in view of FELDA's relatively advanced
institutional development.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
36.       In the past, Bank assistance to FELDA was on a scheme-by-scheme
basis. During Covernment-FELDA-Bank discussions in late 1982, it was agreed
that the Bank could effectively assist individual components of the overall
settlement program on a time-slice basis, including palm oil mills. FELDA
staff prepared the project with Bank assistance. Project processing was
delayed due to the fiscal constraints facing Halaysia, but, in January 1984,
4/   PPAR Nos. 2122, 3024, 3978 and 4221.



- 11 -
the Government reinstated its request for Bank assistance. Project appraisal
took place in June 1984, when it was proposed that, as a first step towards
finascial self sufficiency, the Bank loan would be made directly to FELDA and
that FELDA/FELMILL would bear the full cost of borrowing. Loan negotiations
were held in Washington, D.C. from February 4-6, 1985, with the Government
delegation led by Mr. Yahya Yaacob, Deputy-Secretary of the Treasury. A Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 5234-MA) dated February 20, 1985 is being distributed
separately. Supplementary project data are given in Annex III of this report.
Objectives
37.       In support of the Covernment's land settlement program and institu-
tion-building efforts, the project would: (a) strengthen FELDA/FELMILL palm
oil mill operations; (b) support FELDA's effort to improve its corporate
planning, budgeting, accounting and management information systems; (c) sup-
port Covernment's policy of achieving financial self-sufficiency of its public
commercial. enterprises; and (d) assist the Government to overcome Malaysia's
current balance of payments and fiscal constraints.
Project Description
38.       The project would include:  (a) construction and commissioning of
seven palm oil mills with a total capacity of 351 ton FFB/hour during 1984-89;
and (b) provision of about 24 man-months of technical assistance to develop
and assist FELDA in establishing a computerized data-base system to meet
FELDA's data processing requirements.
39.       Palm Oil Mills.  The mills would provide processing facilities for
some 52,600 ha of oil palm in six settlement complexes totalling some 105,500
ha (IBRD Map 18433). Four of the mills would be located in Peninsular
MaLaysia, and three in Sabah. Six mills would be of a 54 ton FFB/hour
capacity each, and one of 27 ton FFB/hour. The mills would increase FELMILL's
current milling capacity by 13X. Construction would be to FELDA's current
standard design for a mill of 54 ton FFB/hour installed capacity, consisting
of two production lines of 27 ton FFB/hour each, including water and air
pollution controls.
40.       Data Processing.  FELDA began to use computers in 1972, and data
processing worked reasonably well through the mid-1970s.  But, as FELDA's
operations grew, the system could no longer cope with the increasing volume
and complexity of operations. The major constraint for computerization has
been FELDA's accounting system, which was designed for separation of expendi-
tures on the basis of activities and source of funds. Shortly before project
appraisaL, FELDA engaged consultants to review and propose improvements to its
accounting, budgeting a.ad MIS (para. 28), which would be compLemented by the
proposed computerized data-base computer system to be developed under the
project. The system would integrate all FELDA group operations data,
including settlement schemes and rubber and palm oil factories.



- 12 -
Implementation
41.       The project would be implemented during 1984-89.  FELDA's Processing
Department would carry out mill engineering, planning and design, construction
supervision and commissioning. The Department's performance under previous
Bank projects has been satisfactory. In accordance with current practice, the
Department would periodically retain independent consultants to review and
update mill standard design and to assist in mill engineering, planning and
construction supervision. Works' construction and supply and installation of
machinery and equipment would be carried out by contractors. Under the
project, FELDA's procurement procedures, particularly regarding ICB tender
documents, advertising and bid evaluation, would be improved.
42.       Construction of two of the proposed mills started in 1984.  The Bank
has been kept informed of work progress, and procurement procedures for
tenders issued after appraisal have been in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Final engineering design for the remaining mills would be carried out in the
year prior to the start of construction. As the mills would be located in
areas gazetted for land development by FELDA, acquisition of construction
sites is not a problem. Assurances were obtained that, before starting
construction of each mill, FELDA and FELMILL, in consultation with the Bank,
would review the justification and timing in light of updated crop projections
and milling requirements (Section 3.07 and Schedule 5, Part A of the draft
Loan Agreement).
43.       Upon mill commissioning, FELDA would transfer mill ownership and
operation to FELMILL. A Bank review of selected palm oil mills shoved that
mill operation practices are generally satisfactory. However, some mills are
affected by deficiencies in fruit quality and processing and operation con-
trol. FELDA/FELMILL are taking action to overcome these problems, and
assurances were obtained that, by December 31, 1985, FELDA would retain an
independent consultant, acceptable to the Bank, to review and make recommenda-
tions to further improve fruit harvesting practices by settlers and mill
operations (Section 3.02 (i) of the draft Loan Agreement).
44.       FELDA's data processing department would implement the electronic
data processing component, based on the recommendations of the ongoing
budgeting, accounting and MIS review (para. 28).  During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that by December 31, 1985:  (a) FELDA would furnish                 s
to the Bank for comment, the consultants' proposals to improve its budgeting,
accounting and management information systems, and an action plan for imple-
mentation (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement); and (b) FELDA would
retain consultants under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank to develop
the computerized data-base system, assist FELDA in its implementation and
train the staff in the operation of the system (Section 3.02 (ii) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
45.       Total project costs amount to US$62.1 million, including a foreign
exchange component of US$31.2 million. Project costs include about US$6.5
million in taxes and duties. Physical contingencies have been calculated at



- 13 -
5% for civil works and at 10% on consultant services; since the mills would be
constructed to standard design. with well defined units of equipment and
machinery and performance requirements, no physical contingencies have been
included for mechanical and electrical works or machinery and equipment.
Price contingencies have been calculated at 8% for 1985, 9% for 1986-88 and
7.5% thereafter, for both Local and foreign costs.
46.       The Bank loan of US$31.2 million wouLd finance the project's foreign
exchange cost or 56Z of total costs, net of duties and taxes. The loan would
be made to FELDA with a Government guarantee for 15 years, including three
years of grace. FELDA wouLd finance US$30.9 million. This would be a depar-
ture from current practices whereby Bank Loans are made to the Government and
onlent to FELDA on concessionary terms.
Onlending Arrangements
47.       FELDA would use about US$61.8 million of project funds for mill
construction; upon commissioning of each mill, FELDA would transfer ownership
to FELMILL at cost, 25Z as equity and 75% as subloans. The subloans would
include about US$30.9 million of Bank loan funds, which FELDA would onlend to
FELMILL for 15 years, including a 3-year grace period during which interest
would be capitalized, at the standard variable interest rate. FELMILL wouLd
also bear the foreign exchange risk on its portion of the loan. The onlending
rate would be positive given the estimated local inflation for the foreseeable
future. The signing of an agreement, acceptable to the Bank, between FELDA
and FELMILL outlining the mill transfer and onlending arrangements would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (Section 3.08 and Schedule 5, Part B of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Palm Oil and Kernel Marketing Arrangements
48.       By 1991, project mills would process on average 1.1 million ton
FFB/year, with an output of 200,000 tons of paLm oil and 45,000 tons of
kernel, about 14% of projected FELMILL output. This would be marketed under
existing arrangements which are satisfactory. Transport and marketing of
crude palm oil (CPO) and kernels are handLed by FELMILL for the settlers, in
cooperation with two other FELDA subsidiaries: FELDA Transport and FELDA
Marketing. Marketing strategies are determined on the basis of FFB production
*        projections.  After deducting mill processing, transport and marketing fees,
FELMILL transfers CPO and kernel sales proceeds to the settlers through FELDA;
FELMILL does not assume other than incidental risks or participate in the
*        benefits associated with palm oil and kernel trading.  In practice, however,
FELMILL acquires FFB from settlers at a price, which is set monthly through a
formula reflecting CPO and kernel extraction rates, ex-factory sale prices and
the FFB processing fees (para. 53).
FELDA's Financial Position
49.       The financial pcsition of FELDA is healthy, the result of sound
financial management and government grants and loan funds. FELDA's financial
strength has benefited from the spread in its relending of government funds to
smallholders and its subsidiaries, and return on investments. Government



- 14 -
loans were Eor 20 to 25 years with 10 years of grace (five years interest free
and five years accrued interest) at 5-1/4% to 6-1/2%, which FELDA onlent at
1-2% above cost for periods of 13 to 15 years, with interest compounding
during two to seven-year grace periods.  Additionally, surpluses have accrued
from management levies and replanting reserve funds deducted from small-
holders' accounts, and investment returns. FELDA's investments are primarily
in government bonds, fixed deposits, public companies and FELDA subsidi-
aries. The return on investments in its subsidiaries was about 16% in 1983.
50.       As FELDA's financial position has improved, the Government has
reduced FELDA's dependence on Government funds. In 1983, the Government
provided only 80% grant financing for FELDA administration. Also, management
levies and the spread on relending operations to settlers have been aban-
doned. Nevertheless, FELDA's cash availability wouLd increase to about
M$1.4 bilLion (US$560 million) by 1990, about US$414 million in 1984 prices.
This must be viewed, however, in light of FELDA's responsibility to maintain
settlers' incomes, which requires stabilization reserves to offset commodity
price fluctuations and other contingencies. Furthermore, FELDA's cash is
available to Government at all times and is largely used to purchase medium-
term government securities. This notwithstanding, FELDA should consider
revising its financial policies to further reduce dependence on government
grants for administrative expenditures, and government subsidized loan funds
for its operations. The project, under which FELDA wouLd borrow directly from
the Bank at full cost, is a step in this direction.
FELMILL's Financial Position
51.       FELMILL's financial position is also sound, as FELDA owns 93% of its
equity and provides 100% of its funding requirements. Since establishment and
operation of processing facilities depend on produce availability from settle-
ment schemes, FELMILL's capital expenditures by FELMILL and its level of debt
ultimately rest with FELDA.   3LDA also influences the level of revenue
FELMILL obtains by participating in the setting of crop processing fees (para.
53). FELMILL's turnover has increased from US$96 million in 1975 to US$435
million in 1983. FELMILL's liquidity is low, but it is expected to increase
as profitability and cash flow improve under the project. FELMILL maintains a
sound capital structure with total equity of US$63.2 million at the end of
1983. FELDA provides FELMILL with fresh equity and loan funds on the basis of
a capital gearing ratio of 75:25.  The debt equity ratio, including retained
earnings, at end 1983 was 65:35.
52.       In view of the initial low level of utilization of some palm oil
mills constructed in the early 1980s, FELMILL's recent level of profitability
has been reduced, but it is expected to improve as overall mill utilization
increases. Based on present projections, FELMILL should have net profits in
excess of US$14 million by 1990. To support its investment program in palm
oil mills and rubber factories and retain a sound capital structure, FELMILL
will continue to require equity contributions from FELDA during the period
1985-88.



- 15 -
Processing Fees
53.       FELMILL's income is primariLy derived from FFB processing fees paid
by settlers. A nationwide processing fee is periodically fixed by FELMILL's
Board in consultation with FELDA and the settlers. The processing fee is
based on average FELMILL FFB processing costs and a return to equity of about
16Z, which is reasonable.  Since 1981, the processing fee has been fixed at
M$26.50/ton FFB. In August 1984, a special M$2.50/ton FFB amortization sur-
charge was established for a total fee of M$29/ton FFB, reflecting the average
processing costs for the first six months of 1984. Assurances were obtained
that: (a) at the request of either party, FELDA/FELMILL and the Bank would
exchange views on the structuring of FELMILL's FFB processing fees, including
the introduction of differential processing fees, to account for higher than
average processing costs; (b) FELDA would ensure that FFB processing fees
would be reviewed periodically to ensure that they cover mill operating costs
and an adequate return on FELMILL investments; and {c) FELMILL would take all
necessary actions to ensure that mill operating costs and processing fees
remain reasonably competitive with mill processing costs in the private sector
(Schedule 5, Part B.3 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
54.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Procurement Method                Total
Item                       ICB       LCB    Other  na /a            cost
----- (USS million)
Civil works               18.9        7.5     -       26.4
(10.4)/b   (1.9)           (12.3)
Electrical and
mechanical works        19.9         -      -       19.9
(11.4)                     (11.4)
Machinery and equip-
ment                    10.8        1.7 /c  -   -  12.5
(7.2)      (-)             (7.2)
Engineering and
supervision                          -      -   3.0 3.0
(-) C-)
Consulting services         -          -     0.3  -   0.3
(0.3)    (0.3)
Total                49.6        9.2    0.3  3.062.1
(29.0)     (1.9)  (0.3) (-031.2)
/a   Not applicable since it would be carried out by FELDA staff.
7i   Figures in parenthesis indicate amount of Bank financing.
7T   Procured before June 30, 1984.



- 16 -
55.       Civil works contracts costing US$2.5 million or more, and all mill
mechanical and electrical works, machinery and equipment contracts, would be
awarded after ICB in accordance with Bank guideline.. Civil works contracts
of less than US$2.5 million could be awarded on the basis of LCB procedures,
which are satisfactory. A margin of preference equal to 15Z of the c.i.f. bid
price of imported goods, or the actual customs duties and import taxes,
whichever is less, would be allowed for domestic manufacturers. To encourage
participation of foreign bidders, works and goods would be, to the extent
possible, packaged in contracts valued at US$2.5 miLlion for civil works and
at US$200,000 for mechanical works, machinery and equipment.  Contracts
procured before project appraisaL (June 30, 1984) would not be eligible for
disbursement under the proposed Loan.  Consultants would be seLected in accor-
dance with Bank guidelines. Civil, eLectrical and mechanical works contracts
over US$1 million each and machinery and equipment contracts over US$500,000
each would be subject to prior review. This would cover over 80% of the total
value of all contracts. Other contracts would be subject to selective post-
award review.
Disbursements
56.       The loan would be disbursed against normal documentation as
follows: (a) 53Z for civil, mechanical and electrical works; (b) 100% of
foreign exchange cost of directly imported machinery and equipment; or 65% of
supply, installation and commissioning contracts; and (c) 100% of total
expenditures for consultant services. The loan is expected to be disbursed
over six years. Disbursements are expected to be faster than historical
disbursement profiles for agricultural projects in Malaysia, because
implementation would be much less complex than that of regular agricultural
projects comprising several components, and the mills are a time-slice of an
ongoing, well defined construction program. Retroactive financing of up to
US$500,000 would be provided for expenditures under mill construction
contracts awarded after June 30, 1984 in accordance with Bank guidelines
(Schedule 1 (4) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Accounts and Audits
57.       FELDA and FELMILL maintain detailed accounts which will be stream-
lined and consolidated based on the recommendations from the consultant study
on budgeting and accounting practices and MIS. Audit reports of both FELDA
and FELMILL are completed by independent private auditors. As for previous
Bank projects, FELDA and FELMILL accounts and audit reports would incorporate
the project accounts. Assurances were obtained that FELDA and FELMILL would
furnish the Bank with their audited corporate accounts and financial
statements, inclusive of project accounts, within six months following the
close of their fiscal year.
Benefits and Risks
58.       The project would provide milling service to about 52,600 ha of oil.
palm, for the benefit of over 13,000 settler families, and generate about
750 permanent employment positions. Palm oil and palm kernel production and



- 17 -
exports from the project mills would generate about US$113.9 million in
toreign exchange earnings by 1991. in 1984 US dollars. The project would
strengthen FELDA/FELMILL mill planning and operation capabilities and would
support FELDA's ongoing effort to improve its corporate planning, budgeting,
accounting and management information systems. Also, FELDA's and FELMILL's
bearing the full cost of borrowing, including the foreign exchange risk, and
FELDA's providing counterpart funds for mill construction, for the first time
under the project, would support the Government's aim to make pubLic
commercial enterprises financially self-sufficient. Finally, the proposed
loan would assist the Government to overcome the country's current balance of
payments and fiscal constraints.
59.       The project financial rate of return is estimated at 14% and the
economic rate of return (ERR) at 16%. The project remains economically viable
across a range of assumptions about volumes of FFB processed, costs and
prices. A switching value test shows that investment costs would have to
increase by 33%, or volume of FFB processing to decrease by 20Z to lower the
ERR to 112, the opportunity cost of capital in Malaysia.
60.       The main risk associated with the project would be reduced milling
capacity utilization due to lower than expected crop production. This would
be caused by lower planting rates, plant damage, or oil palm yield reduc-
tions. The risk of under-utilization would be overcome by reviewing, in
consultation with the Bank, mill justification and timing in light of updated
crop projections prior to beginning construction of each mill (para. 42).
Environmental Impact
61.       The main environmental risk associated with the project would be
pollution by palm oil mill liquid effluent. However, in compliance with
Malaysian law, which is strictly enforced, each mill would be provided with a
liquid effluent treatment plant to reduce biological and solid contamination
to safe levels; also, to avoid air pollution, the mills would be sited at a
minimum distance of 3 km from residential areas and would be equipped with
smoke ash collectors. Malaysian palm oil mill pollution controL standards are
consistent with the Bank's Palm Oil Industry Guidelines, and are satisfactory.
'                             PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Federal Land
Development Authority, the draft Guarantee Agreement between Malaysia and the
Bank, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
63.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. An additional condition of effectiveness includes the execution of the
Transfer Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and FELMILL (Section 7.01 of the
draft Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the ArticLes of
Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI   RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve Lhe proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by
Ernest Stern
Washington, D.C.
February 28, 1985



-  19   .                                            1Page  I of  5
oUST RCUR hTt AIR)
immtk      lilt    = ?A            ANTA & PACIFIC         LAT. JAIIU U      CAB
JIJUIT-  .UAh   NAT=_
RIIYIs  TouL                       36.0       87.0      92.0             102.0                    105.4
MAE                    13.0|        91.0     94.0              105.9                    106.3
73441.                  6.          64.0     91.0               93.2                    104.5
sCUONOAYt TOTAL                    19.0       34.0      55.0              46.0                     43.2
NALE                    25.0        40.0      36.0              Al.7                     42.3
7301.3                  13.0        26.0     53.0               43.1                    44.5
OCTIOUL (S OF URCOUAY)                4.6        2.9       1.7              17.5                     33.6
FIJPIL-TRACIIE RATIO
5R1554                             25.0       31.0      26.0              31.8                     30.1
L                       J                              25.0        26.0      23.0              23.5                     16.8
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)              52.6 lb    56.       60.0              72.9                     79.5
PABSUR CARS/TNOUSAND POP             11.6       21.9      42.1 if           10.1                     46.0
RDIo  CEII/nOUAInD Pop               36.9       39.6    144.2              113.6                    225.6
TV RECSIRI/TNOUSAND POP               3.2 l     12.0      72.4              50.1                    107.2
IPA1E  COAILY OREAL
INTZERRI) CIRCULATION
PER TnVAND POPUlATION              60.0       72.1    132.6               53.9                     63.5
CINMA ANNUAL ATSUENCIICAPCI?A        16.0        9.4       2.6  a            32.4                     2.6
iOtaL taut FoR  (TDDS)             2o00.0     3666.0   5168.0
FINALE OPECEC)                     27.2       31.4      31.3              33.5                     13.2
ACRICULTURE CPERCENT)              63.0       56.0      50.0              32.2                     31.5
DIDUSDS (PECRCNT)                  12.0       14.0      L6.0              17.9                     13.9
PAITCIPATION RATS (PERCENT)
TOAL                                4.1       33.8      35.6              36.7                     32.2
MALE                               48.8       45.7      48.5              50.9                     49.3
FEMLE                              16.9       21.       22.s              26.6                     15.2
ECONORIC DIFRDZXNCT RATIO             1.4        1.4       1.2               1.1                      1.4
INCOZ 0i    5010
PE rnT        s or PVATE INCM
REceVE  I
NIWCST SOT IPDSUOLoD               34.0       27.0        ..              22.2
HIGHEST 20X OF RO10HLD             61.2       56.6        ..              48.0
LOWEST 20X WoSUlIOLDI               3.2        3.3        ..               6.4
LOWEST 4*X or OoueOII               9.6       10.6        ..              15.3
S Sm 
IMTDU   ASUITE POVERTY INCOM
LEVL CUSJ JR CPITA)
URUlA                                ..       123.6    314.4             168.6                    268.2
RURAL                                ..      111.6    269.2              152.0                    184.0
ESTIMATED REATI  POVT IME
LEML (ON ME CAPITA)
RE                                   ..         ..        ..             177.9                    522.8
RURAL                                ..         ..        ..             164.6                    372.4
(.        0       ESTMA     POP. ULM ABSOLM
POVERTY INCOS LEVEL ()
IURAN                                ..       21.3      12.6              23.4
RURAL                                ..       36.7      37.7              37.7
MoT AVAXLABLZ
MT APLICABLZ
11 O T Z S
I1  Mm group uveres  for eth lndIcator are psoplaaao-wm1$tad arltbmtlc mans. Coverage of countrfem among the
Indictore depend. -n avaflabllty of data and La nt aooo.
/b  Unle1. ocharwlse noted. Data for 1960 rafer to any year betwan 1959 and 1961; Data for 1970 between 1969 and
1971; an  data for -as Recent Ustatt- betwen 1980 ad 1982.
lIt  1974; /d 1977; /a 1976; if 1975; &  PenLnsular Naisla; /h 1962; /. 1978; tl 1964; /k 1979.
JUNE. 1984



- 20 -                                       ANNE 
ARIA ~ ~     ~        ~       ~      ~       g tHEs 39. U)"St
lTTLt      1529.    =Ts9 .64 4 PAMFIC                       MA- M
TOTAL                                329.4       3:9.1    320.8*                           
AGICULTURAL                           34.8        39.8      43.6
I   1  CAIT  MO68)                      240.0       660.0    1860.0             I0U1.2                   2106.6
am  cmmns acum
(ZLOGA     or OIL IUV  NT)           610.0       453.0     U9.0               567.3                    995.5
I'OPULATION I  WIZTS PEATITCE
POPULATION,NID-YRAR (TOU2UAI)       3205.0    io1i3.0  1452.-0                    .                         .
URA  POPULATION Cs Or TOTAL)          25.2        27.0      30.2               34-7                     60.5
POPULATION PIOJICTIONI
POPULATION IN nUS  2000 (HILL)                            20.5
STATIONS! POPULATION CI LL)                               33.0                  .
POPULATION IOIITlIN                                        1.0
POPULATION 053DNIT
PER sq. DI.                         14.9        32.,      63.1              261.9                      35.7
hr  sq. sm. AORI. LAOD             235.5       275.2     325.5             1735.1                     92.4
POPULATION ACE STUCTURE (t)
0-14 IRS                           45.1        45.4      33.6               39.0                     39.9
15-64 YU                            51.2        51.5      56.8               57.0                     36.
65 ND -ABOVE                         3.6         3.1       5.5                3.3                      4.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE CZ)
TOTL                                 2.7         2.6       2.4                2.3                       2.4
URBAN                                4.9         3.5       3.4                4.3                      3.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TEOUS)          44.3        35.7      29.1               30.1                      31.3
CRUDE DETH RA   (PE  TRDUt)           14.9         9.2       6.4                9.3                      8.1
CROSS UERDOCIDN LATE                   3.4         2.6       1.7                2.0                       2.0
FANILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (TlOUS)             ..        56.0      81.1
USERS (C o0 KARRID WOWEN)             ..        53.0 te    ..                32.7                      40.3
INDEX OF F0OD PlOD. PEl wCPTA
(1969-714l0)                          85.0        99.0    150.0               123.0                    114.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORES (I oF REQUIREIUIS)         107.0       114.0    121.0               114.4                     110.6
PIOTEINS (RAMlS PER DAT)            49.0        52.0      60.0              57.0                      67.3
OP UIIICH  NAL AND  USE           17.0        M8.O      23.0 id            14.1                      34.1
CRILD (ACE  1-4) DAZE RTZ              7.3         3.4       1.7                7.2                       5.7
WULER
LIFE  ECTgCr AZ  IRTH (tEAU)          33.9        61.2      66.7               60.4                     66.7
INFANT wRT. RATE (    TIOUS)          72.4        15.6      29-3              66.3                      60.6
ACCES TO SArE WVATS (OnP)
TOTAL                                 ..        29.0      62.0               37.0                      65.4
UBN                                   ..       100.0      93.0713            34.6                     76.1
URAL                                  ..         1.0      49.0               26.4                     46.2
ACCESS TO CXCU   DISPOSAL
(t OF POPULATION)                                                                                                                     )
TOTAL                                 ..        59.0      60.0 if            41.3                      52.9
URA                                   ..       l.        100.0      O        47.4                     67.0
RURAL                                 ..        63.0      43.0 z             33.3                      24.5
POPULATION PE  PSRSICIA             7060.0      4310.0   7910.0 |d           7749.4                   1917.7
POP. PER NUREINO PESON              1300.0      1120.0    940IO a           2480.4                     615.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              270.0       290.0    300.0 if           1044.2                     367.2
RBAN                               110.0       110.0        ..              631.2                    411.5
RURAL                             5710.0      1760.0        ..             2394.6                    2636.3
AZNISSW NS PER HOSPITAL  MD             ..        16.4      17.2 if            27.0                      27.3
HOUISE
AVRAS SIZE OF  DOUSROLD
TOTAL                                 ..         5.ft       .
URN                                   ..         5.97       *
RURAL                                 ..         5.3         ..
AVEUA NO. OF PERSONS/ROGK
TOTAL                                 ..         2.6 k..
URBAN                                 ..         2.31     1...
RURAL                                 ..         2.811..
ACCESS TD CLET. (2 OF DWELINGS)
TOTL                                  ..        43. 4 f...
URBN..                                          5.7       .. .. 
RURAL                                 ..        30.1L       ..



1"~~"A  p.m   alqac V-I.t  1     -- tccai.dia    c--ad-SIi  Ao.-saa         --- A
p           m.   igm ttmlaf  -   m   I
am V.-auIa.dacg--m                 , ai    m,   Ilennni i3                  i
a-lm Inli uaalallcmmi qimiami                                      a.al'm~..ml
Pm       . m   --t   e......Iuaambag      mapanag  n-i"'   
VW-   w  dMo-                     o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ja                              Z a *mchc'~'      aa.,.caa'aa.aa   -i    a,   - a,
-A A                                                                             4o~~~'--   tm  P~Pl   aad!eal   atPall. -5..I  ae
-Id I-11, ~ ~     ~       ~       ~      ~       5p    mlha   a.l..i-la      pamal.daaum,.acu-.
wlqo~~~~~~~~~~~~~   V____'a-    nlI                                                                                                           1.  dIVI.:caau 
V alqmP..    mA.    ..... i.21   1-le).iaSi   .a.s2-'al--'li-    ag                                                           . a- *-             -      -a-m ..Ia             ~       aI
a-le" -    34)   n-a   afla   a.amaajaamlm,v  laialacul.pmad  pal.a~a                                                                          ILWi
le~Il3maflla    -'  te%  d    amac'g,m       -,l 1.nI
K-"~.q  5  Pmuap l   -a  -il    'aaaa  aagia   au   giamad                                     -ap    Iip.   m''all m-im   mn.2    -ea-' A
ma5. ad  tis-m   -  jIea  ~   1I  mc td-.dmmailia   aci                               mi-Iamc    -   c.  ~.mm   P~-ls aaacipal..l.j;mmS  aldca ,i
-  ilip.imqi      .Ie   amkl   .-   kJilaam    aa~mPa-l-                                            ia'~--a   -   .aa.~lav-lpm..l   .5  ..   e-cI- --A-   11
*m1cc~~~~~~~Ic.a-aac                                                                      ma-p~~~~~~~~~~Iz
a-am    ammamaapm-a..jIm                     .adau  mmSp   l -Al1JI-UK   -   ul.l.cdmaJc    m-a       aml   i.    1                                                             n-=    -i-
VIama- P-  t le .S  'I   l-           1    -e   lKua           .a   a.adnlalmpaa   1h                                                         'ipl   tc.m.     IAlla.dsg- 
V slaP        le       inam   a   sl   a. 'v-,a  aaam.  a..m.I-,flmali  l'.  ai  'Ic.l*                                                                                        laaPac,p
.,Olampi_d mIePaaqa    .-d-aicpcl--a-a'i  .   mcmaca-m-a   -   la'                                                                                .      1Is
-  .-,=  IV---   Wh`-."  -                     alalifhla5101                                                               I  "' ,3iI-.'dd  ''al   l'aa''l   1
P_                                             AI A I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mm..aaa-.I.  PlmImtm   I-lI..i                                        cIclacl   -P~1
'lc'ipm   m-gacmlued  m   a e                                la                        -iel.ai         l mlaalpa.calm    -  .45I.'etm
IV& a-c. ...'a@  in-la.aamamcl-..a'mila lA,a-,la   mcaa-2p'-
-   a    v f~   am - V       - I-e'a    - 4-a d.m  ma-j me.....ai                                 -       a  --l-          aachTa   ..c,a    l7.-l'-hlf
mamIVVV          -naam  lama.                -in   meImfj-tIf~'m                                                  .-      --2  -    Im'm   la  -:    ~     am,dl-'   i'
maAaJn--l.mmlmcm  aall .1                   -a"at,.ca-
.1p.. I.J. .1-,  A. Vwd                              .. .....          tIcmae   aaamcala. lIl-m'ta .Fam...l.-a-amm'.caa.i
"Al~~~~~~~~~~cc"-   c 'al.a.d5n.v u mlmm-p a-l
P:.p   -4 .-Vol  ~           ~          ~           .alh  m  l                          p15       a.  *aamac         ?~ai.m .a.r..l'wc.i7~
V.-m.maup.               mlenllmaa              samlma-   im   a,                                                                                                                 .~5a-
i    l.  q  m   mIr               ai)  a    aaaaea   ictIiocaja
dlemac-.aaaimaaImn  a  manmd.  iii.aI*p.al-a             a.am-'c   -a-c-f  l..av          lcl~.'cl.le,l...a.c'd...cmV           aka.mauiIlm
,mm,.S    ,  a   "m    -amO2.pm.-   laumme    m.pnaale'
l..umfad      -   2-lme   amddmma amiamd Im2iaa  IVl- s .   "m -laI'e  V2                            Va;-alc.iI-Im.p---.-mana-aa*tla
SA .2I U- 1nPm1im   aaimf-mulca1   --ma.- lcs.m amclaa-cmaa-m~a    'ad.-a'P dalai    m
'maaii  -ainm mmm  L     -IImlm P. '.    I'd "2 -S    p-m   ai       a                       iaa    lc              .aatmn-.amca   s-v.-amnI.""a 1
-s- ALPa.uu. ap--am'maladm              mlea5-5el-IS  lamt                                                                        'l-- 1m'A'  i,pl   1.t i'cac-'lie
ta   mmaama  tiI islm e m  -  Im-API.  ePmllua.)..msal                                         c---ma-a                  amlm-mc        a~-ma.-1.m    emlmca
VVVA-            t.g. j.   _~~'tAmaai  Paipmlm              J-                                                             'q.!a;a''--al'c-                  -.alcc2am
3m    mam  .~maS.2aig m.  n       P    'ma5l.m               ila         nnm'ama-iam-a   m                                        aaaaI   lmv    Icmc    ataP   e,i  a'a
m~.2a  flaanlm2     p    id   lPc.mmsIsme  tmaalma  Pciciima.dimm1~,c   I~l.~jjaaJllalc-A
p..    admug mmaia.ihqm   npu qli    lmA.d lq5a  Iao.,ea -     a--M                                                                         l.aa    .  U.'-l                  pla
A-1- 11401MMT,     -oll _;I~~~~~~~~~~~~~ama:l ahlliacm
annpt.i.    Ipa-mn  1..4a-p   ia-c   mSmaa                                      s    ma.l.cm   c   mc   -pcaE-c.2                     Ia5-a vaac
amIaa-p-  -a-    lem   am--.aa~-(lma-J-uaae-a  Ia-p                                                                          an'I~h   i-'''l Fl   pd
cmlnml plulplladm.aate  ~          Z  I.a      l     :.t) lAtamll-. m       ,c--   5   ca.cdi  t-ta      m   l    m
.qe  m  mamena 52mamlem  ia1rapam P mI.~m..empm3m-IiMm-gm-,tl
doplmlmmmpl    ans-flimm                 a   a.s  P- m52alicaamcd'IlallPma
-lcauiCap.m                            ulaaip-  ,AaapipaaTmi   'I    a-   aaIl-    i-5-                                                            ltlam    ma  m  tkc.me
mi-ia   Wi~    ilmad amigm am c1 -alnPma   lm.Ac-lm  mVqci-al)ca                                          -  cIa-ml.   a       m  acm    ue.  m.mI_ll 
alc-almm                                    ......i     aapcus     .c I ...2)am li gci    .atba        ,   -p---        c.    n1-   -lctdaa.bcalm
IV-IV__                                                                                                                                                           .......P.2mlslm  u    llcpm.ma  a-m.lcPa5s--maaml   l-i   m
miVm..   -cm.dmaa A                  1  ai    l  -L    mAilim-aII-la'mmca-  ac                                                elellm        m   ama1.   mamnI   1p-ll
do-        mainltcusgal..Smc   lml.aft-aeNmp.md                                                            cal-c.auas.lPiln    m   acp.l-u a-.camiu  aiaua
flluiamm  ini    amidmamim    m-a-                    -nsm-sIlc-am                                    Iam    lacmilm   cr  m.agalalaa.  1   'p                          ci -Vlm
dec--maa  i-qc   n   aamo -I~rir'a'I--i     Imccuaaallaa.cl    sms icclc.lacgm1.lcc  -'i a"m'imisas.m.l  pmami.Vecia
ma  l-me  al.ga  -ami5    -e amm1d        -2   mmIaa      psI,am   -   aam~ f1,ial a.cc aimmaj'cmimlmma'aPVM
umam.  mt  mm.mm2    m-m1acam  gae-m  lmnl"   tle~~aIm                              ca  m. i..Ilacsinca.~umalalai   -   -a'lm-..lP-'ml   -cla ac-
IPIP.I.VA 1.11"14d ftlpl_itIP'miimIaI.  in,a  m aa -                                                               im-mclmlltc.'               VI      .cmqad  mg-.I
P"   -6-                 ... ....... V ~ cmamdpldcaama                                        -ca   mau.kc    a.   ulc..m
af...sb                                                 LQZ.                                                                                                                    BI     I
mup dit  ml ua  L     - .-sluIsmapc.  Pallo.,                       agwII-m- -pIcI l IlmuAclmaanamcl,clcl  Va-aI   camt'
VamlacaW                              Poo    Pod mm   m      1 Im    .Acalli"mnc_a- 1 nl-  V.'cclclc.  tm..cdcmatmnZ.   aa                                 a   -l-aaa    m'  1ar,c,r
T1U IlUF"'ki               gcr-  Vo aga"              o    I.p a-      . sa.1 aWJe...'14           VV                       I: zi     ... -                                           maJ
mm5smigmm~p u~ aa infmmmmp- a. a~mma iual - Iah,1c-glimaul arWmildl-imW                                                                             "llP......P2- c...
Al-3                              "'A~-.g~lal  "mm "F j-%m-i                                 AR 1        pea  l't    g11.IIl-E--aI-a    - -c.1  .   lga  cl-maaam 
pmmlma3m   t-a     lmmdmiul :6 meal waite      q  WIeeq    Ich   *mam    cu-msim                 mtcI---.mlac  pc-,in  iIi-ia            lmc.c'lcl[rtlmhimafmu
j     map  - E       mq    llimlI    a  eamu   Auait, dim    acae    N'Pi.laR                                                     a   muc-mc.-i.cJ4 cui                  sj:.iigiIaJr1tma..am'q
paM    m wi.waatiiae-wdtllmguan 'am..   maanm



.22-
Tint r
4I3M10 DATA - ULAYCTA
o ci unoa. inmy  3 163:ANua  Af  IOPt Ansmuomn
t7 In contant uric. and Nil
urns nIs          I           1141-70        1671-73         1677      1475      1476     lq0       lUll      ia32       lass
OW a*t atltet Irian                 27,533         ioo.a           6.4             7.3          7.S       5.6       *.2       N.M       7.3       5.4       I.
roes Smith laaitment                 4,177          13.3           4.7             9.4         22.4      131       13.3      133       26.O      11.3       n.5
mmaahhti.nul avinw                   6,231          22.3            *               *                      a *            e    ;                             a
petine of lied  A m                 135,227         17.I            6.n            3.0          4.2       7.4      16.        .I      21.0       0.2      12.3
iwqirti of Geos 6 am"               17,131          42.3            .lp            7.3         31.3      12.z      21.1      15.3       3.6      11.1       6.9
onmnn, tuc  MICK An
rbtbilt   11_1e"_t               ~~~Oa t_Pe_r wrl  r-
iiomrrzvzn   ~U I4p 3613                                    X11 
A4triultere                        3,020     22.4             1.6   W4.               1,StS       A13.
TnAatry                            4,109     20.4            1.1  23.0                1,131      121.5
Remvteai                           6,30n    7.2             2.0  SA.S                1,195      122.5
Telel/Averaia                13529   3ln.0              5.2  10m.0               2n2        10n.n
OO_IIT nIuumn
Glenral CeOiw nt
N6f ln                          luof a"
TWIT        1071-75     Iq70-M      19E1    332       19- U
Currt Peai"pti                         13,01          2n.6        24.4       21.2    27.1      27.2
Currat Shpeaditur i                    15,654         24.9        20.5       24.4     26.0    23.4
Currant Eurplni                         2,431          n.4          1.2      L.1       1.5      1.5
Diruet Davelopment Znpadliuni           3,216          1.1         7W3       15.5     11.1      7.7
Nit Tadring                             3,723          3.n         3.4        4.1      6.7      5.5
vocalm  Icrywim  (not)                  4,237          2.1          1.1       5.2      7.5      6.4
May, amn jun mxci
1973      1974      1975      1976      3077      1373      le79      263O      1i9l      1932      1913
til1ev "I outet andig "ad peritd)
Mony e   Ouai-toiy               7,552     3,714    lo,n00    12,771    14,061    17,"7    21,616   27,652    32,371    17.64U    36,616
Bank Credit to Public
Seotor (not)                     366       959     1,313       622      1,213     1,017     -742        549     2,292     3,932     3,131
dank Credit to Private
heater                         4,533      .,275    6,077     7,471     5,971    11,54      14,052    7n2.916    25,713    29,916    35,S57
(Parean aXi or Index Iuba)
Neu  ad  Oaai-Hay
as 2 of CM                      40.3      33.1      44.5      45.5   U     .O      4.1       47.0      51.3      57.7      A1.5      59.2
Cannor Prica Index
1930 - 100)                     63.2      69.3      32.0      33.7      P7e       90 .0     96.s      100.0    1n9.7      116.1    120.3
_Anal erresatni
Oienia in Conser
Prie Index                      10.4      17.4       4.3       2.6       4.7        4.6       3.6       6.7       9.7       35.       3.4
Benkt Credi to Public
leater Cnet)                    31.0      69.4      14.9    -37.4       67.8    -16.2           a               317.5      73.7    -14.0
7ank Cedit to Prvate S ecor       52.2      15.1      15.1      22.9      20.1       32.0      24.5      36.7      22.3      14.3      14.0
*   ot appliale.
/ In 1970 prices.
ole:s  All oovarsits to dellari in tt   table  rn at tln evras r       aa  rata prevaling Aurinu teh  aeelon  cmrad.
Septeabr 1934



SEXi
-23-                                                 Pa-gS of 5
TRAUI PAYMENTS AND CAPTTAL !LOVS
BALANCF OF PAYMENTS             1981       19R2      19R3                    MrRRCANDISqR RPORTS (19R3)
- -(Uss Ti1Lion)---                                          IISS nillion      z
Exports f.o.b.                 11,723    11,9!12    13,863         Rubber                         1,579       11.4
Imports f.o.b.                 11,736    12,464    13,160          Timber                        1,731        12.5
*      Nonfactor Services (net)        -1,544    -1,616    -3,027          Petroleum                     3,393        24.5
Resource Cap (deficit - -)    -1,557    -2,218    -1,324           Tin                              741        5.1
FVctor Services (net)            -760      -958    -1,54R          Palm Oil                       1,283        Q.3
Net Transfers                     -33        -33       -22         All Other Goods                5,136       37.6
Balqnce on Current Account
(deficit - -)               -2,35n    -3,119    -2,894                 Total                  13,R63       lnn.0
Direct ForeiRn Investment       1,232      1,256     1,206
Net MLT Borrowing /a            1,R26      2,597     2,133         EXTERNAL DEE, nECEMBER 31, IQR3
Disbursements                   1,983      2,838     2,391
Amortization                      137        241       25R                                                 ITSR Mln
Subtotal                     3,058     3,853      3,139         Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed            10,667
NonRuaranteed Private Debt                3,564
Other Items n.e.i.               -930      -931       -396         Total Outstanding & Dishursed            14,231
Increase in Reserves (-)          222        197       -49
International Reserves
(end year)                  4,298     4,021      4,102        ,EBT SERVICF RATIO FnB 1483 /b
2
Fuel and Related Materials                                         Public Debt, lnel. r.'aranteed              5.8
Imports                                                            Nonguaranteed Private Debt                  3.2
Exports                             *          *         *         Total Outstanding & nisbursed               9.0
Of which:  Crude Petroleum   3,no8      3,288      3,3q3
ITRD/IDA LENDING (SEPTEBRER 30, 1984)
(USS million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                              I11
Average rate during period:                                        Outstanding & Disbursed                   731.6
lndisbursed                               564.9
Outstanding lncl. Undishursed           1,29R.5
MS per USS             NSS per MS
1973                    2.44                  0.41
1974                    2.41                  0.41
1975                    2.40                  n.42
1976                    2.54                  0.19
1977                    2.46                  0.41
1Q78                    2.32                  0.43
6i          1979                     2.19                  n.46
1980                    2.18                  n.46
1981                    2.3n                  0.43
1982                    2.34                  0.43
1983                    2.32                  0.43
* not availahle.
Ia Public/publicly guaranteed debt only.
7il  Interest and amortization payments as a proportion of total earnings from exports of goods and services.
September 1984



- 24 -                              ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS /a
As of September 30, 1984
Amount in US$ million
Loan                                                                  (less cancellations)
no.    Year       Borrower                 Purposa                    Bank     Undisburued
Thirty-seven loans fully disbursed                                      708.80
1115    1975   Malaysia              Agri. Research & Extension          20.50       0.73
1213    1976   Malaysia              Kuala Lumpur Sewerage               20.50       1.24
1329    1976   Malaysia              Education (IV)                      35.00       3.22
1376    1977   Malaysia              Highway (III)                       35.00       7.22
1443    1977   Nat'l Elec. Board    Power (VIII)                         22.00       2.90
1444    1977   Malaysia             Nat'l Small-Scale Irrigation         39.00       4.87
1493    1978   Malaysia              National Extension                  19.00      10.71
1590    1978   Malaysia              FELDA VI Land Settlement            28.00      10.90
1608    1978   Malaysia              Population II                       17.00      11.75
1632    1978   Malaysia              Krian-Sungei Manik Agri. Dev.       26.50       3.14
1657    1979   Malaysia              Education (V)                       38.00       4.05
1717    1979   Malaysia             Muda II Irrigation                   31.00      14.59
1808    1980   Nat'l Elec. Board    Power (IX)                           50.00      12.09
1899    1980   Malaysia             Kelantan Land Scheme Rehab.          25.00      21.41
1957    1981   Malaysia              Rompin-Endau Area Dev.              40.00      32.66
1960    1981   Malaysia              Trans-Perak Area Dev.               50.00      43.44
2013    1981   Malaysia              FELCRA I                            37.00      28.55
2145    1982   Malaysia              Industrial Training (Educ VI)       40.60      37.97
2146    1982   Nat'l Elec. Board    Rural Electrification (Power X)    86.30        84.51
2147    1982   Malaysia              Malacca Agri. Development           25.40      21.75
2220    1983   Malaysia              Kedah Valleys Agri. Development    56.90       51.34
2291    1983   Malaysia              Sabab-Sarawak Road                  86.22      86.00
2438    1984   Nat'l Elec. Board    Power (XI)                           70.00      69.83
Total Loan (less cancellation)                                1,607.72
of which has been repaid                                     309.47
Total now outstanding                                         1,298.25
Amount sold                     43.89
of which has been repaid      43.89                           -0-
Total loans now held by Bank                                  1,298.25
Total undisbursed                                                          564.88
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 25 -                          ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
As of September 30, 1984
Amount in
Type of            US$ nillion
Year             Obligor                    business      Loan    Equity  Total
1964-74   Malysian Industrial Devel-       Financing          -    1.94    1.94
opment Finance Ltd. (MIDF)
1985      SEAVI-MA                         Honey and          -    1.00    1.00
Capital Mkt.
1966      Tasek Cement Ltd.                 Cement         1.28    0.28    1.56
1968-69   Malayawata Steel Ltd.            Steel           2.45    1.24    3.69
1970      India-Malaysia Textiles, Ltd.   Textiles         1.25    0.25    1.50
1985      Pacific Hardwoods                Pulp and        9.97    1.53   11.50
Paper Prod.
Total Gross Commitment                          14.95    6.24   21.19
Less: repayments, sals, cancellations,
terminations and write-off                4.98    3.71    8.69
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                9.97    2.53   12.50
Total Undisbursed                                9.97    1.94   11.91



-26 -                            ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MALAYSIA
FELDA PALM OIL MILLS PROJECT
Supplementary Prolect Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:          Six months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:          FELDA and FELMILL with Bank
assistance.
(a)  First presentation to the Bank:             November 1982
(d)  First Bank mission to identify the project:        February 1983
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:    June 1984
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:         February 6, 1985
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:              July 31, 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
lone
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Before starting construction of each mill under the project, FELDA
and FELMILL, in consultation with the Bank, would review the
justification and construction timing in light of updated crop
projections and milling requirements (para. 42);
(b)  FELDA would:  (i) furnish to the Bank the recommendation of the
study on the improvement of its accounting, budgeting and management
information system; and (ii) based on such proposals, submit by
December 31, 1985, for Bank for comment, an action plan for
implementation (para. 44);
(a) by December 31, 1985, FELDA would retain independent consultants
acceptable to the Bank to: (i) review and make recommendations to
further improve FFB harvesting practices and mill operations
(para. 43), and (ii) develop a computerized data-base system, assist
FELDA in its establishment and train the staff in its operation
(para. 44);



- 27 -                         ANNEX III
27                        Page 2 of 2
(d) Upon commissioning of each mill FELDA would transfer ownership of
the mill to FELMILL at cost, 25% as equity and 75% as subloans; the
Bank portion of the subloans would be for 15 years with a 3-year
grace period during which interest would be capitalized, at the
standard variable interest rate; and FELMILL would bear the foreign
exchange risk (para. 47); and
(e)  FELDA would ensure that:  (i) at the request of either party,
FELDA/FELMILL and the Bank would exchange views on the structuring
of FELMILL processing fees, iticluding the introduction of differen-
tial processing fees, to account for higher than average processing
costs; (ii) mill processing fees would be reviewed periodically to
ensure that they adequately cover mill operating costs and ensure an
adequate return on FELMILL investments; and (iii) FELMILL would take
all necessary actions to ensure that mill operating costs and pro-
cessing fees remain reasonably competitive with palm oil mill
processing costs in the private sector (para. 53)
(.



100"                                101'                                102'                                103'                                104'
MALAYSIA                               r-
FELDA PALM OIL MILLS PROJECT
Oi' PAL SCHEAES
./ g COCOA SCHBES
'-*0 P E R L  ^   -C                                                                                                   Z             SCHEME
KangarO t IN                                                                                                                   SGa C,,.
'an ar                             THAILAND                                                                         RJinR SCHEMES
'  '0O   RESE 4 M                                        >CEH TER
E    EXIS?4 PALM OSbLB
AlorStar                    4                                               0 Kola Bahru                            %    PROPOSED PROJECT PALM OILUMILLS
6.                                                                                                                                    a  b  J j   TRU     FACTOCtES
A COCOA MILLS
* \                 f            r        >         J  >              Pasir Putih                             SUGARMLL
I L -/ Tanih  *O                              --   ROADS
I                                                   0      Merah                                          -4---i-  RAILWAYS
S9. Petanit   t~t '~                 _                    /Kg. Jeh                                                    -VES
**   T  t Kuala    N                  -- *- STATE SOUNAES
BuiterwortI  '                 Gerik o                                       Kerai                                 -        TE4ATNIAL SOUNAFES
Georgetown                                      .                                                                  Kuala
P. PINA N(C           i                                                                       ,                   Tren-gan
A3                                                                        ~~ ~~~~~~~0 20    40       so    lo
Taipin                           Gua Musang
,/~~iSg. Siput-
(poh
Kuala                                                                  Y    "Kuala DuKrgun
I                       K~~~~~~~~~~ua a\
-~~~~~~~~~~~                a- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Liplm
iTeaj   !eah~Jera   I
- '                         . Inson  i2                 ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~Raubq,                                        0 -    R   
I~~~~)   Raub~~~~,    ~ ~ ~ ~  O M aran'~3      K tl
-                   't tsOfamed    J  j1          i O  Pekan 6
vl  I   l I   I \111 I                                        ;,     



| 4'      ah                                                                                           Kuala DungurL
Kuala
K                                  Lipis    *'---S                     )
Telok' Kelth\,                                                        t-
Anson                                               Jeran
Raub0,                                                                  0Kanlan
Sentong                                          t      Maran
v -.   Benlong   NF-\         ,    Temerlt                            Pekan
Is rmap has been prepared by                                                      _                                          17
The World Bari s stal ezcksveA                                                           Kuala Lumnpur           -
Vzv Ve CdVv6t4lE aD Vi                                                                                                      . 2'  . .
'cadets and.s enhave4 hcv                                                    ,,  --y   - ' '1
. u,fse ol The Wcna   Bak                                           P. Kelang an Kelang    -
and tie ber,natrio Fewice                                                                                                                       L                                                                     a'
rhe,.8lv,t  dei                                                                                                                          L  L     \    
ule,yraxi  r. bounarts                                                                                                              /,
rJls 1b5     do M0t r". on ft6Baaj
txf ot 'he kIV*1 anre inc                                                                                      Bahaan    .                                                 K oRonm n
W-~Jr-j FrmeCarrepCabion.                                                                                                                                               0 0,' " 
an taj'enl wi mle gal sahA                                                                    >     Seremban            -<. C    t                                          Eri _dau
"semrrer or accepfarPe ofr                                                                                                j _                    v
,Ucb o  Port Dickson-  Tampin p               ,  Gemas        - 24
'G                                                101                                                       --vl        Segamal'-, -                                         M  sing
Afor Galah0         )1                       \6 )ab's
,              112'                    1144                                                    a,                                      t ,Lenga      */
Kota Manudu                                        MelakaO                            )       
Kata                     *  Sandakan                                   Muar b            Yong Peng   Keluang0    v                      A L
Kinabarunanau                                                                                       0                                                                a g
0.                                     H~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~eaufort   O  LahadOl  'i    3'-                                    .) /
- B                         BRUNEI~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Lad Datu0.    go'-                                                                                                       A  Kota     -
BRUNEI                                          Tungku                                                   OBatu 0ahat           P' 0o 1
/  \  _~ \          OTC  Sempoorna-                                                                            S           !
T /   awau                                                                                 K,ula S -4             . 'a
-4'                        Sintulu0                                                           4-                                                                          Jahare Bahrud                      *
0 Kapit                                                                                                                                                        C.
Sibu                          5 INDONESIA                                -KhkuprA/SINGAPORE4P.naw
8  O0ematan                   -       ,                                                   -        INDONESIA                                                        ,-kud
C2                            '                      ' Kuching CEa ng'               2--                                                                                                1
_   <   <,7    ~~~~~~~~'4                             *                    l                     102                                          O                                           tt 






