Document of                FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2403-HO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR THE
NISPERO POWER PROJECT
November 1, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
L2.00 (lempiras) =    US$1.00
L1.00                  US$0.50
L1,000,000       =    US$500,000
UNITS AND MEASURES
kW            -       kilowatt
mW            -       megawatt - 1,000 kW
kWh           =       kilowatt-hour
GWh           =       gigawatt-hour = 1,000,000 kWh
kV            =      kilovolt
ABBREVIATIONS
CABEI       -   Central American Bank for Economic Integration
COHDEFOR    -   Corporacion Hondurena de Desarrollo Forestal
(Forestry Development Corporation)
CONSUPLANE  -   Consejo Superior de Planificacion Economica
(National Planning Council)
E.NALUF     -   Empresa Nacional de Luz y Fuerza
(Nicaragua's National Power Company)
ENEE        -   Empresa Nacional de Energia Electrica
(National Electrical Energy Company)
FIV         -   Venezuelan Investment Fund
IDB         -   Inter-American Development Bank
USAID       -   United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HONDURAS
NISPERO POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Empresa Nacional de Energia Electrica (ENEE)
Guarantor:                  Republic of Honduras
Amount:                     US$30.5 million
Terms:                      Payable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace
at 7.35% interest per annum.
Project Description:        The objectives of the project are to meet Honduran
power load requirements which will exceed present
generating capacity by 1980, to strengthen ENEE's
management and planning capacity and to improve
energy sector organization and planning. The
project comprises the construction of the 22.5
MW Nispero hydroelectric plant, and the 30 MW
Puerto Cortes diesel plant; studies of energy
sector organization and ENEE's management system
and organization, a national electrification master
plan, preparation of a hydropower inventory updating,
a prefeasibility study of the Piedras Amarillas
hydro project, and a training program for ENEE.
The project faces no special risks except for the
complex geology of the Nispero hydro component site
and the possibility of limited international
contractor interest in this component because of
its small size.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
US$ (millions)
Local     Foreign    Total
Nispero hydro power plant             5.5        10.8        16.3
Puerto Cortes diesel plant            1.9        13.1        15.0
69 kV line to Puerto Cortes
plant                                0.1        0.1         0.2
Distribution expansion 1980-81         1.9        2.3         4.2
Studies                                0.4        1.3         1.7
Training                               0.1        0.3         0.4
Engineering and administration         1.7        2.5         4.2
Total Costs                         11.6       30.4       42.0
Contingencies:  Physical               1.4        3.3         4.7
Price                 1.4       3.0         4.4
Subtotal                            14.4      36.7        51.1
Special price contingency 1/           0.5        1.4         1.9
Subtotal                            14.9      38.1        53.0
Interest during construction             -        5.0         5.0
Financing Requirements              14.9      43.1        58.0
Financing Plan:
US$ (millions)
Bank                                     -       30.5       30.5
CABEI                                    _        3.5         3.5
Suppliers Credit                         -        6.7        6.7
ENEE                                  14.9        2.4       17.3
Total                               14.9      43.1        58.0
Estimated Disbursements:
---- US$ million by Fiscal Year ----
Bank FY                    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Annual                      7.7    10.2      9.1      2.6      0.9
Cumulative                  7.7    17.9    27.0    29.6    30.5
Rate of Return:              9 percent
Appraisal Report:            Report No. 2074a-HO dated October 17, 1978.
1/   To cover projected higher cost of Nispero component in case of lack of
contractor interest.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR THE NISPERO POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Empresa Nacional de Energia Electrica with the Guarantee of the
Republic of Honduras for the equivalent of US$30.5 million for the Nispero
Power Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including a grace
period of 5 years, with interest at 7.35 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 11
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum on Recent Economic Development and
Prospects of Honduras" (1856-HO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
January 10, 1978. The main findings of the Report are summarized below.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Long-term Development Trends
3.        The long-term growth rate of the Honduran economy has been exceed-
ingly low. Between 1950 and 1975, real per capita GNP grew by only 1 percent
a year. Honduras' per capita GNP in 1977, US$450, is one of the lowest levels
in the Western Hemisphere. Honduras' poverty is also evident from a variety of
indicators. Malnutrition is severe: about three-quarters of pre-school children
are believed to suffer from protein and caloric deficiencies, and infant mortality
is estimated at 118 per thousand live births. It is estimated that roughly 60
percent of the population has no access to piped water and about 80 percent
lives without any form of sanitary waste disposal. Furthermore, these are
country averages which conceal substantial regional disparities, as living
conditions in the rural areas, which account for about two-thirds of the
population, are much poorer than in the cities.
4.        A major reason for Honduras' poor growth performance has been the
continued dependence of the economy on the production and export of a few
agricultural commodities, especially bananas, whose prices depend on a
fluctuating world market situation and whose output may be greatly influenced
by domestic weather conditions. The latter was dramatically illustrated when
extensive destruction of the banana plantations by Hurricane Fifi in 1974
reduced the volume of bananas exported in 1975 to about one-half the level of
1973 and contributed to a drop in per capita income of about 3 percent.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the section on the economy
in the President's Report for the Guayape Regional Development Project
(P-2320-HO) dated May 4, 1978.



- 2 -
5.        There are many reasons for the continued dominance of bananas in
the Honduran economy. Known mineral deposits are not extensive. A serious
lack of basic infrastructure and deficient development policies in the past
have left Honduras' agricultural resources underutilized. In addition,
the mountainous topography of the country has made the expansion of the road
network slow and costly. There has been progress, however, since 1960, and
major achievements include the establishment of a basic transportation net-
work connecting the main population centers, and a considerable expansion of
electric power service.
6.        Much land suitable for agriculture is still available, and the
country has sizeable forest resources, but agricultural output only grew at
about 2 percent yearly between 1950 and 1975. Uneven land distribution and
deficient credit, technical services and development programs have kept
agricultural growth far below its potential.
7.        Manufacturing industry, which is highly concentrated in the cities
of San Pedro Sula and Tegucigalpa, now accounts for about 16 percent of GDP
and provides employment to about 10 percent of the labor force. During the
1960s, the manufacturing sector grew at a low annual rate (3.8 percent) owing
to the small size of the domestic market, the lack of infrastructure, and the
inability of domestic firms to take advantage of the opportunities offered by
the Central American Common Market. Manufacturing growth, however, almost
doubled in the 1970s (during 1970-76, real value added grew at an annual rate
of 7 percent) because of the increase in both domestic and foreign demand and
the consequent expansion and modernization of existing and new plants.
Government Development Efforts
8.        Since 1972, development efforts have increased substantially and
several measures have been taken to lay the basis for the current improved
economic outlook over the longer term. A land reform program which began
in December 1972 aims at greatly improving land utilization as well as
increasing the income and employment of the poorest peasants through the
transfer of unutilized or poorly utilized land from large landowners to
landless rural families. Another major policy development was the national-
ization of timber rights in January 1974. A new forestry law established
guidelines for private sector participation in forestry development and
created the Corporacion Hondurena de Desarrollo Forestal (COHDEFOR). COHDEFOR
is in charge of all forest industry policies and activities, and is expected
to exploit forest resources more rationally, increase lumber exports, and
provide more employment for rural Hondurans. The third major achievement was
an improvement in Government planning and executing capacity, particularly in
infrastructure, which has resulted in a substantial increase in public fixed
investment from 3.3 percent of GDP in 1972 to 6.6 percent in 1974 and a
record 8 percent in 1977. The Government has also made an effort to increase
investment in the social and productive sectors and strengthern public finances
through tax reforms and better tax administration.  A 1975 tax reform made the
tax on coffee exports an ad-valorem tax with marginal rates ranging from



1J p i.uuc   , Li p       E epunding on coffee prices, substituted a 3 percent
value added tax for the sales tax, and raised the tax rates on beer, cigarettes
and liquor.
ReceLnt Econemic Deuelopments
9.         vae  nEuras was adversely affected by one of the worst hurricanes
in its history in 19-4, it also had to contend with the oil price rise of that
year and the later OECD recession. As a result, during 1974-75, total GDP
remained almost stagnant, severe balance of payments difficulties arose and
the country's savings capacity was seriously reduced. Import prices grew
almost three times as rapidly as export prices, and the terms of trade
deteriorated by about one-fifth. The resource gap, which was equal to about
1 percent of GDP during 1972-73, averaged 11.6 percent during 1974-75. The
rise in consumer prices, which had averaged 2.7 percent a year between 1966
and 1973, accelerated to 13 percent in 1974 before declining to 8 percent in
197T.
10.       A high level of public investment, the gradual recovery of banana
production and the doubling of coffee export prices were the major factors
responsible for as im-provement of the economic situation in 1976. Real GDP
grew at about 6.6 percent and the price level increased by only 5 percent.
Merchandise export earnings grew by about 32 percent in current terms over
1975, about half of it as a result of higher coffee prices.  Government tax
revenues increased from 10.8 percent of GDP in 1972-73 to 12.8 percent in 1976
and, while there was a substantial increase in public current expenditures,
public savings were estimated at 2.7 percent of GDP in 1976 compared to an
average 2.2 percent in 1972-73. However, as investment expenditures for
hurricanie reconstruction and development purposes were stepped up considerably,
the oLv;ra'l  de ficit of the Central Government increased from 2.5 percent of
GDP ir. 19i( to i.9 percent in 1976.
11.       Ir. 197, economic expansion continued with real GDP growth estimated
at 8 percent, duet mainly to the expansion of export volumes (about 30 percent
in current prices` and public investment (about 17 percent), and to a doubling
of coffee) prices from the 1976 level.  The rate of inflation accelerated to
8.6 percent owiog no higher liquidity brought about by coffee sales, rising
import ,ntices and poor domestic crops of basic grains.  The balance of payments
had a          accoa. ncoint deficit of US$121 million, above the US$109 recorded in
197b,        d , tl dlmo the rapid increase of imports, and the retention of coffee
sale6 in tIn  sénool  semester of 1977.  Foreign exchange reserves, however,
increased bv about US$40 million, as a result of  larger coffee and banana
exporn earnings, as well as greater inflows of foreign loans. With regard
to the public sector, Central Government current revenues reached 16.4
percent of GDP, while public savings increased to 3.3 percent of GDP. The
total tax bLurdon increased to 14.5 percent of GDP.
Growth ?P :D i  tS
12.       Thie groch prospects for 1978-82 are good.  Real GDP is expected to
increase at an annual rate of about 6 percent, barring natural disasters.  Real
exports shoold ha able to grow at about 7 percent a year, reflecting continued
recovery of baoian. p-oduction from the September 1974 hurricane, increased



- 4 -
coffee production owing to higher yields and new plantings, expansion of sugar
production, an increase of lumber exports made possible by the currently
planned expansion of sawmill capacity, increased beef production (also the
result of an ongoing program), expansion of fruit and vegetable production
for export and promotion of tourism. Coffee prices, although declining from
the unusually high 1977 level, are expected to remain above the 1976 level
this year and to be somewhat below in 1979. In addition, the Government plans
to accelerate economic growth over the medium-term through an ambitious public
investment program designed to alleviate the most significant bottlenecks to
the country's development process. The presently designed development strategy
calls for large public investments in infrastructure, in export diversification
through forestry development and tourism, and in agriculture to implement the
agrarian reform program and increase productivity.
13.       The expansion of the public sector's investment expenditures together
with the necessary increase of complementary current expenditures creates a
need for additional increases in taxes and the tariffs of public enterprises
in the 1979-82 period as well as for careful control of other current expendi-
tures. The Government is considering a series of proposals to mobilize addi-
tional domestic resources in support of its development program.
14.       While real exports are expected to increase at about seven percent a
year during 1978-82, Honduras' terms of trade are expected to deteriorate. As
the import needs of the economy expand, in particular the imports related to
the investment program, the current account deficit is expected to increase to
US$200 million by 1981 and US$250 million in 1985, and large capital inflows
will be required. The bulk of the external financing requirements will have
to be met through public borrowing. Honduras will require an estimated total
gross capital inflow of US$900 million for the six-year period 1977-82, of
which about US$255 million will be disbursed from commitments made through the
end of 1976.
15.       Honduras' public external debt repayable in foreign currency is esti-
mated to be US$418 million at the end of 1977, US$766 million if undisbursed
commitments are included. In the past, Honduras managed to keep its external
debt service ratio fairly low, because foreign loans were almost all on
concessionary terms. It is important that the country continue to borrow on
reasonably soft average terms, in view of the country's poverty, the fact
that it will continue to depend on exports of a few commodities with volatile
price prospects, and because, historically, natural disasters have sharply
reduced the volume of exports every few years. Even if Honduras is successful
in obtaining about two-thirds of the financing it needs for its investment
program on terms similar to those offered by the international lending agencies,
the debt service ratio is likely to rise from about 6.5 percent in 1977 to
about 13 percent by the mid-1980s. Continued maintenance of Honduras' credit-
worthiness will depend on the efficiency with which it chooses and implements
its major public investment projects; careful, continued demand management,
including cautious use of nonconcessionary borrowing; and on export promotion
policies. The Bank will be carefully monitoring Honduras' performance in
this regard; a mission is scheduled for January 1979 to review necessary
Government actions and policies in these fields.
16.       Although the IDB was Honduras' largest creditor as of December 31,
1977 with loans outstanding -- including undisbursed -- totaling US$269.6



million, 71 percent of this estimated total is repayable in local currency, so
that IDB's share of the public debt repayable in foreign currency of US$766 is
about 25.1 percent. The Bank Group holds 27.5 percent of the public debt
outstanding -- including undisbursed -- repayable in foreign currency. CABEI
accounts for 16.2 percent of the total, the US Government for 15.0 percent,
Venezuela for 6.6 percent, privately held debt for about 7.2 percent and
other debt for 2.4 percent.
17.       In terms of the sectoral thrust of lending by the principal external
agencies apart from the Bank, AID has concentrated on agriculture and educa-
tion, IDB on transport, agriculture and forestry, health, education and
housing, and CABEI on transport, industry, power and housing. It is expected
that AID and CABEI will continue lending primarily in the same sectors in the
future, while IDB would concentrate on agriculture, forestry, transport,
industry and power. The lending of the external agencies during 1950-1977 was
as follows:
IBRD     IDA      AID      IDB    CABEI    TOTAL
Total Gross Lending 1950-1977    177.5    53.2    113.4   294.7   199.2    838.0
Gross Lending 1950-1965              25.9    12.5      26.7    27.2       8.1    100.4
Gross Lending 1966-1977             151.6    40.7      86.7   267.5   191.1    737.6
Sectoral Lending 1966-1977
Transport                         88.3      5.0         -    32.1    74.7    200.1
Power                             60.3      9.5         -        -    20.9      90.7
Telecommunications                    -        -        -    14.7    10.1       24.8
Education                           3.0     3.0      10.5    17.4         -     33.9
Health                                -       -       2.6    33.2    10.2       46.0
Housing                               -       -       5.0    12.5    16.5       34.0
Agriculture and Forestry              -    23.2      48.5   155.4      4.1    231.2
Industry                             -        -       5.0      2.2    33.2      40.4
Other                                 -       -      15.1        -    21.4      36.5
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS
18.       Beginning with a loan of US$4.2 million for roads in 1955, Honduras
has to date received seventeen Bank loans totalling US$187.7 million and ten
IDA credits totalling US$57.6 million, both net of cancellations. In 1978,
the Bank approved a US$5 million credit for education and the US$10.5 million
Guayape Regional Development Loan. As of August 31, 1978, a total of US$80.7
million remained to be disbursed on thirteen operations for ports, power,
roads, agriculture, education and regional development. The proposed loan
would raise the total of Bank Group assistance from US$245.3 million to
US$275.8 million. Execution of projects financed by the Bank Group has, on
the whole, been satisfactory. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of August 31, 1978, as well as notes
on the execution of on-going projects.



- 6 -
19.       In the past, Bank Group lending was heavily concentrated in trans-
port and power, where inadequate facilities hampered the development of
the country. The First Livestock Development Credit approved in 1970, how-
ever, marked a first step towards the diversification of our lending. Since
then, there have been operations for a Second Livestock project; a First
Education project, which included as major components primary and secondary
teacher training schools, support for vocational training centers and the
national agricultural secondary school; a First Agricultural Credit project
to finance livestock and crop development with emphasis on assisting agrarian
reform settlements and a substantial technical assistance program; a Second
Education Project to help finance rural primary schools and agricultural
vocational education; and the Guayape Regional Development Project to assist
small farmers and agrarian reform settlements in the Guayape Valley.
20.       In future lending to Honduras, we plan to support thie priorities of
the Government's investment program by giving increased emphasis to investment
in agricultural and rural development to support the agrarian reform. We
would also help finance activities to strengthen the balance of payments,
while continuing to lend for physical infrastructure where there are still
deficiencies to be overcome. A follow-on to the First AgricuLtural Credit
Project and additional rural development projects, now being identified, are
planned. Bank Group support is also being considered for an industrial credit
project, COHDEFOR's pulp and paper project, and the development of Honduras'
tourism potential. In transport, we plan to place emphasis oni assisting the
construction of a network of feeder and access roads to support the Government's
agricultural program. We also hope to continue financing power development
through participation in the large (about US$490 million) El Cajon hydroelec-
tric project which is scheduled to come on stream in the mid-1980s. The latter
project, which is discussed in paras. 34-36, has been identified as the most
economic means of meeting Honduras' long-term demand for power. It also would
generate excess energy that might be sold to neighboring count:ries in the
early years of its operation. It is expected that the Bank, IDB and CABEI
will contribute to the El Cajon effort, and the Bank has beerL helping
Honduras contact bilateral sources to seek additional concessional financing.
21.       It is expected that the Bank Group share of total external public
debt disbursed and outstanding will drop from 29.2 percent in 1976 to 26.4
percent by 1981 because of increasing lending by other external agencies
and a slight increase in commercial borrowing. The IBRD share of debt service
in 1976 was 23.4 percent and is projected at about 24.3 percent by 1981.
22.       Until recently, IFC's activities in Honduras included a 1964 loan
and a share subscription, of US$295,000 and US$82,500 respectively, in a
tannery, Empresa de Curtidos Centroamericana, S.A. (ECCASA); and a US$75,000
share subscription in a pilot promotional company, Compania Pino Celulosa de
Centro America (COPINO) in 1969. COPINO was established to develop an indus-
trial project based on timber from the Olancho Forest Reserve, but a series
of obstacles to project development arose, and efforts to go forward with it



- 7 -
were virtually halted in 1971. While current plans for the Olancho forest
industries project do not include a role for COPINO, the IFC is assisting
the Government in creating an organizational structure for the project and
selecting a technical partner. In December 1977 the Executive Directors
approved a US$9.0 million loan, and up to US$1.0 million equity nvestment,
for Textiles Rio Lindo, S.A. de C.V. for plant expansion aimed at almost
doubling its production capacity.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Energy Sector
23.       Honduras uses four primary energy resources:  petroleum (all of which
is imported), hydro power, wood/charcoal and bagasse. Commercial energy
in 1976 amounted to about 466,000 tons of petroleum equivalent (TPE), of which
about 22 percent was provided by hydroelectric power stations, and the balance
by petroleum products. The role of hydro power has grown rapidly since 1970,
and will expand further with the completion of the Rio Lindo Power Plant
extension, the proposed project and the El Cajon project. However, Honduras
will continue to be heavily dependent on fuel imports. The existence of
domestic fuel resources in commercial quantities has yet to be proven.
Government and private efforts have recently focussed on exploring for coal in
central and western Honduras and for petroleum and gas offshore in the
Caribbean. For coal, results have not been encouraging, and petroleum
exploration has been very limited so far.
24.       Several alternative sources of energy are being studied with Bank
assistance under the Fifth and Sixth Power Loans. Areas which appear to have
potential for geothermal development are now being evaluated, and it is
expected that by early 1979 more will be known about geothermal resources.
The country's forests represent a resource which has not yet been fully
tapped. COHDEFOR has proposed the use of waste wood produced by the country's
sawmills for fuel, and a study has been contracted to determine whether modern
methods of pelletizing woodwaste would make steam power plants economically
feasible. These plants would be mainly in rural areas and would help to
provide earlier access to electricity in such areas. The study is financed
partly by the Sixth Power Loan.
25.       Honduras has large hydroelectric power resources, with a theore-
tical annual potential of about 35,000 GWh (present annual needs are about
600 GWh). About one third of this potential has already been inventoried,
and sites aggregating about 2,000 GWh annual production have been studied
at feasibility level, including the large El Cajon (1,300 GWh per year)
project on the Humuya river which is proposed as the country's next major
power project. Further work is needed to update the existing inventory and
to prepare a prefeasibility study of a promising site on the Patuca river, for
potential development after completion of El Cajon. These studies are included
in the proposed project. The Empresa Nacional de Energia Electrica (ENEE) is
also studying possible small hydroelectric projects to expand the options
available for future supply to rural areas.



- 8 -
26.       Honduras does not now have a coordinated energy policy nor adequate
organizational arrangements to develop and execute such a policy. The Govern-
ment agencies with responsibility in the energy sector are the Ministry of
Natural Resources, the Ministry of Economy (petroleum product distribution
and pricing), the Ministry of Public Works and Communications (transport
companies), COHDEFOR (wood and charcoal production) and ENEE which is respon-
sible for electricity generation and distribution. The Government, recognizing
the weakness in the sector, has agreed that a study is necessary to establish an
energy sector policy and the basis for coordination of energy sector activities.
This study is included in the proposed project.
Power Sector
27.       ENEE has sole responsibility for management of the power sector in
Honduras. There is no regulatory agency. ENEE is a Government-owned,
autonomous institute which, since its creation in 1957, has acquired most of
the privately-owned and municipal systems, and now provides almost 100 percent
of public electricity service in the country. ENEE has two hydro power plants
using water from Lake Yojoa which provides annual storage. Canaveral,
installed in 1963, has a capacity of 30 MW, and Rio Lindo, the first two units
of which were installed in 1970, has recently been expanded to 92 MW capacity.
Additionally, ENEE has diesel units with 50.6 MW of total capacity and two gas
turbines with a capacity of 28 MW.
28.       ENEE currently services mainly urban areas, reaching about 21
percent of the total population mainly via its interconnected system. Overall,
ENEE supplies electricity to about 0.6 million people or about 75 percent of
the inhabitants of the areas served. With its annual consumption of electric
energy of about 158 kWh per capita (1974), Honduras ranks lowest in Central
America.
29.       Since about 64 percent of the Honduran population lives in rural
areas and many are in remote areas, it is difficult and costly to provide
them electricity. ENEE has been carrying out a rural electrification program
since 1971, and has built about 270 km of 35 kV rural lines. Most of these
lines have been financed by the Bank under the Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Power
Projects. ENEE is now undertaking with assistance from USAID the electri-
fication of the Aguan Valley, where the Government is presently implementing
an extensive rural development program. In addition to agro-industry and
sawmills, the Aguan Valley Rural Electrification Project will benefit 25,000
low-income families.
30.       Including supply to Nicaragua, via the interconnection constructed
under the Fifth Power Project, the energy generated by ENEE during 1977
amounted to 622 GWh--an increase of 11.3 percent over the 1976 total. The
current load forecast, which was completed in mid-1978, projects an annual
average increase in total sales during the 1978-1984 period of 12.1 percent
which appears reasonable. About 70 percent of ENEE's load is industrial-
commercial which contributes to the high annual system load factor (about
0.65). By the end of the project period, ENEE expects to make electricity
available to about 30 percent of the population, as a result of the distri-
bution facilities and rural extensions being built and those included in the



- 9 -
proposed project. In order to increase the number of electricity users, ENEE
has implemented the following measures:
(a) A low monthly minimum bill of US$1.25 has been established,
whi i gives the customer the right to use up to 20 kWh.
This price makes electricity competitive with other sources
of lighting.
(b) A connection policy is being applied under which new customers
will not be charged a connection fee whenever the cost
is less than US$150. When this amount is exceeded,
the customer may amortize, without interest, the excess over
24 months. Similarly, new population centers requesting
connections are only charged when connection costs exceed
$150 per consumer; they may also pay over 24 months.
(c) For the areas where potential customers exist, but have not
been connected to the system due to their lack of funds, ENEE
has financed the cost of interior wiring, which is recovered
without interest over a period of 18 months.
The Borrower
31.       ENEE is directed by a board consisting of the Ministers of Public
Works, Natural Resources and Planning and representatives of the National
Development Bank and the Chamber of Industries and Commerce (on behalf of the
private sector). ENEE is administered by a General Manager, assisted by three
Deputy Managers. Its organization is well structured along functional lines.
It needs strengthening, however, to prepare for the large expansion program
entailed in the construction of the El Cajon project. Improvement is needed
in its management and information systems, its insurance practices and its
controls on accounts receivable. ENEE's management has been strengthened in
recent years by Bank-supported management consultants and training programs.
However, further efforts in these areas are still required, and the project
includes a Management and Organization study and provisions for further
training of ENEE management and staff.
32.       While ENEE's financial structure is generally sound, its financial
performance over the last five years has not been totally satisfactory because
revenues have not kept pace with costs (see para. 54). ENEE also needs to
consider restructuring tariffs in order to obtain a more progressive system
and to achieve a better correlation of tariffs and marginal costs. Although
most of ENEE's tariffs fall within Central American averages, tariffs for
large industrial consumers are about the lowest in the region. Consultants
(SOFRELEC-France) are now completing, under the Sixth Power Project, a study
of ENEE's tariff structure based on long term incremental-cost criteria. The
proposed loan will finance portable metering equipment for load surveys and
management.



- 10 -
Power Sector Development and Strategy
33.       ENEE's objectives in the power sector are:
(a) the use of national hydro power resources to substitute
for fuel imports by (i) developing projects both for the
interconnected system in Honduras and for interconnection
with neighboring countries, and (ii) installing small hydro
stations in isolated areas to reduce, or eliminate, the use
of small, high-cost diesels;
(b) the rehabilitation of systems in areas recently incorporated
into ENEE's main interconnected system; and
(c) the continued extension of the main system and creation of
regional subtransmission systems to expand service in rural
areas as rapidly as is economically feasible.
34.       The investment program planned for 1978-1981, including interest
during construction and estimated increases in working capital needs, amounts
to US$321.5 million. El Cajon is the largest component of the program,
representing some 62 percent of the total. The investment program also
includes completion of the Fifth and Sixth Power Projects and additional
investment in rural transmission and distribution.
35.       The Nispero Power Project would meet requirements until about
1983 while El Cajon is being built. Interim additional thermal generation
will be required to provide for the growth of demand in 1984-85. El Cajon is
the most economical hydro alternative for meeting energy requirements
beginning in 1985, with about 300 MW initial (and possibly 600 MW final)
capacity. An Optimization and Tariff Study was carried out under a technical
assistance loan from IDB to determine the most economical pattern of system
expansion for development with- and without-pooling of facilities through an
interconnection with the Nicaraguan Power Company (ENALUF). The study also
provides a suitable basis for a decision on the prices to be charged for
international power and energy interchanges. The study confirmed El Cajon's
selection as the least cost alternative for the interconnected ENEE-ENALUF
system expansion and recommended that El Cajon be built as soon as possible.
Sales to ENALUF would expand the use of the existing interconnection,
inaugurated in October 1976. Since then, ENALUF has supplemented its
generation of electricity by purchases from ENEE. In view of the potential
substantial savings from a coordinated system expansion (US$6.2 million
annually on average), ENEE and ENALUF have been discussing the needed revision
of their interconnection contract to take into account the possibility of
ENALUF purchases from El Cajon.
36.       The El Cajon project was appraised earlier this month.  ENEE's
contacts with various financial institutions and a Bank-sponsored meeting of
bilateral as well as other international lending agencies in July 1978,
indicate broad interest in providing financing for El Cajon.



- 11 -
37.       In view of the above mentioned objectives and developments, partic-
ularly in connection with the El Cajon project, ENEE realizes the need
for a comprehensive updating of its transmission and distribution system
planning for the medium and long term. It therefore plans to prepare, as
part of the proposed project, a National Electrification Masterplan, which
would be partly based on the results of the Optimization and Tariff Study.
The project also includes a review and updating of ENEE's hydro power inventory,
along with a prefeasibility study of a promising hydro development site in
Eastern Honduras. ENEE would revise its transmission system additions program
in the light of the results of the Masterplan promptly after the Bank's review
of this plan (see Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Bank Participation in the Sector
38.       The Bank Group has made six loans and two credits to the electric
power sector, totalling more than US$80 million, which have financed a
substantial part of the power sector development program to date. The first
four projects 1/ have been successfully completed. Together, they provided for
(a) 94 MW thermal and hydra generation additions, including the first two
stages of the Lake Yojoa-Rio Lindo hydroelectric development; (b) transmission
expansion (particularly under the Fourth Project); and (c) distribution
expansions. The Project Performance Audit Reports for ENEE's Third and Fourth
Power Projects 2/ indicate that both projects were implemented without note-
worthy problems and that the purposes of both projects were fully achieved.
The provisions of the proposed loan for training and improvements in ENEE's
management are consistent with the findings of these Reports.
39.       The Fifth Power Project (Loan 841-HO of June 28, 1972) -- which
included 26 MW of diesels, an interconnection line to Nicaragua, a load
dispatch system, studies and training -- is about 90 percent completed. ENEE
was unable to reach agreement with ENALUF on jointly contracting a consulting
firm to design the load dispatch systems for the Honduran and Nicaraguan power
companies, and therefore, contracted independently (R.W. Beck-USA) for the
study and design of an expanded load dispatch and communication component to
provide for its needs through the 1980s. Because the cost of this component
has increased substantially since appraisal, additional financing of US$1.7
million was obtained from the OPEC Special Fund. The 138 kV lines for the
Aguan Valley have been deleted from the Fifth Project in the light of the
USAID-financed comprehensive rural electrification project for the Valley.
40.       The last loan (No. 1081-HO of January 27, 1975) for the Sixth Power
Project finances the 46 MW extension of the Rio Lindo hydroelectric plant,
distribution system improvements, rural electrification works, studies and
training. The plant extension went into operation in March 1978, ahead of
schedule. Some US$2.5 million of the loan proceeds, realized from lower than
1/   Loan No. 226 of May 19, 1959; Loan No. 261 of June 28, 1960; Loan No. 541/
Credit 116 of May 28, 1968 and Loan 692/Credit 201 of June 16, 1970.
2/   Sec M75-411 of May 30, 1975 and Sec M78-489 of June 5, 1978.



- 12 -
expected steel prices and other cost reductions, will be used, with Bank
agreement, 1/ to finance the extension of 35 kV lines to serve rural areas in
western Honduras from the proposed Nispero power plant. The Sixth Project is
expected therefore to be completed by 1981, two years later than originally
estimated.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Nispero Power Project"
(No. 2074a-HO dated October 17, 1978) is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. Supplementary data are contained in Annex III. The
project was identified as the least-cost solution to ENEE's expansion require-
ments in a consultant's study and subsequent feasibility report completed in
April 1978. The project was appraised in February 1978. Negotiations were
held in Washington from July 31 to August 3, 1978; the delegation from Honduras
was led by the General Manager of ENEE.
Project Objectives
42.       The main objectives of the project are to meet Honduras' electricity
requirements during 1980-83; to strengthen ENEE's management and planning
capacity; and to improve energy sector organization. The failure to construct
the facilities included in the project would lead to curtailments of supply
which would be costly to the economy and reduce industrial growth.
The Project
43.       The project would consist of the following items:
(a)  Nispero 22.5 MW hydroelectric plant in western Honduras
and its substation connection;
(b) Puerto Cortes 30 MW diesel plant and its connection at the
Puerto Cortes substation;
(c) Extension of ENEE's primary distribution system in new areas
in Tegucigalpa, San Pedro Sula, La Ceiba, Tela, El Progreso
and Puerto Cortes, and installation of capacitors to reduce
transmission and distribution losses; provision of metering
equipment for load surveys and management;
(d) Study of energy sector organization; study of ENEE management
systems, organization and training needs; a national electri-
fication master plan; hydropower inventory updating; and a
prefeasibility study of the Piedras Amarillas hydro project; and
(e) Training of ENEE management and staff.
The estimated completion date of the project is January 1, 1982.
1/   "Semi-Monthly Report to the Executive Directors on Bank/IDA Operations",
R78-181, July 20, 1978.



- 13 -
Project Costs and Financing
44.       The total project cost is estimated at Us$53.0 million of which
US$38.1 million represents foreign costs. Interest during construction
on foreign loans would add US$5.0 million, bringing total financing require-
ments to US$58.0 million, of which US$43.1 million represents the foreign
component. The proposed Bank loan of US$30.5 million would cover 71 percent
of the foreign costs of the project, plus about US$3.3 million required
for interest during construction and other charges on the Bank loan. The
financing of the interest is designed to help alleviate the financial burden
of ENEE's large investment program. The loan also includes a special contin-
gency allowance of US$1.4 million (see para. 62 below). Suppliers credits of
US$6.7 million equivalent have been negotiated to help finance the diesels
and generators for the Puerto Cortes plants, and CABEI is expected to pro-
vide two loans totaling US$3.5 million equivalent for the Nispero hydro
project engineering studies and distribution works for the 1980-81 period.
The CABEI loan for studies has been approved; and the loan application for
distribution works was declared eligible for financing in August 1978. The
latter is expected to be approved in November 1978. ENEE would itself finance
the remaining US$2.4 million equivalent of foreign costs, and the US$14.9
million equivalent of local costs. Evidence of the approval of the CABEI (or
satisfactory alternative) loans and acceptable arrangements regarding the
additional foreign exchange financing would be a condition of effectiveness of
the Bank loan.
45.       A summary of project costs is set out in the Project Summary above
(see page ii). Costs of the Nispero hydro and the diesel plants were updated
in September 1978 on the basis of bid level design estimates and awarded
contract, respectively. Other costs are based on prices of September 1977,
adjusted to mid-1978 levels. All include provisions for future price increases.
Physical contingencies for the Puerto Cortes diesel plant and transmission are
10 percent of the base cost. Provisions for Nispero's physical contingencies
are 15 percent for civil works, 25 percent for water conductor, and 3 percent
for electromechanical equipment and transmission lines. Consulting services
would cost an average of US$5,400 per man-month.
Procurement
46.       All equipment, materials and services financed by the proposed loan
would be procured through international competitive bidding, following the
Bank's Guidelines.  Local suppliers would be given a margin of preference of
15 percent, or the applicable import duty, whichever is lower. Locally
produced wood poles for transmission and distribution lines are expected to be
competitive.  The cost of the poles to be financed by the Bank is estimated at
about US$50,000.
47.       To avoid delaying the installation of the Puerto Cortes diesels,
which are required to avoid possible curtailment of supply in 1979/80, the
Bank agreed in mid-1977 that ENEE could initiate their procurement, and bids
under ICB were received in November 1977. ENEE awarded the contract to
Alsthom (France) in August 1978. Retroactive financing of payments under the



- 14 -
contract made after August 1, 1978 (expected to be about US$2.2 million
equivalent) is therefore recommended. Retroactive financing of up to US$0.2
million is also recommended for payments made for design and engineering
consulting services after February 15, 1978.
Disbursements
48.       Disbursements from the loan account would be made for:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported equipment (including
installation and supervision) and materials for Puerto Cortes
diesel plant;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported equipment and
materials or 85% of the ex-factory cost (i.e., excluding local
taxes) of locally manufactured equipment and materials for other
project elements;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for civil works and installation
for the Nispero and Puerto Cortes plants and the 69 kV line
to the Puerto Cortes plant;
(d) 100% of expenditures for consultants' services;
(e) 100% of foreign expenditures for the training program; and
(f) interest and other charges on the Bank loan during project
construction.
Project Execution and_Manaement
(a) Hydro, diesel and transmission
49.       Major project components are expected to be completed by April 1981.
For the Nispero plant, the manufacture, delivery and installation of the
turbine and generator unit and access road improvement are on the critical
path. Bids on the turbine and generator have been evaluated. The implementa-
tion of the Puerto Cortes diesel plant and switchyard would be under a turnkey
contract. Diesel plant erection and testing are expected by late 1979.
50.       ENEE's own staff will carry out the engineering and supervision of
construction for the transmission and distribution expansion during 1980-1981.
This is acceptable because ENEE has proven experience in similar works recently
completed or now under construction. As in present practice, ENEE personnel
would install the substation and distribution equipment and build the trans-
mission and distribution lines at 69 kV and lower voltages.
(b) Studies
51.       The studies to be undertaken will be carried out by consultants and
under terms of reference approved by the Bank. ENEE would submit a schedule,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation of all studies as a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed loan. Among these, the Government has



- 15 -
approved the outline terms of reference for the Energy Sector Organization Study
(see para. 26), which would be carried out under the direction of its Planning
Council (CONSUPLANE). The Bank is helping to identify the areas in which
consultant assistance would be needed and to prepare detailed terms of reference
for this study. Prior to disbursemenits for consultants' services for the study,
ENEE would submit proposals satisfactory to the Bank for the disbursement and
repayment arrangements with CONSUPLANE (see Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The recommendations of the study would be furnished to the Bank
for comment by June 30, 1980 (see Section 3.04 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
52.       ENEE will undertake a Management and Organization Study to help
prepare for its large expansion program. This study, for which terms of
reference are already agreed, will concentrate on an examination of ENEE's
organizational structure particularly regarding measures to strengthen the
company for El Cajon; ENEE's personnel practices; procurement operations; and
ENEE's system for collection of information as well. The study would also
identify staff training needs and produce recommendations for a training
program and its implementation. Disbursements for the training program would
not be made before the Bank and ENEE have agreed on a detailed plan (see para.
4b(ii) of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement), based on the study findings.
By March 31, 1979, ENEE would present to the Bank the preliminary findings of
consultants concerning the organizational arrangements for El Cajon; and a
full draft Management and Organization Study report three months later.
ENEE would exchange views with the Bank on the study's recommendations;
introduce modifications and additions resulting from this exchange; and agree
on a timetable to carry out these recommendations (see Section 3.06 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
53.       ENEE has also engaged consultants (R.W. Beck - USA) to study its
commercial functions. A report of their recommendations and ENEE proposals
for carrying them out would be submitted to the Bank for comment by
March 31, 1979 (see Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Financial Analysis
54.       ENEE's financial performance has suffered in recent years because
of delays in adjusting its tariffs to offset fuel price increases. Between
1972 and 1977, annual fuel costs went from US$0.4 million to US$6.8 million.
Load growth in 1974-77 was below expectations because of the 1974 hurricane
and the impact on Honduras of the world economic slowdown. The application of
a fuel adjustment clause and a 25 percent tariff increase in 1975 were not
sufficient to enable sales revenues to keep pace with operating costs. As a
result, ENEE's operating income was 38 percent lower on the average than
projected. ENEE's rate of return on assets revalued as of end 1973 was 7.7
percent in 1975, 7.5 percent in 1976 and 8.9 percent in 1977, as compared with
the 10 percent return stipulated under previous Bank loan agreements. Lower
than expected internal cash generation led to the need for additional borrow-
ing, which increased debt service obligation further. Consequently, debt
coverage during the 1974-77 period was also less than projected (averaging 1.3
times, compared to the 1.8 expected when the Sixth Power Project was appraised).



- 16 -
55.       Present financial projections assume that tariffs will be adjusted
to enable ENEE to achieve an 8 percent return on annually revalued assets.
With this, ENEE would be able to maintain acceptable debt service coverage
and debt equity and current ratios through the program period, and make a
14 percent contribution to its overall investment program for this period.
This figure is considered acceptable in view of ENEE's large, lumpy investment
program during this period which, with El Cajon and other projects, will
satisfy capacity requirements through the late 1980s. If ENEE had opted for
the second best alternative to El Cajon (construction of diesel plants), it
would have been able to finance more than 30 percent of its investment require-
ments with its net internal cash generation. ENEE and the Government have
agreed that, starting in 1978, ENEE's fixed assets will be revalued annually,
and that tariffs will be maintained at levels sufficient to achieve an
8 percent return on the revalued net assets (see Section 5.06(a) of the draft
Loan Agreement). ENEE increased its tariffs an average of 10 percent effective
June 1, 1978 and plans additional increases in 1979. Proposed tariff structure
revisions, designed to promote the most economic pattern of consumption, will
be identified through the tariff study (see para. 32).
56.       In order to complete the financing plan for the 1978-1981 program,
mainly for the El Cajon project, ENEE will require US$49.7 million in equity
contributions from the Government, which are expected to come from budgetary
appropriations and from long term loans to the Government under the economic
cooperation agreement ("oil facility") with the Venezuelan Investment Fund
(FIV). The balance is expected to come from loans under discussion with the
Bank, IDB, CABEI, bilateral sources and suppliers credits. In view of its
large expansion program, ENEE has agreed to inform the Bank on any major new
power investments until completion of the project, and to provide to the Bank
reports showing that such investments are economically justified and adequately
financed (see Section 5.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). The draft Guarantee
Agreement (see Section 3.05) provides that the Government shall (1) take all
action necessary to coordinate power sector expansion and operations in order
to prevent waste of energy, duplication of facilities and unnecessary invest-
ment; (2) ensure that such expansion is based on economically justified
programs and would be financed on appropriate terms; and (3) ensure also that
this expansion is within ENEE's capacity and will not adversely affect any
Bank-supported power project.
57.       As under previous loans, it has been agreed that ENEE would retain
all earnings for investment in its facilities. ENEE would also obtain the
Bank's concurrence before borrowing if its internal cash generation is less
than 1.4 times its maximum annual future debt service requirement (see Section
5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Economic Analysis
58.       Studies by ENEE and its consultants (updated by the Bank) have shown
that the project would be the least cost alternative to meet load growth
requirements from 1980 to 1983 at discount rates up to 11.4 percent, using
world fuel costs (which are about 13 percent higher than what ENEE currently
pays). A sensitivity analysis shows that an increase in the construction costs
of 8 percent (about equal to the proposed special contingency allowance) would



- 17 -
reduce the equalizing discount rate between the project and the next best
alternative from 11.4 percent to 10 percent. With a 2 percent annual real
increase in fuel costs, the discount rate rises to 13.3 percent. With an
estimated opportunity cost of capital in Honduras of between 9 and 11 percent,
the above sensitivity analysis indicates that the project components have been
selected on an economically sound basis. The second best alternative would
consist exclusively of thermal plants. The project has the added advantage
that, as a result of Nispero's location, 35 kV facilities can economically be
extended to serve many small western towns.
59.       The rate of return for the project was estimated as the discount
rate which equates the present values of the streams of costs and benefits
associated with the project. Benefits were measured in terms of revenues at
projected average 1982 tariffs deflated to mid-1978 values. The rate of return
would be: (a) Puerto Cortes diesels- 8 percent; (b) Nispero hydro plant-
10 percent; and (c) for the whole project- 9 percent. If the Nispero investment
costs increase by 10 percent, the return on the Nispero plant would decrease
to 9 percent and for the project as a whole to 8 percent. These equalizing
rates probably understate the real economic rate of return as electricity
tariffs may not fully measure some of the social benefits to users or the
benefits to industry and commerce. The range of rates of return obtained
indicates that, while ENEE's tariffs cover the marginal cost of supply, they
will have to be periodically revised to ensure that they continue to do so.
The size of such increases would be based on a longer term financial plan,
to be developed for the El Cajon project.
Environment
60.       There are no major environmental risks associated with the project.
The Nispero reservoir is very small; only about 10 families will need to be
relocated, which ENEE is preparing to accomplish. The diesel plant would be
removed from population centers of Puerto Cortes and its fuel would be piped
to small, daily storage tanks to reduce fire hazards. ENEE has been urged to
begin as soon as possible erosion protection and other precautionary measures
in the area of the access road and transmission line to Nispero which it
will begin building shortly. It would prepare a program satisfactory to the
Bank by March 31, 1979 covering resettlement and employment of area inhabitants,
as well as a series of largely environmental measures, e.g. sedimentation
reduction and control, mosquito and snail vector control (see Sections 3.10
and 3.11 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Risks and Uncertainties
61.       The physical contingencies provided should be adequate to cover the
project risks associated with the proposed works, which include rather complex
geology at the Nispero site. The Nispero dam, dikes, intake canals and other
structures are relatively small and should not give rise to concern about
their safety. Nonetheless, ENEE would monitor and inspect at least annually
all structures based on a program to be presented to the Bank by March 31,
1979 (see Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). In this connection, since
ENEE's insurance coverage is insufficient, ENEE has agreed to engage consultants
to renew its insurance policy; and would put the recommendations resulting
from this review and agreed with the Bank in effect by September 30, 1979 (ref.
Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
62.       The major risk on the Nispero hydro plant implementation would be
the possible low level of interest by international contractors in bidding on
the civil and erection works because of their small size. If ICB does not
produce satisfactory bids, delay of project completion could result from the
need to negotiate an acceptable contract. While expectations that El Cajon
will go forward soon may produce greater interest than might otherwise be
expected, a US$1.4 million contingency amount has nevertheless been included
in the loan, to be used if ENEE is not able to obtain responsive bids within
the Nispero cost estimate. It would be cancelled if it is not required.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between ENEE and the Bank, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Honduras and the Bank, and the
Recommendations of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The draft agreements conform to the normal pattern of loans for
power projects and their more important features have been included in Part IV
and summarized in Section III of Annex III of this report. Special conditions
of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement are the assurance of the availability
of a total of US$10.2 million of co-financing for the project and an agreed
implementation schedule for the project studies. There are two special
conditions of disbursement under the Loan Agreement: (a) for the Energy
Sector Study, that disbursement and repayment arrangements with CONSUPLANE
acceptable to the Bank are adopted; and (b) for the training component, that
ENEE adopt a training program acceptable to the Bank based on proposals
developed from the Management and Organization Study.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 1, 1978



- 19 -                                            ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
HONDURAS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
HONDURAS                                                 a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. 1RM.)                                                 - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            112.1                                                    SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      28.7                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960  lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  170.0       260.0     450.0           1066.7      432.3        867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      155.0       247.0     232.0            911.1      251.7        578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         1.9          2.5       3.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL) 23.0         26.8       31.4            57.9        24.2        46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        17.0        22.0      27.0             25.6       42.7         50.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      69.0        89.0     104.0             77.6       95.0         93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          47.8        48.1      48.1             42.0       44.9         42.9
15-64 YRS.                         49.7         49.2      49.1             52.2       52.8         53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.5         2.7       2.8              3.7        3.0          3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.0         2.7 /f    2.7 /f           2.7        2.7          2.5
URBAN                               5.3 &        ..       5.1              4.3        8.8          4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      54.0        51.5      49.3             35.8       42.2         37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      26.5        19.1       14.6             9.1        12.4        10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..         3.4        3.3             2.6         3.2         2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        12.7      23.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           ..         ..            15.1        14.2        20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              82.7       100.0         *-           102.1       104.3       107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    84.0        99.0      90.0            103.9       99.5        105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           53.0        58.0      56.0             60.3       56.8         63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        21.0        25.0         ..            26.7        17.5        21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      14.0        10.0       9.0              8.7         7.5         8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    41.0         49.4       53.5            62.6        53.3        57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..          ..      118.0            56.9        82.5        53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                          34.0      41.0             60.7        31.1        56.8
URBAN                                ..        99.0       99.0            78.0        68.5        79.0
RURAL                                ..        10.0       13.0            34.9        18.2        31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        24.0         ..            61.1        37.5        30.9
URBAN                                ..        64.0         ..            80.3        69.5        45.4
RURAL                                ..         9.0         ..            25.4        25.4        16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               *-      3600.0 /h 3140.0           1899.3      9359.2      2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    19120.0 Li   8930.0    7680.0  j         1220.1      2762.5      1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             620.0_/i    570.0     630.0            422.3       786.5       493.9
URBAN                                *-       150.0         ..           258.2       278.4       229.6
RURAL                                *-     11810.0         ..          2281.6      1358.4      2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..      24.0            25.6        19.2        22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.7          ..         ..             5.2          ..         5.2
URBAN                               5.5          ..         ..               ..         ..         5.0
RURAL                               5.7           ..        ..               ..         ..         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.4           ..        ..             2.0          *-         2.0
URBAN                               1.8           ..        ..             2.1         2.3         1.5
RURAL                               2.7           ..        ..              2.7         ..         2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              15.0           ..        ..            51.2        28.3        64.1
URBAN                              56.7          ..         ..            77.3          ..        67.8
RURAL                               2.0           ..        ..             12.8       10.3        34.1



- 20-                                           ANNEX I
TABLE iA
HONDURAS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERIAES
HONDURAS                                                   /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SANE         SANE     NEXT HIGInR
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960 Lb      1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  67.0                    90.0            103.5        75.8         99.8
FEMALE                67.0                    88.0             102.9        67.9         93.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    8.0         12.0       16.0             37.2        17.7         33.8
FEMALE                  7.0         12.0      13.0              37.9        12.9         29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 24.0            18.0                        14.7         7.4         12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              32.0         35.0       35.0             32.8        34.3         34.9
SECONDARY                            10.0                                     17.8        23.5         22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          47.0                    53.0             74.9        63.7          71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            3.0          5.0        5.0             26.9         7.2         12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           68.0         57.0       54.0            173.5        71.1        104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            1.0          8.0       16.0             69.4        14.1         28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    21.0                    35.0             72.8        16.3         45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA                                              4.3         1.6          4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         570.0        700.0 /k  760.0 /k
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     12.5         12.8       13.3             21.4        28.0         25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                67.0         62.3       60.3             37.8        54.1         46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   10.6         12.5       14.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  31.5         30.6       29.8             30.8        37.8         33.8
MALE                                   55.3         53.5       51.8             47.2        50.3         48.1
FEMALE                                  7.8          7.8        7.9             13.2        20.9         17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.6          1.5        1.8               1.7         1.3          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                   28.0 A       ..             28.9        19.5         23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                  60.6  1      ..             57.7        48.9         52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                    2.5 L       ..              3.2         5.9          4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                    8.4 /1                     10.7        15.7         13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                                        251.9       155.9        191.9
RURAL                                                      105.0             200.6        97.9        193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                      155.0            403.1        143.7        319.8
RURAL                                                      111.0             258.0        87.3        197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                                       15.0             24.8        22.9          19.8
RURAL                                                       70.0              65.2        36.7         35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries awng the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c  Latin America & Caribbean;  /d   Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);  /e  Intermediste
Middle Income (S551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /f  Intercensal growth rate (1961 and 1974 censuses; due
to emigration of El Salvadorean residents in HBnduras, the population growth rate is lower than rate
of natural increase; L& 13 important urban centers; /h Registered, not all practicing in the country;
/i 1963; /I Personnel in government services only; /k Aged 10 years and above; /1 1967-68, per
capita income.
September, 1978



- 21 -                                                                                       ANNEX I
KEY TO COUNTRIES BY REGION AND INCOME EROUPIs
Lanutat burplus
Regi.ne/l1-tne Group               Lou inn-ne/b                      Lower Middle                Inneroediate Middle                    Upper Middle            High InTotoef                Countries
Inwoms/n                      Tntomeld                            nntaaefe                                         Oil Exporters
Benin                   Mlaolai            Angola                   Chars                                   Djibouti                   Cabon
Burundi                 Mali               Bonmoana                 Ivoty Coast                             Reunion
Ceetral A1Erian Enp.   Nosambique          Cameroon -auritius
Chad                    Niger              Cape Verds               Nsntbia
Comora                  R.ands             Congo, P.R.              Uynbellos
Erhiopie                Sierrs Leone       Equatorial Guinea
AFRICA SOUTH          Gambia, The              S o_alIa          Liberia
OF SAHARA             Guinea                   Taneania          Mauritacia
Tuinea-Bisa..           Togo              Nigeria
Ken-y                    Uganda           Rhodes ia
Lesotho                 Upper VUlat        S.a Tome & Prin-ipe
M.adagasnar            Gzain               Sednega
Suda
Bwaeilaed
Esetbia
Egypt                                    MNrawna                    Algeria                                 Bahrein                    lersol                      Kuwait
NORTh AFRICA          YUnee AR.                                                            Jordn                                   Iran                       Oman                        Lubva
AND MIDDLE            Gene   PIDB.                                                         Sonr- ASR.                              Iraq                                                 QbEar
EAST                                                                                       Tunisis                                 Lebanon                                                Usudi Arabia
United Arab  mir.
Afghanietes             Maldives
Bangladesh              Nepal
SOUTH ASIA             b_ugan                  Padisian
Buns.                   Sri Lamkb
Indi.
Cambodia                                  New  ebrides              Cbina, Rep. of                          Giji                        nenitan  sos
ndonesia                                  P-pus Net. Guinea        fGilbert Islands                         Bong Kong                  BrureL 
EAST ASTA             Leo P.D.R.                                 Philippina-               Kores, Rap. of                                                    Frencb Polyne-i
USoleqqn Islands                          Thailand                  Matan                                                             CTwai
Viet Nen                                   Touga                    Nalamele                                                           NeO Caledonia
Western S-aoa            Trent Territory of the PaUifit                                     lingS pors
Haiti                                      Bolivia                   Antigue          Guatemala             Argentina                   b h-:al
El Salvador              Be1ice             Jamaica              Barbados                   Beenuda
Grenada                  Cbile             Menino                Brasil                     Csnal Osue
LATIN AMERICA                                                    Guyana                    Colombia          Niteragus            FPennh Guiana              MNrtinique
AND CARIBBEAN                                                    H-ndua-                   Coats  Rim        Paragray             CnadlIope                  Vsne.ue. 
St. Vinent               Dntinica           Peru                 Netherlonds  Vntilie       Virgin  laIand. (U.S.)
DCninticn Rep.   St. Kitt,s-NHvi       Pana
Ectuadt          SU. Lunia             Puerto Rlco
Usuinaise
Trinidad & Tubagu
Crug say
Tu.lty                                 CyrsChannl Ilads
EUROPE                                                                                                                            MaIta                      Cibra1t71
Portugal                  En-et
.                R~ossanuia ICiroenland
Yugoa lvia                 Spain
A.ntnelia         Finl.ed                       Italy               Norway                  United Smates
ENDUSTRIALIZUD          u-ar ia         Prana                         Japsn                South Africa
COUNTRIES             BSlgiun           Gnany aFd. Rep. of             Lunepboung          Unedan
Cna=da            Icehnd                        Nethtanlenda        Sit-eland
Denasnrk          I-elsnd                       Ne Zseisnd          United Kingdo=
Albhnie           G.e-an Den  Rap.           USSR
Bulgaria          Hungary
CENTRALLY PLANNED    China P.R.  f    gores Den.  Rp. of
ECONOMIES             Cuba              Mongolia
Cse-hnsl-mekia   Pslsnd
Is  .assd en 1976 GNP per wapita in 1976 US dollars.
7T  i2BU or lee  penr ..p i
/c $281-550 par spita.
7d $S51-1135 per wapita.
T.  $1136-2500 par -pite.                                                                                                                                                                              FPDFS
If onir 52500 pen n-pita.



-22-                                                                         ANNhEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Not":! Although tho data are drawn from sources generally judged the most authoritative and reliable, it should also be noted th.t they may not be inter-
meriianally comparable beo... a  of the lack of standardized definitions and concepts used by different countries in collecting the data.  The data are, nonetheless.
ueful to describe orders of magnitude, indicate trends, and characterize certain major differences between countries.
The ad iouLed group averag-es for each indicator are populstion-weighted geasetric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated rontr7 in each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and ia not uniform.  Due to lack of dais,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exportera and indicators of access to water and excrete disposal, hous.ing, inome distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the omilusion of extreme, values.
LAND AREA (thousanid sq. kon)                                                             Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters,                         urban, and rural) divided by their reapective number of hospital bads
Arcltural - Moat recent estimate of agricultural area used temtporarily                available in public and private genteral and specialized hospital and re-
ar permnently for crops, pastures, markat and kithebn gardens or to                      habilitatiou centers.  Hospitals are establiabments permanently staffed by
lie fallow,                                                                             at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (UgS) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                   cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversiou method as World Bask Atlas (1975-77 basis);                sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which of fer in-patient accomqodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                              provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions por hospital had - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumptiom  of commercial energy                    from  bospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural ge and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) In kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                    RODSING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total, urban, end rural-
POPULALTION AND VITAL STATISTICS.                                                           A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population  ai- r (millions) - As of July 1; if not "avalable.                       end their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two en-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 date,                            the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of bouee-
Urban population (percent sf total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                     hold very.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                   Averas* number of Persons per roam - total, urban. and rural - Average mom-
of dat a mog cnountries.                                                                bar of persona per room In all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                         dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures end
Fm s.h.- M(id-year population par square kilometer (100 hecteree)uncpidprs
of total sarea.                                                                       Ac=css  to elet1rinit  (peren  of dwellings) - total. urban. and rural -
Per sq. hm. agriculture lend - Computed'as' above for agricultural lend                   Conventional dwellings with electricity In living quarters as percentage
only,                                                                                   of total, urben, and rural dwellings respoectively.
Populationse  stucture (peren)- Children (D-14 years), working-age
(1-64 years,an  rtire  (65 yearsen aw ver) as percentages of mid-                  DOCATION
year population.                                                                     Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (paerent  -total, end uniban - Compouod annual                   Primary school - total,* and femsale - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urb  an  id-year populAtions for 1950-60,                     at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                   populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thouesad) - Annual live births par thouaand .of                     different lengths of primary education; for countries with universel adu-
mid-year population; tem-year arithmetic averages, ending in 1960 "An                    cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupil. are below or
1970 and. five-year average ending toa 1975 for most recant estimete.                   above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thoueend) - Anumal deaths par thoeuaid of mid-                    Secondary ischool - total. sad female - Computed an above; secondary educe-
year popuain   e-eraiheitvea                        nigi   90ad17                        icon requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                        -video general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Groas reproduction rats - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                .usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period If she *xperisnces present age-                       excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                  Vecational snrollmmnt (Percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, end 1975.                                                                         cluds technical, industrial. or other programs which opsrate independpntly
Family planning - acemewtrs. * snmal (thousands) - Annual number of                        or as depart men ts of secondary Institutions.
acceptors of birtb-coetrol devices under auspices of national family                 Pupil-teacher ratio - primary. and secondary - Total studante enrolled in
Planning; program.                                                                      primary end secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - umar  (percet omarewmn)-Percentage of                                 -  ponding levels.
earried woome  of chil-bearing agel (--4yer)who wee birth-control                    Adult literacy rae" (pevent) - Literate adults (able to read end write) as
devices to all married women in sema age group,                                         a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
POOD AND NUTRITION                                                                       NSMIO
Index of food production   feracpita .(19170-100) - Index nmaber of paressnertre(pe  thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita aunnual productionof all fdcoinmdities.                                        "sating less then eight persons; "exludes ambulances, heaeers and military
Per capite sUDDply of calories (:pecent ofaresuiremtent) - Computed from                vehicles.
energy equivalen  of net foo  enpl    avalable in country par capoita                Rqdior*&eivars .(pr thousand porulatian) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production. imports less    ~ r.  dcats to gnral public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, end cheangs in stock.  Net supplies exclude enimel feed, seeds,              receivers in countriesa  nd in years when registration of radio  stet  wee In
quantities used in food processing, end losses in distribution.  Re-                  effect; data f or recent years say not be comparable since most countries
quirements inre estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                abolished licensing.
mel activity and health considering environmental temerature, body                   TV receivers (per tho"usad population) - TV receivers for bpro"adcat to gemer&
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level,                                                       tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita suply of. protin (grams Per day) - Protein content of per                   Newspaper circulationg (Per thousand population) - Shows the averagoecircula-
caPita net  upyo f9tsod par day.  Net supply of food is defined as                       tin  f  dil  gnral interest newspaer,defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide f or                  cation devoted primarily to recording gensral news.  It is considered to
a minimam allowance of 60 grams of total protein par day and 20 grams                   be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal end pulse protein, of which 10 grea  should be animal protein,             Cinsga ennual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than thoes of 75 grams of total protein and                    sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobils
25 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                     units.
PAO in the Third World Pond Survey.
Per caPits protein supply from animal. and pulse - Protein supply of food             ENPIOThEUT
derived from  animals and pulses in grmam  per day.                                  Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (axes 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                  forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, ertc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 yrears  to children in this age group.                              lions in various countries are not comparable.
Pealel (percent) - Femnale labor force as percentage of total labor force.
REALTH                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expect,ancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                        as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year, averages ending in 1960, 1970,                Industry (percen.t) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mort ality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                 Participation rate (percent) - total, male. and female - Total, -lal, and
one year of age per thousand live birbts.                                                female labor force as percentages xf their respective populations.
Access two safe water (percent of population) - total, urban. end rural -                  T'hese are 10.0's adjusted participation rat.. reflecting Age-aex
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                     structure of the population, dnd long tine trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                   Eomoxic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 6) and over to
uncontaminated water such as thet from  protected boraholes, springs,                    the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
end sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                     INCOME DISTRIBUTION
then 200 motare from a house may be considered as being within tea-                   Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest I
oa-ble access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                     percent, richest 20 percen.t. poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or mambere of the household do not have to                      of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to excrete. disposal (percent of poplation) - total, urban, and                  Estimated absolute pov-rty income level (USS per capita) - urban and rural-
rural - Number of people (tota l, urban, ad rural) served by excrete                       Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excrete                        nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                        affordable.
treatment, of human excrete and waste-water by water-borne systems                    Estimated relative poverty income level (,,SI per capita)as- urban end rural-
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                      eatvporyinmelelstht inom  level les  teon-third
Population per physiciat - Population divided by number oi practicing                       per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualifiid from a medical school at university level.                       EStimated population below poverty incono leve  (percent) - urban and rural-
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                            Percent of population (urban and rural) who aet  either "absaolute po~or" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                        "relative poor" whichever is greater.
asnistant nurses..
Ec-onoic and Docial Data Division
- ---- ~~~~~~~~~~~- ~~Economic Analysis and Projections Department



-023 -                                                                 ANMI I
HOliDDRAS
ECNCII   E-EiMNT DATA
(Aounts  . illions of US dollars)
Ac c a t    1                     ProjEcted                   G r o w th  Rat es                       1976 Shere
1965    1970    1973    1976    1977(p)    1981    1985    1965-1973   1973-1976         1976-1981     1981-1985       of GODP
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (1)
(M1llioco of US$ at 1967-69 Prices)
GrooO DOoootio Product            549.2   678.1   764.8   834.8    904.1        1106.7  1315.2        4.2         3.0          5.8           5.0           130.0
Gatos froe Teras of Trade           8.4    -6.0    -7.9   -15.7        21.1      -27.0   -45.2
Gross Domestic I00omm             557.6   672.1   756.9   819.1    925.2        1d79.7  1300.0        3.9         2.7          5.7           4.8            98.1
I.ports                          144.9   222.5   210.5   249.7    285.5          342.5   405.0        1.8         5.9          6.5           4.3            29.9
Ervort- Volume                   -138.9  -184.9  -210.4  -233.1       .  9       -327.5  -409.8       5.3         8.5           7.0          5.8            27.9
Rxport- TT.Adjssted              -147.3  -178.9  -202.5  -217.5          sO      -300.5  -364.6       4.1         2.4           6.7          4.9            26.1
Re3vrce -Gap - TT.Adju-t.d         -2.4    43.5      8.0    32.2       43 12.0    40.1                                                                       3.9
Total Co.m  tioo n               472.6   569.1   629.8   688.3    fisk           883.0  1033.4        3.7         3.0          5.1           4.0            32.5
nnoteent                           82.6   146.5   135.1   163.0    RI6.3         238.7   307.0        5.3         6.5          7.9           6.5            19.5
Noticl Saviogo                     75.1    88.4   108.6   116.2    017.8         163.0   210.0        4.7         2.3          7.0           6.5            1
Dosostic Sariogo                   85.1   103.0   127.1   13n.8    W63.8         196.7   266.6        5.1         1.0          8.5           7.9 .5.7
GDP at Correct US$                508.7   711.8   899,0  1213.6   1470.0         2256.4  3595.1       7.4        10.5         13.2          12.3
Sector Output
(Shbr. of ODP at 1967-69 Prices)
Agr'ilturo                        0.375    0.358    0.360    0.281    0.290       0.290    0.287
lCOdtry                           0.201    0.218   0.226    o.239    0.239       0.250    0.251
Sercic..                          0.424   0.424   0.414    0.459      0.471      0.460   0.462
M-rcsaodis Trads                                  Actua                                        Pr o      c tio
(Mls. of Current 790)             1970    1973    1975    1976        097        1970    1979       1950    1901    1905
Iorts
1.  ood                            1.3    21.5    45.0    37.7         39.1      44.6    48.6       52.8    57.5    72.4
1.2 Other Coonsar Goods            53.9    42.9    49.8    65.2        92.5      90.3   102.2    113.2   131.1   186.1
2. Pstroleue,Otl,Lubricant3       14.7    25.5    68.5    48.2        64.0       77.4    89.0    102.3   117.7   195.4
3. Other Ictcr-ediate Gods         814.5   100.2   135.9   175.7    109.1       238.3   271.7    309.R    3l3.1   30n.0
. Capital Goods                    55.3    79.5   110.8   138.8    169.6        184.0   223.0    239.2   269.0   443.3
5. ITotal Goode (cif)             222.7   269.6   410.0   465.6    564.3        634.6   734.5    817.3   928.4  1427.2
5.2 Total Goods (fob)             203.4   243.6   377.6   127.0    550.5        591.1   675.7    751.9   854.1  1313.0
6. Noc-Factor Ser_icee             40.9    62.8    76.7    82.0        95.0      99.0   108.0    117.3   131.4   208.4
7. Tct01 Good, aud NFS            244.3   306.1   454.3   509.0    645.5        690.1   783.7    869.2   985.5  1521.4
55l. rs                            75.3    94.0    61.5   106.7    125.1        149.3   167.2    181.0   201.5   307.5
1.2 Coffee                         25.9    48.5    56.9   100.3    168.0        166.8   146.3    141.9   142.4   143.3
1.3 lumber                         16.2    39.1    38.8    38.0       47.5       53.T    63.5       87.5   127.1   242.1
1.4 Beef                            9.7    21.9    18.3    25.6        22.4      27.8    33.6       40.4    43.7    B4.7
1.5 Sugar                           1.2      -       7.0      2.2       4.0      12.0    16.2       18.8    20.6    37.4
1.6 Petroloos Dior--ti-eo           6.2      4.1    12.3      1.1       0.2        2.7     2.9       3.1      3.3      1.3
2.   l11 other goode              43.6    60.6   113.1   129.6    152.3         171.6   092.0    218.9   249.5   441.5
3. Toisi Goods (fob)             178.1   268.2   307.9   103.5    519.8         583.9   621.7    691.6   788.3  1260.8
h    -. Soc-Fctor Soe-ic.s        18.4    26.3    36.6    39.6         53.0      50.3    57.8       66.5    76.h   130.0
5. Total Goode md NFS             196.5   294.5   344.5   113.1    572.8        634.2   679.5    758.1   064.7  1390.8
Prices (1967-69 * 100)                           A0 t 0   1                        ProIeted                    Growth    Roteo
Yo5     ±Y7      ly±(     191       1111(p)   r7 T              i9t l65-1973   1973-1976    1976-1901   1981-1905
Eoport Price Iodex                 99.81   106.26   139.98  190.09     236.82    264.03   339.39      4.3         10.7        6.8          6.5
Ieport Prico IcdeX                 94.08   109.82  145.56   203.84    218.42    287.74   375.70       5.6         11.9        7.1          6.9
Torno of Trade Codec              106.08   96.78    96.17    93.25    108.42     91.76    90.30      -1.2        -1.0        -0.3         -0.4
GOP Deflator (US$)                 92.62   105.41   117.55  l15.38    062.61    203.89   267.00       3.0          7.3         7.0         7.0
Anro-l Average Eocha-go Rate        2.00    2.30     2.00     2.00       2.00     2.00     2.00
Selected Iodicot-e                 1965-73    1973-76   1976-81   1981-85                                  lbor  o      d  Output Pr Worer       Value  dded Per Worker
-                                                                    Total labor Foroe          (1976 V ricee as0 Rocimoge Rate)
0COd                                1.08       5.82       3.91      4.36                                   Io ei9iion0I        h od Total      In 02 dolro    6      4yO2vt
Ieport Elastlcity                    1.14      1.97       1.12      0.86                                                          197ot            i97            1976
Goorage Notiool lavioge Potoe        3.11      0.14        0.15      0.16                 Agriculture        O0S                  StY                             StY
largi=al Noticed  Sovingo aotc       0.17      0.15       0.18       0.21                 Indostry            0.119               1l.8             2529           186.5
oport/GDP(Pic currect p0:2) 09                 0.41       0.42      0.43                  Services           0.199                21.9            2352           173.5
Cc--ctceot/0DP                       3.18      0.20       0.21      0.22                    Total            0.803                                 105           100.0
Re-o-rco Gap/SGDP                    0.02      0.05       9.03       0.03
Detailc Public So,tor Inrseet_.t PrograM(Ui-ed)
Public Financc Selocted Irdicotors   1965      1970       1973     1976      1977      1901                                    Asperc1nta1e of 1tot a
Centrol Ococ-rnoct Correct                                                                                                1969-73   1975-76      1977
Revecues/GDP                       10.9      13.2       11.0      15.0     16.1      16.4           Social Gecttrs        z.6
Tax Recocoeo/OOP                   9.6       11.1       10.7      12.8     14.5      15.4           Agriculture            3.8       4.9          6.4
Correct Eipenditures/GDP           9.2       10.1       10.6      14.5     14.4      14.0           Foretry                 -        2.1          9.5
Correct S-vings/ODP                1.7        2.1        0.4       0.6       2.0      2.5           Pooer                 22.7      22.0         36.2
Corcuct Ssvi Es/Investm3nt Lope.   96.0      45.7       61.3      10.0      32.3     53.7           Transport acd
Comcouicatiorm      52.9      38.7         29.3
Public Cop:tal Foprrditucr9'07       2.5       7.5        3.6       8.5       9.4     10.6           Otber
poclic Oavoopo/PcGlic Capital Rope. 90.3      42.6       62.0      34.7     53.9      33.3             Tot                   .      100.0        100.3
Publico Sctor SOvings  39.9     3.4.4        44.o
Capital R.eceor        4.3       1.0          1.9
Ext. Fin-occog (cot)  40.4      60.0         49.1
Ict. Sorroelog (net)  15.4       3.8          5.0
Total              100.0    000.0         000.0
(1) Com-oc-oto Oay nct add op b-caco of -oc-cdlg.
(P) Prclii-ary.



- 24 -
ANNEX I
HONDEIA5IS
BALkNCE OF PASSENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND LEBT
(In eillioos of US dollars at current prices)
1970     1973      1975     1976      1977(p)       1978      1979       19160      29b'1    19M2       195
Sumsary of Balance of Payments
1. Exporto (incl.NFS)                    196.5    294.8    344.5    443.1        572.8       634.2      679.5    758.1       864.7   973.6       1390.8
2. Importo (iosl. NFS)                   244.3    306.4    454.3    509.0        645.5       690.1       783.7    869.2      985.5   1o96.5      1521.4
3. Resoarce Balance                      -47.8    -11.6   -139.8    -66.0        *72.7       -55.9      -104.2   -111.1    -120.8   -122.9       -130.6
4. Net Factor Service Incane             -22.6    -30.1    -27.5    -56.2        -61.8       -66.0       -80.0    -90.0      -98.0   -105.0      -149.0
a. Net Interest Payments               -2.5     -5.6    -10.1    -15.1        -20.0       -23.0      -28.7    -36.6       -42.5    -48.7       -89.0
b. Direct Investeen.t Ioco-          -20.0    -21.3    -16.9    -4i.1         -41.8       -43'.0     -51.3    -53.4       -55.5    -56.3       -60.0
c. Other                              - 0.1    - 3.2    - 0.5         -          -           -           -        -          -         -         -
5. Curreot Transfero (net)                 6.6      6.3      17.7     13.2        13.4        14.0        15.2     16.0       20.0      23.0        30.0
6. Balance on Current Account            -63.8    -35.4   -119.6   -108.9       -121.1      -107.9      -169.2   -185.1    -198.8   -204.9       -249.6
7. Private Direct Iovestment               8.4      5.5      10.9      7.6        10.0        20.0       25.o      30.0       35.0     40.0        60.o
Public M1 & LT loans
8. Di5burseaeets                          28.7     18.1      99.2     84.2       104.6       117.7       154.5    153.5      170.7    186.0       249.5
9. Amortisation                            3.1      5.6       6.4     13.3        21.5        25.4        27.4     31.3       38.5     48.7        97.7
10. Net Disburosemnts                      25.6     12.5      92.8      70.9       83.1        92.3       127.1    122.2      132.2    137.3       151.8
Other N & LT Loans
11. Net Disbursements                       2.4     -3.5      10.3     11.7        17.5        30.8        27.6     29.5       31.0      33.2       50.0
12. Other                                   4.3     20.3      12.2     18.5                -           -          -              -        -          -
13. Use of IMF Resources                    6.3     -7.5        -         -          -
14. Short-Toem Capital (net)                5.0        -       0.9     24.3        44.6
15. Allocation Of SIR.l                     3.2        -        -         -          -
1S. Capital Transactions 0.1.e.             0.9     11.5       9.4      -1.1      -16.2
17. Change in reser-es (-increase)          7.7     -3.4    -16.9    -23.0        -39.4       -35.2       -10.5      3.4        0.6      -5.6      -12.2
18. Net Foreign Exchange Reserves
(end of period)                       9.0      30.0     48.7      71.7       111.1      146.3       156.8    153.4      152.8    1586.4       170.6
Grant aod Loan Commi-sents                                                                                                                         Ac t u a I
Medium- and Ljg-Te-n (Disbursed           1970    1973    1975    1976    1977Mp
1. Official Grants                         8.2      1.7       7.0       7.1        2.8         o
2. Total Public M & LT Loans              22.7     50.1    182.0    145.0        207.0          a a  Debt Oust. (DOD end of period)  90.1   133.6   264.1   334.9         418.0
a. I3RD                                 5.5     18.8      38.0     35.0        12.0         Public Debt Service                      5.6    11.2    16.6    28.5        41.5
b. IDA                                  8.1      6.6       -       19.O         5.0           Interest                               2.5      5.6    10.2    15.1        20.0
c. Other eultilateral                   9.1      6.5      85.3     38.1       162.0           Amortization                           3.1      5.6     6.4    13.4       21.5
0. Governevts                            -       6.2      53.2     29.7        16.0         Other 14 & L Debt Servise                 -        -       -        -          -
e. Of  hich Centrally Planned E-onomie-           -         -         -          -          Total Debt Service                       5.6    li.?    194    2P.5         41.5
f. Supolie-s                              -      7 8        -      11.2          -
R. Fiiacial Institutions                  -      4.1       5.6     17.0        12.0         Debt Burden
Debt Service Ratio                       2.9      3.8     4.8      6.4        7.0
Me.orandum. Items                                                                             Debt Service Ratio /1                   13.1    11.3       9.7    15.7       1.4.o
Debt ServIce/SIP                         0.8      1.2     1.6      2.6       2.8
1.  rc,nt Elwment of Total Commitments  45.5      29.7      19.6     26.7                     Public Debt Service/Oovernment Revenue 6.0        9.9    10.9    15.1       17.2
2. Average Interest (percent)             4.1      5.8       7.9      6.1                     Temns
3. Average Maturity (years)             29.6      25.2      18.9     22.3                     Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD          2.8     4.2      3.9      4.5       4.8
Exter-I                             Ea~~~~~~Rttnated   Debt                       Total-Debt Dervice/Total DOD             6.3      8.94    6.3      6.5        9.9
Eaternal Debt (Disbursed Only)              OutstancdTng Dec. 31, 1977                        Dependeny Ratios f  M i L Dbt
Ac.unt         PercesotageDpnec   aio   o  4&IDb
T1NRD                                8.0   -                                               Oross Disbursements/InVorts(aith NFS) 11.7        5.9    21.8    16.5       17.0
BRan  Gromr                         119.2                   28.5                          Net Transfers/Iports                      2.7      2.1     3.9      2.9        2.2
Other Muloilate,nl                  115.1                   27.5                           Net Transfers/Oros. Disbursements       23.0    34.8    17.8    i4.8        12.8
Go-ernments                          131.1                  31.4                           Exosue
Suppliers' Credits                    15.8                   3.8                          bT     sbUrseents/Gross Total Disb.  34.7    42.2    13.3    15.5            22.0
Finanoial Inotltutions                36.8                   8.8                          Bakn Grous Disbursements/Groso Total
Total M & L Public Lebt             418.o                  100.O                              Disbur-soent                         41).     54.0    15.2    17.7       23.9
Total M & L Public Debt (Incl.                                                            ITED DOD/Total DOD                       33.2    30.0    21.4    20.1        20.8
undisbursed)                     766.0                  183.3                          IBTD Debt Service/Total Debt Sere.    38.5    40.9    35.1    23.9           21.0
Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                50.1    49.3    32.3    29.2        28.5
Bank Grouo Debt Sen/Total Debt G.e-. 39.6    43.5    37.1    24.6           22.2
/1   Debt Se-ite and Direct 1-veetwovt Iocome.
(p) Prelimary.



ANNEX II
_25 -
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS 1/ (Net of Cancellations)
(As of August 31, 1978)
Loan or
Credit                                                           US$ million amount
No.       Year         Borrower             Purpose        Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Fourteen loans and credits fully disbursed   52.1    24.0
767         1971   Emp. Nacional           Ports             9.0       -           .1
Portuaria
841         1972   Emp. Nacional de        Generation and
Energia Electrica      Transmission  12.3        -          1.0
896         1973   Honduras                Roads            18.8       -          1.2
434         1973   Honduras                Second Live-       -       6.6         2.0
stock Dev.
452         1974   Honduras                Education          -       3.0        0.1
954         1974   Honduras                Education         3.0       -         2.0
1081        1975   Emp. Nacional de         Generation and
Energia Electrica      Transmission  35.0        -          5.5
628         1976   Honduras                Agricultural
Credit           -     14.0        11.9
1341/2       1976   Honduras                Highways         35.0       -        27.4
1395/6      1977   Honduras/Emp.
Nacional Portuaria  Ports              12.0      -         12.0
696         1977   Honduras                Ports              -       5.0        2.2
777        1978   Honduras                 Education          -      5.0         5.0
1576 /2      1978   Honduras               Regional
Development   10.5       -         10.5
Total                                          187.7    57.6        80.7
of which has been repaid                      24.7     0.8
Total now outstanding                          163.0    56.8
Amount sold                        4.5
of which has been repaid         2.5           2.0      -
Total now held by Bank
and IDA /1                                   161.0    56.8
*                      Total undisbursed                               59.6    21.1         80.7
/1   Excluding exchange adjustment.
/2   Not yet effective.



- 26                          ANNEX II
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of August 31, 1978)
Amount in US$ million
Year         Obligor            Type of Business   Loan           Equity      Total
1964/66    Emp. de Curtidos
Centroamericana
S.A (ECCASA)            Tannery         0.30            0.08       0.38
1969/70    Cia. Pino Celulosa
de Centroamerica
(COPINO)                 Pulp and Paper  -              0.07        0.07
1977/78    Textiles Rio Lindo,        Textiles        9.00           1.00       10.00
S.A. de C.V.
Total gross commitments                    9.30           1.15       10.45
less cancellations,
termination, repayments
and sales                               6.30           0.15        6.45
Total commitments now held
by IFC                                  3.00            1.00       4.00
Total undisbursed                          3.00           1.00       4.00
/1   Prior to exchange adjustments.



_ 27 _                        ANNEX II
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan/Credit No.
Ln. 767       Second Port Project:  US$6.0 million Loan of June 25, 1971,
and US$3.0 million Supplemental Loan of July 30, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: February 22, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
The project consisting of the expansion of Puerto Cortes on the
North Coast of Honduras, and the construction of the new port
of San Lorenzo, has been almost completed. The Puerto
Cortes expansion was completed in March 1975, but the San
Lorenzo port was delayed about 18 months as a result of
Government reconsideration of its location. The Bank provided
additional financing of US$3.0 million, which was necessary to
cover the increased cost of the San Lorenzo port resulting from
the high level of inflation during the period of the delay.
Construction of this port is now proceeding satisfactorily and
should be completed shortly.
Ln. 841      Fifth Power Project:  US$12.3 million Loan of June 28, 1972;
D&te of Effectiveness: December 1, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
About 90 percent of the project has been completed with the
installation of the La Ceiba diesels, the interconnection
to Nicaragua and other project works and studies. Its full
completion will be delayed by about 3 years beyond the original
estimate, resulting from the slow preparation of an expanded
load dispatch and communication system for control of energy
transfers with Nicaragua and from the addition of a geothermal
resource study. Project costs have increased by 14.3 percent
(about US$2.3 million) and will be financed by a loan from the
OPEC Special Fund and internal cash generation of the Borrower.
Ln. 896       Sixth Highway Project:  US$18.8 million Loan of May, 30, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: August 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
The project's main objectives have been achieved. The
construction of the Tegucigalpa-Talanga Road, the main project
component, has been completed. The Comayagua-La Libertad Road,
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



28_                       ANNEX II
Loan/Credit No.
80 Km of feeder roads, and technical and economic studies for
430 Km of feeder roads have also been finished. Preparation of
engineering studies of rural roads has delayed completion of
project works until late 1978, about one and one-half years
behind schedule.
Cr. 434      Second Livestock Project:  US$6.6 million Credit of October 29,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: January 18, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The Government has largely achieved the objectives of this
project. All funds have been committed. However, difficulties
in implementation of two major sub-loans (Isletas agrarian
reform banana plantation and the Tegucigalpa abattoir) are
delaying final disbursements.
Ln. 954       First Education Project:  US$3.0 million Loan and US$3.0 million
Cr. 452      Credit, both of January 9, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
April 8, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Implementation of this project is proceeding in a satisfactory
manner. The agricultural training centers are completed and
courses for small farmers and their wives will begin in early
1979. The construction of the extension to the agricultural
school at Catacamas and of INFOP's vocational training centers
at San Pedro Sula and Tegucigalpa should be completed shortly.
All teacher training facilities are in operation, except one
teacher training school and three related primary application
schools which should be completed by the closing date or soon
thereafter. Funds for technical assistance and fellowships
have not been completely used, due to delays in selecting and
approving candidates, but efforts are being made to accelerate
commitment of these funds.
Ln. 1081       Sixth Power Project:  US$35.0 million Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: May 5, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The Rio Lindo Power Plant extension was completed about
2 months ahead of schedule. All river diversion works have
been finished albeit with some delays. The project is ex-
pected to be completed at slightly above appraisal cost
estimates but two years later than originally forecast
because of the addition, with Bank approval, of new rural
electrification works.



-29-                      ANNEX II
Loan/Credit No.
Cr. 628      First Agricultural Credit Project:  US$14.0 Million Credit
of July 2. 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 15, 1981.
This credit, which includes funds for agrarian reform settle-
ments as well as for individual farmers, is proceeding satis-
factorily. As of June 30, 1978, some 45 subloans valued at
US$4.0 million had been granted. Commitments of about US$3.5
million have been made for the provision of technical services
under agreements with the National Agrarian Institute and the
Pan American Agricultural School.
Ln. 1341/    Seventh Highway Project:  US$35.0 million Loan (including
1342      US$7.0 million on Third Window Terms) of December 16, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: March 16, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31. 1981.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. The three major
construction contracts have been awarded and work begun,
and contracts have been awarded for the purchase of mainte-
nance equipment. Preparation of the Highway Master Plan
is complete; consultants in maintenance operations have
been retained.
Ln. 1395/    Third Port Project:  US$12.0 million Loan (including US$5.0
1396     million on Third Window Terms) and US$5.0 Credit, both of
Cr. 696      April 22. 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
December 22, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
This loan finances the construction of Puerto Castilla on the
North Coast and the expansion of San Lorenzo in the south.
The civil works contract for Puerto Castilla has been awarded;
the extension of the pier at San Lorenzo is nearing completion.
Cr. 777      Second Education Project:  US$5.0 million credit of April 6,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The Government recently satisfied the conditions for
effectiveness and is beginning to carry out the project.
Ln. 1576     Guavape Regional Development Project:  US$10.5 million loan of
June 16, 1978; Terminal Date for Effectiveness: November 1,
1978; Closing Date: April 30, 1983.
The Government is expected to meet the conditions of
effectiveness shortly.



- 30                         ANNEX III
HONDURAS
NISPERO POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Time taken to prepare project: approximately 11 months
(May 1977-April 1978)
(b) Project prepared by: ENEE with the help of consultants
(c) First presentation to the Bank: June 1977
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: February 1978
(e) Completion of Negotiations: September 14, 1978
(f) Planned Deadline for Effectiveness: February 27, 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions:
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Prior to March 31, 1979, ENEE would begin reporting to the Bank
on measures recommended in a study for improving its management
and organization; would transmit the remainder of such
measures by June 30, 1979; would exchange views with the
Bank on the study's recommendations; and agree on a timetable
for carrying these out (para. 52). By March 31, 1979, ENEE
would also submit to the Bank for its comments recommendations
of consultants regarding its commercial functions and put them
into effect afterwards (para. 53).
(b) ENEE would revise its current transmission system addition program
in the light of the recommendations of the National Electrification
Masterplan and promptly after the Bank's review of this plan
(para. 37).
(c) Prior to March 31, 1979, ENEE would prepare a program for the
resettlement and employment of residents whose lands will be
flooded, and would put such program into effect according to
a timetable satisfactory to the Bank; and ENEE and the
Government would take a series of ecological and environmental
measures in accordance with timetables which have been
agreed with the Bank (para. 60).



- 31 -
ANNEX III
(d) Until the project is completed, ENEE would inform the Bank of
any proposed major new power investment and would furnish to the
Bank a report for comments showing the economic and financial
justification of such investment; the Government has agreed to take
all action to prevent duplication of facilities and unnecessary
investment, and to ensure that any major power investment is
based on economically and financially justified proposals and
will not adversely affect any Bank-financed power project (para.
56).
(e) ENEE would revalue its fixed assets annually and, starting with 1978,
would maintain electricity tariffs at levels sufficient to achieve an
8 percent return on ENEE's revalued net assets in operation (para.
55).
(f) ENEE would monitor and inspect at least annually all dams, reservoir
margins, associated structures, earthways and waterways based on
a program to be presented to the Bank by March 31, 1979 (para. 61).
(g) ENEE would put into effect, not later than September 30, 1979,
the recommendations of consultants regarding improvements of
its insurance policies agreed with the Bank (para. 61).
(h) As a condition of effectiveness for the Loan, ENEE would
provide assurances of the availability of a total of US$10.2
million from other external financing sources for this
project (para. 44); and agree with the Bank on a schedule
for implementation of all project studies (para. 51).
(i) As a condition for disbursement for the Energy Sector Organization
Study, the Bank would be furnished with satisfactory ENEE proposals
for the disbursement and repayment arrangements for this component
(para. 51);
(j) As a condition for disbursement for the training program component,
ENEE would agree with the Bank on a detailed plan based on the
recommendations developed in its Management and Organization
Study (para. 52).






817.
i' 1   Gulf oJf H^drsAtlontic    Cc e an                                                                                           Pun CUOR
(, v e~~~~~~~~~UERTO0COR'TES                                                                                                     D$Sf  
Pulerto<Xg Ct     q            Te l/o6/- /''
GTEMA/   cewn7r  ( sE RbEJO *-,/                     AT LANTI DA                ,         *SEiO                                           o0
s-  .,.,  LAUERTS   V  / @--- ' **   ----  ''    '   COYOLESa                       L,-                       <.
GRACIAS
de Copan ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......\                                  ............... \ GUCMY.∞ JtclaX    '"
.. \ Ri~~~~~~~~~~~~o                        FJh .,,\..Sa.Inaco..                                                                                              A O  
Corui 'aGuc_s.....  '  "-'igstpePEUE...........................  ∞'.      f/.....2 J 
TA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
DIS
'5.-
NARANJITO~~~~~NIARGU
@.-. ,>k   \  .6                      i~~COMAYAGUA .%/F>>
oA___t_Ca_Po_"_, E                                                                                                     I N T I BCoR.RN SO     
DeC   oLaEpeanzr  ""\\'M AA ...*-. . .   - . ∞/ierzAalasP 
Ri. IOj .:  Sin Je Flo D                                                                                   5              - - -- 31  f             Lins
\w+_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TASIO  'iES                                                                                 MajrcMlSfal  dra * ,\'*  sUYAAEsLP   5O/v
EL.SALVADOR gDUot * /i' .    .......  MORA7AN                                                                  EmAtlanol be nerlec
La   ~             pVAL EsperMan  Pwenzae
0   NacaameOpV               i.-  ,v7                                                                                                       (
J a P.~                                   d. Fl o A, 
MTEMtiL;                                               ...... SL   Niraraturx 6gKV .............   ....  ftnent  bowdZ.s
ELIk\IilSF EUL  SALADO
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EUTW                                                                  PRJET               UNE .   .  NS, tUCTIO      .



