Document of
The World Bank                                 F
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3567-AR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$100.0 MILLION
TO
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
May 9, 1983
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENGY EQUIVALENTS
(January 1983)
US$ I = A$ 54,045
A$ 1 million = US$ 18.50.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
DNPT     -     National Directorate for Transport Policies and Programing
DNTT     -     National Directorate for Land Transport
DNV      -     National Highway Directorate
MOSP     -     Ministry of Public Works and Services
NAO      -     National Accounting Office
NTP      -     National Transport Plan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               Republic of Argentina
Project Executing
Agencies:             National Highway Directorate (DNV) for civil works
related to the national roads, procurement of
equipment, and for its technical assistance component;
each participating province, through a Bank-approved
agreement with DNV, for carrying out the works on
provincial roads within its own jurisdiction; National
Directorate for Transport Policies and Programing
(DNPT) for its technical assistance component.
Amount:                 US$100 million equivalent, including the capitalized
front-end fee of about US$249 thousand.
Terms:                  Repayable in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:          The project is part of the Government's and the
provinces' 1983-86 Four-Year Highway Investment
Program. The program components supported by the
proposed loan are: construction, reconstruction and
improvements of federal highways and urban bypasses
and provincial roads; road marking, signing and
betterment subprojects; traffic counting equipment;
and consultants' services for technical assistance.
Subprojects to be assisted under the loan will be
submitted to the Bank for approval. The project will
help (a) prevent further deterioration of aged
pavements; (b) alleviate urban congestion; (c) promote
traffic safety; (d) assist in the transfer of
technology to the provinces; (e) promote improved
sector policies; and (f) strengthen local capabilities
to plan and manage sector programs.
Beneficiaries:          Project benefits will accrue to the economy at large
in the form of savings in vehicle operating costs.
While the positive effect of the project will be felt
first by road users, benefits would be broadly
distributed to consumers in general since, because of
the competitive nature of the trucking industry,
reductions in transport costs will be passed on. The
organizations involved in transport planning would
benefit through the technical assistance component.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Risks:                   A further deterioration of the economy could reduce
public revenues and, hence, cause delays in project
implementation. However, the risk of delays in
project implementation is low since the project
represents only a small percentage of the investment
program and will include high priority works, and in
view of the experience of the executing agency and the
flexible implementation format of the project.
Another uncertainty is the extent to which the change
in administration, scheduled for January 1984, would
affect improvements in sector policies.
Estimated Costs:         The total estimated cost of DNV's 1983-86 highway
investment programs is about US$1.3 billion. In
addition, the Project would include provincial road
investments amounting to a total of US$90 million.
The total estimated cost of potential national and
provincial subprojects for which financing is not yet
committed is some US$560 million, including approxi-
mately US$250 million in foreign exchange.
Four-Year Investment Program
(in US$ million)
Foreign
Exchange
DNV Subprojects                        1983  1984  1985  1986   Total  Component
Construction                            110   100    90    85    385         175
Reconstruction                          100   115   120   125    460         205
Betterment, overlays, traffic safety  60    65    70    70    265            120
Buildings, consultants, other items   50    55    60    65    230            105
Sub-total          320   335   340   345  1,340         605
Provincial Subprojects                    5    20    40    25       90        40
Total              325   355   380   370  1,430         645
Financing of DNV's Highway Investment                    % Total Investment
Program and Provincial Subprojects           Total             Program
IDB                                     100                7
Proposed Bank Loan                      100 1/             7
Fourth Highway Loan                      40                 3
Assigned User Taxes                   1,190               83
1,430              100
1/    Includes front-end fee of US$249,377.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:                Year         Annual        Cumulative
1983            1.0             1.0
1984          21.0             22.0
1985          31.0            53.0
1986           30.0            83.0
1987           17.0          100.0
Rate of Return:   Highway subprojects to be financed under the proposed loan
would be appraised according to agreed technical and
economic criteria and would have a minimum rate of return
of 12 percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No.  3530b-AR dated May 4, 1983.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF US$100.0 MILLION
TO THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Argentine Republic for the equivalent of US$100.0 million to help
finance a Highway Sector Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including 3 years of grace, at the Bank standard variable interest rate.
I. THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Memorandum No. 2988-AR was distributed to the Executive
Directors in July 1980. A new Economic Memorandum will be distributed in May
1983. The following paragraphs draw on this report providing a summary of
recent developments. A summary of the Country Basic Data is attached as
Annex I.
Background
3.        Argentina has rich natural resources, a highly literate and mobile
population, organized in an export-oriented and diversified agriculture and
a large industrial sector. The economic performance of the country has
suffered, however, from the policy instability and distortions of incentives
introduced by frequently changing Governments. Public sector participation
in the economy is high, industrial production is largely domestic market
oriented and the economy does not use the resources at its disposal effi-
ciently.
4.        The post World War II strategy of import-substitution, with a
heavily regulated price system and tightly controlled foreign trade,
collapsed in 1976, when economic chaos and widespread political violence led
to a military takeover. The military administration acted to reduce the
public sector deficit, free prices and interest rates, and adjust the
exchange rate. Following initial successes in the fight against inflation
and in the balance-of-payments, the Government took further measures to
stabilize expectations and to open the economy to foreign competition. It
began, in December 1978, to preannounce devaluation schedules and public
sector prices and to reduce customs duties according to a five-year schedule.
5.        The schedules of preannounced nominal exchange rates and public
enterprise tariffs called for steadily decreasing rates of adjustment,
primarily in order to dampen inflationary expectations. In the event that
inflationary expectations lagged, however, the real exchange rate would
appreciate, and the fall in the relative prices of imported goods would
increase the degree of foreign competition and eventually put a ceiling on
domestic price increases. This new policy did achieve, by the second



- 2 -
semester of 1979, a further reduction in the rate of inflation. However, the
Government did not adequately support this approach with a restrictive fiscal
policy to restrain aggregate demand. Consequently, real interest rates rose
to prohibitively high levels, and the exchange rate continued to appreciate
in real terms. Industrial firms, squeezed between increased production costs
(in foreign currency terms), growing imports and high interest rates,
remained hesitant to make the investments needed to sustain growth and,
instead, cut production and shifted to financial assets.
6.        The Government continued to lag exchange rate adjustments behind
the rate of inflation through 1980. Altogether the peso appreciated some 45%
in real terms from the end of 1977 to the end of 1980, resulting in a
substantial shift in the relative domestic prices of traded and non-traded
goods. A 107% increase in real imports from 1978 to 1980, alongside a 13%
drop in exports and rising interest payments on the external debt, turned a
US$1.8 billion current account surplus into a $4.7 billion deficit, the
latter equivalent to about 8% of GDP.
7.        Public confidence in the Government's economic policies was
weakened during 1980 by growing signs of recession in the industrial sector
and by the failure early in the year of several financial institutions.
Growing expectations of a large peso devaluation, heightened by an increasing
public sector deficit and the anticipated change of government scheduled for
April 1981, led to a massive capital outflow.  Industrial output fell, and
the growing indebtedness of the productive sectors started to threaten the
solvency of the financial system.
8.        In April 1981, the incoming Government abandoned the exchange rate
policy through a series of large-scale devaluations, suspended the tariff
reduction program, and designed schemes to help industrial borrowers in order
to prevent the further deterioration of the balance of payments and to dampen
the growing fears of large-scale bankruptcies in the industrial and financial
sectors. Yet, the Government failed to build public confidence in its
policies, and they remained largely ineffective. Amid the continuing
uncertainty, GDP declined 6% in 1981 with industrial production falling 16%
to below the 1970 level. Fixed investment declined 15%, and inflation,
propelled in part by the massive devaluations, once again surged forward. As
the malaise deepened, the Government was replaced in December 1981.
9.        The new Government gave top priority to dampening inflationary
expectations and stabilizing the exchange market as the only way to reduce
interest rates and permit the recovery of economic activity. While
significant progress was made during the first quarter of 1982 to reduce
inflation and to calm the exchange markets, interest rates remained high with
the industrial sector still awaiting relief for its liquidity problem. In
April, the outbreak of hostilities in the South Atlantic brought this latest
program to a halt.
Recent Developments
10.       During and immediately after the South Atlantic crisis, Argentina's
access to international capital markets was severely limited. Previously



normal rollovers were denied, spreads widened, and debt arrears began to
accumulate. Overall investment and industrial employment continued to fall.
Following the restrictions reintroduced in the foreign exchange market during
the early days of the conflict, there was a speculative rise in imports,
which led the Government to ban non-essential imports.
11.        Termination of the South Atlantic crisis at the end of June 1982
brought a new Government into office and a refocussing on the problems of the
economy. The Government acted to alleviate private industry's liquidity
problem, which was presenting a serious obstacle to recovery and continuing
to threaten the solvency of the financial system. Another pressing diffi-
culty was to meet the service due on the external public debt, amounting to
US$7.5 billion for the remainder of the year, including the arrears accumu-
lated during the South Atlantic conflict.
12.        The financial measures taken included extension of a rediscount
line to banks which agreed to refinance their portfolios and the imposition
of interest rate ceilings on short-term financial operations. Thus a sub-
stantial shift of assets from depositors to borrowers followed, with signifi-
cant impact also on durable consumer goods sales and stock market prices.
However, the financial relief measures, the depreciation of the exchange
rate, and the redemption of indexed government bonds caused a large expansion
of the monetary base. In spite of the Government's move to absorb excess
liquidity through the sale of short-term Treasury bonds, prices rose at a
monthly average rate of 21% during the third quarter of 1982. The Government
also attempted to control prices directly, first by reaching an agreement
with major firms, then by introducing mandatory rules for price adjustments.
13.       The Government split the exchange rate for "commercial" and
"financial" transactions, and a multiple exchange rate system, including
export taxes on agriculture and subsidies for industrial exports, was
maintained in an effort to complement the domestic stabilization and recovery
objectives. Notwithstanding the undervalued "financial" peso, the "parallel"
market continued to flourish, reflecting the future uncertainties of the
exchange rate and monetary policies. The multiple exchange rate policy thus
remained ineffective in limiting the rise in the prices of major agricultural
export commodities, which began to be exported as contraband. At the end of
October, following negotiations with the IMF, the Government again unified
the foreign exchange markets.
14.        An IMF stand-by agreement and compensatory financing facility,
providing US$2.2 billion for 15 months, became effective on January 1, 1983.
The Government's economic reactivation program aims to keep the fiscal
deficit at a level equivalent to 2.1% of the GDP, to achieve balance of pay-
ments equilibrium in 1983 through a major rescheduling and adherence to a
realistic exchange rate policy, to limit the expansion of the net domestic
assets of the Central Bank to the growth of its currency issue, constrained
to the inflation target. Thus the Government expects to reduce the rate of
inflation to an annualized 110% in the last quarter of 1983 and to bring
about a 5% GDP growth in 1983. The public investment program is planned to
increase from 7.6% of GDP in 1982 to 9.7% in 1983 with transport and energy



- 4 -
absorbing a large part of the incremental expenditure. Under the agreement
with the IMF the Government will raise, in order to provide real resourcces
for investment, fuel prices by 3.2 percent per month in real terms and other
public prices by 2.8 percent through March 1984. The Government will limit
the increases in real wages to the rate of GDP growth during 1983, and it
will periodically adjust the foreign exchange rate to compensate for the
differential between Argentine and trading partner rates of inflation.
Short- and Medium-Term Prospects
15.       The agricultural sector has already responded to the correction of
the exchange rate with record harvests. Since the depressed state of the
economy continues to keep the demand for capital goods imports low and net
oil exports high, the trade surplus is expected to exceed US$3 billion in
1983. Overall recovery, however, is likely to be limited to increases in
capacity use, rather than led by a substantial revival of private
investment. The latter will probably be delayed at least until 1984, when
the uncertainties about the direction of the economic policies are expected
to diminish.
16.       A civilian Government is scheduled to take office at the beginning
of 1984, after elections in October of 1983. Indications from the major
parties are that some of the policies adopted by the present Government will
be continued: a realistic exchange rate policy and additional incentives for
the promotion of exports, a restrictive fiscal policy to gradually reduce
inflation, and incentives to stimulate investments in fixed capital and to
promote the repatriation of Argentine capital abroad.
17.       Medium-term prospects for export growth are promising.  Assuming
continued strong demand for grain exports and further diversification of
markets for beef exports, export earnings are projected to increase by an
average of 6% annually in real terms. Price prospects for Argentina's major
export crops are favorable. Agriculture and agro-based industries will
continue to provide the bulk of exports, but manufactured exports are
expected to grow more rapidly (8%) over the course of the next five years.
With expected average GDP growth over the next half-decade of 3% per annum,
the economy should be able to generate a growing trade surplus to service its
external debt.
Debt Service and Creditworthiness
18.       At the end of 1982, the total external debt of Argentina, according
to the Central Bank, was US$36 billion. From US$12.5 billion at the end of
1978, it had grown almost three-fold. The term structure of the debt,
especially that of the private sector, also had changed radically during the
1978-1980 period. At the end of 1978, the short-term debt constituted 21% of
the total (25% of the private debt), but this ratio rose to 38% (50% of the
private debt) by the end of 1980, and 45% (62% of the private debt) by the
end of 1982.
19.       Service requirements of the medium- and long-term public debt were
28% of exports in 1982, and the trade surplus was large enough to meet this
part of the debt service. However, total interest and amortization payments
were beyond the servicing capacity of the country. Thus, the disruption of
the rollovers resulted in arrears of US$2.1 billion by the end of 1982. In



its efforts to normalize payments, the Government has negotiated with
Argentina's commercial creditors a US$1.1 billion "bridge-loan and a US$1.5
billion medium-term loan. Also, an agreement has been reached on the
transformation of the US$4.7 billion short-term private debt into medium-term
public or publicly-guaranteed debt. Following the IMF's review of the
economic performance of the first quarter of 1983, first tranches of the
stand-by and the US$1.5 billion medium-term loan are expected to be released
in early June. Argentina's medium-term debt service profile will depend on
the outcome of the debt renegotiation that is currently taking place.
Provided that the heavy short-term requirements can be successfully
transformed into medium- and long-term obligations, Argentina's trade account
should be able to generate the surpluses required to service its external
debt.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
Bank Operations
20.       Past Bank lending to Argentina has been sporadic because of
periodic macroeconomic and sectoral difficulties. After a hiatus of five
years, lending was resumed in September 1976. In the period 1976-1981, the
Bank has made loans for thirteen projects amounting to US$1,286.0 million. A
US$60 million loan for an agricultural credit project was cancelled in 1979.
Since December 1981, however, no new operations have been presented because
of the drastic deterioration in Argentina's economic situation and frequent
changes in economic management.
21.       To assist Argentina with its stabilization effort and to help in
the needed reconstruction of the public sector's institutions, many of which
had been allowed to deteriorate to a dangerous degree, Bank lending has
focused on major infrastructure projects and the provision of credit and
training to productive sectors.   A grain storage project was designed to
enable Argentina to export agricultural products in a more orderly manner; a
vocational training project helps improve vocational and skill training; two
industrial credit projects helped support modernization and expansion of
export oriented industries, and the projects for power, highways and railways
provided part of the infrastructure necessary to facilitate agricultural and
industrial expansion. Recently, the Bank began lending to Argentina's hydro-
carbon sector through a series of loans. An oil and gas engineering loan was
the first step in helping Argentina improve its knowledge of hydrocarbon
reserves through expanded auditing and seismic surveys; the coal exploration
loan will improve the basis for a rational exploitation of Argentina's coal
resources; the oil and gas credit project will stimulate private sector
participation in developing these resources; and the refinery conversion
project will strengthen Argentina's principal sector company.
22.       Disbursements have been slower than expected.  Persistently high
rates of inflation, the need for fiscal austerity and inertia of the private
sector did not provide a conducive environment for progress on Bank financed



projects. However, disbursements have increased from US$57 million in FY 80
to US$ 115 million in FY 82. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       Future Bank lending is oriented to assisting Argentina in
strengthening its balance of payments position. Bank assistance would
concentrate on promoting increased productivity and competitiveness in the
industrial sector as well as further rationalization of public sector
enterprises.
24.       The Bank is now reviewing Government proposals for helping in the
exploration and development of new hydrocarbon resources, together with
programs for improvements in investment planning and financial management in
the state-owned national oil company. Bank participation in energy conserva-
tion, mining development and regional water development are additional possi-
bilities that are under study.
IFC Operations
25.       As of December 31, 1982, IFC had made 14 loans to borrowers in
Argentina totalling US$174.4 million and two equity investments of US$2.9
million, of which US$105.7 million have beer repaid, cancelled or sold. A
summary of IFC's investments is shown in Annex II.
PART III - TlE TRANSPORT SECTOR
General
26.       Argentina has developed a highly diverse and extensive transport
network to integrate its 2.8 million km2 territory and to serve its 28
million inhabitants. The network includes 100,800 km of national and
provincial primary roads, 32,200 km of railways, 17,000 km of pipelines for
crude oil, refined petroleum products and natural gas, over 100 ports and 90
commercial airports. Highways increasingly represent the dominant mode.
From 1965 to 1979, road transport's share of cargo traffic increased from 47%
of total inter-urban ton-kms to 52% while railway's share declined from 18%
to 9%. In terms of passenger service, roads' share rose from 76% of
inter-urban passenger-kms to 88% while railways' participation declined from
22% to 7%, with air transport increasing from 2% to 5%.
27.       The transport sector, representing 6% of GDP and 18% of public
sector investment, has been affected negatively by Argentina's economic
difficulties. In the mid-1970s traffic declined on most highways, and public
expenditures for all modes were drastically reduced. In 1977, overall
traffic regained its early 70's level and resumed regular growth at 4-6% per
annum. In 1981 and 1982, however, the economic recession resulted in an
overall decline in traffic levels and transport investment budgets.



- 7-
Planning, Coordination and Investment
28.       Planning and coordination in the transport sector historically have
been weak. The considerable independence of the Government modal transport
agencies has obstructed integrated and consistent transport plans and
policies. Currently, responsibility for the Transport sector is divided
between the Ministry of Public Works and Services (MOSP) which generally
oversees land transport and the Ministry of Economy which oversees water
transport. The Air Force continues to be responsible for air transport
policy. The division of responsibilities is further complicated by the struc-
ture of Secretariats and Subsecretariats within each Ministry. In 1977, the
Sectoral Transport Planning Office was strengthened and became the National
Directorate for Transport Policies and Programing (DNPT), responsible for
preparing the National Transport Plan (NTP). The Bank under the Fourth High-
way Project (Loan 1384-AR) as well as the UNDP have provided technical
assistance and funding for the NTP. By March 1981, the first phase of the
NTP was completed. It included an analysis of the status of the sector and
preliminary recommendations on investment, operational efficiency, pricing
and taxation and Government organization. The Government's steering
committee (representatives of the modal agencies) authorized a second phase,
directed at refining the initial results, conducting further analytical work
and helping the agencies involved to implement the NTP's recommendations.
DNPT, within the MOSP, continues to be responsible for this task. The
proposed Project provides financing for further studies to be carried out by
the DNPT during the 1983-86 period. During negotiations assurances were
obtained that the Government would exchange views with the Bank on the
carrying out of the recommendations of the NTP (section 3.06 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
29.       In addition to the NTP, the DNPT has compiled a consistent and
reliable data base and has established modal cost structures to assess the
effects of alternative transport investments and sector policies. While the
DNPT serves as the only transport planning unit with a sectorwide perspec-
tive, institutionally it is located within the Subsecretariat of Transport
which is formally responsible only for the railways and the regulation of
road transport services. As a result, the road and rail investment plans
have not been prepared in a coordinated manner. At negotiations the Govern-
ment confirmed that it shall establish planning and coordinating mechanisms
within MOSP to ensure that the railways and highways investment plans are
complementary to each other, and are analyzed in accordance with consistent
criteria (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Rationalization of the Transport Sector
30.       One response to the economic difficulties of the 1970's has been
the decision to promote the rationalization of Government services through
"privatization" of those services which could be handled more efficiently by
the private sector, the decentralization of selected Government activities to
the provincial level and the elimination of services which are not viable
economically. The major "privatization" efforts in the sector include the
leasing of railway shops and port facilities, the building and operation of



- 8 -
toll roads by private firms and the contracting of road maintenance. The
leasing of the Buenos Aires subway system is currently being negotiated.  In
addition, a substantial portion of the national highway network was
transferred in 1980 to the provincial network, and further decentralization
of federal highway activities (i.e. maintenance) to the provinces is being
considered. There are plans for the transfer of the Buenos Aires suburban
passenger rail system to the City and Province of Buenos Aires, and for the
delegation to the provinces of responsibility for expanding and constructing
river port facilities.
Railways
31.       Argentina's railways suffered until the mid-1970's from the
combination of a change in the economic structure of the country, the
extension and improvement of the highway network and its overall operating
inefficiencies. The latter were largely related to a decaying
infrastructure, an over dimensioned network and an excessive number of
employees. Since 1976, the Government has cut the railway staff from 156,000
to 97,000 (ahead of the target set under the Bank's Second Railway Project,
Loan 1677-AR); has reduced the network by over 7,600 km; and has curbed other
uneconomic services. Locomotive and wagon availability has improved, as has
the average load of freight cars.  In spite of this progress, the railways
continue to incur heavy financial losses with a working ratio above 2 and an
operating ratio above 3. After a long period of lower than expected traffic,
a significant increase was registered in 1982. However, inadequate tariff
increases prevented a meaningful improvement in the operating ratios.
Recently the Government has authorized the railways to implement increases in
freight tariffs in real terms which, if continued, should improve the
financial situation in 1983.
32.       The NTP's recommendations indicate that the railway must direct its
attention to the principal corridors with high traffic densities and to the
products which comprise 70% of the total tonnage hauled. They state that
further cost reductions should come from additional line and station
closures, increased operational efficiencies and more appropriate investment
with increased stress on "block" train service instead of mixed rail car
operations. With the assistance of the Second Railway Project, the
Government is currently studying these issues with the intention of
developing appropriate plans of action.
Ports
33.       Argentine ports need substantial investment to improve handling of
grain exports and containerized cargo, principally by overcoming the shallow
draft of the sea and river channel accesses. The Bank has been involved in
the ports subsector through the preparation of a project for improving the
ocean port of Bahia Blanca, including its storage facilities and related
inland grain transport.
Highways
34.       The basic road network in Argentina is in place although not yet at
required standards. It consists of 38,500 km of national roads with 71%
paved and 62,000 km of provincial primary roads with 28% paved. Substantial



improvements were made on the national network between 1965 and 1975 with the
paving of 9,355 km of roads. The restrictive budgets of the mid-1970s left a
backlog of major works to be completed, which took priority over strengthen-
ing and reconstruction during the 1976-1980 period. As a result, the condi-
tion of the generally light pavements on older sections of the network has
deteriorated. A study of highway needs made in 1980-1982 and financed
through the Fourth Highway Project found that 23% of the national trunk and
primary network (6,400 km) needed reconstruction. Over 50% of the Federal
road investment program for 1983-1986 is thus directed at rehabilitation,
strengthening and reconstruction with the rest destined for paving unpaved
roads and freeway and bypass construction. The condition of the provincial
network is now under study.
35.       Traffic growth on the nation's roads was erratic during the
1970's. Automobile travel declined in 1975 in response to the general
economic problems of that period, but then rose quickly until 1980 with
gasoline consumption increasing at an average annual rate of 7%. Diesel
consumption (almost half for trucks) grew during this period at about 4.5%
annually, which probably reflected the growth of economic activity in
Argentina's outlying provinces.  Other statistics also illustrate the growing
importance of transport outside the traditional radial traffic pattern
between Buenos Aires and the provinces.
36.       Road transport has increased continuously its share of freight
movements since 1965 at the expense of rail and inland waterways. The truck-
ing industry is a dynamic one and is not restricted by entry, capacity or
tariff regulations; a healthy level of competition has been maintained,
resulting in a wide range of tariffs and types of services offered. On the
other hand, road passenger services are heavily regulated in terms of entry,
capacity, tariffs, routes and schedules, by both the provinces and the
National Directorate for Land Transport (DNTT). The Subsecretariat of Trans-
port is preparing to review this situation and technical assistance for this
purpose would be made available under the proposed project.
Road User Charges
37.       Government policy traditionally provided for road users to pay for
the use of road infrastructure through taxes on vehicle sales, fuel,lubri-
cants, tires, and through registration fees. Because of lagging adjustments
following drastic devaluations in real terms, domestic fuel prices, which had
been substantially above international levels, declined to US$1.07 per gallon
for regular gasoline and US$0.65 for diesel in April 1983, compared with an
estimated international CIF price to Argentina of US$0.87 per gallon for
regular gasoline and US$0.84 for diesel. Pump prices for diesel are thus
below the estimated opportunity cost of fuel. Argentina is committed to
raise fuel prices by 3.2% per month in real terms through March 1984 (para.
14). This means that the gap between pump prices and international prices
for diesel would be eliminated by the end of the year.
38.       While aggregate road user charges would, by year-end, be more than
sufficient to cover the economic costs of using the road system, certain
classes of road users will not be paying an equitable share of road costs.
The NTP analysis of road user charges (based on 1979 data) revealed two forms



- 10 -
of cross-subsidization between road users. The first type of cross-subsidi-
zation is between urban and inter-urban traffic; urban traffic contributes
60% of gross tax receipts but represents only 11% of total road-related
operating and capital budgets. This cross-subsidy is not considered to have
caused major distortions in demand, and its resolution is not a priority
issue. More serious is the finding that, for the paved inter-urban network,
truck and bus operators were covering only 50-60% of medium term marginal
costs attributable to their use of the road network. With the substantial
fuel price change since 1979, the situation needs to be reviewed based on an
updating of the NTP analysis. At negotiations, the Government confirmed
that:
a)    the Government's policy is that users of road infrastructure
should contribute, through related and specific road user charges,
to cover at least the marginal cost of that infrastructure
attributable to their use, and the Government intends to resolve
deficiencies in the existing user charges structure, particularly
with regard to diesel-powered heavy vehicles;
b)    by July 31, 1983, DNPT would update its user tax analysis, taking
into account changes in fuel prices since mid-1979, and formulate
explicit policy recommendations and mechanisms for implementation;
and
c)    based on the Government's review of the above-mentioned user tax
analysis for commercial diesel-powered vehicles and recommended
chd-ges in the taxation level, a plan of action would be adopted by
June 1, 1984, after consultation with the Bank (Section 3.06 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Traffic Safety
39.       Traffic safety has been of increasing concern in Argentina.  The
number of deaths related to traffic accidents on the national road network in
1975 was more than three times higher relative to total population than in
the U.S. and Canada. Under the Fourth Highway Project, there was a compre-
hensive study of the problem which made recommendations on improved road
design standards; road marking and signing; identification of, and improve-
ments to, dangerous road sections; and vehicle standards and inspection. A
newly created Traffic Safety Division within the DNV has initiated an
ambitious program to implement the traffic safety study's recommendations.
The proposed project would contribute to this program by financing the road
marking and signing component and the improvement of dangerous road sections;
by providing technical assistance; and by monitoring the safety program's
implementation.
Administration of the National and Provincial Networks
40.       Planning, programing, design, construction and maintenance for the
national highway network is the responsibility of the DNV, a semi-autonomous
organization under the authority of the MOSP. DNV's headquarters plans and
controls the budget and coordinates development of the national highway net-
work. Its 24 district offices supervise road construction, betterment and
maintenance. DNV is a mature, well-developed organization with a staff of



- 11 -
9,000 including about 500 professionals and 2,200 technicians. Salaries,
especially for the higher functions, are sufficient to attract qualified
staff.
41.       DNV annually prepares a four year program which lists the highway
projects to be carried out within the budgetary limits set by the Ministry of
Economy. The yearly changes have been handled pragmatically with new entries
decided mainly on the basis of engineering judgement, economic analysis, and
regional balance. Although the existing system has not resulted in any
apparent serious investment errors, and high priority projects are normally
included in the program, increasing political pressures, high inflation and
limited budgets have raised the need to institute more systematic and tech-
nically consistent procedures for the preparation of DNV's program. These
would allow the DNV to better weigh the costs and benefits of project
proposals in order to properly estimate and justify its budgetary require-
ments, as well as the selection and design of projects. Revised procedures
have been developed for this purpose by DNV staff in consultation with the
Bank. Their main features are the formal incorporation of the results of the
highway needs study in the updating of the investment program and application
of a consistent economic methodology in the evaluation of all projects being
considered for investment. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
DNV would institute the agreed upon procedures and that DNV would provide
adequate resources for such purposes (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment).
42.       Provincial authorities maintain, reconstruct and construct the
provincial highway networks. The capabilities of the provinces in highway
operations vary widely, however, and the transfer of over 13,000 km of the
national roads to the provinces represents a substantial new burden. While
they received some assistance to help absorb the initial impact, further
pressure to decentralize DNV field activities underscores the need to improve
the provincial authorities' capabilities. This led to an agreement between
the DNV and provincial highway authorities in March 1981 to conduct a
transfer of technology program, consisting of DNV's training provincial staff
and helping them to develop investment planning. Subsequent to that agree-
ment each of the provinces signed letters of intent with DNV requesting that
funds from the proposed loan be applied to economically justified high
priority provincial road works. This would help ensure the carrying out of
needed provincial subprojects and would enhance the transfer of technology
program through the preparation of specific subprojects and an overall
investment plan. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
Borrower shall carry out a program to improve planning and operational
capabilities of the provincial highway authorities according to a timetable
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that each of the provinces
participating in the Project will prepare, by December 31, 1984, and annually
update thereafter, a detailed Four-year Investment Program (Section 3.04 (a)
(v) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 12 -
Road Maintenance
43.       Although DNV's funding for maintenance was erratic during the
1970s, the national highway network is in an adequate state of repair. Much
of the reconstruction work required is to provide heavier pavements for
increased traffic volumes, a task which could not have been avoided by better
maintenance practices. While periodic maintenance (including overlays and
surface treatments) is done under contract, DNV carried out routine mainte-
nance directly under force account until 1979. Since then, in line with
Government policies to foster private enterprise, DNV has experimented with
various forms of contract operations for its routine maintenance tasks,
seeking to improve efficiency, minimize costs and reduce its equipment fleet
which was due to be renewed. Expenditure for routine maintenance by the DNV
for 1983 is set at about US$70 million or US$1850/Km which is adequate
considering the condition of the road network. During negotiations, the
Government confirmed that it would continue to maintain the national highway
network adequately and that it intends to allocate the required funds, which
would be at least at the 1983 level in real terms unless otherwise agreed to
with the Bank (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). A formula was
agreed to during negotiations to adjust the amounts allocated in future years
in line with increased input prices. The Highway Sector Project would
support the maintenance operations and development toward contract mainte-
nance by financial assistance to help solve management problems that may
arise in DNV and to help assess the cost effectiveness of the approach. To
help monitor the progress of this effort, the Government confirmed during
negotiations that it will provide, by March 1 of each year, starting in 1984,
an annual report on maintenance operations (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Investment Program
44.       DNPT has estimated that, based on highway needs for the period
1981-1990, DNV should carry out an annual investment plan of about US$350
million and complete a major program for the national network whose main
components are: (a) the paving of 5,100 km of present earth and gravel
roads (45% of the unpaved national roads); (b) the reconstruction and/or
strengthening of about 19,500 km of the paved roads and (c) the construction
of 1,200 km of freeways and urban bypasses. The physical condition of the
network would gradually improve under this program but service levels may not
change significantly because of traffic increases. The DNV has developed a
four-year (1983-86) investment program in accordance with these objectives,
but with a higher share of reconstruction vis-a-vis construction projects.
The Bank considers the program as a whole balanced; the individual sub-
projects already identified are well justified. The program would provide
the necessary emphasis to prevent rapid deterioration of aged light
pavements; and would support traffic safety-oriented projects and an adequate
road maintenance program. Moreover, the program would assist in completing
corridors which are needed to integrate outlying regions into the economy.
Financing
45.       DNV's funds are derived mainly from the earmarked portion of user
taxes on the sale of fuels, lubricants, tires and motor vehicles. DNV's
financial structure is sound with low debt leverage and its borrowings have



- 13 -
been carried out on a commercial basis. For the 1983-86 period it is
estimated that DNV's debt service payments would not exceed 28% of forecast
tax revenues. In the context of the system of federal co-participation, DNV
transfers 35% of its receipts of user taxes on fuel, lubricants and tires to
the provinces for the contruction and maintenance of provincial principal
roads which are complementary to the national system. In addition, the
provinces received about an equal amount directly from the fuel taxes and
additional funds from registration fees of vehicles. In 1979 the provinces
spent about 40% more on their 62,000 km primary network than DNV did on its
38,000 km network.
Past Bank Operations in the Highway Sector
46.       Since 1961, the Bank has made four highway loans to Argentina for a
total of US$228.5 million. With these, the Bank has helped to finance the
construction or improvement of 5,500 km or 14% of the national network. In
the course of this association, DNV has achieved considerable progress in its
insitutional development, as confirmed in the Project Completion Reports for
the Second and Third Highway Projects 1/. The most notable contributions
have been in improving DNV's planning practices, in the preparation of
methodologies and field surveys of the network, and in improving DNV's
organizational efficiency and management procedures. These were supplemented
by the studies prepared under the Fourth Highway project, i.e., the National
Transport Plan, the highway needs study and the study on traffic safety. All
these projects have been completed except the latest one (Fourth Highway
Project: loan 1384-AR of May 1977) involving about 1,285 km of road works, of
which about 75% were completed by January 1983.
47.       The format of past projects was focused on a specified group of
subprojects to be completed over a four-to-five-year period. The Bank's
experience in previous highway operations shows that this format has not
always provided sufficient flexibility, resulting in some substantial delays
in periods of high inflation or fiscal restraint. Thus, the Project
Completion Report for the Third Highway Project concluded that, by being tied
to specified projects, the Bank was unable to meet the immediate needs of DNV
as fluctuations in the economy altered investment priorities and the
initiation of Bank subprojects was postponed. The proposed highway sector
project addresses this issue.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
48.       The project was prepared by DNV during 1980 and appraised in
February 1981. Thereafter, the Government requested that project processing
be postponed because of restrictive investment budgets. The project was
reappraised in December 1982 and March 1983. Negotiations were held in
Washington from April 13 to April 20, 1983. The Government delegation was
1/   Second Highway Project, Project Completion Report dated November 30,
1978 and Project Performance Audit Report 2556 (see M79-476) of June 25,
1979; Third Highway Project, Project Completion Report dated January 30,
1981, updated and released with Highlights under M83-179 of March 3,
1983.



- 14 -
headed by Ing. Julio Cesar Caballero, General Administrator of the DNV. A
Staff Appraisal Report entitled "ARGENTINA - Highway Sector Project (No.
3530b-AR dated May 4, 1983) is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
Objectives and Approach
49.       The proposed project is directed at assisting in the implementaion
of DNV's and the provinces' 1983-1986 Investment Programs. It would pursue
the following sector objectives:
(a) reorganization and strengthening of DNV's Planning Department and
improvement of its operational procedures for updating the invest-
ment program;
(b) strengthening of provincial planning capabilities through the
transfer of technology from DNV to the provincial authorities;
(c) definition of appropriate road maintenance management system and
budgetary requirements;
(d) support to DNV's program for traffic safety;
(e) maintenance of the dialogue between the Government and the Bank on
sectorwide issues arising from the conclusions of the NTP,
especially with regard to user charges and passenger transport
regulation; and
(f) establishment of the role of the DNPT and strengthening of that
agency;
50.       The appraisal of the proposed project confirmed that Argentina's
highway sector is directed by an experienced and well-staffed institution.
It also found that the Government's highway investment policies and program
properly address the priority development needs of the subsector. Moreover,
during long association with DNV, a relationship has developed in which the
Bank's counsel on many aspects of DNV operations and highway issues is sought
and accepted. Taking these factors into account, the proposed operation has
been designed as a sector loan, addressing the upcoming part of DNV's Four-
Year Road Investment Program. The specific works within the program to be
financed by the Bank would be selected during the course of project implemen-
tation in accordance with criteria and procedures agreed with the Bank. The
sector format would be more effective than the traditional format whereby all
project components are agreed in advance. It would provide DNV and the
provinces the necessary flexibility in using the loan resources. The large
number of subprojects and the advanced state of preparation of those making
up the first year portfolio would provide a basis for timely disbursement.
The proposed project would directly support further improvements in DNV's
planning and evaluation capabilities, and would allow DNV, the provinces and
the Bank to focus attention on the highway program as a whole.



- 15 -
51.       The project components would include:
(a) Civil Works: A variety of subprojects to be carried out by DNV and
the participating provinces ranging from reconstruction of existing
road sections, new construction of roads, construction of urban
beltways and access roads to road marking and signing and
betterment subprojects. The proposed sector project would help
finance the new construction, reconstruction and the road
improvement program for 1983-86. The initial candidate works
include 19 road sections, variously scheduled for reconstruction,
paving, upgrading or expansion, ranging from 10 km to 86 km and
dispersed among 17 of Argentina's 21 provinces. Some are
continuations of present or previous Bank projects; others were
considered premature for earlier loans and are now more
appropriate.
(b) Traffic counters and related equipment: Equipment designed to
assist in planning road investment and maintenance requirements;
(c) Technical Assistance: Contracting individual experts with
international experience for limited periods to: (i) improve
DNPT's planning and executing capability; and (ii) supplement DNV's
capacity to address such specialized or technical problems as
road and bridge design; maintenance of bridges and mountainous
roads; traffic safety; and investment programing.
52.       The road works to be financed under the proposed loan would be
chosen on the basis of DNV's revised procedures for updating the Four-Year
Investment Program, which were developed in consultation with the Bank. As
noted in para. 41, they focus on a more systematic identification, selection
and evaluation of new investment items. In practice, DNV's Economic Studies
Division and its consultants would prepare technical and economic feasibility
studies. Moreover, agreed methods would be used in defining and estimating
current and future traffic; user costs and benefits; feasibility indices;
vehicle speeds with congestion; the social costs of urban bypass projects
with substantial population displacement; and the required adjustment of fuel
prices to reflect international price levels.
53.       The reconstruction projects in the program generally coincide with
the segments identified by the highway needs and pavement strengthening study
carried out by DNV. This study is intended to identify deficient road
sections of the national network and to evaluate project alternatives. About
10,000 km of roads are being reviewed annually with the more deficient
sections selected for detailed study. Improvement alternatives are then
assessed through the use of the Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance Model
as modified for Argentina. In 1982, 6,400 km of the roads surveyed were
identified for reconstruction. The economic rates of return (ERR) for the
projects identified in 1982, either as reconstruction or betterment, most of
which have been included in the Four-Year Program, ranged from 10% to over
100% with 85% of the projects having ERRs of over 25%. The NTP has confirmed
the economic feasibility of the major upgrading and freeway projects included
in the DNV program. Their ERRs ranged from 11% to 45%.



- 16 -
54.       When presenting each subproject to the Bank for approval DNV would
submit a technical and economic evaluation, including the rationale of the
proposed works, the design standards, the alternatives considered, and the
proposed tendering schedule (Section 3.03 (a) and Schedule 5 to the draft
Loan Agreement). The results of the economic evaluation of a subproject
would include an estimate of the first year's cost/benefit ratio, net present
value and the economic rate of return. To test the sensitivity of the
evaluation, critical variables would be adjusted in line with possible
developments and new indices calculated. All subprojects selected for
financing under the proposed loan, unless otherwise agreed to by the Bank,
would have a minimum estimated economic rate of return of 12 percent (Section
3.03 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Once approved, the scope of a
subproject would not be changed (Section 3.03 (c) of the draft Loan
Agreement). In order to limit the supervision and documentation requirements
and to concentrate subproject reviews on important items of DNV's and the
provinces' program, subprojects submitted to the Bank would have an estimated
cost of at least US$1 million equivalent. (Section 3.03 (d) of the draft Loan
Agreement). During negotiations, DNV confirmed the status of project
preparation and the tender and award schedule and agreement was reached on
DNV's 1983 administrative and maintenance budget as well as on the updated
1983-86 DNV's investment program. In order to monitor the project,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would hold
semi-annual meetings with the Bank to review the status of the Four-Year
Program, DNV's investment and operating budgets, its financial status and
progress on the Bank-supported subprojects (Section 3.09 of the draft Loan
Agreement). During these meetings, DNV would also report on the updating of
its investment plans and on the progress of the transfer of technology
program, traffic count and safety programs, while DNPT reports on the status
of road user charges and fuel prices, investment update for each transport
subsector, and the Government's actions on decentralization.
Costs and Financing
55.       In carrying out its long-term program, DNV is expected to maintain
an annual investment level of over US$300 million. The sector project would
help finance the 1983-1986 portion of the uncommitted new construction,
reconstruction and improvements subprojects in the investment program of DNV
and the provinces. The total cost to completion of these subprojects is
US$690 million of which US$560 million (including US$56 million in value
added taxes) would be executed from 1983 through 1986. Of this amount,
about US$90 million represents provincial subprojects. The estimated foreign
exchange component of this investment during the 1983-1986 period represents
about 45% of total cost and is equivalent to US$250 million. The proposed
loan includes about US$97 million towards the civil works cost or about 17%
of the cost of the potential subprojects for the period; it would contribute
about 7% of the total DNV investment program and the provincial subprojects
to be financed during the same period. It is estimated that some 90 man
months of consultant services (at an average fee of US$4,000 per month for
local consultants and US$9,000 for foreign experts plus a per diem of
US$3,000 per man-month and travel averaging US$2,500 per visit) will be
required to carry out the studies to be financed by the Bank under the tech-
nical assistance component. About one-third of total man-months is estimated
to be provided by local consultants. The project would also finance the
procurement of traffic counters (US$1 million) to replace outmoded equip-
ment. An amount of US$1 million has been left unallocated.



- 17 -
56.       Over the 1983-1986 period the DNV will need to contribute about
US$1.1 billion towards the US$1.3 billion investment program. The remainder
will be provided under the ongoing IBRD Fourth Highway Project (about US$40
million), the ongoing IDB Project (about US$100 million) and the proposed
project. The local contribution will be obtained directly through the exist-
ing system of assigned user taxes, mainly on fuels, lubricants, vehicles and
tires. In 1983 DNV's revenues from directly assigned user taxes are estim-
ated at US$422 million. These revenues cover most of DNV's expenditures for
investments and periodic maintenance (US$328 million) operating budget
including routine maintenance (US$93 million) and interest on debt and debt
repayment (US$77 million).
Loan Administration
57.       Except for the studies which DNPT will administer, the project will
be administered by DNV which will prepare and submit to the Bank for its
review and approval all subprojects it proposes to be financed under the
loan including those to be carried out by the provinces. Bank financing
would be restricted to disbursements on civil works contracts pertaining to
eligible subprojects awarded before January 1, 1986, and which would have an
initial completion date prior to July 1, 1988. In order to allow Bank
financing of subprojects already tendered following international competitive
bidding procedures, retroactive financing for up to US$2 million for expend-
itures made after January 1, 1983 is included in the Project (paragraph 4 of
Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement). The proposed loan would conse-
quently be linked to financing a "time-slice" of expenditures on contracts of
eligible subprojects approved by the Bank; thus, not all contracts would be
completed when loan funds will be depleted. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that DNV and the provinces would complete the works for each
approved subproject (Section 3.01(a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
58.       For purposes of carrying out the improvements to the provincial
roads, the Borrower, through DNV, would enter into an agreement with each
participating province. Such agreement would provide: arrangements for the
selection of the subprojects and the execution and supervision of the works;
the financial arrangement for the execution of each subproject; and the prep-
aration of a Four-year Road Investment Program. (Section 3.04 (a) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
59.       Declaring a subproject eligible would signify the Bank's agreement
to help finance contracts related to the subproject, provided Government
budget funds are allocated and that the tender process and detailed engineer-
ing have been carried out in accordance with the agreed standards. Once a
subproject has been declared eligible, DNV would complete its detailed
engineering and proceed with procurement except for civil works contracts
with an estimated cost over US$10 million, for which prior Bank approval of
the contract documents would be required (para. Cl of Schedule 4 to the draft
Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
Procurement, Disbursements and Audit
60.       Civil works eligible for financing under the proposed loan would be
procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines except for civil works estimated to cost US$3 million or less
which would be procured on the basis of contracts in accordance with local
competitive bidding procedures, while giving foreign contractors the
opportunity to bid. The total contracts awarded under this procedure is
estimated at 40% but would not exceed US$50 million. In view of the advanced
development of the local contracting industry, foreign contractors are not
likely to be competitive for civil works. These works typically consist of
road improvements of limited lengths spread over the entire country and do
not lend themselves to being combined in larger packages. Disbursements will
be made only for approved subprojects and after the Bank has reviewed the
related civil works contract. In the case of provincial subprojects, an
agreement between the DNV and the province which defines the subproject and
regulates loan repayments from the province to DNV would be required. The
Bank would disburse at the rate of 45% of total expenditures for civil works
which is the estimated foreign exchange component. The proposed loan would
finance 100% of foreign expenditures for equipment and 100% of technical
assistance costs. In order to avoid the delays encountered with other Bank
loans, assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government shall
take all necessary actions, including exemptions under the current
legislation, to enable DNPT and DNV to contract in a timely manner foreign
consultant services as required for the purposes of the project (Section
3.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The project timetable assumes
tendering of about US$50 million for Bank-financed subprojects by end-1983.
On the basis of the schedule for additional tendering and the procedures
established for the proposed project, the loan would be disbursed in a 4-year
period, i.e. by end-1987.
61.       In order to reduce the interval during which DNV would finance the
Bank's share of project costs with their own resources, Government may
request the Bank to make advance payments from the loan account into a
Special Account, to be opened in US$ in the Central Bank, and which will be
available for financing the Bank's share of the project cost only. The
amount deposited in the Special Account could be increased by the Bank as
required for project execution, but would not exceed US$10 million. DNV
would be entitled to make withdrawals from the Special Account in Pesos at
the exchange rate applicable on the day DNV's payments were made on Bank
approved contracts. The withdrawal applications for civil works would be on
the basis of statements of expenditures covering the payments made by DNV for
these specific contracts. Supporting documentation would not be submitted to
the Central Bank and the Bank, but would be retained by DNV and made
available for inspection during project supervision missions and would be
subject to annual auditing. The Bank would replenish the Special Account
upon request of the Central Bank on the basis of the withdrawals made.
62.       DNV's accounting and financial functions are the responsibility
of DNV's Administration Department, and are carried out by competent
professionals. The external audit is the responsibility of the National
Accounting Office (NAO). This Office is fully qualified for its task.
During negotiations, the Government confirmed that, commencing with fiscal
year 1983, it would have the Special Account and DNV's accounts and financial
statement, as well as accounts and financial statements related to the
subprojects, audited by the NAO.



-19 -
Project Benefits and Risks
63.       The experience gained under past Bank-financed highway projects and
the selection and evaluation procedures to be employed assure that the
subprojects to be selected would be economically sound. Specifically, no
subproject would be approved unless it is expected to yield at least a 127.
estimated economic return (para. 54).   Furthermore, the project itself is
designed to promote DLNV's more systematic selection and evaluation of
projects by improving planning procedures. This, together with the
additional institutional improvements in DNV and the provincial road agencies
and the extension of DNPT's role, should produce substantial efficiency gains
in the sector. Also, the planned broad geographic dispersion of subprojects
should ensure widespread benefits, as would the competition in the trucking
industry.
64.       A furthier deterioration of the economy could reduce public revenues
and, hence, cause delays in project implementation. However, since the
project represents only a small percentage of the investment program and
includes high priority works, and in view of the experience of the executing
agency and the flexible implementation format of the project, the risk of
delays in project implementation is low.
65.       Another uncertainty concerns the extent to which the change in
administration, scheduled for January 1984, might affect planned improvements
in sector policies (i.e. road user charges). It is expected that the DNPT,
established with the support of the Bank, will continue to be instrumental in
shaping transport policy under the new administration. The proposed project
is designed to maintain a close dialogue with the Government through periodic
consultation and financing of technical assistance to the DNPT and the
Subsecretariat of Transport.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Argentine Republic and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided by in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the loan are listed in
section III of Annex III.
67.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
1May 9, 1983
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
ARGSNTTIr"DOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ARGENTINA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE"GES
AREA (THOUSAND sq. KM.)                                                               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL           2766.9                                  MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    1785.2               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBSEAN              EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  650.0       1130.0    2390.0                    1902.0                    2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    1057.4        1611.4    1964.6                    1259.9                    2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 20611.0       23748.0   27740.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF rOTAL) 73.6          78.4      82.4                      65.7                      47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        34.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          42.7
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 101.                        7.4          8.6       9.9                      35.2                      83.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      12.0         13.4      15.3                      92.5                     155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          30.8         29.1      28.2                      39.7                      31.1
15-64 YRS.                          63.7         63.7      63.3                     56.1                       61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    5.5          7.2       8.5                       4.2                       7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.8          1.4       1.6                       2.4                       1.6
URBAN                               3.0          2.0       2.1                       3.8                       3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      23.7         21.8      20.7                      31.4                      23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       8.6          8.6       8.4                       8.4                       9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.5          1.5        1.4                      2.1                       1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           96.0        101.0     118.0                     110.0                     116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   125.9        130.1     124.21c                  108.4                      125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          107.1        108.7     107.87T                    66.0                      92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        66.4         68.9      70.07E                    34.0                      35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       4.4          3.4       2.4                       5.6                       9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    65.4          67.9      70.4                      64.2                      67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            60.6         53.9      45.2                      64.2                      65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              47.3         56.0      66.0/d                    65.6
URBAN                              58.9         69.0      76.07-                   78.9
RURAL                               9.6         12.0      26.0o7                   43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        85.0      97.0/d                    59.3
URBAN                                ..         87.0     lo0.0oT                    75.3
RURAL                                ..         79.0      83.0o7                   30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            740.2        490.5     527.1/d                  1617.3                    1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       754.9/e      636.8         ..                   1063.5                     634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             157.4        175.0         ..                    477.4                     286.8
URBAN                             188.7/e      199.0         ..                    679.8                     192.0
RURAL                            4477.2T.      998.4         ..                   1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..         ,.                     27.3                      20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               3.7          3.8
URBAN                               3.5           ..         ..                       .
RURbL                               4.3           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               1.4          1.4
URBAN                               1.3           ..
RURAL                               1.7           .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              69.2         76.0
URBAN                              84.7           ..
RURAL                              18.6           ..



- 21 -                                                        ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
ARGENTINA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ARGENTINA                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE%AGES
- DOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   IATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRDIARY:    TOTAL                 98.0       106.0     110.0/c                  104.3                    102.4
MALE                 98.0       106.0     110.07T                  106.4                    107.1
FEMALE               99.0       107.0    iii.07                    103.3                     99.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 23.0        45.0      56.0/c                   41.3                     60.2
MALE                 23.0        42.0      52.077                   40.4                     66.4
FEMALE               24.0        48.0      61.07;                   41.8                     54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY) 50.3         58.4      65.8                     33.7                     31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           22.0        19.2      18.5/c                   29.9                     25.8
SECONDARY                          7.4         7.3       7.5                     16.7                     22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       91.0        92.6      93.0                     79.1                     75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        23.0        60.6      81.0/f                   42.8                     51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       169.8       379.0     379.3                    270.5                    157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        21.8       147.4     172.6                    107.7                    123.7
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                154.6       178.8      95.1                     63.7                    112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0         4.2       2.5                      2.7                      4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    8134.0       9215.8  10637.1
FEHALE (PERCENT)                  21.4        24.7      26.3                     24.4                     36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             20.0        16.4      13.1                     31.3                     38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                35.9        32.1      28.0                     23.9                     25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               39.5        38.8       38.3                    33.6                     44.5
MALE                                61.0        58.1       56.4                    50.4                     56.3
FEKALE                              17.2        19.3      20.2                     16.8                     32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.9         0.9       1.0                      1.3                      0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   27.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.9        50.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9         4.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.6        14.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                    184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    653.0/d                   518.0
RURAL                               ..          ..     577.07i                  371.1                    406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1975; /e 1962; /f 1976.
May, 1982



ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INOICATORS                                            Page    3    of    5
etes: Although the data are drawn free sources generally judged the mast ath-oritatite and reliable, it should else be noted that they -y sot be ieter-
a=tionally coparable because of the tack of stsodordieed defieitions and coucepts used by different co.netris to collecting tbe dats.  Tlb  dtears, eose-
theless.  usefol to destribe orders of aglanitds. indicatetreods, and charactrtee certaie majur differences betness cou.r. io.s
The referente groaps aro (1) the same couctry group of ith  suhbject cotcry and (2) a country group  iuh soeshat higher average incom  than the country group
of the subject country (accept for   "High Incom    Oil Euporterl" group share 'Middle Incoe NMrth Africa and Middle fast" in chesen because of et-os-r
socto-colcoral aifinities).  In the -foirence grop data thl  averages are popolation  eightod arithetic  eans for each indicator and shown only when
majority of the countries tn a grouP has data for that indicatr. Sinte the coverage of countries among the indicators depends sn the availability of dars
end is not uifore, caotiou est be e  rcisaed iS relating averages of one indicator to aooher   These averages are ooly usefol is co paring th. value of
seindicator at a rise asog thelcountry ad referenc  groups.
AREA (tho.ssnd sq.km.)                                                                       Populatian per Hospital bed - calra, urbao, and roeal - Populetion (total.
Total - Total surface  area comprising land area and inland cetera; 1979 dat.                urban, and rural) divided by their respe tive noeber of hopital bode
Aericulcoral - Estietse of agricelural a rea used tespoonrily or permanently                 evailable in ptblic and prIvate general and spociolised hospital and e-
far crops, pasrurss., mrket and kitchen gardena -r to lie falle; 1979 dat.                 babilitatt  cente r sci.  istaln ar:staItbmeh-ts permanently staffed
by at leas.t one pbys iciso. sE-blisbhnret p-Vidisg principally cease.-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - SNP per capita esti-tee or current market prices.  cal-                 dial oars are no  lncluded.  Rural hospitals, however, inlIude hb etb
enlated by sa  conversion methed an World bask Atlac (19738-0 basin); 1960,                  and mdical censers cot pereorsitly staffed by a physician (hat by a
1970, and logo dta.                                                                           edical assisact, nuese.,  idwife, etc ) vhich offer tn-patIn -t acceme-
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual ...... Pti. of cot rci  energy, Icoaldotiton and provid e  liIpited  range of sedicel facilities.  Per  t tis-
and lignite, petroleum,  atulral oat end hydro-, nuclear and gBothermal elec-                and rural hospitais, lcanl or raral hospitals and mdical sad naternity
tricty) in hilograss ot coal equivalent pen cepita; 1960, 1970, and 1979                     centers.  Speca.liged hospitals are included only under total.
data.                                                                                      Admieian   e  Haspito1 Bad - Total sasber of adeisetic  to or dienharges
frem hospitals divided by the smbe of beds.
POPUIATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total Popuiation, Mid-YTar (thousands) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 1900              HOUSING
dea.                                                                                     Average Sine of E oi I obhld (persons per bousehold) - total urban, ad coral-
Urban Population (percent of total) - Batio of urban to total population;                    A household consists of a group of individualn who shar living qoartare
different definlitions ot obn  amen may offact cosperability of data                       and their main  als.   A boarder or lodger my or may net bh included in
emeng noastrien; 1960. 1970. and 1980 data.                                                the household for staietical purposes.
Populaton Projections                                                                      Aversan number of persons par coon-  total, urban, and rural - average pu_
Poeulation in year ZOSS - Current population projections are based on 1900                her of persons per room to al urba, and renal occupied conve-tiosal
total population by age and sex and their marcallty end fertility rates.                 danllings, respectiely.  Dwellings  -oclode nos-pormaseet structurns and
Projectlon yarmeater_   for mertality rnet  cooprine of tbres levels aI . ue-           noOCoapied parts.
leg life enpocceecy at birchincreaing etch couotry' per  acpita income                knees to fecreiciy (percent o.fldveliogai) - coral, o-ban, aed  --ra  -
level, and fols life ropeccncy etabilieing at 77.5 y-er.  Theipace-                     Coovantiona  danling  with electri              ivg qe .  lertr as Fr   -
meters foe f-rtility rate  Isle  h-vo three leva1s aesusuig decline in                  of total, acbhn, and rural denllings respectively.
fertility acoordiog to icome levnl and past fosily planning perfortance.
Bach country in then ossiegnd 0n0  of these nine co-binatioee of mortolity          EDUCATION
and fortility trends for projection y      .rpone..                                    AdJted ESrollnnt fatios
Sttionary yo aio-In .astationary popIliaio  Ihere it no groth since                      Primar chboo - total, male and female - free  total, male and feml
the birth rate is nqaal to the death eats, and aoo th ig Dtgr aohsine                      enoro 1:eet of all agne at thl  primary lv1   an pe - -    ag-    of  espg
mains conetant    h Tis is achieved only after beotility rates decltne to                  primary school-_ag  populatians; normally includes children eged 6-11
the replacement level of unit not reproduction rare  abet each generati_n                  years hut adju-ted for differeot lengths of poicmay edneetion; fer
of womlen replaces itself eoactly   The stationery papolation size was                     countrios with universel  ecatios enrollmnt ay ensed 100 portent
e.timted .o the bania of t%tprjed cf the populatcon                                         itne some pupila afe belov   or nibve tha offieial  ohool age.
in the year 2000, and ths rate of declinr of fertility rate so replace-                  Secondary schoal - total,  ale and female - Computed as .bov  .seeondary
ent level.                                                                                 oducatio  requires at least foer years of appnoved primary istrueltin;
Tear otelio.ary population in reached - The yoar when stationary population                  yooVide  gn l voctinaIl, or teacher training inst-tctions for popila
ai_ sill he rehachd.                                                                       _snal  of 12 to 17 yav- of age; ,vrropotd..e.e       . ooner  are generally
Puralatino  Den.ity                                                                            excluded
Pen eq. h    - Oid-year popclation per aquare kilometer (100 hectares) of                Vocational onrollment (percent of seoondary) -   focational institotions
tlatl area; 1960, 1970 and 1979 data                                                     include tethoicel, industrial, or other progrn  wh hich operate itdepsod-
er sq. k. agricult_ral land - Ccnpud atahoon f.o  gricultural led                          ently or en departmnts of secondary institations.
only; 1960, 1970 and 1979 data.                                                        Pupil-teach-r ratio - primary  and secondary - Total stodents enrolled in
population Age Structure (percent) - Childre. (0-14 yeala), working-age (15-                 primary and  nce-ndary levels divided by nvohern of teachrer  in the
64 y-ao), and retired (65 ynars and over) no percoo-gen of mid-yssr popo-                 ccornspoodig~ borI
letion; 1960. 1915, and 1990 data.                                                       Adult literacy rate (percent) - Litertee adlts (able to read sod write)
population Gvtb,h Bate (percent) - total - Anneal growth rater  of total rid-                asapercentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over
year popolation far 1950-60, 1960-7, and 1970-b0.
Population Iroth Bats (yercent( - orho  - Annual groeth ratee of urban ypcp-            CSONSUMPTION
lation. for 1950-hI. 1960-70, and 1970-0.                                                Pasengerg Cart (per thousand population) - Pa.e.nger cers cogp.rlie meter
Crude girth Bate (por thousond) - Anun1 live births per thousond of mid-yero                cars seatiog teas than eight persons; -ocladen ambuleoces  hearses and
population; 1960, 1970, end 1980 data,                                                      ilt try vehIcles
Croda loath Raco (Per rho....d) - Annual deaths per thou...od  of mtd-yoar                 Radio Eacielver  (per thoesand poyolatlon) - All types of  rofemfor radio
population; 1960, 1970, and 1900 date.                                                   bRoadi eIta to gnv   puhlic pe  lthoo-aed of population et cl de           i an-
roes Roproductios Bate -Average number of dacghtlrr  a sumacvill bear in                     licensed receilers ino                   year   hen registrarion of radio
hor norsal reproducctiv  peciod if she noperience-   proon. t a0ge-sp icfic ir-            sete  eat in effect; data for recent yoaru  ay not be ooParable ince
tility rates; usually ftvn-y..r averages. sdditg in 1960, 1970, and 1990.                  scat contries abolished licensing.
Peety Plnoo-Accccor., AnnoI (,houde- Au..uaI nashr of eccptor                       TV Eneer (co  thousan d  -opultio)-T  sevrafrbodatt
of birth-control doctrs under .uspice.  of national family ylonning yrofram               general pubiic per thousand population; oxcludes unlicensed TV receivers
Paeily Planonang-l _ern  (percut.  of mairind  omen) - Percctcage of married                 in coontris  and in yearn shea registration of TI sets see in effect.
wo es of child-bearing age (15-44 yearn) who use birth-coutrol  devices to              Ntewpayer Cireulation (per thouatnd pcopltion)  - ihans the average rir-
all married  some  to same ego group.                                                     colatin of "daily general interest e.sp.per", defined asa peri dic.l
publication devotod primarily to recording genora1 nes.It in =osideed
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                             to be "daily" if it appFari at laeanI.t fn  times  Ia wek.
Indm  of Po;od Producto per Capita (1969-1=100) - Indec of per c-piteo.-..I               Cinem  Aecul Attendance per Coic. perYe -oar-Beend an the  -b-re of
prodIetFoo ci all foo d comdicios   -Prdaccen excludnn eed and fond and                    tiokot   old during thet year. inclldiog  distiote to dome-in  J.seme
is on calendar year beas.  Come ditioec covr primary goods (e.g. nogorc.ne                 and mebile  nitt.
instead of sugar) which are edible and contain nuttinotn (e.g. coffee and
tea are ecoluded). Aggregate production of snoh country is bhasd on                   LABOR FORCE
nationel average producer price anighto; 1961-6, 1970, and 1900 data.                   Totl1 labor Force (thou.ands) - Et.onoic-lly notive persone, including
Per capito snpc1p of calories (percent of requirve.nt) - CD-pnrnd tree                      armd forces and unemployed bhe  enclading hoa..eiv-e, students. etc.,
energy equivalent of net food -upplien available i= country per capita                     coveri`g populatio  of all ages.  Definitions in variaos coantnies ore
per dy.  Available nupplito -oprins doesptic  rdctiot, inpon loss                          not co .aeabin; 1960. 1970 and 1900 dat.
exports, end changen in stock.  N-t spplirn  -cclode animal feed, sendn,                 FPml  (percent) - Femal. labor fotcean percontage of total labor forc.
qvantiticauted in food pcucnssilg, and louses in di-trtbutionb    Reqire-                 Agriculcure (procant) - Lahor forca in farming  foretry, hooting and
ments 0000 natieItd by FAO hated on physiological needs for normal atti-                     fishing as peccentage of total labor forc,; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data
vity and health co.nideling .nviro...tal tmperlture,  body  oights, ago                   Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, conatrrution, man9fantorieg
and non diutribhtien of population, and allowing 10 percent for  .anto at                    and electricity, veter and gee an percentage of total labor forte;
-esbodlvr; 16-65. 1970 end 1971 data.                                                  190.190        ynd1900 deta.
Per capito sopply of protein (g-ana per day) - Prootic content of per capita              Participation face (portent) - total, mae, nd female - Participetian or
set supply of food pot dy. Net supply of food is defined a  above.  Re-                   activity rates are computed as tot      mle  and female labor foresee
qairemence  for all 60 ofIentotai - linbed by USDA prucide for =inima=                    percenige of tol, mle and fetmle populatiOn  f all agee  ep-etivly;
aloaceof 60 gree  uf total protnia pEr dey end 70 frame ot ntma  and                 196f. 1970, and 1900 date.  The. sear  base.d on ILO's partioipetiae rates
pulse procein, of ohich 10 grashs hould bi  animal protin.  These ntad-                   roflecting age-ann .lrtotuce of the population, and long tim  tred.  A
ards arc lower than thins of 75 grass of total proltei  and 23 grass of                    fee nstins ure from natioal s..r.en
animlA poo Srvei no 6nerge ton its world, proposed by FAO in the Third                   tonceic Drepodenr y Ratio - Ratio of population ander 15 and 65 and ever
Wnrld Pood Surory; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977daa                                               to the totaIllbor force.
P"r capita proceti supply frot eeie-l and pulae - Protein supply of food do-
rived from esimels end pulses to green pet day; 1961-56, 1970 and 1977 data.          INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Child (ages 1-4) Leath Rate (per thVnaend) - Annual deathi per thoua.nd in                 Percentage of Private Income (both in oaeh and kind) - R-aeived by rieheet
age gratp I          .tern, c  ch1idtr   in th is age groep; for me t dev-loping coos-     5 polrcnt, richeet 2o peroot., poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
trios data derived item  lifo tables; 1960. 1970 end 1980 data.                            sf housholds.
HEALTH                                                                                     POVEb-TY TARGET GROUPS
Lif,e 3lpoo tency at Hieth (years) - Average ousb,r cf years of life remaining             The following  stimaten ars very approxSante  esauree of poverty levels.
at birth; 1960. 1970 and 190 data.                                                         and shoald be interpreted mith .oniderable caution.
Infant HBrtality bate (per thonond) - Annul deaths of infanto  undr one year              Estimated Absolute Poverty Incom  Level (U50 per capita) - urban end rural -
of age per thousand live births; 1960, 1970 and 1990 data.                                 Absolute poverty income  level is  Nb; isnom  level below whith a minim
A.cese so Safe Seine (rereont of pop.lacito) - total, ocbhe, and rural - Nm-                 nutritionally adnq-ate diet plus essential see-food reqoiremsts is sot
boo of people (total, urban,  and rural) with resonableaeeetosafe                          affordable.
water sapply (ineludn treated surf ace wetirs or untreated bat oncontaminted             Estimated Relative Poverty Incom  Level (L3S pee c.pita) - urban and coral -
water snob as that from protected broholes.  springe, and sanitary wlls) as               REnAl rlative pevarny income lrvel in one-third of average per -epite
Porcaniges of theit  -papetive populations.  Is en urban area apblic                       pereoal, locoe of rho enancry   Irhn level is derived tree the rura
fecItagi or  theprt ta.card sotn mre thou 200  eters frol a houre may be                   Level with adjuetmet for higher c.at of livig in uriba  apsem.
easidered as being within reasonable access of that house   Istat   areas              EBatSated Population Below Absolate Poverty lncome Lvel fone.to) - urban
ransanable access would imply that the hoees.ife so mebers of the household                and rural - Percent of pepulatian (onban nad coral) who areabsote
do not have to spend a diyroportponlt te pact of the day  in fetching the                 per".
faily'a water sand.
Aceese to E-treta Dia.osal (percent of ropulation) - tonal, urban, .Ad carol -
NBerbs of people (total., urba and rural) served by secrets disposal as
perneetagem  of ehair respantive populations.  Bcreta dispessl  ay include
the nellntion and diapossl.  wIth or wliteos  tr-tm      of ht   sennta
end  est-t-er by eatsc-honoe myst  or the ass of pit privies ed simi-
let iktclitisos.
fp.M  pn     PhyicLa  - Papaletios divided by ember at pretisieg physi-                                                        F-aI. and Benia1 Dana Birisia
cBi iii PiifLf1      a  s -dcinl scheal  t aniverisy i       evel.                                                      ran          Aslyia sd P-jeatties Dopstme
Po0aiseti   e p erates  Per1an  - Populatios diVidad by    b-r of pr-ttiaiDg                                                               May 1982
maime*d fo1m agredoate esrsee, assist    mast sers  pr_itioal ms gse ad
esemig  ilccries.



- 23 -                                                                ANNEX I
Page 4 of 3
ARGENTINA
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
ACTUAL                  ESTIMATED   PROJECTED        Avg. Ann. Growth Rates              As Percent of GDY
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                  1980          1981         1982         1983          1984      1970-      1976-      1982-       1980        1982       1984
75         81         84
(Millions of US$ at 1978 Prices and Exchange Rates)                    (Percentages)                           -
Gross Domestic Product           72,681       67,942        64,137       66,061        69,396       2.8        0.8        3.9        99.1         99.7       99.6
Gains from Terms of Trade           647           189          170           190          250                                          0.9         0.3        0.4
Gross Domestic Income            73,328       68,131         4,307       66,251        69,646       2.9        0.7        4.0       100.0        100.0      100.0
Imports (inc. NFS)               10,503        9,342         5,115        5,294         5,506       2.8       16.3        3.7         14.3         8.0        7.9
Exports (inc. NFS)
Import Capacity                 7,999        9,222        7,325         8,321        8,903      -0.1         5.6        9.8        10.9        11.4        12.8
Resource Gap                      2,504           120       -2 ,210      -3,027       -3,397                                           3.4       -3.4        -4.9
Consumption                      55,439       52,039        49,127       50,600        52,691       3.5        2.3        3.5        75.6         76.4       75.7
Investment                       20,393       16,212        12,970       12,624       13,558        1.9       -0.1        2.2        27.8        20.2        19.5
Domestic Savings                 17,889       16,092        15,180       15,651        16,955       0.2       -5.6        5.5        24.4        23.6        24.3
National Savings                 17,178       14,498        10,615       12,938        14,050       0.5       -9.3       14.0        23.4         16.5       20.2
MERChANDISE TRADE                                 (Current US Dollars)                                                                      (As % of Total)
Imports (c.i.f.)                 10,541        9,380         5,350        5,545         6,113                                       100.0        100.0      100.0
Capital Goods                   2,392        1,900         1,000          950        1,100                                         22.7         18.7       18.0
Intermediate Goods              5,517        4,938        3,200         3,695        4,013                                         52.3        59.8        65.6
PeLroleum Products              1,075        1,022           800          700           750                                        10.2         15.0       12.3
Consumption Goods               1,857        1,520           350          200           250                                        17.6          6.5        4.1
Exports (f.o.b.)                  8,021        9,143         7,600        9,163         9.607                                       100.0        100.0      100.0
Primary Products                5,882        6,658         5,244        6,950        6,677                                         73.3        69.0        69.5
Manufactured Goods              2,139        2,485         2,356        2,213        2,930                                         26.7        31.0        30.5
Merchandise Trade Indices                          (Average 1978 - 100)
Export Price Index                145           132          130          140           154
Import Price Index                121          115           115          123           134
Terms of Trade Index              120           115          113          113           115
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR             (Millions of US $ at 1978 Prices & Exchanges)                                                              (As % of GDP)
Agriculture                       9,085        9,444         9,877       10,511        10,350       2.6        0.1        2.3        12.5         15.4       14.9
Industry                         27,764       24,323        22,834       24,090       26,258        3.2       -0.8        7.0        38.2        35.6        37.7
Services                         35,832       34,175        31,426       31,650       33 038        2.6        2.0        2.5        49.3        49.0        47.4
Total                            72,681       67,942        64,137        6,251        6    6
PUBLIC FINANCE
(General Government)                         (Billions of Pesos)
Current Receipts                 74,216      128,724       337,800   1,143,449                                                       26.3         21.5
Current Expenditures             63,675      127,923       300,670      855,261                                                      22.6         19,1
Savings                          10,541           802       37,130      288,188                                                       3.7          2.4
Transfers (net)                  -2,597       -4,852        -8,690      -45,311                                                      -0.9         -0.6
Investment                       17,355       34,419        78,550      357,384                                                       6.2          5.0
Surplus/Deficit*                 -9,152      -38,007       -48,450      -20,521                                                      -3.2         -3.1
LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY  (1981)
(1,000 Persons)      (X)       Value Added Per Worker
(US $)
Agriculture                       1,450            13.1               6,513
Industry                          3,099            28.0               7,849
Services                          6,520            58.9               5,242
Total/Average                  11,069           100.0               6,138
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES   (Million $a Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money            91,208       188,058      312,620
Credit to Public Sector          15,929       98,339       171,942
Credit to Private Sector        111,914      318,511       526,224
Money and Quasi Money as
Z of GDP                           32            34
Wholesale Price Index
(1970-100)                      2,091        4,382        15,610
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                 75          110          256
Bank Credit to Public Sector        250           517           75
Bank Credit to Private Sector    137              185           65
*Does not include capital receipts, financing by previous budgetary funds and interest as amortization.



24 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
1976         1977         1978         1979         1980         1981         1982
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                          4,752        6,769        7,714        9,601        10,763      11,563        9,431
Imports (incl. NFS)                        -3,597        -4,892       -5,248       -9,253      -13,980    -12,542          7,179
Resource Balance                             1,155        1,877        2,466           348      -3,217         -979        2,252
Net Factor Service Income                     -508         -618         -681         -920       -1,502       -3,700       -4,705
Net Current Transfers                           18           31           48            35           30         -23           31
Balance on Current Account                     650        1,290        1,833         -537       -4,689      -4,702        -2,422
Direct Investment                                -          136          274          265           739         927          295
NeL Public MLT Borrowing                     1,351          356        1,048        1,035        2,629        3,971          175*
Net Private MLT Borrowing                     -121          519        1,132        1,777         1,068      4,682         1,060*
Use of IMF Resources                           235         -115            -             -            -           -            -
Short Term Capital Transactions               -923           31       -1,215        1,610       -1,466      -5,113        -2,405
Capital Transactions n.e.i.                -1,227            -3          174          292       -1,018      -3,572           557
Change in Reserves (- = increase)               35       -2,214       -3,246       -4,442        2,737        3,807        2,740
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Public M&LT Loans                            1,909        1,718        2,768        3,505        3,049       3,773
IBRD                                   115          205           165          306           27         368          TO0
Other Multilateral                     175          148           231          328           44         321          170
Bilateral                              159          127           91            52          115           9
Suppliers                              214          394           376          553          265       1,637
Financial InsLitutions               1,246          844        1,905         2,267        2,598       1,438
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Medium and Long-Term Total Debt              5,880        7,003        9,850       13,996       16,780       21 367       19,819
Public Debt Outstanding and Disbursed    4,429            5,033        6,748        8,557       10,187       13,901       14,210
Interest on Public Debt                264          318          503           568          841       1,058        1,378
Repayments on Public DebL              604          722         1,615          895        1,146       1,092        1,234
Total Public Debt Service              869        1,040        2,117         1,463        1,987       2,150        2,612
Private Debt Outstanding and Disbursed   1,451            1,970        3,102        5,439        6,593       7,466**       5,609
Interest on Private Debt                92          104          197           261          535         685          739
Repayments on Private Debt             476          540          494           415        1,125       1,526        2,722
Total Private Debt Service             568          644           691          676        1,660       2,211        3,461
Total Debt Service                           1,437        1,684        2,808        2,139        3,647        4,361       6,073
BURDEN ON EXPORT EARNINGS (%)
Total Debt Service                              30.3         24.9         36.4          22.2         33.9        37.7         64.4
Public Debt Service                             18.3         15.4         27.4          15.2         18.5        18.6         27.7
Private Debt Service                            12.0          9.5           9.0          7.0         15.4        19.1         36.7
AVERAGE TERMS OF PUBLIC DEBT
Interest as Z Prior Year DO&D                    5.6          7.2         10.0          8.4           9.8        10.4          9.9
AmorLization as % Prior Year DO&D               13.4         16.3          32.1         13.3         13.4        10.7          8.9
(Estimate)
EXTERNAL DEBT BY CREDITOR (Disbursed Only               December 31, 1981                 December 31, 1982
Total M & Lt Public Debt                                 13,901                            14,210
IBRD                                                        406                               431
Other MultilaLeral                                          804                               668
Bilateral                                                   384                               298
Suppliers                                                 1,093                               992
Financial Markets                                        11,214                            11,821
IBRD EXPOSURE                                      1976         1977          1978         1979         1980        1981         1982
IBRD Debt O&D                                  343          343          352          367          404          406          431
IBRD DebL as % of Public DO&D                    7.7          6.8          5.2           4.3          4.0         2.9          3.0
IBRD DebL Service                               44           46           50            59           71          85           87
IBRD Debt Service as % of Debt Service           5.1          4.4          2.4           4.0          3.6         4.0          3.3
* Includes Arrears
** EstimaLe; does not include short-term debt rolled over for 18 months under an exchange rate guarantee scheme.
May 2, 1983



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of December 31, 1982)
Amount less       Undis-
Loan No.  Year    Borrower            Purpose        Cancellations    bursed
(US$ million)
Fully disbursed loans                                     481.0
1330      1977    SEGBA, S.A.         Power              115.0          14.8
1384      1977    Argentina           Highways           104.7          50.0
1463      1978    Banco Nacional    Industrial
de Desarrollo      Credit            100.0          15.8
1521      1978    Argentina           Grain Storage      105.0         101.6
1677      1979    Ferrocarriles       Railways
Argentinos S.A.                       96.0          64.5
1761      1979    Argentina           Yacyreta Power    210.0          200.9
1880      1980    Yacimientos
Petroliferos      Oil and Gas
Fiscales           Engineering        27.0           3.9
1905      1980    Argentina           Vocational
Training          58.0          58.0
S-020     1980    Argentina           Coal Exploration   10.0            9.5
2031      1981    Banco Nacional    Oil and Gas
de Desarrollo       Credit           100.0         100.0
2032      1981    Yacimientos         Refinery
Petroliferos        Conversion
Fiscales                             200.0         200.0
2063       1981    Banco Nacional    Industrial
de Desarrollo       Credit II        100.0         100.0
Total                                        1,706.7
Of which has been repaid                       297.1
1,409.6
Amount sold                 12.8
Of which has been repaid  12.8                   0.0
Total now held by Bank                       1,409.6
Total undisbursed                                             906.0



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of December 31, 1982)
Fiscal                                                      Amount in US$ million
Year         Obligor                    Type of Business  Loans  Equity  Total
1960    Acindar Industria                Steel Products       3.7      -       3.7
Argentina de Aceros, S.A.
1960    Papelera Rio Parana, S.A.        Pulp and Paper       3.0      -      3.0
Engranajes, S.A.I.C.
1961    Fabrica Argentina de             Automotive           1.5      -       1.5
1962    PASA, Petroquimica               Petrochemicals       3.0      -       3.0
Argentina, S.A.I.C.
1965/
1972   Celulosa Argentina, S.A.         Pulp and Paper    12.5        -       12.5
1969/
1975   Dalmine Siderca, S.A.            Steel Products    17.0        -       17.0
1969    Editorial Codex, S.A.            Printing and
Publishing           5.0    2.0       7.0
1971/
1973   Galera Avellaneda, S.A.          Cement               5.5      -        5.5
1977    Alpargatas S.A.I.C.              Textiles & Fibres  7.0        -        7.0
1977    Soyex S.A.                       Soybean Processing
Plant                9.0     -        9.0
1978    Massuh, S.A.                     Pulp and Paper       8.0      -        8.0
1978/   Juan Minetti, S.A.               Cement and
81/82                                   Construction
materials          74.0      -       74.0
1978/   Ipako-Industrias                 Chemicals and
79/82  Petroquimicas                    Petrochemicals
Argentinas S.A                                      20.0      -       20.0
1979/   Alpesca S.A.                     Fisheries            5.2    0.9        6.1
1983
Total Gross Commitments                            174.4    2.9    177.3
Less Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                               103.7    2.0    105.7
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                   70.7    0.9       71.6
Total Undisbursed                                   24.7    0.4       25.1



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
(As of December 31, 1982)
Loan No.
1330-AR       Electric Transmission and Distribution Program: US$115.0
million loan of November 1, 1976; Effective Date: Janury 10,
1977: Closing Date: December 31, 1983. The execution of the
project initially was delayed but has been proceeding more
satisfactorily according to a revised schedule prepared in
March 1980. Some 90% of the project works are now in
operation. There remain to be completed primarily the
acquisition and installation of 132KV substations.
1384-AR       Fourth Highway Project: US$105.0 million loan of May 16, 1977;
Effective Date: December 13, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1983. After a delay of about two years because of the
Government's efforts in 1978 and 1979 to reduce public
expenditures, the civil works component is in full execution.
Forty civil works contracts are in execution and are expected
to be completed by end 1983. The remaining eight contracts are
to be retendered in 1983. Other project components are being
implemented satisfactorily. An extension of the Closing Date
will be required.
1463-AR       Industrial Credit Project: US$100.0 million loan of September
23, 1977: Effective Date: November 28, 1977; Closing Date;
December 31, 1983. The US$99.5 million of loan funds available
for onlending has been almost completely committed by BANADE.
1521-AR       Grain Storage Project: US$105.0 million loan of June 29, 1978,
Effective Date: November 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983. The Government recently proposed redesigning the Grain
Storage Project. It has proposed a line of credit to the
private sector for construction of new large grain storage
facilities; smaller silos in lesser developed northern regions
to be built by the Grain Board; expanded railroad improvements
supporting grain movements; and engineering design of proposed
port improvements. These are now being reviewed by the Bank
and, if approved, an extension of the Closing Date would be
required.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
1677-AR        Second Railway Project: US$96.0 million loan of November 8,
1979; Effective Date: May 6, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1983. The project is about one year behind schedule; it is now
being implemented in accordance with the revised investment
plan agreed by the Bank and the Government. Orders for US$80
million of Bank financed equipment have been placed. Progress
in line closures, rationalization of services, staff reductions
and operating improvements are in line with or above appraisal
targets. Financial targets have not been met, mainly because
of lower than expected traffic and inadequate tariff
increases. An extension of the Closing Date will be required.
1761-AR       Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project: US$210.0 million loan of
November 6, 1979; Effective Date: July 7, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987. Project execution has not begun because of
protracted delays in the award of the main construct-in
contract. The Governments of Argentina and Paraguay are now
reviewing an offer from the two lowest bidders, who have
formed a joint venture.
1880-AR        Oil and Gas Engineering Project: US$27.0 million loan of
October 3, 1980; Effective Date: December 2, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. Project implementation is now proceeding
satisfactory with initial work having commenced on all the
major components. Contracts have been awarded for auditing of
reserves, conducting seismic surveys and for carrying out the
gas optimization study. A limited extension of the Closing
Date will be necessary to complete the last mentioned study.
S-020-AR       Coal Exploration Project: US$10.0 million loan of May 13, 1981;
Effective Date: April 7, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Procurement of all equipment is completed and the
project-financed consultants are now in Argentina. The
responsibilities for drilling services remain to be resolved.
1905-AR       Vocational Training and Technical Education Project:
US$58.0 million loan of October 2, 1981; Effective Date:
February 22, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985. The
procurement problems and lack of adequate counterpart financing
which originally caused delays no longer impede project
execution. Construction of seven of the scheduled thirty new
centers is about to start, and eight more should be tendered
this calendar year. Furniture and equipment procurement, as
well as the recruitment of technical assistance, are proceeding
satisfactorily.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
2031-AR       Oil and Gas Credit Project:  US$100.0 million loan of October
2, 1981: Effective Date: October 1, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. BANADE has selected consultants to review
petroleum subprojects and to train the energy department staff
of the National Development Bank (BANADE). The latter has
several proposed subloan applications which await the
Government's negotiations of the terms of exploration and
development contracts with the private sector.
2032-AR       Refinery Conversion Project:  US$200.0 million loan of October
2, 1981; Effective Date: February 5, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. Satisfactory progress has been made in
initiating procurement arrangements for the refinery conversion
activity; a contractor has been employed. YPF has moved more
slowly on the operations improvements, financial management and
training programs.
2063-AR       Second Industrial Credit Project:  US$ 100.0 million loan of
December 1, 1981; Effective Date: February 16, 1983; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1986.   BANADE has established the policies
and procedures needed for project execution. The terms of
reference for and method of conducting the domestic effective
protection study are approved. Although the industrial
recession has dampened credit demand, the latter is expected to
pick up with the Government's help in reducing liquidity
problems, control of interest rates and export promotion
measures.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare the project:   9 months 1/
(b)  Agency which prepared project:                      DNV
(c)  First presentation to Bank:                         June 1980
(d)  First mission to review project:                    September 1980
(e)  Departure of appraisal missions:                    February 1981;
December 1982 and
March 1983.
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                         April 1983
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness-                      August 31, 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actionis
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a) the Government would exchange views with the bank on the
implementation of the recommendations of the NTP (para. 28);
(b) the Government shall establish planning and coordinating mechanisms
within MOSP to ensure that the railways and highways investment
plans are complementary to each other and are analyzed in accordance
with consistent criteria (para. 29);
(c) DNPT would, by July 31, 1983, update its user tax analysis and that
based on this study, and after consultations with the Bank, the
Government would adopt an action plan by June 1, 1984 (para. 38);
(d) DNV would institute the agreed upon procedures for the updating of
the Four-Year Investment Program and would provide adequate
resources for such purposes (para. 41);
1/ Up to first appraisal mission in February 1981.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) the Government would implement a program to improve planning and
operational capability of the provincial highway authorities
according to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank (para. 42);
(f) each of the provinces participating in the project would prepare,
by December 31, 1984, a detailed Four-Year Investment Program
(para. 42);
(g) the Government would continue to maintain the national highway
network adequately and that the maintenance budget would be at least
at the 1983 level in real terms, unless otherwise agreed with the
Bank (para. 43);
(h) DNV would provide, by March 1 of each year, starting in 1984, an
annual report on maintenance operations (para. 43);
(i) DNV would submit to the Bank, for approval, a technical and economic
data sheet for each subproject; each subproject would cost at least
US$1 million and have a minimum estimated economic return of 12
percent; once approved, the scope of the subproject would not be
changed (para. 54);
(j) the Government would hold semi-annual meetings with the Bank to
review progress on the selection and execution of Bank-supported
subprojects as well as review overall transport policies and plans,
DNV's investment and operating (administrative and maintenance)
budgets and the Financial status of DNV (para. 54);
(k)  the Government would complete all subprojects assisted under the
Sector Loan (para 57);
(1) For the purposes of carrying out the provincial road improvements
the Borrower, through DNV, would enter into an agreement with each
participating province that would cover the selection criteria, and
arrangements for execution and supervision, including financial
arrangements (para. 58);
(m)  Prior Bank approval would be required for civil works contracts
costing over US$10 million (para. 59); and
(n) the Government shall take all the necessary actions, including
exemptions under the current legislation, to enable DNPT and DNV to
contract in a timely manner foreign consultant services as required
for the purposes of the project (para. 60).
2. Retroactive financing for up to US$2 million for expenditures made after
January 1, 1983 is included in the Project (para. 57).






IBRD 3157R
F                0 o  L  | VT 4   ^        ,                                             JUNE S98
|      \    tArOSIACAO !  n   X !   2 
J  t ,<Xk  Kj\,                                ~ ~~~~4 N.
)         ,SAN ~~SALVADOR @        2.       * 4@
S ~ N_ I                  STr DELI .. ,-,~ 
URELA/   CAMPO
;(/f              2AJ2 o     LUI SUR A7        VLL ,
O    /A             N'                            I*EL SALA ASUNCON
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 L K. M,v               2F 
4- .e I_                                                      POSASAD 7OSS PiAEF RO
15.                      fib64 I                     3    4  )  \P I
SAFJACARLD5 5 SAMALDCI1E3R.Irh/   AN LUIS    2' o  SAtTIGPA        IRNR
) VAPAASO21                            /A{O                                 SR65ARS            2   R5VE
--|                      / ii  Jcnu >v                     16.UIN  CA MIOA        7. LU
(S     ?~*                  \.     G RA                   1 E   L T ER                  R
-\     CORDER'O     AE^9Ot3 FERRIE
.' VALPA RA                              -      HIGHWAYS IM. ED    UNDER 3,   PROJECT
( f )               <,                       PAYED
GRAVEL OR CONSO3LIOATED
6 / / I5 % I /~~~~~~ EARTH ROADS U SOME TRAILSI
R      - S   PROVINCIAL BOUNDARY
7  J,        5\g                _   ._~~~~ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
C1~~~~~~~~~~~ 7'.o
ta.\_--"   tt  ARGENTI NA
't 3~ RltOGL60   HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
K2i---'1.                                     PRINCIPAL ROADS OF
<  A   THE NATIONAL HIGHWAY NETWORK
( I0REAN"el_
thr,, 3pfq>vns2 bY th, suo ~~~~~O 0 500   50  _3C  40   50 RLOME TE RS
ORe ot~~~~~~~ See AonA~~~~~~~~~pnon/RYh  %~~~~~~~~~-  TERRIDELTORYO OP             ANA   RU
WoAv=eteRonUene/O I3A TIERRA DEL FUERO
Th qoua lennA ROcR ,tLP bI T t,.
An.n,Ienee OUnoh, Rh 4Un'o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~N ,                       .OUOSAIR~          mOROS
dn,noe,nw'. tn  henS M                                                                 t0 
Wn,hdtenk a    d hei eFfR'tSO  LRA
ilndgntet/ on J7  tUe bef 78
fly tOh4tOhY or nyendoesh'en
noennoptenne ohennh bnnadeneS



