Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3530b-AR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
ARGENTINA
May 4, 1983
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
jThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
US$1.00                    -    1,328 Argentine Pesos ($a) in June 1979
-    1,850 Argentine Pesos ($a) in June 1980
-    4,200 Argentine Pesos ($a) in June 1981
-   39,000 Argentine Pesos ($a) in September 1982
-   54,000 Argentine Pesos ($a) in January 1983
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Units of Weights and Measures: Metric
1 kilometer (km)  -  0.62 mile (mi)
1 meter (m)       -  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilogram (kg)   -  2.20 pounds (lb)
1 ton             -  2,205 pounds
Abbreviations
AGP     -    General Administration for Ports
CIF     -    Cost, Insurance and Freight
DNPT    -    National Directorate for Transport Policies and Programing
DNTT    -    National Directorate for Land Transport
DNV     -    National Directorate for Highways
DWT     -    Dead Weight Tons
FA      -    Argentine Railways
FDR     -    Regional Development Fund
FONIT   -    National Fund for Transport Infrastructure
GDP     -    Gross Domestic Product
HDM     -    Highway Design and Maintenance Model
NTP     -    National Transport Plan
SEIM    -    Secretariat for Maritime Affairs
UNDP    -    United Nations Development Program
WPI     -    Wholesale Price Index



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
ARGENTINA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .........................................                    I
A. General ............                                                           1
B.  The Transport Network  ...................................                    1
C.   Sector Planning, Coordination and Investment  ....               ........    2
D.  Major Issues in the Sector  ..............................                    3
E.   Bank Participation in the Sector ........................                    5
II.  THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR .......................................                      7
A.   The Highway Network and its Development  ....               .............    7
B.  Traffic Growth  ..........................................                    7
C.  Road Transport Industry - Freight Services  ....                ..........    8
D.  Road Transport Industry - Passenger Services  ....                ........    9
E.  Road User Charges  .......................................                    9
F.  Traffic Safety ..........................................                    11
G.  Administration of the National Network ..................    12
H.  Administration of the Provincial Networks  ....                ...........   13
III. THE DNV INVESTMENT PROGRAM ..................................                     15
A.   Global Investment Level .................................                   15
B.  DNV's Rolling Four-Year Program (1983-1986)  ....                .........    15
C.  Maintenance Program .....................................                    16
D.  Economic and Technical Basis of the DNV Program ...                ......    17
E.  Financing and DNV's Budget ..............................                    19
F. Engineering, Construction and the Road Construction
Industry  ..............................................                 20
G.  Provincial Road Investment Program ......................                    21
IV.  BANK PARTICIPATION  ..........................................                    21
A.   The Project  .............................................                  21
B.   Subproject Selection ....................................                   24
C. Procurement ..............                                                    24
D.   Procedures for Provincial Subprojects  ...................    25
E.   Disbursements  ...........................................                  26
F.   Special Account  .........................................                  27
G.   Semi-Annual Consultations and Project Monitoring ... .....    28
H.  Economic Viability and Assessment of Risk ....                 ...........   29
V.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ........................                   30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Argentina in February 1981 comprising Messrs. A. van Dijck
(Engineer), J. Gutman (Economist) and R. Mosse (Financial Analyst); and a
post-appraisal mission in March 1983 comprising Messrs. van Dijck and
Gutman. The report has been edited by Miss V. R. Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
TABLES
1.1  Modal Composition of Traffic ...............................   32
1.2  Historical Level of Public Transport Investment ....     ........   33
2.1  National and Provincial Highway Network ...................  .    34
2.2  Indices of Sector Growth ...................................   35
2.3  Appraisal Estimates of Traffic Compared with Actual Counts
per Third Highway Project (Loan 734-AR) ....       ..............   36
2.4  Weights and Dimensions of Vehicles ...................            37
2.5  Composition of Fuel Prices - November 1982 ...........            38
2.6  Road-Related User Tax Revenues and Road Expenditures 1980         39
2.7  Contribution to Paved Highway Costs by Vehicle Type 1979  ...   40
2.8  Transfer of Road Sections between Provinces and DNV ........   41
3.1  Highway Investment Program 1983-1986 .......................   42
3.2  Estimated First-Year Benefits for Road Works to be
Tendered in 1983          .........................................    43
3.3  Pipeline of Project Preparation ............................   44
4.1  DNV Tender Program 1983-1986 ...............................   45
4.2  Bank-Financed Program ......................................   46
4.3  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ........................   47
ANNEXES
1.   Program for Transfer of Technology to the Provinces ........   48
2.   Annual Report on Road Maintenance Operations ..............  .   49
3.   Economic Evaluation Guidelines for the Preparation of the
Four-Year DNV Investment Program .....      ....................    51
4.   Completion of Main Corridors for Country Integration .......   56
5.   DNV Procedures for Updating Four-Year Program ............  ..   57
6.   List of Initial Candidate Projects on DNV Network ..........   59
7.   Potential Uses of Technical Assistance Funds ...............   60
8.   Summary Data Sheets for Candidate Subprojects ..............   61
9.   Related Documents and Data Available in the Project Files         67
CHARTS
1.   Institutional Structure for Transport (March 1983) .........   68
2.   Distribution of User Tax Receipts ........... .. .............   69
3.   Organization of the National Highway Authority ...........  ..   70
MAP
IBRD 3157R - Argentina Highway Sector Project



I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
1.01      Over the last decade, Argentina has passed through a difficult
period, with a series of economic and political crises, In the mid-1970s, a
combination of domestic and international events undermined the country's
economy, resulting in rising external debt, falling foreign exchange reserves
and surging inflation. The Administration which came to power in 1976 moved
to stabilize the economy, but, by late 1981, the Government was faced with a
rapidly deteriorating balance of payments, heavy capital flight, reacceler-
ating inflation, deepening industrial recession and growing fears of a whole-
sale collapse of private financial institutions. The political confrontation
in the South Atlantic put further pressure on the economy in 1982.
1.02      The transport sector, representing 6% of the Gross Domestic Product
(GDP) and 18% of public sector investment, has been significantly affected by
the economic crises. In the mid-1970s, traffic declined on much of the
highway network. After 1976, traffic regained its early 1970s level and
resumed regular growth at 4% to 6% per annum until 1981-1982 when the
economic recession again affected it. Transport budgets have similarly
fluctuated in accordance with the economy.
1.03      The Bank has been involved extensively in the transport sector
during the past decade through the Second, Third and Fourth Highway Projects,
two Railway Projects and the preparation of a Port Project. As a result, the
Bank has played an important role during the difficult rebuilding years.
Bank projects have supported improvement in sectoral planning, policy formu-
lation and related institutional measures. The proposed Highway Sector Loan
represents the logical culmination of the Bank's four highway loans to the
National Directorate for Highways (DNV). Its format has been made possible
by the relatively high operational standards attained by DNV and the planning
and policy review efforts carried out under the Fourth Highway Project. The
project is directed at implementing policies and procedures in the highway
subsector in remaining areas of importance and provides for timely Bank
cooperation on issues relating to the transport sector as a whole.
B.   The Transport Network
1.04      Argentina has developed a highly diverse and extensive transport
network to integrate Its 2.8 million km2 of territory and to serve the needs
of its population of 28 million. The network (Map IBRD 3157R) includes
100,800 km of national and provincial primary roads; 32,200 km of railways;
17,000 km of pipelines for crude oil, refined petroleum products and natural
gas; over 100 ports and 90 commercial airports. Following the worldwide
trend, highways increasingly represent the dominant mode. From 1965 to 1979,
road transport's share of cargo traffic increased from 47% of total inter-
urban ton-km to 52%, while rail's share declined from 18% to 9%. Similarly,
in terms of passenger service, roads' share rose from 76% of inter-urban
passenger-km to 88%, while rail declined from 22% to 7%, with air transport
increasing its share from 2% to 5% (Table 1.1). For the next decade, no
significant changes in modal distribution are expected.



-2-
C.   Sector Planning, Coordination and Investment
1.05      Within less than two years, the Government has gone through three
organizational changes. At present, responsibility for the transport sector
is divided mainly among the Ministry of Economy, in which the Secretariat of
State of Maritime Affairs (SEIM) and its related agencies are located; and
the Ministry of Public Works and Services, in which DNV and the Argentine
Railways (FA) are located. Within the Ministries, sectoral responsibility is
further diffused in such a way that DNV is overseen by the Secretariat of
State for Public Works; and FA and the National Directorate for Land
Transport (DNTT), which regulates road transport services, are overseen by
the Subsecretariat for Transport. Air transport comes under the Air Force as
well as the Subsecretariat for Transport, and pipelines are handled by the
Subsecretariat of Energy within the Ministry of Public Works and Services
(Chart 1). In addition, the provinces maintain separate highway directorates
for their extensive networks and transport directorates for the regulation of
bus and truck operations within their jurisdictions. The most significant
effect of this organizational structure is the difficulty that it presents in
establishing balanced investment and operational, pricing and regulatory
policies for the sector.
1.06      Traditionally, the Ministry of Economy has established annual
investment limits for each of the modes, giving the modal agencies flexibil-
ity in determining priorities within those limits. Large projects require
supporting economic evaluations to be reviewed by the Ministry of Economy.
No multi-modal planning approach is applied by the Ministry. A detailed
assessment of the transport sector, however, has been conducted under the
National Transport Plan (NTP), which provides the Government with a more
comprehensive and consistent development strategy for the transport sector to
direct investment and policy planning. In 1977, the Government formed the
National Directorate for Transport Policies and Programing (DNPT) with two
objectives: to prepare the NTP and to establish a capacity for conducting
planning and policy formulation for the transport sector on a continung
basis. The Bank, under the Fourth Highway Loan (Loan 1384-AR), as well as
the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), provided technical assistance
and funding for the NTP. By March 1981, Phase I was completed; it included
an analysis of the existing status of the sector and preliminary recommenda-
tions on investment, operational efficiency, pricing and taxation and
Government organization. Phase II is directed at refining the results of
Phase I, conducting further analytical work and initiating actions to imple-
ment the Plan's recommendations. Bank financing under Loan 1384-AR has been
made available for Phase II (scheduled to end by January 1984). The proposed
Project is designed to maintain a dialogue between the Bank and the
Government on the important issues addressed in the NTP and would provide
financing for internationally experienced consultants for further studies to
be carried out by DNPT during the 1983-1986 period (para 4.07).
1.07      Public sector investment, especially in transport, has fluctuated
considerably during the past decade following the rise and fall of the
general economy. The "boom and bust" cycle of investment results in the
modal agencies trying to catch up on deferred works postponed because of
under-investment in earlier years. In transport, there was a considerable
increase in investment from 1967 to 1972, which then steadily declined over



-3-
the next three years, rose sharply in 1976 and has declined ever since
(Table 1.2). The country's current economic difficulties will further
restrict transport investment at least through 1983. In terms of modal
distribution, while water and air transport shares have fluctuated from year
to year, probably because of the lumpiness of investments in those
subsectors, rail's share increased from 1977 to 1983 while roads' share
declined. The NTP recommends an annual level of investment for the sector
over the next decade equivalent to that of 1979 with 43% for federal roads,
30% for rail, 19% for air and 8% for ports. Provincial transport expendi-
ture, almost totally in roads, is considerable, and, in 1979, total provin-
cial road expenditures were about 40% higher than DNV expenditures. There
are also major transport investments which are considered outside the levels
set for the modal agencies. These investments include strategic projects,
such as international bridges, and projects for which private concessionaires
are being sought, such as toll roads.
1.08      While DNPT serves as the only transport planning unit with a
sectorwide perspective, institutionally it is located within the
Subsecretariat of Transport, which is formally responsible only for the
railways and the regulation of road transport services. DNPT's influence on
the rest of the sector is limited and depends on the extent to which it is
called upon for advice by other Secretariats and/or Ministries. At the very
least, DNPT should be responsible for annually reviewing, on behalf of the
Ministry of Public Works and Services, the investment plans for ground
transport, both road and rail. It was agreed during negotiations that the
Ministry of Public Works and Services would establish mechanisms to ensure
consistency in the preparation of rail and road investment plans. DNPT would
report on this matter during the semi-annual reviews (para 4.25).
D.   Major Issues in the Sector
1.09      Among the issues confronting the sector, there are four which are,
or will be, of considerable concern to the Government over the next five
years:
(a) Changing Role of the Federal Government;
(b) Rationalization of the Railways;
(c) Road User Charges; and
(d) Limited Port Capacity.
(i) Changing Role of the Federal Government
1.10      One response to the economic crises of the 1970s and the surge in
spending by the Federal Government has been the decision to promote the
rationalization of Government services, the "privatization" of those services
which could be handled more efficiently by the private sector and the decen-
tralization of selected Government activities to the provincial level. The
Federal Government would maintain responsibility for those activities which
cannot be delegated. Although the initial targets of the Government policies
have been outside the transport sector -mainly in health, education and water
works- there have been some important efforts in transport, and more are
expected in the future. Rationalization of transport services has been
applied mostly to the railways and has led, since 1976, to the closing of 19%
of the network and the elimination of uneconomic passenger service, the
reduction of freight service on another 35% of the system, and a 37%



-4-
reduction in FA personnel. "Privatization" is being attempted in all the
subsectors. The major effort in the sector has been the leasing of the
Buenos Aires subway system, which is currently being negotiated. Other
efforts include the leasing of railway shops and port facilities, the
building and operation of toll roads by private firms and the contracting oi
road maintenance (para 3.08).
1.11      In addition, decentralization has already moved ahead in the
highway subsector, with the transfer, in 1980, of a substantial portion of
the national network to the provincial system (para 2.01). Pressure is
mounting to further decentralize and transfer DNV activities to the provinces
(para 2.26). Other decentralization actions include the pending transfer of
the Buenos Aires suburban passenger rail system from FA to the City and
Province of Buenos Aires and the delegation to the provinces of responsibil--
ity for expanding and constructing river port facilities.
1.12      In carrying out this wide-ranging new policy in the transport
sector, Government agencies will require assistance in designing plans of
action, in strengthening provincial agencies which will receive increased
responsibilities, and in monitoring the results of the actions taken. The
Bank's Second Railway Project (Loan 1677-AR) is already providing assistance
to FA and DNPT in developing and implementing an appropriate plan of action
for the railways (paras 1.13-1.14). The proposed Highway Sector Project is
directed at assisting DNV and provincial authorities with regard to decen-
tralization (para 2.26) and privatization (para 3.09) in addition to making
financing available to DNPT for technical assistance on these issues for the
sector as a whole (para 4.07).
(ii) Rationalization of the Railways
1.13      The Argentine railway problem stems from the combination of a
change in the economic structure of the country, the extension and improve-
ment of the highway network and the inefficiencies which result from decaying
infrastructure, an "over-dimensioned" network and an excessive number of
employees. While FA is an extensive railway with over 32,000 km of rail
lines, the traffic density on those lines averages about 330,000 ton-km per
km of line, which is about 35% of the traffic density on the Mexican system.
About 80% of the traffic is hauled on 16,000 km of the network, and 95% of
the tonnage hauled is handled at 27% of the stations.
1.14      Since 1976, the Government has made a substantial effort to
redefine the role of the railways and to rationalize the system accordingly.
The Second Railway Project is designed to assist in that process through
investment and technical assistance. The staff of FA has been cut from
156,000 to 97,000, the network has been cut by 7,600 km and uneconomic
services have been reduced. Operational efficiencies have been achieved with
improved locomotive and wagon availability and increased loads per freight
car. Traffic, which had declined from 16.1 to 9.7 billion ton-km from 1950
to 1978, rose to 10.7 billion ton-km in 1979, only to decline again to aboul:
9.5 billion in 1980 and 1981 and rise to 11.5 billion in 1982, mainly depend-
ing on the grain harvest.  The operating losses are substantial, with a
working ratio of 207, since tariff increases have been limited in real
terms. Thus, substantial work and difficult decisions remain before the
railways can serve the country's economy efficiently.



-5-
(iii) Road User Charges
1.15      The issue of road user charges is discussed in detail in paragraphs
2.10 to 2.12. Based on 1979 data, the NTP concluded that inter-urban truck
operators have not been paying a share of road infrastructure costs commen-
surate with their use of the road network. Since then, the situation has
deteriorated further.   The central issue is that diesel prices 1/,including
road user taxes, are not sufficient to cover the opportunity cost of fuel
plus providing an adequate contribution for road infrastructure. Resolution
of the issue should be part of a strategy to implement a consistent pricing
policy for all modes, and especially between rail and truck.
(iv) Limited Port Capacity
1.16      The Argentine port subsector needs substantial investment to
improve its handling of grain exports and containerized cargo. The major
problem has been the shallow draft of the sea and river channel accesses to
the ports. At the Port of Buenos Aires, the maximum draft is 30 feet, with a
maximum of 27 feet upriver to Rosario and 22 feet to Santa Fe. Grain ships
are restricted to 34,000 DWT compared to the typical ship in world grain
traffic of 50-60,000 DWT. Even the smaller ships must follow the slow
process of loading 10-18,000 tons upriver and "topping-off" at Buenos Aires
or Bahia Blanca for a relatively low overall load factor. An initial solu-
tion supported in the NTP would be the dredging of the approach channel to 45
feet to the ocean port of Bahia Blanca, expanding its port and improving
storage facilities and inland grain transport. This is the objective of the
proposed Bank port project (para 1.17), which has been delayed because of
various technical and institutional difficulties. Another investment deci-
sion which is being discussed is the construction of a new deepwater port at
Punta Medanos, north of Mar del Plata. A review of the feasibility study
suggests that such an expensive project (costing about US$1 billion for port
infrastructure alone) would be premature and that other improvements such as
Bahia Blanca and expanded river ports should be implemented first.
E.   Bank Participation in the Sector
1.17      As evidenced by the preceding discussion, the Bank has been
involved extensively in the transport sector. Highway development has been
promoted by four loans totaling US$228.5 million (Loan 288-AR, June 1961,
US$31 million after cancellation; Loan 619-AR, June 1969, US$25 million;
Loan 734-AR, May 1971, US$67.5 million; and Loan 1384-AR, May 1977, US$105
million). Two loans totaling US$152.5 million have been made to help
improve the railway system (Loan 733-AR, May 1971, US$56.5 million after
cancellation; and Loan 1677-AR, March 1977, US$96 million). A port project
was appraised in August 1979, but negotiations have been delayed. All of
the above projects have experienced serious delays and, in many cases,
substantial cost overruns, mainly due to the economic crisis of the mid-
1970s. The First Railway Project was to assist the Argentine Government
in renovation and improvement of the railway to make it viable within a
1/   In Argentina, diesel is called "gas-oil."



-6-
modern competitive environment; by 1974, it was clear that no substantial
progress was being made. Rather than renegotiation of the targets, the
Government and FA chose cancellation of the uncommitted balance of the loan.
The Second Railway Project experienced delays in becoming effective.
1.18      The First Highway Project in 1961 required a project redefinition
and an extended closing date to December 1968. The original road sections,
totaling 800 km, included for upgrading under the Second Highway Project were
completed by mid-1973; the two sections (totaling 260 km) added in 1974 to
utilize the loan balance were completed in June 1978. The final cost of the
Project was 17% above the initial estimates, mainly because of the rapid
inflation in the mid-1970s. The Third Highway Project, which straddled this
difficult economic period, was not completed until 1980; it provided for
upgrading 1,130 km of primary and secondary roads of the national network.
Completion cost was 41% above the appraisal estimates. All road sections
included in this project were ultimately completed. The ongoing Fourth
Highway Project experienced initial delays when the DNV budget was scaled
down and the backlog of projects already in execution had to be completed.
Further delays have been caused by the financial failure of several
contractors and subsequent contract rescissions.  Although about 40 of the 48
sections should be completed by end-1983, the remaining retendered sections
will not be completed until mid-1985.
1.19      The experience with past and current transport lending operations
indicates that project implementation in Argentina can be difficult and
time-consuming and that delays are the rule rather than the exception.  Much
depends upon the continuity of government and the state of the economy, both
extremely difficult to factor into the implementation plan of a project.  The
sector format of the proposed loan should help to avoid many of the delays
encountered in earlier loans.
1.20      Over the course of the four highway loans to DNV, the Bank has
helped to finance the construction and improvement of 5,500 km or 14% of the
national network. The current-Fourth Highway Project involves about 1,285 km
of public works, of which about 75% were completed by January 1983.
1.21      In addition to the public works aspects of Bank lending to DNV, the
four highway projects have contributed significantly to the institutional
development of DNV, as confirmed in the respective Project Completion Reports
(PCRs) for the Second and Third Highway Projects.2/ The most notable
contributions have been in improving the planning practices of DNV through
staff training, preparation of methodologies and financing of field surveys
of the network and in improving organizational efficiency and management
procedures of DNV through mission reviews and technical assistance.  The
resultant high operational standards of DNV and the established dialogue
between DNV and the Bank have led to the proposed Highway Sector Project as
an appropriate means for Bank involvement in the remaining areas of
2/   Second Highway Project - Loan 619-AR - PCR dated November 30, 1978 and
PPAR 2556 dated June 25, 1979.
Third Highway Project - Loan 734-AR - PCR dated January 30, 1981 updated
and released with Highlights under M83-179 of March 3, 1983.



-7-
importance. The bases for Bank involvement in those areas are the studies
prepared under the Fourth Highway Project:
(a) the National Transport Plan (para 1.06);
(b) the Highway Needs Study (para 3.11); and
(c) the Study on Traffic Safety (para 2.13).
The implementation of the recommendations of these studies would be
objectives of this proposed Sector Project.
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   The Highway Network and its Development
2.01      The basic road network in Argentina is in place, although not yet
at required standards. As of 1981, it consisted of 38,500 km of national
roads with 71% paved and 62,000 km of provincial primary roads with 28% paved
(Table 2.1). The network is classified according to the type and level of
traffic served; an inventory of the general characteristics of both the
provincial primary and national network is maintained by DNV and updated
continuously. In keeping with the Government's policy to rationalize the
activities of Federal agencies and to delegate responsibility to provincial
authorities, DNV, in late 1980, reviewed its classification of the road
network, transferred 13,140 km of the national networks to the provinces and
reclassified 3,230 km of provincial roads as belonging to the national
system.
2.02      Substantial improvements were made on the national network between
1965 and 1975 with the paving of 9,355 km of roads. The restrictive DNV
budgets of the mid-1970s left a backlog of major works to be completed, which
took priority over strengthening and reconstruction during the rebuilding
years of 1976-1980. As a result, the condition of the generally light
pavements on older sections of the network deteriorated. The DNV Highway
Needs Study 1980-1982 (para 3.11) found that 6,400 km, or 23% of the national
trunk and primary network (27,500 km), are now in need of reconstruction.
Over 50% of the DNV investment program for 1983 is thus directed at
rehabilitation, strengthening and reconstruction. The condition of the
provincial network is under study by DNV.
B.   Traffic Growth
2.03      Traffic growth on the nation's roads followed an erratic pattern
from 1970 to 1980. Fuel consumption statistics (Table 2.2) illustrate how
automobile travel declined in 1975 in response to the general economic
problems of that period and to the 1974 OPEC price increase, but rose quickly
between 1975 and 1980, with gasoline consumption increasing at an average
annual rate of 7%. Diesel consumption, of which trucks represent about 46%,
was apparently unaffected during this decade, growing at about 4.5%
annually. It is too early to perceive the effects of the substantial
increases in fuel prices in recent years and the current economic problems.



-8-
2.04      Traffic growth not only varied greatly from year to year, but also
from region to region. The PCR for the Third Highway Project revealed that
the earth and gravel roads which were improved, especially in the outlying
less developed provinces, registered substantially higher traffic than
expected, while the high traffic density road sections in major urbanized
regions registered less than expected growth, if any (Table 2.3). Thus, the
paving of the arterial Route 14 in the provinces of Entre Rios, Corrientes
and Misiones had an average annual growth rate of from 8 to 15% between 1970
and 1980, while the sections which were repaved or converted to four-lane
divided highways showed average annual increases of from 0 to 5%. These
statistics illustrate the growing importance of inter- and intra-regional
transport in areas outside the traditional radial traffic pattern between
Buenos Aires and the provinces and are in accordance with population trends.
2.05      To monitor traffic development, DNV established, in 1971, a
comprehensive traffic count system with technical assistance from the U.S.
Federal Highway Administration and financing under the Second Highway Loan.
The system included 122 permanent count stations and substantially more
seasonal count stations. The system was neglected after 1974, and, although
data were collected, no control over procedures and results was instituted.
No statistical summaries were published until 1980, and much of the
information was considered unreliable except for traffic counts made in
conjunction with specific projects to be implemented with external
financing. During the preparation of the proposed Sector Project, DNV
prepared and implemented a Plan of Action for Traffic Counts and has
improved the system through the introduction of new, specially trained field
staff. Under the proposed Project, financing would be provided for the
acquisition of 200 traffic counters to upgrade and expand the current system
(para 4.05).
C.   Road Transport Industry - Freight Services
2.06      Road transport has continuously increased its share of freight
movements since 1965 at the expense of rail and inland waterways
(para 1.04). The trucking industry which has evolved is a dynamic one, not
restricted by entry, capacity or tariff regulations. With 65% of the fleet
in the hands of owner-operators, a healthy level of competition has been
maintained, resulting in a wide range of tariffs and types of services
offered. Of the remaining trucks, 20% are operated by transport companies
and the remainder are for "private" or "own-account" hauls. The fleet grew
at an average annual rate of 4.4% from 1975 to 1980 (Table 2.2). Trucks
represent a comparatively high proportion of highway traffic, averaging 43%
on the road sections included in the Third Highway Project (Table 2.3).
Further analysis of the trucking industry was made by the Bank and is
presented in ARGENTINA: Analysis of Road Freight Transport and Intermodal
Alternatives (Cono Sur), March 1981.
2.07      Freight vehicles on the nation's highways are subject to
regulations limiting the size and weight. The regulations are administered
by DNV in accordance with the Transit Law of 1970. DNV has established
maximum dimensions and weights per axle and per vehicle (Table 2.4).
Enforcement of the regulations was originally conducted through the use of
portable scales at alternate locations. After finding such scales to be
inadequate for the 24-hour coverage which is considered necessary to control



-9-
freight vehicles on heavily trafficked routes, DNV has initiated the
installation of 44 permanent weighing stations for a control "belt" around
Buenos Aires and near other major cities. One of the weighing stations being
installed on Route 9, north of Buenos Aires, has a scale for weighing
vehicles in motion. Recent legislation has attempted to standardize size and
weight limits for all of the national and provincial networks as well as the
fines to be imposed for non-compliance. Operation of vehicle weigh stations
outside of the Province of Buenos Aires is expected to become the
responsibility of the provinces under the new legislation, and some provinces
are already operating stations.
2.08      In 1979, DNV introduced a minimum power-to-weight ratio, which is
measured by the vehicle braking power related to the gross weight. The
average ratio for trucks in Argentina is 3 HP/ton as compared with over 6.5
HP/ton in Europe. Many trucks in Argentina are "under-powered," resulting in
lesser speeds and lack of acceleration, especially on steep grades, causing
dangerous conditions and contributing to congestion. The DNV regulation
raises the minimum power-to-weight ratio gradually from 3.5 in December 1981
to 5.0 by January 1986. DNPT assessed the impact of the regulation by
identifying the affected fleet and estimating the increased cost of either
reducing cargo loads on underpowered vehicles or purchasing more appropriate
trucks. The results showed that the regulations would substantially affect
the truck-trailer combinations with rear tandem axles which represent about
35% of the truck combinations on the highways. The regulation is now under
review to determine if full implementation is warranted.
D.   Road Transport Industry - Passenger Services
2.09      In 1980, interurban buses accounted for 32% of all interurban
passenger-km in the country. Over 180 companies with 2,900 vehicles are
serving inter-provincial routes. This important industry, however, has been
hindered by an inefficient regulatory structure, as pointed out in the NTP.
Entry, capacity, tariffs, routes and schedules are regulated by the DNT for
routes which cross provincial boundaries and by the provincial transport
agencies for intra-provincial routes. Many companies are regulated at both
levels because of the mix of routes which they serve and are subjected to
conflicting or redundant reporting procedures, resulting in unnecessary added
costs. The complexity of administrative procedures at DNTT has caused delays
of over two years in deciding on applications for additional service. The
Subsecretariat of Transport is preparing to review the situation, and
technical assistance for this purpose would be made available under the
proposed Project (para 4.07).
E.   Road User Charges
2.10      The Government has traditionally followed a policy that road users
should pay for the utilization of road infrastructure through the imposition
of specific ad valorem taxes, mainly on fuel (Table 2.5), lubricants and
tires (61% of gross user tax receipts) and through registration fees and
taxes on vehicle sales. The distribution of these taxes is illustrated in
Chart 2. According to the NTP, gross receipts from user taxes in 1980 were
more than the total expenditures for the construction and maintenance of the
national, provincial and urban highway networks as well as for the regulation
of freight and passenger transport on the networks (Table 2.6). While the



-10-
gross receipts may be adequate, an analysis of the distribution of road taxes
among types of users and the pricing of fuel, compared with its economic
opportunity cost, raises the issue that certain road users, especially
commercial heavy vehicles on the interurban highways, may not be paying an
appropriate share of road costs. The general principle to be applied in
determining a minimum equitable distribution of user taxes should be that
users pay the full costs of owning and operating the vehicle and the
attributable costs of operating, maintaining and reconstructing the roadway,
which vary in accordance with the number and weight of the various types of
vehicles. This would be generally equivalent to paying the medium term
marginal cost of the roadway. In the case of Argentina, such criteria are
not being fully met by diesel-powered vehicles.
2.11      One of the main questions is whether the pump price of fuel is
sufficient if one takes into account the opportunity cost of fuel. Although
substantial fuel price increases at the pump since 1979 had improved the
situation so that, by February 1981, all fuel prices appeared to be well
above their opportunity costs, the subsequent devaluations of the peso
resulted in lower dollar equivalent prices per gallon, as shown below:
FUEL PRICES PER GALLON
SUPER           REGULAR          DIESEL
($A)   (US$)    ($A)  (US$)    ($A)  (US$)
June 1979              1,793  1.35    1,501  1.13    1,116   0.84
February 1981         5,867  2.65    4,807  2.17    3,520   1.59
June 1981             7,392  1.76    6,090  1.45    4,620   1.10
February 1982        15,709  1.43   13,060  1.19   10,031   0.91
February 1983        66,995  1.08   60,560  0.98   36,715   0.59
April 1983           77,214  1.19   69,644  1.07   42,014   0.65
These prices can be compared with an estimated international CIF price to
Argentina of US$0.87 per gallon for regular and US$0.84 for diesel as of
April 1983. The comparison reveals that the current pump price does not
cover the opportunity cost of diesel and does not permit an adequate
contribution, in economic terms, to cover road costs, especially in the case
of commercial vehicles using diesel, which is discussed in the following
paragraph. Argentina, however, is expected to raise its fuel prices by 3.2%
per month in real terms through March 1984 in accordance with an agreement
with the International Monetary Fund. This would mean that the diesel pump
prices should reach international prices by the end of the year.
2.12      In addition to the issue of fuel prices is the question whether
each type of road user is paying an equitable share of road costs. The NTP
analysis of road user charges (based on 1979 data)3/ revealed two forms of
cross-subsidization between road users. The first type in Argentina occurs
between urban and inter-urban traffic, where urban traffic contributes 60% of
3/   Excluding the secondary costs of pollution and congestion.



-11-
gross tax receipts but represents only 11% of total road-related operating
and capital budgets (excluding congestion costs). This cross-subsidy is not
considered to have caused major distortions in demand, and its resolution is
not a priority issue. More serious is the finding that, for the paved
inter-urban network, truck and bus operators were covering only 50-60% of
medium term marginal costs attributable to their use of the road network, or
25-35% of average costs, while automobiles were paying 85% of average costs
(Table 2.7). Again, with the substantial fuel price change since 1979, the
situation, which apparently has deteriorated, needs to be reviewed based on
an updating of the NTP analysis.  At negotiations, the Government confirmed
the following:
(a)  that it is the Government's policy that users of road
infrastructure contribute, through related and specific road
user charges, to cover at least the marginal cost of that
infrastructure and that it recognizes that the operators of
diesel-powered vehicles are not complying with this policy;
(b)  that, by July 31,1983, DNPT would update its user tax
analysis, taking into account changes in fuel prices since
mid-1979, and would formulate explicit policy recommendations
and mechanisms for implementation; and
(c)  that, based on the Government's review of the above-mentioned
user tax analysis for commercial diesel-powered vehicles and
recommended changes in the taxation level, a plan of action
would be proposed by December 1983 and adopted by June 1984,
after consultation with the Bank.
F.   Traffic Safety
2.13      Traffic safety has been of increasing concern in Argentina.  The
number of deaths related to traffic accidents expressed in vehicle-kilometers
traveled on the national road network was more than three times higher in
1975 than that in the U.S. and Canada. Under the Fourth Highway Project, DNV
undertook a comprehensive study, executed by Argentine consultants, covering
all aspects of traffic safety in Argentina. The study assessed, and made
recommendations on, road design standards; road marking and signing;
identification of, and recommendations for, improving dangerous road
sections; traffic accident statistics; vehicle standards and inspection;
driver licensing; insurance; police enforcement and education. The National
Commission for Traffic and Highway Safety was established in 1980, headed by
the Secretary of Transport and Public Works, with the participation of the
various Government agencies and private organizations. The DNV study has
served as a basic working document for the Commission, and initial efforts
have been directed at a comprehensive educational program.
2.14      DNV has created a Division for Traffic Safety within its Planning
Directorate. This Division is responsible for updating and implementing a
traffic safety program including improved standards for geometric design,
safety measures during execution of works and maintenance, and road marking
and signing. The Division is developing a traffic accident register designed
to identify the "black spots," dangerous road sections; it is also proposing



-12-
education programs, preparing draft legislation on traffic safety and
maintaining relations with federal and provincial police departments.
2.15      DNV has initiated an ambitious program to implement the
recommendations of the traffic safety study. The proposed sector loan would:
(a) monitor the implementation of the Safety Study
recommendations;
(b) provide financing for the road marking and signing program and
for the improvement of dangerous road sections; and
(c) provide technical assistance when and where required
(para 4.06).
G.   Administration of the National Network
(i) DNV's Organization and Staffing
2.16      Planning, programing, design, construction and maintenance for the
national highway network are the responsibilities of DNV, a semi-autonomous
organization under the supervisory authority of the Secretariat of Public
Works 4in the Ministry of Public Works and Services. DNV's headquarters in
Buenos Aires plans, controls the budget and coordinates development of the
national highway network, while the supervision of construction, betterment
and maintenance is carried out by DNV's 24 district offices, which report to
headquarters through five regional offices. DNV is directed by an
Administrator General, and the organizational structure is shown in Chart 3.
2.17      DNV's staff has been reduced from a level of about 17,000 in 1977
to 9,000, mainly because of the contracting of maintenance operations and the
elimination of related laborers in the district offices. There are about 500
professionals, 2,200 technicians, 900 administrative personnel, 800 service
personnel and 4,600 laborers. Salaries, especially for the higher functions,
are low under the present economic conditions but apparently are sufficient
to attract qualified staff from the private sector and from other Government
agencies.
2.18      Within the General Directorate of Planning, a Department of Traffic
has been created which includes a Division for Traffic Safety (para 2.14),
a Division of Vehicle Weights and Dimensions (weight control, power-weight
ratio, exemptions for special transports, tariffs for truck permits, etc) and
a Division for Traffic Statistics. Also of great importance are the expanded
tasks of the Directorate General of Control, which will have primary respon-
sibility for auditing requirements, including the control and evaluation of
the technical, administrative and financial management of DNV (para 2.20).
Together, these changes will provide DNV with more centralized planning
capability.
(ii) Accounting and Auditing
2.19      DNV's accounting and financial functions are the responsibility of
DNV's Administration Department and are carried out by competent
professionals who enter the institution following a competitive selection



-13-
process.  The budgeting practices of DNV are sound.  It is recognized that
improved coordination between the Administration and Planning Departments is
required for updating budget requirements so that financial needs are
reliably projected well in advance. Revised procedures for updating the
Investment Program (para 3.15 and Annex 5) should facilitate such coordin-
ation and enable DNV's Administration Department to plan its liquidity
requirements.
2.20      The Control Department for DNV has an internal audit function in
the technical, administrative and financial management of DNV. The
Department is responsible to the Administrator General, but also responds
directly to requests from the national Management Control Department in the
office of the President. An improved reporting system is being implemented
in which physical progress of DNV works is related to accumulated budgetary
expenditures and, also, better estimates are made of what funds, including
cost escalation, are required to complete the works. The increased respon-
sibility of the Control Department will resolve this issue.
2.21      On the project level, control of expenditures is carried out in
many stages. For instance, the monthly certificate of a contractor is
approved for physical and technical progress and budgetary, contractual and
financial appropriateness by the consultant responsible for supervision and
by DNV's Resident Engineer. Thereafter, the payment certificate has to be
approved by DNV district and region, by the construction and accounting
departments in DNV Headquarters and, finally, by the Administrator General or
his representative. The payment certificate is then sent for payment to the
Accounting Department of the Ministry of Economy.
2.22      The Ley Nacional de Contabilidad (National Accounting Law) is
applicable to DNV. In the first quarter of each year, the balance sheet of
DNV and a complete and detailed account of its financial transactions of the
previous year are submitted through the Executive Office to the Contaduria
General de la Nacion (National Accounting Office) for its examination and
approval. The Contaduria General acts as the outside auditor required by the
Ley de Contabilidad and is entitled to examine all documents which it
considers necessary. It was agreed during negotiations that the Government
would, commencing with the fiscal year ending December 31, 1983: (a) have
the Special Account (para 4.23) and DNV's accounts and financing statements
for each fiscal year audited, as well as accounts and financial statements
related to the subprojects included in the Highway Sector Project, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied by the
Contaduria General de la Nacion; and (b) furnish to the Bank, as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, the report of such audits and such other information concerning
its accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
reasonably request from time to time.
H.   Administration of the Provincial Networks
2.23      Provincial Highway Authorities are in charge of the maintenance,
reconstruction and construction of the provincial highway networks. In the
context of the system of federal co-participation, DNV transfers 35% of its
receipts of user taxes on fuel, lubricants and tires to the provinces for the
construction and maintenance of provincial principal roads which are



-14-
complementary to the national system. In addition, the provinces receive
about an equal amount directly from the fuel taxes to be spent at their
discretion. A major additional source of financing for provincial roads is
the registration fee of vehicles (Chart 2).
2.24      Information provided by the NTP indicates that, in 1979, the
provinces spent about 40% more on their 62,000-km primary network than DNV
spent on its 38,000-km network. About 87% was directed at construction and
the remainder at maintenance activities. The earmarked taxes mentioned above
cover about 70% of the expenditures; the rest are financed from general
revenues.
2.25      The capabilities of the provinces in highway matters vary widely,
from the provinces of Buenos Aires, Cordoba, Santa Fe and others with highway
organizations equivalent to DNV, to several provinces in the outlying regions
with limited capacity. The ability of these latter provinces to administer
the network adequately is of immediate concern because of the effect on these
provinces of the recent transfer of sections of the national network. In the
case of Salta, Catamarca and San Juan, the transferred sections represent
from 63 to 79% of their primary network, placing a substantial new burden on
these provinces (Table 2.8). While some funding of improvement, transfer
of equipment and personnel adjoined the transfer in many instances, there is
a need to monitor the condition of these roads in the near future. DNV
should seek agreement with the provincial authorities to carry out such
monitoring.
2.26      During the next five years, pressure will increase on DNV to
decentralize its activites and transfer more responsibilities (and funds) to
provincial authorities. The main voice for the provinces has been the
Federal Highway Council (CVF) which includes representatives from each of the
provinces as well as representatives of DNV. DNV, for its part, has taken a
major step in this direction through the transfer of road sections. Also,
DNV delegates bidding and supervision responsibilities to the provinces on an
ad hoc basis for federally funded projects. The contract maintenance program
is designed to facilitate the possible transfer of maintenance responsibil-
ities to the provinces without substantial changes in provincial organiza-
tions which could interrupt maintenance operations during transition. The
realization that more must be done to help the provinces care for their own
networks and prepare them for the transfer of responsibilities led to the
signing of an agreement between DNV and CVF in March 1981 to conduct a
transfer of technology program (outlined in Annex 1). Subsequent to that
agreement, each of the provinces signed letters of intent with DNV, request-
ing that funds from the Highway Sector Loan be applied to economically
justified high priority provincial road works. This would help to ensure the
carrying out of needed provincial subprojects during this period of budgetary
restrictions and would enhance the transfer-of-technology program through the
preparation of the specific subprojects and an overall investment program
(para 3.24).



-15-
III. THE DNV INVESTMENT PROGRAM
A.   Global Investment Level
3.01      The Ministry of Economy establishes investment levels for the
national road network (para 1.06) which DNV is not allowed to exceed. The
investment targets include all expenditures, with the exception of the
administration of DNV, routine maintenance, transfers to provincial agencies,
and debt service. Since 1977, this level has continually dropped in real
terms, from US$580 million in 1977 to US$354 million in 1979 to about
US$228 million in 1982. For 1983, the Government increased the level to
US$320 million supported by increasing user tax revenues.
3.02      The National Transport Plan reviewed road transport needs and
estimates that the appropriate average annual level of investment for DNV
over the next ten years should be about US$350 million, equivalent to the
level attained in 1979 and to the average projected levels in DNV's 1983 to
1986 financial forecast. Applying generalized technical and economic
criteria to the road network and identifying the major feasible projects for
the 1981 to 1990 period, the Plan concluded that, with appropriate investment
levels sufficient to cover estimated highway needs, DNV could carry out the
paving of 5,100 km of presently earth and gravel roads (45% of the unpaved
national roads); the reconstruction and/or strengthening of about 19,500 km
of pa^ved roads; and the construction of 1,200 km of freeways and urban
bypasses. Although the physical condition of the network would gradually
improve under this work program, the overall level of service might not
change significantly because of traffic increases.
B.   DNV's Rolling Four-Year Program (1983-1986)
3.03      DNV annually prepares a Four-Year Program which lists the highway
projects to be carried out within the budgetary limits set by the Ministry of
Economy. Distinction is made between two main categories of civil works:
(a) works: new construction, reconstruction and works related to agreements
(Convenios) with provinces and the Regional Development Fund (FDR)
(para 3.14); these projects are carried out by the Construction Department
and usually have a construction period of more than one year; and (b) im-
provements and other items: betterment and road safety items carried out by
the Maintenance Department, and consultant contracts and various miscel-
laneous works. These are usually one-year contracts.
3.04      Assuming that DNV will receive about US$320 million per year
through 1986, the following observations can be made concerning the probable
revised Four-Year Program (Table 3.1):
-    New construction projects will decrease and expenditures for
reconstruction projects will increase markedly. This trend
reflects the increased priority being placed on reconstruction and
improvements;
-    Commitments in works in execution will be relatively heavy in 1983
and 1984, which leaves, after allowing for Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) projects still to be tendered, limited
uncommitted funds for new construction and reconstruction works in
these years; and



-16-
The amounts set aside for various improvement works will be
satisfactory, allowing sufficient road betterment and traffic-
safety-related works to be carried out.
3.05      The Program as a whole is balanced and the individual subprojects
already identified are well justified (paras 3.11-3.13). The investment
program, together with the operational budget, provides for: (a) the neces-
sary emphasis toward betterment and reconstruction of existing roads in order
to prevent rapid deterioration of aged light pavements; (b) suppo rt for
traffic-safety-oriented projects, such as road marking and signing and the
illumination of a limited number of road sections; and (c) sufficient funds
for road maintenance. While DNV's program includes substantial new construc-
tion works in low density corridors, which are directed at better integrating
outlying regions into the economy, the construction of freeways and beltways
necessary to alleviate heavy congestion near and around urban centers has
been deferred. Thus, although there is a need to improve programing
practices for future updates (para 3.15), the current Program provides a
satisfactory basis for initiating the Highway Sector Project.
C.   Maintenance Program
3.06      The Maintenance Directorate of DNV is responsible for routine and
periodic maintenance of the national highway system. Although funding for
maintenance was erratic during the 1970s, it is evident that the network is
in an adequate state of repair. Much of the reconstruction which has been
identified is to provide heavier pavements for increased traffic volumes, a
task which could not have been avoided by better maintenance practices.  DNV
districts are divided into zones, the basic management unit for maintenance;
zones cover 150 to 1,000 km of roads, with a 350-km average.
3.07      Periodic maintenance, including overlays and surface treatments, is
carried out by contract. Limited funds were available in the 1977-1979
period, when attention was focused on the completion of the large number of
construction projects dating back to the previous administration. Since
1980, the level of expenditures has been raised to a satisfactory US$150
million level, in 1982 values.
3.08      Until 1979, routine maintenance had been carried out directly by
the DNV zones under force account. Late in 1979, in line with Government
policies to foster private enterprise, DNV introduced contract maintenance
for its routine maintenance operations, seeking to improve efficiency,
minimize costs and reduce its equipment fleet, which was due to be renewed.
Some 70% of the network was contracted, but 30% remained under force account
to enable DNV to gauge contract prices, to retain a nucleus of maintenance
activities, and to have DNV staff and equipment available for emergencies.
The system proved not flexible enough in the face of uncertain future budget
allocations, as well as too complex to supervise and manage. DNV's present
approach is to contract specific maintenance tasks, when required, compatible
with the financial constraints. This approach implies a more extensive force
account operation, estimated at about 50%, rather than the 30% originally
intended, and will require more staff and the procurement of maintenance
equipment and tools, provided for in the draft investment budgets for
1983-1985.



-1 7-
3.09      Expenditures for routine maintenance are presently at the US$70
million level and are scheduled to increase gradually in the future; with
38,000 km in the national network, this figure represents an average
expenditure of US$1,850/km, which, under the present restricted financial
situation and given the adequate condition of the network, should be
considered satisfactory. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that
it would continue to maintain the national network adequately, and it was
agreed that the Government would allocate the required funds, which would be
at least at the 1983 level in real terms, unless otherwise agreed during
consultations with the Bank. A formula was agreed during negotiations to
adjust the amounts allocated in future years in line with increased input
prices. The Highway Sector Project would support the maintenance operations
and development toward contract maintenance by financing technical assistance
to help solve management problems that may arise in DNV and to help assess
the cost effectiveness of the approach (para 4.06 and Annex 7). To help
monitor the progress of this effort, the Government agreed at negotiations
that it would provide, by the end of March of each year, starting in 1984, an
annual report on maintenance operations.  The contents of that report are
delineated in Annex 2.
D.   Economic and Technical Basis of the DNV Program
3.10      The updating of the rolling Program has been conducted in the past
in a pragmatic manner, and new entries have been made on the basis of
economic analysis, engineering judgment, political pressures and regional
balance. Feasibility studies are made either by the Economic Studies
Division of the Planning Directorate or by consultant firms in more complex
cases. The evaluation methods are those which have been used and improved
through the preparation and final evaluation of previous Bank loans to DNV.
The economic justification for the investment program has been confirmed
through three sources:
(a)  DNV Highway Needs Study for reconstruction projects;
(b)  National Transport Plan for new construction projects; and
(c)  Bank confirmation of feasibility of initial projects to be
tendered.
3.11      The reconstruction projects in the Program generally coincide with
the segments identified by the Highway Needs and Pavement Strengthening Study
being carried out by DNV, with support under the Fourth Highway Project. The
Needs Study is to be a continuous effort designed to identify, in a
methodical manner, deficient road sections on the national network and to
evaluate project alternatives in terms of design and timing. About 10,000 km
of roads are being reviewed annually with regard to their general structural
and geometric characteristics. Through the use of standard sufficiency
ratings, the more deficient sections are selected for detailed study, includ-
ing roughness measurements, deflection and test borings. Improvement alter-
natives are then assessed through the use of the Bank's Highway Design and
Maintenance Model (HDM) with modifications appropriate for Argentina. In
1982, of the 27,000 km of the national principal network which were
surveyed, 6,400 km were identified for reconstruction. The estimated
internal rates of return (IRR) for the projects identified, almost all of
which have been included in the Four-Year Program, either as reconstruction
or betterment, ranged from 10% to over 100%, with 85% of the projects having
IRRs of over 25%.



-18-
3.12      The NTP has confirmed the economic feasibility of the major
upgrading and freeway projects included in the DNV Program. The IRRs ranged
from 11% to 45%, with 25 of the 34 projects having IRRs of 15% or more. Time
savings, which comprise a substantial proportion of the benefits for freeway
projects, were appropriately based on an analysis of income levels and are
differentiated by trip purpose.  The projects with the lower economic returns
were for paving unpaved roads, for which diverted and generated traffic may
not have been fully accounted, leading to a potential underestimation of
benefits and returns.
3.13      In addition to the preceding, the Bank, with DNV's assistance,
tested the general feasibility, through the estimation of First Year
Benefits, of new construction and reconstruction projects included in the
1983 tender program. Assuming a weighted average savings per vehicle in
vehicle operating costs, time and accidents, when applicable, by type of
construction project, and using only the first-year traffic on the project
road section, project benefits in the first year were approximated. With
very few exceptions, the benefits were equivalent to over 10% of the
investment cost, which indicates IRRs greater than the accepted opportunity
cost of capital for Argentina, estimated at 10% (Table 3.2). More detailed
feasibility calculations are being conducted for initial candidate projects
for Bank financing, following the methods prescribed in Annex 3.
Furthermore, future updates of DNV's Program should ensure optimum project
selection and design as the recommended programing procedures and methods are
fully incorporated into DNV's operations (para 3.15).
3.14      Also included in the investment program are road projects for which
the primary justification is the integration of outlying regions with the
national network. The major corridors which are the focus of this effort are
described in Annex 4. Some of these projects are selected under a program
called the Regional Development Fund (FDR), which is administered by the
Ministry of Interior and executed by DNV with the combined financing of the
Ministry of Interior, DNV and the affected province. In some instances,
these projects have lower rates of return than the rest of the program, but
have been given priority by the province and/or the Government because of the
social or strategic considerations of the project. In such cases, a tech-
nically adequate minimum cost solution should be pursued. An important
corridor is Route 40 along the foothills of the Andes, many sections of which
are still earth roads. At negotiations, it was agreed that DNV, by June
1985, would carry out a technical and economic feasibility study for the
improvement of Route 40 and/or its alternatives from Catamarca to Santa Cruz
and take into account the results in future updates of its investment
program.
3.15      Although the existing system has not resulted in any apparent
serious investment errors and the high priority projects are normally
included in the Program, increasing political pressures, high inflation and
limited budgets have raised the need to institute more systematic and tech-
nically consistent procedures for the preparation of the Program. Such
procedures would allow DNV to weigh the costs and benefits of alternative



-19-
projects in order to properly estimate and justify its budgetary requirements
and to select and design projects taking overall budgetary restrictions into
consideration. Under the Highway Sector Project, DNV would implement a plan
for revising its procedures for updating the Four-Year Investment Program.
The revised procedures have been developed by DNV staff in consultation with
the Bank and are summarized in Annex 5. The main features of the revised
procedures are the formal incorporation of the results of the Highway Needs
Study into the updating of the investment program and the application of a
consistent economic methodology in the evaluation of all projects being
considered for investment. At negotiations, it was agreed that DNV, starting
in 1984, would institute the proposed procedures for the updating of the
Four-Year Investment Program.
3.16      DNV is reviewing its staff requirements for the Planning
Directorate and agreed at negotiations to provide sufficient resources to
update the Four-Year Investment Program annually.
E.   Financing and DNV's Budget
3.17      The main sources of funds for DNV's investment and operating
budgets are the earmarked portions of user taxes on the sale of fuels (5-7%
of pump price), lubricants and tires, representing 73% of DNV's projected
capital and operating expenditures in 1983 and on the sale of new and used
motor vehicles, representing 28% of these expenditures. Other funding
includes Federal Government contributions from the Transport Infrastructure
Fund (FONIT), which is also based on fuel taxes and is distributed between
the railways and DNV at the discretion of the Government (originally 50%
each, but lately a much lower percentage is allocated to DNV and virtually no
such funds will be assigned in 1983); the collection of tolls; and internally
generated funds from the sale of used DNV equipment. The distribution of
user tax receipts is shown on Chart 2. Existing loans from the World Bank
(Fourth Highway Loan) and IDB (road reconstruction) represent about 12% of
the 1983 to 1986 investment program.
3.18      A summary of DNV's budget for 1978, 1983 and projected 1986 is
shown on the next page. Capital expenditures show a substantial decrease in
time because of the gradual elimination of the large backlog of uncompleted
works inherited from the previous administration and the lower levels of
investment imposed by the Ministry of Economy since 1979. The higher levels
of investment through 1978 required large direct Government allocations,
especially in 1976 and 1977, a sizable contribution from FONIT in 1978, and
large foreign and domestic borrowing in 1977 and 1978. However, because of
the steady net increase of the earmarked taxes available to DNV (especially
the large increase of the Motor Vehicle Expressway Fund derived from the
increased sale of cars in 1979 and 1980), DNV has been able, with its
investment level fixed, to reduce its debt notably, especially in 1980,
notwithstanding the large reduction of allocations from the FONIT fund.
Personnel costs have increased despite substantial staff reductions because
of an increase, in real terms, in DNV's salaries and wages and because of the
shift in DNV's personnel structure with the hiring of more professional
staff.



-20-
DNV's Budget Summary
(in millions of Constant September 1982 US$)
1978            1983         1986
Capital Expenditures                    484    80%      328    78%   353   78%
Operating Expenditures                  124    20%       93    22%    97   22%
Total Expenditures                      608   100%      421   100%   450  100%
Net Taxes on Fuel, Lubs., Tires         240    40%      306    69%   324   68%
Taxes on Sale of Vehicles               111    18%      116    26%   128   27%
Other Sources                            25      4%      24      5%    25    5%
FONIT Allocation                         77    13%        1      -     -     -
Direct Government Allocation             24      4%      -       -     -     -
Total Revenues                          477    79%      447   106%   4    106%
Surplus/Deficit                        -131   -21%       26      6%    27    6%
Interest on Debt & Debt Repayment    - 98               -77           -88
Financing Required                      229              51            61
to be covered by additional
taxes, direct Government
allocations and loans from
the Bank and IDB
3.19      DNV's financial structure is sound, with moderate debt leverage.
DNV repaid almost all of its expensive domestic long term debt for the
reasons mentioned, and by obtaining favorable foreign loans. The borrowing
practices of DNV have been carried out strictly on a commercial basis. For
the 1983-1986 period, it is estimated that DNV's debt service payments, in
relation to tax revenues, would not exceed 28%, reflecting a rational finan-
cial policy followed by DNV's management. In the semi-annual consultations,
the financial status of DNV would be monitored (para 4.25).
F.   Engineering, Construction and the Road Construction Industry
3.20      The Design Department of DNV is responsible for the detailed
engineering of road investment projects and prepares tender documentation and
cost estimates up to the tender stage. The Department is well staffed and
able to carry out design work in-house as well as to control and monitor
design work executed by Argentine consultants. The professional standards of
DNV and its consultants are at international levels. Table 3.3 indicates the
progress made in project preparation. As of January 1, 1983, designs were
completed for over 30 projects covering 950 km of roads and totaling US$230
million, and an additional 139 projects covering 4,000 km and totaling about
US$400 million were in various stages of design preparation.
3.21      The Argentine road construction industry is well developed and can
execute all types of works satisfactorily, including intricate expressways
and major bridges. Highway construction is carried out under unit price
contracts with adequate price adjustment formulas. No foreign contractors
showed interest in the works tendered for the Fourth Highway Project. There
is a possibility, however, that, because of scarcity of works in surrounding
countries, notably Brazil, foreign interest may increase, although the
competitive position of the local contractors will remain strong. Typical



-21-
construction and reconstruction projects are in the US$2-5 million range, but
there are regularly contracts of over US$10 million for expressways and
beltways. Because of keen competition and a proficient contracting industry,
road construction prices have traditionally been low in Argentina.
3.22      Contractor performance is generally good; work progress was, in the
past, very much linked to DNV's ability to pay the monthly certificates on a
timely basis. In the difficult years during the mid-1970s, works virtually
came to a standstill, and many contracts had to be renegotiated when the new
administration took office in 1976; these works have now all been completed.
At present, DNV pays within the two-month period specified in its standard
contract. Present performance of contractors is linked to their financial
situation. Past experience illustrates how extreme fluctuations in the
nation's economy can affect works in execution.
3.23      DNV's Construction Department is responsible for the tender process
and the execution of construction and reconstruction works, presently at an
annual level of over US$200 million. In accordance with Government policies
to foster private enterprise and to diminish civil service staff, the inspec-
tion of construction work is often carried out by consulting firms, whereas
DNV monitors this inspection in the field. The quality of the consulting
services is good.
G.   Provincial Road Investment Program
3.24      Few statistics are available in aggregate form for the provincial
road investments. Through the financing of provincial road works, the
Highway Sector Project would focus on developing rational planning practices
and capabilities at the provincial level. At negotiations, it was agreed
that all participating provinces would prepare, by December 31, 1984, and
update annually thereafter, detailed four-year investment programs in
coordination with DNV. To ensure that appropriate procedures are applied in
the selection, evaluation, preparation and execution of works to be financed
by the Bank, DNV would have significant responsibility, as outlined in para-
graph 4.17.
IV. BANK PARTICIPATION
A.   The Project
4.01      The proposed Highway Sector Project is directed at maintaining the
Bank's presence in the subsector in order to promote and assist the effective
implementation of a series of programs and plans of actions developed under
the ongoing Fourth Highway Project. Through the financing of investment
items in DNV's and the Provinces' Four-Year Program, 1983-1986, and the
provision of technical assistance, the Sector Project would accomplish the
following:
(a) reorganization and strengthening of DNV's Planning Department and
improvement of its operational procedures for updating the
investment program (paras 3.15-3.16);



-22-
(b)  strengthening of provincial planning capabilities through the
transfer of technology from DNV to the provincial authorities
(para 2.26);
(c)  definition of appropriate road maintenance management system and
budgetary requirements (para 3.09);
(d)  support to DNV's program for traffic safety (para 2.15);
(e)  maintenance of the dialogue between the Government and the Bank on
sectorwide issues arising from the conclusions of the NTP,
especially with regard to user charges and passenger transport
regulation (paras 1.06, 2.09, and 2.12); and
(f)  establishment of the role of DNPT and strengthening of that agency
(para 1.08).
4.02      Taking into account the Bank's long association with DNV and DNV's
administrative capabilities, a sector loan format is proposed for this
project. This flexible format, by which virtually any subproject within the
investment program during the project period is a potential candidate for
financing, should overcome the disbursement delays encountered in earlier
projects (para 1.18). The Project Completion Report for the Third Highway
Project concluded that, by being tied to specified projects, the Bank was
unable to meet the immediate needs of DNV as fluctuations in the economy
altered investment priorities and the initiation of Bank subprojects was
postponed. Rather than being tied to specific projects at appraisal, the
Sector Project would be directed at financing a "time slice" (1983 to 1986)
of the investment program.
4.03      If investment levels are not reduced from the estimates provided in
Table 3.1, DNV is expected to maintain a tender program for new construction,
reconstruction and various road improvements, excluding subprojects included
in the IDB loan, of about US$180 million in 1983 and reaching US$240 million
by 1986 (in January 1983 prices) (Table 4.1). In addition, about US$90 mil--
lion is assumed as the total cost of provincial subprojects which could be
proposed for financing. The Sector Project would help to finance the 1983-
1986 time slice of a large part of these uncommitted subprojects in the
investment program, including new construction, reconstruction and improve-
ments, as well as the provincial roads (Table 4.2). The total cost of these
subprojects during this period is US$560 million including about US$56 mil-
lion in value added taxes. The foreign exchange component of this investment
during the 1983-1986 period represents about 45% of total cost (para 4.20)
and is equivalent to US$250 million. The proposed US$100 million loan, of
which US$1 million is for technical assistance, US$1 million for the
procurement of traffic counters and US$1 million unallocated, would thus
represent almost 17% of the cost of the potential subprojects for the 1983-
1986 period and would contribute about 8% to the total DNV investment program
for the same period.



-23-
4.04      The distribution of the loan would be as follows:
Civil Works
-  National Roads                       US$56.75 million
-  Provincial Roads                     US$40.00 million
Procurement Traffic Counters            US$ 1.00 million
Technical Assistance
-  DNV                                  US$ 0.50 million
-  DNPT                                 US$ 0.50 million
Front-end Fee                           US$ 0.25 million
Unallocated                             US$ 1.00 million
Total                                  US$100.00 million
4.05      Among the civil works for the national highway system, the Bank
would finance a variety of subprojects ranging from road marking and signing
and betterment subprojects to reconstruction of existing road sections, new
construction of roads and construction of urban beltways and access roads.
The initial candidate projects are shown in Annex 6. The civil works for the
provincial networks would include betterment and reconstruction subprojects,
as well as selected construction works. At negotiations, DNV confirmed the
status of project preparation and the tender and award schedules. Also,
agreement was reached on the DNV updated four-year rolling program for the
period 1983 to 1986 and on the administrative and maintenance budget for
1983. During semi-annual meetings, the Bank and DNV would discuss the annual
updating of the program and the proposed subprojects (para 4.26). The
project would also finance the procurement of traffic counters to replace
outmoded existing equipment (para 2.05)
4.06      Technical assistance to DNV under the Project would be established
as a global amount which would finance the contracting of individual experts
with international experience for limited periods of time to provide high
level assistance during the course of the project. As the need for specific
consulting services arises, terms of reference and consultant selection would
be prepared subject to Bank approval. Potential uses for this fund are
listed in Annex 7. An amount of US$0.5 million has been provided. Loan
funds would cover the full costs of the foreign experts estimated at an
average fee of about US$9,000 per month plus a per diem of about US$3,000 per
man-month and air travel averaging US$2,500 per visit. Local consultants
with international experience would also be eligible for financing under this
component at an average monthly fee of about US$4,000 and would represent
about one-third of total man-months. The fund, then, represents about
45 man-months of assistance for DNV. It was agreed at negotiations that the
Government would take all actions necessary to facilitate the contracting of
foreign experts, including exemptions under current legislation.
4.07      In order to promote the implementation of the recommendations of
the NTP (para 1.06), the proposed loan would provide financing for foreign
technical assistance for studies to be carried out by DNPT during the
1983-1986 period. An amount of US$0.5 million has been reserved for these
activities. The potential use of these funds has been listed in Annex 7; the
cost per man-month is estimated to be the same as that given in paragraph
4.06. This part of the loan would be administered by the Subsecretariat of
Transport through DNPT.



-24-
B.   Subproject Selection
4.08      Two important concepts to be considered are the individual sub-
projects and the contract(s) associated with each subproject. The subproject
is the unit considered for purposes of selection, preparation and evaluation,
while contracts for the implementation of specific subprojects are the basis
for disbursements.
4.09      Bank financing would be restricted to disbursements !. ,'ivil works
contracts pertaining to eligible subprojects awarded before January 1986 and
which would have an initial completion date prior to July 1988. The proposed
loan would consequently be linked to financing a time-slice of expenditures
on contracts of eligible subprojects approved by the Bank; thus, not all
contracts would be completed when loan funds would be depleted. Full
disbursement is expected by mid-1987 but would depend upon the number and
progress of the contracts financed by the Bank. DNV and the provinces would
complete the works on contracts then still under construction in accordance
with a schedule defined for each subproject. At negotiations, it was agreed
that the Government would complete all subprojects assisted under the Sector
Loan. The financing of a time-slice under the proposed Sector Loan would
also allow the inclusion of two subprojects already tendered and subprojects
to be tendered early in 1983 following international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank gttidelines. These subprojects would be eligible for
retroactive financing for up to US$2 million for expenditures after
January 31, 1983.
4.10      DNV would prepare, for each subproject, a technical and economic
evaluation summarized in a basic data sheet (Annex 8), which would include
information on the rationale of the proposed works, the design standards, the
alternatives considered, the cost, the results of the economic evaluation and
the proposed tendering schedule. The Bank would study this evaluation,
request additional information as required, and confirm eligibility. An
estimated rate of return of 12% or more would be required unless otherwise
agreed to by the Bank. Three sample projects, proposed for financing, are
presented in Annex 8. Rejected subprojects may be resubmitted for future
consideration if the project scope is amended, or if changed conditions
improve the relevance and the justification of the proposed subproject.
4.11      Declaring a subproject eligible would mean agreement by the Bank,
in principle, to help finance contracts related to the subproject, provided
budget funds are allocated, the tender process has been executed according to
agreed procedures and the detailed engineering has been carried out in
accordance with the agreed design standards. The Bank would not accept
subprojects estimated to cost less than US$1 million equivalent. Once a
subproject has been declared eligible, DNV would complete its detailed engin-
eering and proceed with the procurement process. However, subprojects
estimated to cost more than US$10 million would require ex-ante approval of
the tender documents by the Bank. Agreement on the above procedures for
subproject identification and evaluation was reached at negotiations.
C.   Procurement
4.12      Civil works eligible for financing under the proposed sector loan
would be procured through international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank guidelines for procurement, except for civil works estimated to



-25-
cost US$3 million or less, which would be procured on the basis of contracts
in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures, while giving foreign
contractors the opportunity to bid. It is estimated that about 40% of the
contracts would fall into this category. These works typically consist of
road improvements of limited lengths spread over the entire country and do
not lend themselves to being combined in larger packages.
(i) Prequalification
4.13      Prequalification of Argentine contractors is based on DNV's
permanent register which is periodically updated; this system was applied
satisfactorily in previous Bank highway loans and would be continued. For
foreign contractors, notices on the program as a whole would be published in
The Development Forum and sent to embassies. In addition, notices for
specific tenders would be advertised locally and, for civil works estimated
to cost over US$3 million, sent to the embassies. Interested foreign
contractors should ask to be put on the mailing list for notices of the
availability for specific tenders. Foreign contractors would be subject to
post-qualification.
(ii) Tender Process
4.14      Once a subproject has been declared eligible, DNV would, without
the Bank being involved in this stage, prepare tender documents and final
cost estimates, advertise tenders, open and evaluate bids, and award and sign
contracts. However, if the data supplied in the original basic data sheet
would essentially change during the detailed engineering stage of the
subproject, causing the cost to increase by more than 20% or the estimated
rate of return to decrease below the 12% threshold of capital, DNV would send
a revised form to the Bank for its confirmation prior to inviting tenders.
The time allowed for preparation of bids would be 60 days for tenders with an
estimated contract amount of more than US$3 million equivalent and 45 days
for tenders of a lesser amount.
(iii) Bank Acceptance of Contracts
4.15      After the signature of each contract, DNV would send to the Bank
two conformed copies of the contract together with the resolution of the
Administrator General awarding the contract. The Bank would review this
information and, if satisfied, indicate no objection, thereby declaring the
specific contract accepted, or request further information. The Bank would
have the right to reject the contract when agreed tender procedures were not
followed, and to cancel the related loan amount. In case a higher-than-
expected tender amount would make the project economically unfeasible, DNV
and the Bank would review the possibility of lowering the design standards of
the subproject. Also, if the design of a subproject is materially modified
after initiation of construction, Bank concurrence would be required.
D.   Procedures for Provincial Subprojects
4.16      DNV would serve as the intermediary in the technical preparation,
economic evaluation and supervision of provincial subprojects. Each
subproject would be subject to an agreement ("Convenio") between DNV and the
provinces. Loan repayments and interest from the province to DNV would be
regulated under the agreement with the provision that DNV would have the



-26-
right to deduct the necessary amount from assigned user taxes to that
province if there were a default in payments to the contractors or repayments
to DNV.
4.17      The modus operandi of financing the provincial roads would be as
follows:
(a) Selection of Subprojects:
The Province proposes the subprojects but DNV is responsible for
the technical and economic evaluation. DNV selects the subprojects
for Bank consideration.
(b) Eligibility of Subprojects:
The Bank would declare a subproject eligible upon documentation
prepared by DNV, similar to that for DNV subprojects (para 4.14).
(c) Detailed Engineering and Tender Documents:
To be prepared by the Province, and to be approved by DNV.
(d) Tender and Award:
By the Province, to be approved by DNV. Tenders would be open to
all registered Argentine contractors and to foreign contractors who
wish to participate, under local competitive bidding rules with 45
days between advertisement and bid opening.
(e) Contracting:
By the Province with conformed copies to DNV and the Bank.
(f) Supervision:
By the Province with inspection of DNV.
(g) Payments to Contractors:
Certification by the Province, payments to contractors to be made
by the Province. DNV would, upon receipt of full documentation,
reimburse the Bank's participation (45%) to the Provinces and would
subsequently withdraw the amount from the Special Account at the
exchange rate prevailing at the date of DNV's payments (para.4.24).
(h) Loan Repayments, Interest and other Bank Charges:
The Province would repay DNV; DNV would be responsible for
repayment to the Bank.
(i) The Bank would receive two conformed copies of the Convenio between
DNV and the Province; all other documentation, once a subproject is
declared eligible, would remain in DNV headquarters.
The procedures for financing the provincial roads were agreed to during
negotiations.
E.   Disbursements
4.18      For civil works, after acceptance of the contract(s) of a
subproject, funds can be withdrawn by DNV from the Special Account on the
basis of statements of expenditures (para 4.24). Disbursements for technical
assistance and for equipment items would be made upon full documentation
being provided to the Bank.



-27-
4.19      Disbursements would be made on the following basis:
(a) 45% of total expenditures for civil works;
(b) 100% of the costs for technical assistance; and
(c) 100% of foreign exchange costs for equipment.
4.20      The foreign exchange component for civil works is difficult to
evaluate because it represents mostly indirect costs included in the local
production of vehicles and equipment, cement, asphalt, fuel and steel. In
the 1977 appraisal report for the Fourth Highway Project, the foreign
exchange component was estimated to be 35%; after the recent devaluations,
this percentage is estimated at 45%.
4.21      Standard disbursement profiles, prepared by the Bank for highway
projects worldwide, indicate, in the LAC Region and in Argentina, that a
seven and one-half year period is required to obtain full disbursements.
However, this pattern is not expected to be repeated under the proposed
Sector Project because the Bank would help to finance a time-slice of a
program of eligible subprojects which would require US$250 million to cover
foreign exchange costs, which is almost three times the available US$97
million for civil works in the proposed loan. A disbursement period of four
years would therefore be appropriate. Full disbursement is expected by the
end of 1987. Estimates of disbursements are given below and in Table 4.3:
Disbursement Schedule for Sector Loan
--------(million US$)--------
1984   1985   1986   1987   Total
Civil Works                   20      30     30      17      97
Traffic Counters                1      -      -       -       1
Technical Assistance           1       -      -       -       1
Unallocated                    -       1      -       -       1
Total Disbursements           22      31     30      17     100
4.22      The above progression of disbursements assumes tendering for
Bank-financed subprojects of about US$50 million by end-1983 and about US$150
million by end-1984. The schedule for additional tendering and the progress
of the works, together with the rate of disbursements, was reviewed during
negotiations and would be reviewed during the semi-annual consultations (para
4.25).
F.   Special Account
4.23      In order to reduce the interval during which DNV would finance the
Bank's share of project costs with their own resources, the Government may
request the Bank to make advance payments from the loan account into a
Special Account, to be opened in US$ in the Central Bank, and which would be
available for financing the Bank's share of the project cost only. The
amount deposited in the Special Account could be increased by the Bank as
required for project execution, but would not exceed US$10 million. DNV
would be entitled to make withdrawals from the Special Account in Pesos at
the exchange rate applicable on the day upon which DNV's payments were made
on Bank-approved contracts. The withdrawal applications would be on the



-28-
basis of statements of expenditures covering the payments made by DNV for
these specific contracts. Supporting documentation would not be submitted to
the Central Bank and the Bank, but would be retained by DNV; it would be made
available for inspection during project supervision missions and would be
subject to annual auditing. Also, the Special Account would be subject to
auditing by the Auditoria General. The Bank would replenish the Special
Account upon request of the Central Bank on the basis of the withdrawals
made.
G.   Semi-Annual Consultations and Project Monitoring
4.24      With regard to project monitoring, the Government confirmed at
negotiations that it would prepare quarterly reports for the Bank providing:
the listing of eligible subprojects; the listing of contracts relating to
eligible subprojects; the progress of execution of Bank-financed subprojects;
the status of disbursement requests; and the schedule of estimated
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan.
4.25      Furthermore, in order to monitor progress on the objectives of the
proposed Sector Project, it was agreed at negotiations that the Government
would hold semi-annual meetings in March and September of each year of the
Project. The Government would prepare reports on the following in accordance
with the indicated schedule and any other reports as the Bank may reasonably
request from time to time:
(a) By March 15 of each year, DNV would report on:
-    level of completion during previous year of subprojects in the
investment program;
-    breakdown of recurrent budget expenditures for previous year;
-    summary of financial status of DNV at end of previous year;
-    report on maintenance operations during previous year
(Annex 2);
-    status of selection and execution of Bank-financed
subprojects;
-    implementation of improved program planning procedures and
strengthening of related DNV departments;
-    use of technical assistance funds during previous year by DNV;
-    assessment of construction supervision costs for previous
year; and
-    enforcement of vehicle weight regulations.
(b) By September 15 of each year, DNV would report on:
-    proposed update of four-year investment program;
-    proposed recurrent budget for upcoming year;
-    financial forecast for DNV for upcoming year;
-    progress of Traffic Safety Program;
-    progress of Transfer of Technology Program;
-    progress of improved Traffic Count Program;
-    status of selection and execution of Bank-financed
subprojects; and
-    estimated application of funds for technical assistance for
coming year.



-29-
(c)  By March 15 of each year, DNPT would report on:
-    status of road user charges and fuel prices;
-    status of bus regulatory review;
-    update of investment objectives and projected limits for each
of the transport subsectors;
-    status of rail and road competition; and
-    use of technical assistance funds during previous year.
(d)  By September 15 of each year, DNPT would report on:
-    the estimated application of funds for technical assistance
for the coming year; and
-    the actions taken to ensure consistency of the road and rail
investment plans for the following year.
H.   Economic Viability and Assessment of Risk
4.26      The general economic feasibility of the investment program was
confirmed (paras 3.11-3.13). Furthermore, the project has been designed to
promote a more systematic selection of subprojects in future updates of the
program by improving DNV's planning procedures and has assisted in developing
a consistent methodology for project evaluation. The broad geographic
distribution of subprojects ensures that the benefits of road improvements
would be widely distributed; and competition in the transport industry,
especially in the trucking industry (para.2.06), should facilitate the
distribution of benefits among vehicle operators, passengers and shippers in
the form of deferred tariff increases.
4.27      One risk to the Sector Project is that renewed national economic
difficulties could lead to restrictions in the road investment budget and
cause the failure of contracting firms, which would delay the implementation
of many projects in the investment budget; and/or that inflation would surge
beyond expectations, raising the cost of ongoing projects and restricting
DNV's ability to finance new projects without increased budget allocations.
The flexibility of the Sector Loan format minimizes such risks by not tying
the loan to predetermined projects. In addition, the amount of the loan has
been prudently set below the full potential for eligible projects, and the
disbursement estimates include a delay factor in subproject execution.
Nevertheless, a substantial reduction in investment levels might cause
disbursement delays of one or two years and would delay the completion of the
overall investment program.
4.28      Another uncertainty is the extent to which the Bank would be able
to influence sector policies and the effect of the change in Administration,
scheduled for January 1984, on planned policy improvements. The Bank's
strategy has been to help develop, through the financing of the NTP, a
Government institution, DNPT, with the in-house capability and sectorwide
perspective needed to direct transport policy. It is expected that DNPT
would continue to be instrumental in formulating transport policy under the
new Administration. The Sector Project is designed to maintain the Bank's
involvement through consultation, financing of technical assistance and
emphasizing the need to resolve some of the more important issues such as
user charges.



-30-
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following:
(a)  that the Ministry of Public Works and Services would establish
mechanisms to ensure consistency in the preparation of rail and
road investment plans and that DNPT would report on this matter
during the semi-annual reviews (para 1.08);
(b)  that the Government confirms its policy that users of road infra-
structure should contribute, through related and specific road user
charges, to cover at least the marginal cost of that infrastructure
and that it recognizes the inadequate charges imposed on operators
of diesel-powered vehicles (para 2.12);
(c)  that DNPT would update, by July 31, 1983, its road user tax
analysis, taking into account changes in fuel prices since
mid-1979, and would formulate explicit policy recommendations and
mechanisms for implementation; and that, based on the Government's
review, a plan of action would be drafted by the Government by
December 31, 1983 and adopted by June 1, 1984, after consultation
with the Bank (para 2.12).
(d)  that the Government would, commencing with the fiscal year ending
December 31, 1983, have the Special Account and DNV's accounts and
financial statements for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied by the
Contaduria General de la Nacion, and would furnish to the Bank, not
later than six months after the end of the fiscal year in question,
the agreed upon documentation (para 2.22);
(e)  that the Government would allocate funds for road maintenance at
least at the level of 1983 in real terms, and that DNV would
provide an annual report on road maintenance operations
(para 3.09);
(f)  that DNV would, by June 1985, carry out a technical and economic
feasibility study for the improvement of Route 40 and/or its alter-
natives from Catamarca to Santa Cruz and take into account the
results in future updates of its investment program (para. 3.14);
(g)  that DNV, starting in 1984, would institute the agreed upon
procedures for the updating of the Four-Year Investment Program
(para 3.15);
(h)  that DNV would review the staffing requirements of the Planning
Directorate (para 3.16);
(i)  that the participating provinces would prepare and annually update
four-year investment programs by December 31, 1984 (para 3.24);
(j)  that the Government would take all actions necessary to facilitate
the contracting of all high level experts financed under the
technical assistance component of the loan (para 4.06);



-31-
(k)  that the Government would complete all subprojects assisted under
the Sector Loan (para 4.09); and
(1)  that the Government would prepare appropriate reports and hold
semi-annual meetings with the Bank to review progress on the
selection and execution of Bank-supported subprojects as well as
review overall transport policies and plans, DNV's investment and
operating budgets, the financial status of DNV and other objectives
of the project (paras 4.24-4.25).
5.02      During negotiations, confirmation of agreement on the following
was obtained:
(a)  the status of preparation and of the tender and award schedules of
subprojects for which Bank financing has been or would be requested
(para 4.05);
(b)  the draft investment program for 1983 to 1986 and the
administrative and maintenance budget for 1983 (para 4.05);
(c)  the process of identification of subprojects and the technical and
economic evaluation methodology to be applied (para 4.08-4.11);
(d)  the procedures for international competitive bidding, for
prequalification, tendering and contracting; and disbursement
procedures for loan funds (paras 4.12-4.23); and
(e)  the procedures for financing the provincial roads (para 4.17).
5.03      Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for
a Bank loan of US$100 million. The terms would be 15 years, including
a three-year grace period.
May 4, 1983



- 32-                               TABLE 1.1
ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Modal Composition of Traffic
Passenger Traffic
(million pass-km)         1965    %      1970    %      1975    %       1979    %
Air                         588     2      988     3    2402      4    2985       5
Road                     22657    76   30182    84   45256    83   52531    88
Rail                       6373    22    4737    13    6891    13    4179         7
Total                    29618   100   35907   100   54549   100   59695   100
Freight Traffic
(million ton-km)
Water                    24008    32   29858    31   18543    21   23403    20
Road                     35953    47   46296    49   49915    56   60849    52
Pipelines (Petroleum)    1951       3    5209      6    9289    11   22233    19
Rail                     14186    18   13640    14   10659    12   10532         9
Total                    76098   100   95003   100   88406   100  117017   100
Source: DNPT
March 1983



-33-                                 TABLE 1.2
ARGENTINA
HIGH1iWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Historical Level of Public Transport Investment
Year    Investment Level                        Modal Distribution
(millions of      Highways    Railways    Water    Air    Other-'    Total
1970 pesos)
1965        664.6
1966        653.0
1967        898.1
1968       1206.4
1969       1253.2
1970       1279.1
1971       1331.9
1972       1646.7
1973       1617.5
1974       1382.8
1975       1225.5
1976       2085.3
1977       1836.4               59           12          19      7        3          100
1978       1663.1               49           17          14     16        4          100
1979       1450.8               42           25          16     14        3          100
1980       1474.2               43           23          27       7       -          100
1/ Statistics prior to 1977 are unavailable in comparable form.
2/ Excludes pipeline investment.
Source: DNPT, Plan de Corto Plazo, 1965-1977; 1980 and Ministry of Economy, Public
Investment Budget 1980-1989
March 1983



-34-                                  TABLE 2.1
ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
1/
National and Provincial Highway Network
(Knm)
National Network
Gravel or
Year     Paved     Stabilized Base      Earth      Total
1962     12093          8137            26175      46405
1965     14714           8772           22382      45868
1970     19277           7748           18690      45715
1975     24069           7521           15873      47463
1981     27261          8482             2651      38394
Provincial Network
1972     13687         21081            29047      63815
1975     15020          22600           31200      68820
1981     17517         17817            26710      62044
1/ Varying classifications in different years make historical
comparisons difficult.
Source: DNV and DNPT, March 1981
March 1983



-35-                                 TABLE 2.2
ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Indices of Sector Growth
(1971 = 100)
1/                        1/                   2/          2/
Year     Gasoline    Gasoline         Diesel       Diesel      Light Vehicles      Trucks
Consumption      Prices     Consumption   Prices          and Buses
1971       100           100           100          100            100              100
1972       106           107            98          194            110              108
1973       116            82           103          144            121              115
1974       122           251           111          244            127              123
1975        91          (NA)           121         (NA)            134              128
1976        92           133           126          194            141              133
1977       101           167           142          138            151              140
1978       107           144           139          275            157              144
1979       117           118           149          206            16b              150.
1980       129           104           150          163            178              159
1981       (NA)          136          (NA)          231           (NA)             (NA)
Average Annual
Growth Rate 1971-75
-2.3%                     +4.9%                        +7.6%            +6.4%
Average Annual
Growth Rate 1975-80
3/               3/
+7.2%                     +4.4%                        +5.8%            +4.4%
1/  The index represents the real increase in fuel prices.
2/  Data for individual years appear to be estimates but overall period growth rates seem
reasonable.
3/  1975-1980
Source: DNV and DNPT
March 1983



ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Appraisal Estimates of Traffic Compared with Actual Counts
for Third Highway Project (Loan 734-AR)
Route No.                                                                                    Estimated                               Actual
Appraisal      % Heavy      Annual       Actual      % Heavy      Annual
ADT 1970    1980   Vehicles   Growth %    ADT 1980    Vehicles    Crowth%
Paving of Unpaved Roads
178       Pergamino-Santa Teresa          Buenos Aires          960      1,240      36         3            2,140          51           8
193       Solis-Empalme R.9               Buenos Aires          630        970      36         4               970         36           4
226       Bolivar-Pehuajo                 Buenos Aires          550        820      32         4            1,060          21           7
P331       Aguileres-Sarmientos            Tucuman               380        435      28         1               710         51           6
P305       Las Moritas-El Sunchal          Tucuman               260        290      36         1               390         38           4
12       Wanda-Cataratas                 Misiones              450        660      24         4            1,180          31         10
157       Empalme R.60-Recreo             Catamarca             640        830      63         3               360         76        - 6
157       De la Paz-Frias                 Catamarca             710        830      63         2               740         68          0
151       Cordero-Teresita                Rio Negro             720     1,050       38         4               600         24        - 2
Average Subtotal          590       790       40%        3              910         44%          4%
14       Gualeguaych-Concordia          (Entre Rios,           800      1,450      50         6            1,770          49           8
(Corrientes and
14       Concordia-Paso de los Libres (Misiones                300        570      33         8            1,190          42          15
Average Subtotal          550     1,010       41%        6            1,480         46%         10%
Improvement and Repaving of Paved Roads
3        Las Flores-Azul                 Buenos Aires        2,630     3,570       52         3            2,800          63           1
9        Gomez-Tortugas                  Santa Fe            2.610     4,000       50         4            3,640          39           3
Average Subtotal       2,620      3,790       51%        4            3,220         51%          2%
Construction of Divided Highways
9        Campana-Rio Tala                Buenos Aires        5,970      9,350       39        5             7,680         40           3
20        Cordoba-Carlos Paz              Cordoba             7,375    10,260       18         3             7,580         15           0
9        San Nicolas-Rosario             Santa Fe           5R500    14,100        32        10            5,600          53           0           H
7        La Purisima-San Martin          Mendoza             4,800      7,850      23         5            6,250          50           3           @
40        Mendoza-Empalme R.P.4-Lujan   Mendoza               7,200    12,200       23         5           12,150          19           5
40        Lujan-Agrelo                    Mendoza             3,430      5,085      23         4            4,810          41           3
Average Subtotal       5,710      9,800       26%        6            7,350         30%          3%
Averate Total          2,420      3.980       37%        5            3,240         43%           3%
Source:  Project Completion Report (Loan 734-AR)
March 1983



-37- .                           TABLE 2.4
ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
1/
Weights and Dimensions of Vehicles
Dimensions
(in meters)
Width      2.5
Height     4.1
Length:
(1)  Rigid truck               11.0
(2)  Semi-trailer              16.5
(3)  Truck and trailer         18.5
(4)  Semi-trailer and trailer 20.5
Loads per Axle
(in Kg)
Single axle     10.600
Double axle     18.000
Triple axle     25.000
Maximum Payload
(in Kg)
on five axles   42.000
on six axles    45.000
1/ Transit Law 13893 as modified July 1, 1970
Source: DNV
March 1983



-38-
TABLE 2.5
ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Composition of Fuel Prices - November 1982
(%)
Component                      Gasoline          Diesel
Total                             100              100
Retained by Petroleum Co.          37               57
Energy Fund                         7                6
General Taxes                      40               23
National Roads                      6                6
Provincial Roads                    6                5
General Transport (FONIT)           4                3
Source: DNV
Aarch 1983



-39-                                  TABLE 2.6
ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Road-Related User Tax Revenues and Road Expenditures - 1980
(billions of pesos)
User Tax                                   Without Opportunity Cost    With Opportunity Cost
of Fuel Adjustment          of Fuel Adjustment
A.  Purchase and Transfer of Vehicles                 1388                         1388
B.  Licenses and Registration                         1036                         1036
C.  Insurance Fee                                      565                          565
D.  Fuel Tax                                          3847                         1262
E.  Tire Tax                                           239                          239
F.  Lubricants Tax                                     143                          143
Total                                             A$ 7218                      A$ 4633
Government Agency                       Road Expenditure
A.  DNV                                                               1703
B.  Provincial Highway Directorates                                   2524
C.  Subsecretary for Transport (M.O.Y.S.P.)                             45
D.  City of Buenos Aires                                               233
E.  Other Municipalities                                               355
F.  Provincial Transport Directorates                                   15
Total                                                             A$ 4875
Source: DNPT
March 1983



-40-                               TABLE 2.7
ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Contribution to Paved Highway Costs
by Vehicle Type (1979)
With                                    Without
Vehicle Type              Opportunity Cost of                       Opportunity Cost of
Fuel Adjustment                           Fuel Adjustment
% Average Cost      % Marginal Cost 1/  % Average Cost        % Marginal Cost
Car                     84                    -                   124                   -
Bus                     29                   52                    44                  128
Truck-2  CII            28                   54                    50                  379
12             29                  51                     48                 157
111             30                  52                     49                 157
112             36                  61                     57                 171
113             38                  61                     58                 139
11-11             32                  51                     48                 104
11-12             35                  53                     51                 102
Average                 48                   91                     72                 259
_/ Marginal costs are defined as the additional structural costs of the road, beyond a
"minimum," which are related to vehicle weight.  These costs are assigned to trucks and
buses. Other "common" costs are distributed by vehicle units and are included in average
costs. Average costs for cars represent these assigned "common" costs, while for trucks
the average costs would include the 7common" costs plus the marginal costs.
2/ Truck tyDe with a number for each axle; numbers of 2 or 3 represent tandem axles, and
hyphens delineate truck and full trailer.
Source: NTP
March 1983



-41-                                 TABLE 2.8
ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Transfer of Road Sections between Provinces and DNV
(Km)
Province                 Net Transfer       Total Provincial      Net Transfer as
to Province       Primary Network"/      % of Total
Buenos Aires                   732               11261                   7
Catamarca                     1323               1711                   77
Cordoba                        693               4486                   15
Corrientes                     500               2116                   24
Chubut                         306               5204                   6
Chaco                          268               2421                  11
Jujuy                           63               1578                    4
Entre Rios                     691               3361                  21
Formosa                        208               1247                   17
La Pampa                       352               1756                   20
La Rioja                       118               1855                    6
Mendoza                        340               3303                   10
Misiones                      (-20)              1003                  -
Neuquen                        557               1896                   29
Rio Negro                      769               1897                   41
Salta                          794               1260                  63
San Juan                       443                563                   79
San Luis                       285               1411                   20
Santiago del Estero            937               3448                   27
Santa Fe                       469               5198                    9
Santa Cruz                      49               3747                    1
Tucuman                         33               1320                    3
Tierra del Fuego                -                 -                      -
Total                         9910              62042                   16
1/ After transfer is instituted.
Source: DNV
March 1983



ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
DNV Investment Program 1983-1986
(million of US$)
1983         1984          1985          1986       Total        Foreign    Local
Total Investments                  320          335           340           345          1,340         600        740
-International Bridges            30           40            25            15            110          50         60
Investments DNV                    290          295           315           330          1,230         550        680
-Work in execution               140           20            10            -             170
-Other items 1/                   80           85            85            90            340
Works to Start                      70          190           220           240            720         320        400
-IDB Projects                     20           80            60            20            180
-Bank Fourth Project              10           20            10            -              40
Not yet Committed 2/                40           90           150           220            500         225        275
1/  Buildings, Consultants, special works, right-of-way, and other items.
2/ Uncommitted funds potentially available for participation under the Project.
Source: DNV and Bank Staff
April 1983                                                                                                             S
m



ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Estimated First Year Benefits for Road Works to be Tendered
in 1983  1/
Province        Route           Section                        Length    Type of Work                        Cost             Traffic          First Year
(km)                                 (in millions of          AADT in       Benefits/Cost 4/
mid-1983 US$) 2/    First year
Catamarca         38        La Merced/Rumi Punco                  13        Paving                            8.7                 600                26%
Cordoba           9        Emp.60/ Las Penas                      27        Reconstruction                    2.5              1,400 3/              25%
Corrientes       12         San Roque/Saladas                     37        Paving                            3.1                 700                31%
123        Rio Corrientes/Emp.119                50        Reconstruction                    4.0                 489 3/             10%
Chubut           40         Laleque/Esquel                        43        Paving                            6.2                 200                 2% 5/
Entre Rios       12        Galarza/Nogoya                         53        New Construction                  5.7              1,000 3/              22%
Formosa          86         Laguna Blanca/Tacaagle                64        Paving/Reconstruction             8.0                 310                19%
11        Acceso Sur Formosa                    13        Reconstruction                    1.0              2,424 3/              52%
11        Acceso Norte Formosa                  18        Reconstruction                    1.5              2,067 3/              41%
Jujuy            34        Rio Las Pavas/Gral. San Martin    70             Reconstruction                    2.8              2,403              51-58%
La Pampa        143         Lte.Mendoza/Emp.R151                  35        Paving                            2.7                 492                20%
La Rioja         40        Nonogasta/Chilecito                    15        Strengthening                     1.2              1,017                 19% 7/
Neuquen          22         Cipoletti/Aerop. Neuquen              16        Bridge                           12.4             16,000 3/               NA 6/
231        Emp.R 237/Lago Espejo                 73        Paving                           11.6                 568                10%
237        La Teresa/Paso Miranda                87        Reconstruction                    2.0                 671 3/             14%
Rio Negro       151         Cipoletti/Lte. La Pampa              162        Reconstruction                   13.0           872-3323 3/              31%
258        Tacuifi/Los Repollos                  36        Gravel                           12.5                  90 3/              NA 6/
Total                                                            812                                         98.9
1/ Excluding IDB financed reconstruction subprojects and general improvement subprojects.
2/  At A$80,700:  US$1.0.
3/ Based on Traffic counts during 1980-1982.
4/  In many cases, these are rough estimates based on general cost savings per vehicle kilometer by type of work.
5/ DNV reconsidering this subproject for regraveling.
6/ NA - not available at negotiations.
Source:  DNV and Bank estimates
April 1983



-44-
Table 3.3
ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Pipeline of Project Preparation
Number      Km            Costs
Million US$
Per January 1, 1983
Designs in Preparation                     139       4000            400
Designs Completed                           30         950           230
Construction and Reconstruction             70       2200            300
Contracts in Execution
Maintenance and Betterment Contracts        37        1400             60
in Execution
Source: DNV and Bank Staff
March 1983



-45-                                   TABLE 4.1
ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
DNV Tender Program 1983-1986
(Millions of US$)
l/
1983   1984    1985  1986   Post-1986    1983-86   Total
Available for Tenders
Construction and
Reconstruction from
Table 3.1
40     90      150   220        -           500        -
Tenders 1983                    40      60      60    20         -           180      180
Tenders 1984                    -       30      60    80        30           170      200
Tenders 1985                    -       -       30    90       100           120      220
Tenders 1986                    -       -       -      30      210            30      240
Total Tenders                   40      90     150   220       340           500      840
1/ Requirements for completion
Source: DNV and Bank staff
April 1983



- 46 -                              TABLE 4.2
ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Bank-Financed Program
(Million of US$)
..~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~1
Post-   Time-Slice
1983    1984    1985    1986    1986    1983-1986
1. All DNV Uncommitted Tenders
in 1983, 1984 and 1985
(Table 4.1)                         40        90      150     190      130        470
2.  Provincial Road Program               5        20      40       25       -          90
3. Time-Slice 1983-1986 with
potential for Bank
Involvement                         45       110      190      215      -         560
- Foreign Exchange
Component (45%)                 20        50       85      95       -         250
4. Estimated Actual Bank
Participation taking
account of Proposed Loan
Amount                               10       30       40       17      -          937
5. Estimated Disbursements
Civil Works                         -         20       30       30      17         97
1/ Requirements for completion
Source: Bank Staff and DNV
April 1983



-47-                       TABLE 4.3
ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(Million US$)
Cumulative Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal year                             at end of Semester
1984
December 31, 1983                                       1
June 30, 1984                                          10
1985
December 31, 1984                                      22
June 30, 1985                                          36
1986
December 31, 1985                                      53
June 30, 1986                                          70
1987
December 31, 1986                                      83
June 30, 1987                                          95
1988
December 31, 1987                                     100
Source: Mission Estimates
March 1983



-4b-                            ANNEX 1
ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Program for Transfer of Technology to the Provinces
A.   Introduction
1.        The growing investment requirements for roads under the responsi-
bility of provincial highway authorities have resulted in a need for more
effective network planning at the provincial level. In an effort to develop
the necessary planning skills within the provincial government agencies, the
Direccion Nacional de Vialidad (DNV) has entered into an agreement with the
Consejo Vial Federal (CVF) to provide assistance in a transfer of technology
to the provinces.
2.        After a review of the results of Phase I of the Highway Needs Study
on the national road network, CVF and DNV, with possible financial assistance
from the World Bank, have proposed extending the Highway Needs Study methodo-
logy, in modified form, to the provincial primary network of interested
provinces. The program, which, in its initial stages, is expected to take
approximately two years, will be carried out through the combined efforts of
CVF, DNV and the provincial authorities and will require consultant assistance.
It will be directed at training provincial staff in highway investment planning
and at helping to develop a feasible investment program for the participating
provinces.
B.   Objectives of the Program
3.        The main objectives of the program are as follows:
(a) to develop appropriate road investment planning methods and to
train provincial personnel in their application;
(b) to help develop an inventory of the physical characteristics and
traffic for the provincial primary road network;
(c) to help identify improvements on the provincial primary network
and assess the feasibility of those improvements;
(d) to help prepare a draft investment program based on (b) and
(c) taking into consideration physical and financial resource
limitations;
(e) to help assess road maintenance requirements; and
(f) to help assess the resource needs of (d) and (e).
March 1983



-49-
ANNEX 2
Page 1
ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Annual Report on Road Maintenance Operations
In order to assist the DNV Administration to focus its management
and monitoring of highway maintenance performance, the Directorate General
of Maintenance will prepare, by March of each year, a report containing
detailed information on the maintenance activities performed in the previous
year and on the activities to be carried out in the year in progress. The
report should include information on:
A.   Routine Maintenance
(a) network per district: total kilometers, divided by heavy pave-
ment, light pavement, gravel and earth; and divided by form of
execution, contract maintenance or DNV;
(b) average cost/km in constant A$/year for the various pavement
categories, by contract maintenance versus by DNV;
(c) main activities performed, and unit prices for those items executed
by contract versus by DNV;
(d) outputs in man-hours for the principal work items under contract
versus under DNV administration.
B.   Details of Routine Maintenance by Contract
(a) results of tenders, relative to cost estimates; number of bidders;
range of bids (lowest/highest);
(b) participation of local, regional and national firms; average
size of these companies (in approximate annual turnover), their
experience and contractual performance;
(c) contract documents; discuss what changes are necessary in the
standard documents;
(d) contract periods; discuss convenience of current policy (two
years plus optional third year);
(e) adequacy of DNV staff to:
(i) supervise and guide the contractors;
(ii) approve annual and monthly work programs;
(iii) control quantity, quality and timing of work performed;



-50-
ANNEX 2
Page 2
(f) requirement for technical assistance to:
(i) support the contractors; and
(ii) support the DNV staff;
(g) special techniques developed by the contractors and equipment
used; and
(h) assessment of validity of contract maintenance: quality, suf-
ficiency and timing; financial savings achieved; other benefits;
and improvements required.
C.   Periodic Maintenance
Annual data (km, cost/km) for:
(a) pavement overlays;
(b) surface treatments;
(c) seal costs;
(d) re-shaping of gravel roads; and
(e) replacement of aggregates on gravel roads.
D.   Traffic Safety Related Works
Annual data (km, cost/km) for:
(a) horizontal signalization;
(b) vertical signalization;
(c) illumination;
(d) improvement of dangerous road sections; and
(e) other traffic safety related works.
March 1983



-51-                          ANNEX 3
Page 1
ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Economic Evaluation Guidelines for the Preparation of the
Four-Year DNV Investment Program
A.   Screening Process
1.        The identification of potential projects for inclusion in the DNV
investment program is based on three principal sources: (a) the continuous
road inventory of the national network carried out under the direction of the
Highway Needs Study, which provides sufficiency ratings for the structural
and geometric characteristics of road sections; (b) the district offices of
DNV, which observe road deficiencies during field operations; and (c) the
provincial and local authorities which also observe deficiencies and/or
identify road requirements related to the development of the provincial net-
work. Under the revised procedures for the preparation of the investment
program (Annex 5), the Planning Directorate will screen the identified
projects, select those which are most likely to be included in the program
and apply the following economic evaluation procedures to confirm project
feasibility, optimize project design and determine budgetary priorities.
B.   Types of Projects Subject to Economic Evaluation
2.        Under the revised procedures, an economic evaluation is to be con-
ducted at varying levels of detail depending upon project scope and degree
of certainty of project feasibility for the following types of projects:
(a) Upgrading of unpaved roads;
(b)  Reconstruction and pavement overlays;
(c) Freeway construction;
(d) Urban bypasses;
(e) Bridge repair and widening; and
(f) Improvement of dangerous road sections.
C.   Analytical Approach of Economic Evaluation
3.        Upgrading of Unpaved Roads.  The benefits of upgrading unpaved roads
on the DNV network reflect reduced vehicle operating costs and time savings for
normal, generated and diverted traffic. Net maintenance costs are accounted
for depending on the level of traffic and the type of surface. There are road
sections for which upgrading could serve a social and/or strategic purpose in
terms of national integration but for which vehicle operating cost savings are



-52-                           ANNEX 3
Page 2
low. Most of these roads would be financed under the Regional Developruent
Fund (FDR) Program. Where upgrading projects yield rates of return of less
than the opportunity cost of capital, a further assessment of the social
and/or strategic importance is to be included in the evaluation documents.
4.        Reconstruction and Pavement Overlays.  Savings in vehicle operating
costs are the major benefits from reconstruction and pavement overlay projects
(also referred to as strengthening). A major element in defining -he optimal
timing for either type of improvement is an assessment of road deterioration
and related vehicle operating costs associated with alternative reconstruction
and strengthening strategies. Initially identified reconstruction projects
are subjected to extensive tests for roughness' deflection and CBR. DNV
and its consultants then apply the Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance
Model (HDM) to select the best project alternative. DNV is now in the process
of adapting HDM parameters to reflect Argentine conditions. Until this operation is
completed, HDM relationships are being applied. DNV is also attempting to
formulate generalized feasibility indices from the HDM to avoid extensive
evaluations for road sections with similar characteristics and to develop
general overlay strategies for road sections where reconstruction is not being
considered. Time savings are not considered unless substantial deterioration
of the road has significantly affected speeds. Also,generated traffic is not
estimated for such projects.
5.        Freeway Construction.  Congestion is the critical factor in justify-
ing the doubling of a two-lane paved road to four lanes (divided or undivided).
The benefits are mainly time savings from increased speeds and reduced vehicle
operating costs. Present vehicle operating cost formulations for Argentina do
not take into account the increased costs caused by stopping and starting in
heavy traffic and lead to an underestimate of such benefits. DNV is now
working on incorporating such effects. In addition, DNV applies a factor
of +10% to project benefits to represent accident savings. Through the
implementation of the Traffic Safety Program, DNV will obtain data to assist in
better estimating such benefits. A further element in the analysis of freeway
projects is the differential in benefits per vehicle-km during the peak and
off-peak hours due to varying congestion levels. A weighted average savings
is taken instead of a simple daily average.
6.        Urban Bypasses.  With increasing "through" traffic, the need for
urban bypasses has grown. Since the benefits involve reduced congestion, the
evaluation is similar to that for freeway projects. The benefits accrue to
intra-city traffic on the streets from which through-traffic was diverted as
well as the traffic on the bypass. Substantial indirect benefits, mainly
environmental, are not taken into account in the quantitative evaluation.
An assessment of the "social" costs of such projects is to be included, which
considers the disruptive impact of the project due to the taking of property
and the displacement of residents in the right-of-way. The assessment is to
present the volume and income distribution of the displaced population, the
procedures to be applied for relocation and the probable relocation opportun-
ities in terms of comparative life-style and employment opportunities.



-53-
ANNEX 3
Page 3
7.        Bridge Repair and Widening.  Substantial bridge repair is required
in Argentina. Benefits include time savings, vehicle operating cost savings
relating to speed and maximum vehicle loads. In the case where lack of
repairs would mean not using the bridge, alternative routing costs are to be
taken into account. It is expected that DNV will develop standard feasibility
indices to facilitate the assessment of similar types of bridge projects.
8.        Improvement of Dangerous Sections.  Where a substantial investment
(over US$1 million) is required to reduce traffic accidents along an abnormally
dangerous road section, DNV will assess the economic feasibility of such
investment. The assessment is to be based on average cost of typical accidents
on the road section and on other time and/or vehicle operating cost savings
which may indirectly result, such as when straightening a dangerous curve.
DNV should obtain sufficient information to identify dangerous sections and
to select the most cost effective solutions.
D).  Major Analytical Parameters
9.        Vehicle Operating Costs.  The estimation of vehicle operating costs
is based on a combination of the work conducted in Kenya and earlier
Bank studies in Argentina and elsewhere. Argentine prices and utilization
factors are applied to the general cost functions. A summary of the costs is
provided in Table 1 of this annex. Although DNV is currently applying the
HDM relationships for varying costs by surface condition, further efforts are
being directed at revising those relationships to obtain more realistic
results in the Argentine context.
10.       Traffic.  DNV has an extensive permanent and seasonal traffic
count system which is scheduled to be improved under the Highway Sector
Project. This system,along with supporting counts for sections not covered,
provides the base traffic data. More extensive origin and destination surveys
are called for when the project could cause substantial shifts in historical
traffic patterns or when a new alignment requires information on traffic
patterns to determine what portion of the vehicles will remain on the former
alignment because of trip origins and destinations along the former alignment.
Generated traffic, calculated in the opening year and then increased at the
normal growth rate, is derived by multiplying transport cost savings by an
elasticity factor which is higher for cars than for buses or trucks. This
represents the percentage increase in traffic in the opening year because of
the improvement. Forecasting the normal traffic growth rate beyond the
opening year of the project is based on reviewing historical traffic patterns
and relating traffic to other related parameters such as population, vehicle
ownership, GDP, etc., taking into account differentials for the province, or,
in readily identifiable cases, the immediate zone of influence. Except in the
case of urban bypasses, no additional sophistication in traffic estimating is
required. Emphasis is placed on obtaining reliable traffic estimates for the
opening year in order to calculate the First Year Benefits ratio with some
degree of certainty.



-54 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 4
11.       Speeds.  Vehicle speeds are derived from the U.S. Highway Capacity
Manual, with appropriate adjustments for Argentine vehicle equivalents and
geometric characteristics of the roads. A minimum speed is maintained even as
congestion develops beyond a reasonable limit. At this point, it is assumed
that some traffic would divert to alternative routes and the costs are
estimated using this minimum speed on the project road section.
12.       Time Values.  DNV has developed time values for various types
of road users with different trip purposes. A summary of the values is
represented in Table 1 of this annex and is based on a 75%/25% trip purpose
breakdown between work and leisure and an occupancy factor of 2.4 persons per
auto and 20 persons per bus. Further refinements, especially with regard to
provincial differentials and trip purpose breakdown, are being made by DNPT
and are to be made available to DNV.
13.       Shadow Prices.  The Ministry of Economy traditionally provides the
minimum opportunity cost of capital to be applied in feasibility studies,
currently estimated at 10%. DNPT provides shadow prices for fuel based on
the opportunity cost of exporting refined products. Annual updates are to be
provided and then applied to DNV evaluations.
14.       Feasibility Indices, Sensitivity and Risk Analysis.  For each subproject,
DNV prepares an estimate of the First Year Benefit/Cost Ratio, Net Present Value
and the Internal Rate of Return. To test the sensitivity of the evaluation,
critical variables are to be adjusted in accordance with possible alternative
scenarios. In standard cases, the sensitivity analysis will be limited to the
calculation of switching values.
E.   Program Optimization
15.       With assistance under the Highway Sector Project, DNV will develop
an appropriate methodology for estimating project priorities and for revising
project designs, taking budgetary constraints into account. This approach will
lead to the maximization of Program benefits rather than the existing practice
of focusing mainly on individual project feasibility.
March 1983



-55-
ANNEX 3
ARGENTINA                                 Table 1
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Economic Vehicle Operating Costs-/
(pesos/vehicle/kan)
Surface         Speed (Kph)                               Vehicle  Type
Type     Auto   Bus   Truck        Auto             Bus        Lt. Truck   Hvy. Truck
Voc   Time    Voc   Time         Voc          Voc
Paved       50      45     45   3091   2776   12570  18599    9625             17724
70     65      65   2916   1983   11683  12877    9330             18191
90     80      80   2974   1542   12000  10462    9868             19543
Gravel      50      45     45   4053   2776   17221  18599    12105            23142
70     65      65   3815   1983   16399  12877    12031            23815
90     80      80   3872   1542   16961  10462    12970            26298
Earth       50     45      45   4709   2776   22023  18599    14741            27925
70     65      65   4501   1983   20887  12877    14651            28518
90     80      80   4679   1542   21128  10462    15590            30825
1, In pesos of September 1982 with US$=A$ 39000
Source: National Highway Directorate
March 1983



-56-
ANNEX 4
ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Completion of Main Corridors for Country Integration
Government policy and DNV programing are directed toward completion
of corridors which will integrate outlying regions with each other and with
the central area of Argentina. The most important projects considered are:
A.   Route No. 34, connecting Rosario with the provinces of Santiago,
Salta and Jujuy. Sections of this important corridor are already
financed through the Fourth Highway Project, and other sections would
be financed with assistance from the proposed sector loan;
B.   Route No. 40, traversing the country along the foothills of the
Andes from North to South over a length of more than 1,100 km.
Certain high traffic sections of this road near Mendoza and San Juan
have already been financed through the Third and Fourth Highway
Projects, but most of the remainder of this important corridor
consists of not more than low class earth roads, where traffic
cannot develop because of road conditions. A feasibility study
should be carried out to define the standards of an adequate minimum
cost solution for the remaining sections;
C.   Routes Nos. 12 and 14; the construction and paving of these  main
roads in Mesopotamia, the region between the Uruguay and Parana
Rivers and consisting of the Provinces of Entre Rios, Corrientes and
Misiones, is far advanced with support of IDB and the Third and
Fourth Highway Projects. The remainder would be completed in the
coming years, in part supported by the proposed sector loan;
D.   Route No. 3, connecting the Buenos Aires area through the pampas
with Patagonia and Tierra del Fuego. Sections of this road were
supported by the First and Second Highway Projects. This Patagonia
Corridor will be completed within the decade;
E.   The Cordoba-Cuyo Corridor, providing a direct link through difficult
terrain between Cordoba and Mendoza, through the provinces of San
Juan and San Luis. Several sections of this corridor are included
in the Fourth Highway Project; however, the difficult mountainous
sections still have to be constructed. After optimization of design
has been achieved, subsections could be included in the proposed
sector project.
March 1983



-57-
ANNEX 5
Page 1
ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
DNV Procedures for Updating Four-Year Program
1.        A system has been developed to better integrate the planning,
programing and control functions in DNV. The focus is on two fronts:
(a) timely assessment of the expenditures still required to complete road
works in execution; and (b) systematic approach to identify, select and
evaluate candidate road works for inclusion in DNV's Four-Year Program.
2.        DNV will assess monthly, with the assistance of the Computer Center
and asimulation model, the financial requirements to complete works already
in execution. The Directorate General of Construction will comment on these
projections and  communicate them to the Directorate General of Highway
Planning by November of each year. The Programing Department of this
Directorate will then determine the uncommitted funds available to initiate
road works, taking account of the investment levels formulated for DNV by the
Ministry of Economy, and the financial resources as estimated by the DNV
Directorate General of Administration.
3.        All candidate road works for inclusion in the updated Four-year DNV
Program will be evaluated by the Investigations Department in the Directorate
General of Highway Planning. Candidate road works can enter the process in
various ways:
(a) through the priorities established in the Highway Needs Study;
(b) through reports of DNV's Regions or the Maintenance Directorate;
or
(c) on direct request by other Federal agencies or provincial
authorities.
Project identification occurs throughout the year but must be made before
September 30 of each year for possible inclusion in that year's updating of the
Four-year Program. The Investigations Department, in close cooperation with
the Programing and Highway Engineering Departments, will prepare technical
and economic feasibility studies or engage consulting engineers for such
studies, applying the methods agreed upon for the Highway Sector Loan. After
the screening process, a tentative work program is prepared and submitted to
the Administrator General for approval in principle by October of each year.



- 58 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        Thereafter, the Highway Engineering Department prepares the detailed
engineering and cost estimates of the provisionally selected projects. With
this information, the Programing Department updates the Four-year Program while
taking into account the costs of the works in execution according to paragraph 2
preceding. Subsequently, the Administrator General approves the final program.
5.        A continuous flow of information is necessary throughout the year
among the various departments in order to incorporate changes due to limited
or expanded budgetary resources or due to findings which could alter the
original technical and economic evaluation.
March 1983



ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
List of Initial Candidate Projects on DNV Network
Call for                  First Year
Province             Route                Section            Length             Type of Work         Cost      Tender   Completion   Benefits/Cost
(million of                                 %
Mid-'82
US$)
Buenos Aires             9         Rio Tala/Emp. R. 188          71             Freeway                  17.5       3/84        2/87        35 - 36
Catamarca                38        La Merced/Rumi Punco          13            Paving                     8.7       6/83       12/85          26
Cordoba                  8         Rio IV/Lte. San Luis          86             Strengthening            12.4       3/84        4/86        1-/ - 20
9        Emp. 60/Las Penas              27            Reconstruction            2.5      11/83        3/85           25
Corrientes               12        San Roque/Saladas             37             Paving                    3.1       6/83        9/85          31
Chaco                    16        Pte. Chaco/Emp. 11            17             Strengtbening             1.5       3/84        8/85          25
Chubut                   25        Trelew/Rawson                  3             Bridge                    0.9       3/84        8/86           NA
Entre Rios               12        Galarza/Nogoya                53             New Construction          5.7       7/83        8/85          22
Formosa                  86        Laguna Blanca/Tacaagle        64             Paving/Reconstruction   8.0        11/83        5/84           19               u
Jujuy                    34        Rio de las Pavas/Gral.         70            Reconstruction            2.8      11/83        5/84        51 - 58              f
San Martin
La Pampa                 143       Lte. Mendoza /Emp.R. 151    35               Paving                    2.7      12/83        6/84          20
La Rioja                 40        Nonogasta/Chilecito            15            Strengthening             1.2      12/83       11/85           19
Mendoza                  40        Mendoza/ite. San Juan          24            Strengthening             3.7       2/84        3/85          22
Misiones                  14       San Jose/Leandro Alem          58            Paving                    6.2       1/84        3/86           26
Neuquen                   22       Cipoletti/Aerop. Neuquen    16               Bridge                   12.4      12/83       11/86           NA
231      Emp.R. 237/Lago Espejo         73            Paving                   11.6       5/83        4/86           10
Salta                    9         Emp.R. 34/Pte. Rio            10             Reconstruction            1.5       3/84        2/86          14
Naranjo
San Luis                 8         Lte. Cordoba/Villa            32             Strengthening             2.0       3/84        4/86          30
Mercedes
Santiago del Estero      34        La Banda/Pozo Hondo            74            Paving                    8.2       3/84        4/86           NA
TOTAL                                                        778                                     112.6
Source: DNV and Bank estimates
April 1983



-60-                             ANNEX 7
ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Potential Uses of Technical Assistance Funds
A.   Technical Assistance for DNV
1.   Courses in Traffic Engineering
2.   Preventive Maintenance of Bridges
3.   Maintenance of Roads in Mountainous Terrain
4.   Estimation of Maintenance Costs and Maintenance Contract Preparation
5.   Safety Measures:  Signaling for High Traffic Intersection and
Use of Roadside Safety Barriers
6.   Prioritization of Road Investments Under Budget Constraints
7.   Calibration of Road Diagnostic Equipment
8.   Utilization of HDM Model
9.   Analysis of Toll Road Planning and Financing Procedures
10.  Extension of Highway Design Standards Study
11.  Development of Traffic Safety Data Bank
B.   Technical Assistance for DNPT
1.   Analysis and Revision of Intercity Bus Regulation
2.   Formulation of Provincial Transport Plans
3.   Assessment of General Cargo Movements
4.   Rationalization of Rail Trunk Lines in Northern Corridor
5.   Impact Assessment of Vehicle Size and Weight Limitations and
Power/Weight Ratio Regulations
6.   International Land Transport Agreements and Procedures
7.   Cost Structures for Water Transport
8.   Expanded Commodity Studies Especially for Grain
9.   Data Bank Development
10.  Development of Local Freight Forwarding Industry
11.  Port Development Scenarios with Alternative Dredging Schemes
for Rio de la Plata
12.  User Charges for Operators on the Rivers
March 1983



-61-                                ANNEX 8
page 1
ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Summary Data Sheets for Candidate Subprojects
1.  Basic Data                       Road:  RN 9
Section: Rio Tala - Empalme RN188 in Province
of Buenos Aires
Length: 72 kn.
Cross-Section Present: 7.30m riding surface/3.0m
shoulders
Cross-Section Proposed: 2 separated two lane
sections each with 7.30m
riding surface/3.0m shoulders
Pavement Proposed: Asphaltic Concrete
Design Class:  Limited access 4-lane divided d
Type I
2.  Traffic        AADT                  Car    Bus  Lt.Truck   Hvy. Truck   Total
Base Year:            4344   310    1086         2017        7757
Year of Completion   5082   363    1246          2315        9006
Growth/year            4%      4%    3.5%        3.5%
3.  Bridges and Special Works        Special T-orks:  4  interchanges and 10 inter-
sections
Bridges:         4 bridges over rivers
1/
4.  Cost Estimate                   $a 548,000 million (US$14.1m)
2/
5. Vehicle Operating Costs/km($a)
Car    Bus  Lt.Truck   Hvy.Truck
Old Road:      5861  31169    9625         17724
New Road:      4482  22110    9447         18577
6.  Economic Data        First Year Benefits/Cost:  36%
Internal Rate of Return:   40%
7.  Tender               Tentative Tender Date:  March 1984
Completion Time: 30 months
Tentative Budget Allocation: 1984 = 100,000 million $a
1985 = 220,000 million $a
1986 = 288,000 million $a
1/  $a39000 = US$1 as of October, 1982
2/ Includes passenger time values



ANNEX 8
-62-                          page 2
8.  Technical Description
Construction of a new two-lane road parallel to the well aligned existing
road (which will be repaved); construction of four interchanges at inter-
sections of major roads; full access control will be postponed until later.
9. Economic Description
This section is the only remaining two-lane section of RN9 along the busiest
industrial corridor of Argentina between Rosario and Buenos Aires, connecting
the two principal ports of the country. Earlier Bank projects have assisted
in the financing of other sections of this freeway, and the traffic has
increased to justify the improvement of this final section.



-63-                               ANNEX 8
page 3
ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Summary Data Sheets for Candidate Subprojects
1.  Basic Data                       Road:  RN 14
Section: San Jose - L.N. Alem in Province of
Misiones
Length: 51 km
Cross-section present: 14 km at 8.50m., rest at
6.50m. with earth surface
Cross-section proposed: 7.30m riding surface/
3.00m. shoulders
Pavement Proposed: Asphaltic Concrete
Design Class: Type III (rolling terrain)
2.  Traffic        AADT                   Car   Bus   Lt.Truck  Hvy.Truck   Total
Base Year:             213    5        42         42         302
Year of Completion:   348    7         61         63         479
Growth/yr.:1980-1989  8.0%  4.5%    7.0%         7.0%
1989-2003  4.0%  4.0%    4.0%        4.0%
3.  Bridges and Special Works        Bridges: three bridges over rivers totaling 178-.2m
4.  Cost Estimate                   $a 241,800 million (US$ 6.2 million)-1/
2/ 3/
5. Vehicle Operating Costs/km             Car    Bus  Lt. Truck   Hvy.Truck
Old Road              1152   5899    2910          7320
Improved Road          689   3709    1738          3616
3/
6.  Economic Data                    First Year Benefits/Cost:  18%
Internal Rate of Return:   23%
7.  Tender                           Tentative Tender Date:  February 1984
Completion Time:  20 months
Tentative Budget Allocation:
1984 24,180 million $a
1985 120,900 million $a
1986 96,720 million $a
1/ $a 39000 = US$1 as of October 1982
2/ Includes passenger time values
3/ Ana1Wsis based on vehicle operating costs, traffic and construction costs of
-October 1980.



-64-                            ANNEX 8
page 4
8. Technical Description
Construction of a Class III paved road, generally along the existing
alignment, with improvement of the vertical and horizontal design
features.
9. Economic Description
This road is another section in the corridor which connects the fast-growing
development area of the Mesopotamia with the urbanized areas of Argentina
and with Uruguay and Brazil. Construction of previous sections has been
assisted under earlier Bank projects, and the generated traffic has surpassed
expectations, even during the difficult period of the 1970s.



-65-                                 ANNEX 8
page 5
ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Summary Data Sheets for Candidate Subprojects
1.  Basic Data                       Road:  RN "F", Route 231
Section: Empalme RN237 - Lago Espejo, Province
of Neuquen
Length: 72 km
Cross Section Present: Except for 5 km of
double surface treatment, rest is
6.00 to 9.50 meter with gravel surface.
Cross Section Proposed: 6.70m riding surface/
2.00 shoulders
Pavement Proposed: Asphaltic Concrete
Design Class: III (mountainous)
2.  Traffic        AADT                      Car   Bus   Lt.Truck  Hvy.Truck  Total
Base Year                287    14        53        21        375
Year of Completion       455    20        66        27        568
Growth/Yr.: 1980-1989   8.0%  5.5%    4.0%         4.0%
1989-2003   4.0%  4.0%    4.0%        4.0%
3.  Bridges and Special Works        Bridge:  1 of 136 m.
4.  Cost Estimate                   $a 387,000 million (US$9.9 million)-
2/ 3/
5.  Vehicle Operating Costs/km            Car    Bus    Lt.Truck   Hvy.Truck
Old Road              1033   5428       2348        5186
Improved Road          689   4014       1752        3567
6.  Economic Data -/                 First Year Benefits/Cost:   10%
Internal Rate of Return:    14%
7.  Tender                           Tender Date:  May 1983
Completion time: 30 months
Tentative Budget Allocation:
1984  135,450 million $a
1985  154,800 million $a
1986   96,750 million $a
1/ $a 39000 = US$1 as of October 1982
2/ Includes passenger time values.
3/ Analysis based on vehicle operating costs, traffic and construction costs
as of October 1980.



-66-                            ANNEX 8
page 6
8. Technical Description
Construction of a Class III paved mountainous road suitable for lumber
traffic, generally on the old alignment, with frost-resistant base and
subbase construction.
9. Economic Description
This section is an important connection for the outlying province of
Neuquen along the Chilean border running through difficult mountainous
terrain. It serves not only a substantial number of heavy trucks from
Chile (which were apparently not moving during the period of the traffic
counts) but also tourist traffic.
March 1983



-67-                         ANNEX 9
ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available
in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
1. Argentina, Transport Sector Memorandum. June 1982.
2. Plan Nacional de Transporte, Informe de la Fase I, (Resumen Final). SETOP.
October 1981.
3. Evaluacion Tecnico-Economica de la Red Nacional de Calzadas Pavimentadas.
Consulbaires. June 1982 (3 volumes).
4. Estudio de Necesidades Viales y Refuerzo de Pavimentos en la Red Nacional
de Caminos, 1979-1982.
5. Estudio de Necesidades Viales y Refuerzo de Pavimentos. Ingeneco/Icasa.
1982 (5 volumes).
6. Guia para Estudios de Factibilidad de Obras Viales. DNV. No date.
7. Decree for the transfer of national and provincial road sections.
Poder Ejecutivo Nacional. July 1979.
8. Regulations with regard to vehicle sizes and weights. 1982.
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
9. National Highway Investment Plan 1983-1986. April 1983.
10. Proposed Provincial Investments. April 1983.
11. Notebook of Documents brought to Negotiations. April 1983.
12. Notebook on Data provided to Mission in March 1983.
13. Auditing of DNV. 1981.
14. Solicitudes de Financiamiento Efectuadas por las Provincias. March 1983.
15. Highway Maintenance by Contract. Henriod December 1980.
16. Sistema Planificacion Vial. DNV. March 1983.
17. Letter from DNV with Planning Procedures, Transfer of Technology and
Traffic Safety Plans of Action. July 1981.
18. Vehicle Operating Costs. DNV. 1979-1983.
April 1983



ARl'lB
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Institutional Structure for Transport (March 1983)
Ministries                    Ministry of Public                                                                            inistry of Econmy
| WrksandSerices
Secretary for
Secretariats                   Secretary for                      Secretary for                                            Maritme Affaits
PubUc Services                       FubUc Woiks                                                 (SEIM)
Subecnetar
Sub-Secretariats                  fer
|Nationa Directorate    lational Directorate                               National                                             N atl       Nat'l      Nat.Port       C or.
General/National   for Trarsport           for Gronud Transport   National Directorate        Maritime          Maritime               ref ec-    Naval       Naval       Const.&        Deepwater
Directorates        PlannirE (DNPT)              (DN)            for Highisys (DNV)          Policy             Planning               ure        Act.        Ind.        Waterways        Port
Direc o           Directorate                         Dir.       Dir.          Dir.          Proram
l   |  |  l  |  |Argentine  |Aigeritine mien      General Port
State         |AXReetne Rflhly          AcBentine Arlirnes                                      River Fleet             Merdhast Fleet           Adidnistration
Enterprises           (FA)(AP)
Source: DNPT
March 1983



ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Disttibutian of Uer Tax FRtlipu
I   fUELTAX                                                         LUTAX ON                        'F| TAX ON                                     TAX ON
LUOHICANTS                       TIRES                                        VEHICLES
4M    1s1lw   a7s   g  __  t2s lo6
E O N I T 8   f L;NO             ~F EDEfRAL
PSOERAL
LAW 20,221
FfEWAY
| PROVINCIA______|__4_---__-__                       |        COPLEME   rAhi l 
fUNOS      IIGHWAY PUN                                          NATIONAL HICHWAY 
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lhA
IIG IEAL          HETN             NATOA               PROVINCIAL            NATIONAL
TE            DALAIRE.O SIIWAY                                            HiGi.WAV
Of ENRG             IRECTORATES          DIRtECTORATE
Il ('~~.I~.I.uspj ID    w~lM| OIVM|,AM
A,_t 10



ARGENTINA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Organization of the National Ilighway Authority
DIRECTOR GENERAL
SUB-ADMINISTRATOR
ADMINISTRATION          CONTROL           MAINTENANCE         CONSTRUCTION    ENGINEERING
C)             rn  0~~~~                                                 0
f '  bl i-                                             <H At                               0 0
'0                                            C.,'CIA0  A
~~~cn ~~~E
0  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0t
H  H~~~~~~~~~~~~zE
~13
24 DISTRICT OFFICES    J
Source: DNV
March 1983



IBRD 3157R
JUNE IBBI
3 O LO V E A
LA OUIALSo-,-
A~~~
13 ?tIml)\s 2                          K  2 A
E  M I N G AJ E DL   drU
\   jV\        |        7     3    ,    p   '5 S;E SAAf~      O DLET
fl  SAN Ml SU E de rAIt. ! 0xS,'  \s    i SAN    CLSALA0UARrRIA
/1,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
VALF.AROSANNTAM DES  --
L~~~~~BO ESRE ~ ~ ~    ~       ~        ~       ~       NO         tRE
Sot, CARLOS do VSRILG ~ ~ ~       G.L                       u      `LAP~TA_,
IA t  CORDE______                             DEG PDATA O E
-   Z     A    P     A     L     A    ---PROVINCIA   BOUNARY
E~ I ALSPES   HIHWY SECTORff PR OJE NCTE
i   ( jK   /    ,     g seOY/  +                 ~~~~~~~   ~    ~     ~~~~~~~1. jujrY  12. CORDOBA
SAN CARLOS de 'EARION      -v    -                 o                      2. SALTA             1S. RID  NEGRO
t   \ t 1+ /                     l    oO    5?RROY         3  .. CAC            I4. C4HU8T
PRINCIPAL, e4, SGO. DEL ESTERO AS . SONTA CRLZ
THE  N   _.-- *                  5.SATIONL-A HE  W 6. bETUUEO
RIO GRANSE~~~~~~~~~~ "N                          A
C)~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S  C 504 00  200 600  400RE                          170 SALNMEUEN
TS,s sop i.0 heel               TTRELEW I                        I YA  A GECATAMARCA
I >  \ t    =>         bR~~~~~~                        ~~~~~AWSON  5. 5'UEEOS b:RES  19. FRM'SA
S OP    .1                     I \EA EEL FES9. mE DOZA                                 20. NISNES
LJO P *Ot whit. Io iep04 0                                        IG. 1, R1tJ'2T              A
Itl   %   <      j4        XdtU~~~~~~~~~~LZCuOUM            H . SAN L"lS         22. CNTRE RIDE
9  .2__y   Ss'-s~~~DC s5C EDRRAI         - HIGHWAYS IMPROVED UNDER 3'-d PROJECT
T  ts  72 ~~~~ -\(Etv>Dv^ ~~~HIGHWAYS IMPROVFD UNDER 1.' & 2n2d PROJECT
ir  j  J   \\                         H~~~~~~~~~~~IlGHWAYS BEING IMPROVED UNDER 4Tt PROJECT
2   p   I         1\-W            *        ~~~~~~~PAVED
@   '   Z               2                  ~~~~~~~~~GRAVEL OR CONSOILIDATED
,e the e Stt             9                    - - - -_  EARTH ROADS h  SOME TRAILS)
<    8 zt   |    /             --- ~~~~~PROVINCIAL BOUNDARY
_ T } } i) / ~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
eflhteh,thSh,'Cttl hSAt  JULIAN
5ehh.ptahhehttoh eARGENTINA
> ',1m 1iHIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
\ f/ ~>t R10 6LLEG05
\\ffi9-----'-1   kPRINCIPAL  ROADS  OF
X   .   2                   ~~~THE NATIONAL HIGHWAY NETWORK
f+t < XRfO~1 GRIANDE
; - x   ._F                     50 0 50~~~~~~~~~~ ~   100  200I 300  490  500 KILOMETERS
T-l -Sp h.s b-Epop-prd by Ih,  -~T R IO             Y  OIF
Wofifszkssrfzc/usiwirft    ,   rlERRADEL FUEGO
,Idohmrc   fth   tit'  ff



