Document of
The World Bank                    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2882-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
NINTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESli
September 23, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
As of July 29, 1980, the Bangladesh Taka is officially valued
at Tk 36.3 to the Pound Sterling. As the Pound is floating relative to
the US Dollar, the Taka-US Dollar rate is subject to change. The rate
below has been used throughout this report except where otherwise stated.
US$1                   Tk 15.2
Tk 1             =     US$0.0658
Tk 1 million           US$65,789
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I acre (ac)                          =     0.405 hectares
1 cubic foot per second (cusec)            0.0283 cubic meters per
second
I seer (sr)                          =     16 chattak = 80 tolas =
2.057 pounds = 0.933
kilograms
1 maund (md)                         =     40 seers = 82.286 pounds =
37.326 kilograms
1 (long) ton                         =     2240 pounds = 1016.04
kilograms = 27.22 maunds
1 lakh                               =     100,000
I crore                              =     10 million
GLOSSARY
Aman - Rice planted before or during the Monsoon (which begins
in June) and harvested in November-January
Aus   -  Rice planted during March and April and harvested during
June-September
Boro - Rice planted in winter and harvested during April-June
Paddy - Unhulled rice
BANGLADESH FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP        -     Annual Development Program
AGD        -     Approved Grain Dealer
BADC       -     Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BBS        -     Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics
BCIC       -     Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation
BJMC       -     Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation
BKB        -     Bangladesh Krishi Bank
BMEDC      -     Bangladesh Mineral Exploration and Development Corporation
BMR        -     Balancing, Modernization and Rehabilitation
BSRS       -     Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha
BTMC       -     Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation
BWDB       -     Bangladesh Water Development Board
DRC        -     Domestic Resource Cost
DTW        -     Deep Tubewell
EPB        -     Export Promotion Bureau
FPMU       -     Food Planning and Monitoring Unit
GOB        -     Government of Bangladesh
HTW        -     Hand Tubewell
HYV        -     High Yielding Variety
ITC        -     International Trade Centre
KNM        -     Khulna Newsprint Mill
KPM        -     Karnafuli Paper Mill
KSS        -     Krishi Samabaya Samity (Primary Cooperative Society)
LIV        -     Local Improved Variety
LLP        -     Low Lift Pump
MTF        -     Maintenance Task Force
MTFPP      -     Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan
NBPM       -     North Bengal Paper Mill
NBR        -     National Board of Revenue
PFDS       -     Public Food Distribution System
SFYP       -     Second Five-Year Plan
SPM        -     Sylhet Pulp Mill
STW        -     Shallow Tubewell
XPL        -     Export Performance Licenses
This document hb a restficted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
- ofrtAhf official dutis Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



BANGLADESH
NINTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT SUMMARY  ..............................................                       i
PART I - THE ECONOMY  ........................................                       1
Recent Developments  and Short-Term Outlook  ....                  ..............    2
The Balance of Payments  .....................................                       3
Public Finance  ..............................................                       5
Development Planning and Policy Issues  ......................                       6
Need for Program Aid  ........................................                       9
PART II - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR:   PERFORMANCE AND POLICIES                       10
A.    Background and Output Performance  ......................                     10
B.    Agricultural Production Strategy  .......................                     13
C.    Foodgrain Policy  .......................................                     15
Procurement  .......................................                   15
Distribution and Subsidies  ........................                   17
Policy Planning and Monitoring ....................                    18
PART III - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH  ....                  ..........    19
PART IV - THE CREDIT  .........................................                     24
Outlays  for Agricultural Development  ........................                     24
Private Sector Role  in Irrigation  ...........................                     26
Private Grain Marketing .......................                      .             29
Foodgrain Storage  ...........................................                     31
Work Program of the Secretariat of the Food Planning
and Monitoring Unit  ....................................                    33
Planning Cell in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests  ....                      34
General Improvements in Plan Implementation: the
Two-Year ADP  ..                                                             35
Administration of the  Proposed Credit .........................                   36
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY  ....................                     37
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION .               .......................                    37



Page No.
ANNEX   I      Social Indicators Data Sheet ........... ..........   38
ANNEX  II      The Status of Bank Group Operations in Bangladesh .   41
ANNEX III      Supplementary Credit Data .........................   54
ANNEX  IV      Framework for the Medium-Term Foodgrain
Production Plan .                                    55
ANNEX   V      Status of the Export Development Program .56
ANNEX  VI      Utilization by Sector of Previous Imports
Program Credits .67



BMAGLADES7H
NINTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:                   SDR 49.5 million
(US$65 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard
Purpose:                  The proposed credit would (i) provide foreign
exchange for the import of raw materials, components
and equipment to enable the industrial, construc-
tion and agricultural sectors to reach their full
production potential; and (ii) support the policy
improvements introduced or planned by GOB to increase
the production, and efficiency and equity of the
distribution of foodgrains, and thus to improve the
overall conditions for economic growth in Bangladesh.
Co-financing:             The Swiss Government is considering a Swiss Francs 15
million non-reimbursable financial contribution.
Estimated
Disbursements:                                      FY81              FY82
IDA:                       ($ million)
First Quarter                                   15
Second Quarter                -                 15
Third Quarter                 5                 15
Fourth Quarter               10                  5
Annual Total                 15                 50
Cumulative Total             15                65
Switzerland:                  2                  7
Foreign Exchange
Risk:                   To be assumed by the Government.



Recommended Categories and Ceilings
($ million)
Government         Maximum Amount
Estimate of         of the Credit
Average Annual        that can be
Imports in         Withdrawn Under
FY81-FY82           Imports IX
INDUSTRY
1.  Textile                               140.0                 25.0
2.  Pulp & Paper and Board                 20.0                  5.0
3.  Export Oriented                        12.0                 10.0
4.  Steel and Foundry                      80.0                 15.0
5.  Chemicals and Pharmaceutical
(excluding proprietary items)          95.0                15.0
6.  Sugar                                  30.0                  5.0
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES
7. .Cement and raw mate-
rials for cement
manufacture, including
packaging materials,
spare parts and
other intermediate
building materials                     60.0                20.0
AGRICULTURAL INPUTS
Finished and raw mate-
rials, spare parts,
chemicals, compo-
nents and packaging
materials for:
8.  Diesel Fuel                            20.0                  8.0
9.  Pesticides                             12.0                  4.0
10. Irrigation Equipment                   70.0                  8.0



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
NINTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
f   1.    I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
Ninth Imports Program Credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for
SDR 49.5 million (the equivalent of US$65 million), on standard IDA terms.
The Swiss Government is considering to support the Ninth Imports Program
through a non-reimbursable financial contribution of Swiss Francs 15.0
million (currently equivalent to US$9.1 million).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Current Economic Position
and Short-term Outlook" was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 21,
1980.
3.        The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.
With its economy already disrupted and its infrastructure severely damaged
by the struggle for independence, the country was afflicted by poor harvests
in FY72 and FY73 and by devastating floods in 1974. Foodgrain output fell
drastically and recovered to the pre-independence level only in FY76; foodgrain
imports averaging over two million tons per year were required between FY72
and FY75 to maintain foodgrain consumption near minimum requirements. Aggre-
gate output in manufacturing recovered to the pre-independence level only in
FY75, as the sector needed to overcome the destruction and disruption caused
by the struggle for independence and, in its aftermath, the departure of
skilled labor and managers and widespread shortages of spare parts and
crucial inputs. The production of jute, the predominant export commodity,
declined sharply, and the terms of trade deteriorated. Inflation, declining
real wages, rapid population growth, labor unrest and political instability
added to the difficulties. In these early years, Bangladesh's policy makers
were by necessity almost entirely preoccupied with matters of relief and
rehabilitation and the need to shape a national government out of a provincial
administration.
4.        Economic progress and increased political stability in the second
half of the last decade provided planners and policy makers the opportunity to
turn their attention from crisis management to the longer-range objectives of
development. It was not until FY75 that GDP recovered to the pre-independence
level, but between FY75 and FY80, it has increased by about 30% in real terms
(or about 5.5% p.a.), despite serious setbacks in agricultural production in
FY77 and again in FY79/FY80. Output in manufacturing (as measured by the
production index for large and medium-scale industries) rose by about 7.5%
annually between FY75 and FY80, most of this growth taking place outside the
jute industry. The late 1970s may be seen, therefore, as a period of economic
consolidation. The Two-Year Plan (FY79-FY80) was intended as an opportunity
to complete this economic consolidation and to reconsider development priori-
ties before the country embarked on its Second Five-Year Plan (FY81-FY85).



5.        The last two years have also brought sig2aa rolic:rical change.
From 1975 until March 1979, Bangladesh had Deen b e e7ral law.
In elections held in February 1979, 29 politiCal pjaft:-*        gro;x,ps contested
300 seats in the National Assembly.  Roughl.y  wo thid;    t.. sUats were won
by the Bangladesh National Party (BNP) headed by Preside.nt Z7aur Ralman, who
had won the presidential election in June 1978, Thirty ad  jOnel seats,
reserved for women, were subsequently filled by the J.,N P         lowing the
convening of the new Parliament in March 197j9, marct;.an  1ine Yias l.i£ted and a
new cabinet appointed.
Recent Developments and Short-term Outlook
6.        Economic growth, which had been rapid in  F.- e. slowed s    t a stantially
in FY79 and remained relatively modest in FY80.  MYstl- .               I  of a
record grain crop (13.1 million tons) and a  `c% incr . _                   output,
GDP had increased by nearly 8% (in real term s) in FY78, fo1low-1 Cfivg a 2% rise in
FY77.  But the experience of FY79 and FY80 agais  demontst-fated t~he vulnerability
of the Bangladesh economy to unfavorable weztather cond 5 i                 and
prolonged drought affected adversely four successive  ce- 1n-c       agif
as the size and quality of the FY80 jute crop; th-s        S gn-iicaar reper-
cussions throughout the economy.  The shortfall in foougrain  usf:iplies led to a
rapid rise in rice prices, and inflation accelerated LO an an1ual rate of
about 18% in the first half of FY80.  The rate of Zro.,hth of GDP fell consider-
ably and inequity in income distribution increased              ':.F  c n :oups were
affected more severely by the foodgrain shortages a-.d :t         i.g prices than
the middle and higher income groups.  The balance sf -sye          it±ich still had
been in overall surplus in FY79, deteriorated markedly in 1._fO, mainly as a
consequence of costly food and petroleum purchases.  GDP growtb in FY79 and
FY80 averaged no more than 4.5% p.a.; with population growth stil estimated
at about 2.7% annually, average incomes improved cnla meoderately.
7.        This disappointing overall performance samewhat o7e-rs.adcwed
a number of encouraging developments and positive policy   s   during this
period. These included: (i) the successful mobilizat on and distribution
of nearly 2 million tons of imported foodgrains in the first ha'l aL FY80;
(ii) continued rapid growth in wheat production ald i,.                cons.mption;
(iii) a variety of policy measures taken to improve ariculiural input avail-
abilities, to maintain incentive output prices for farimers, to strengthen the
administration of the family planning program, and tc fotser a msore active
role by the private sector; (iv) increased capacity u .'.-ron n several
industries; (v) improved budgetary performance, ref e            screngthened tax
administration, some reductions in subsidies and discipl ie in cnrtailing
current expenditures; (vi) substantial growth in no- -<al exports and
in workers' remittances; (vii) exchange rate adjusrme:    C- ehLer measures
taken to encourage exports; and (viii) the conclu3ior   Aa b7  -rrangement
with the IMF.
8.        The slow growth of foodgrain production and its st-li e.xtreme vul-
nerability to bad weather have become principal concern. of Bangiadesh's
political leadership and economic planners.  The Second Five--Yea-r Plarn (SFYP)
gives top priority--together with the contairment of por&at.on growth and the
achievement of mass literacy--to the expansion of foodgrain pwodootion, aiming



at self-sufficiency in foodgrains by the end of the Plan period. The exper-
ience of FY79 and early FY80, when the severe drought (combined with a major
slippage in expected foodgrain imports) caused a dangerous erosion of food
stocks in the country and required an all-out effort by the administration to
avert a major famine, served to highlight the importance of reducing the
threat of crop failures and widespread starvation. At the same time, the
Government's efforts to contain the crisis--although efficiently executed and
successful--demonstrated the high cost of such a diversion of scarce admin-
istrative resources and public attention from long-term priorities to short-
term crisis management.  Although the food situation appears to have stabilized
with good wheat, boro and aus crops in 1980, efforts to ensure adequate
consumption levels and to build up stocks required to provide some security
against future crop failures or natural calamities cannot yet be relaxed.
Public grain stocks are still well below safe levels and are unlikely to reach
the recommended 1.2 million tons by December 1980 and 1.5 million tons by June
1981 even with further substantial imports to supplement procurement from
domestic crops. 1/
9.        The prospects for rapid overall growth in FY81 are relatively
favorable, provided the weather remains good and the volume of commodity aid
is sufficient to permit increased imports of fertilizers, cement, petroleum
and other raw materials and intermediate goods. These conditions permitting,
foodgrain production could increase by more than a million tons above the FY80
level, and overall GDP growth might be as high as 7-8% despite the unfavorable
short-term outlook for the jute sector and for jute goods exports.
The Balance of Payments
10.       The 1979 foodgrain shortage was reflected also in the balance of
payments. The need to finance commercial purchases of foodgrain imports led
the Government to be cautious in the implementation of other imports which
fell considerably below targets. In FY80 the current account deficit widened
considerably, primarily due to large increases in the volume and price of
foodgrain imports and to price increases for imported crude oil and petroleum
products. At US$250 million, reserves at the end of FY80 were equivalent to
little more than one month's projected FY81 imports.
11.       Bangladesh's balance of payments is characterized by a massive
structural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid. Export earnings
in FY79 represented less than 7% of GDP and less than 40% of the import bill.
Moreover, Bangladesh's exports continue to be dominated by raw jute and jute
goods, which together account for approximately 70% of total export earnings.
Among the notable developments on the import side in FY79 was the temporary
1/   A special meeting of the Bangladesh Aid Group was convened in January
1980 to consider the country's foodgrain situation, import requirements
and policy measures needed to prevent future repetitions of the recent
experience. A Bank report entitled "Bangladesh: Food Policy Issues"
(No. 2761-BD, dated December 19, 1979) was prepared for consideration
at that meeting and distributed to the Executive Directors in December
1979.



-4
decline in foodgrain imports, caused mainly by delays in food aid arrivals.
Imports of capital goods rose by 21% to US$384 million; fertilizer imports
nearly doubled in value, and there were significant increases also in imports
of petroleum products and cement.
12.       The current account deficit in recent years has been considerably
smaller than the trade deficit, owing mainly to the rapid growth of workers'
remittances from the Middle East. These receipts are now the second most
important source of foreign exchange earnings, exceeded only by jute goods
exports. A significant development in the capital account was the US$100
million increase in project aid disbursements in FY79, reflecting in part
the country's growing absorptive capacity.  Total aid disbursements exceeded
US$1 billion for the first time in FY79, equivalent to 63% of total merchan-
dise imports. Debt service payments rose to US$95 million in FY79 and an
estimated US$123 million in FY80, notwithstanding some debt relief measures
undertaken by various donors, and the debt service ratio deteriorated from
13.5% in FY78 to 15.8% in FY79 and to about 17% in FY80.
13.       Between August 1978 and August 1979, GOB undertook a series of
exchange rate adjustments whereby the Taka was devalued by about 24% against
the Pound Sterling. These adjustments served to strengthen somewhat the
balance of payments and the allocation of resources within the economy. In
July 1979, the IMF approved a Standby Arrangement for a period of one year
in an amount equivalent to SDR 85 million. Net of repayments, and including
disbursements from the IMF Trust Fund and new SDR allocations, the IMF covered
about US$60 million of Bangladesh's external financing requirements in FY80.
The Standby Arrangement was the third since 1972. In addition, Bangladesh
has made extensive use of Fund resources under the oil and compensatory
financing facility. The financial program agreed under the Standby Arrange-
ment was designed to limit the expansion in overall domestic credit. While
the monetary targets embodied in the financial program had to be revised
upwards midyear, the goals of the program were largely met. The specific
ceilings in the program on credit to the public sector were, however, ex-
ceeded, largely due to the unanticipated deficit financing by the Government
in the last month of FY80. In the preparation of the proposed Credit, we
have maintained close contact with the IMF in their preparations for the
Extended Fund Facility (EFF) and they intend to keep us further briefed on
preparation of the EFF Credit.
14.       The terms of trade remained essentially unchanged in FY80 as rising
export prices for jute goods helped offset the impact of rising petroleum and
other import prices. Total FY80 merchandise exports increased by about 21%
and imports by over 55% in value; foodgrain and petroleum purchases alone
accounted for over three-quarters of the increase in imports.  The FY80 cur-
rent account deficit was largely covered by disbursements of approximately
$400 million in food aid, $500 million in commodity aid and $450 million in
project aid--total aid disbursements roughly 35% more than in FY79. In addi-
tion, however, reserves were drawn down by some $150 million.
15.       The FY81 balance of payments situation is expected to be difficult.
The terms of trade are projected to deteriorate markedly, reflecting mainly
an expected fall in jute goods export prices and a continuing rise in import



- 5 -
prices. Moreover, the anticipated slowdown in commodity aid availabilities
in FY81 implies that a current account deficit much in excess of the FY80
level of $1.6 billion will not be sustainable. As a consequence, the value
of imports is expected to grow by only 12.5% in nominal terms in the next
fiscal year.
Public Finance
16.       Government finances improved considerably in FY79 and remained
relatively strong in FY80; in both years, the current budget surplus increased
in both absolute and relative terms. The overall budget was balanced irn FY79,
but borrowing from the domestic banking system was a significant source of
budget financing in FY80, amounting to some 8% of total Government expendi-
ture. Further improvements in the mobilization of domestic resources are
however needed if the ratio of public investment to GDP is to be raised above
the level of recent years.
17.       The task of raising additional domestic resources is wide-ranging,
involving a broadening of the tax base and a strengthening of public sector
business enterprises and utilities as well as a reduction of the major sub-
sidies on food and fertilizer. The latter task has to be carried out with
due regard for both equity and production considerations. Reflecting its
growing awareness of the problem, the Government appointed a Taxation Enquiry
Commission in 1977 and five special committees in 1978 to review various
aspects of public financial resource mobilization. The five committees
reviewed, respectively: (i) gradual elimination of the food subsidy; (ii)
rationalization of the rate structure of public transport agencies; (iii)
economic pricing by public utilities; (iv) reduction in agricultural input
subsidies, including the fertilizer subsidy; and (v) improvement in the
financial performance of public sector enterprises. The committees have
concluded their work, and the final report of the Taxation Enquiry Commission
was submitted to the Government in April 1979.
18.       A start has been made in implementing some of the recommendations
of these advisory groups and of the measures suggested by the interim report
of the Taxation Enquiry Commission, especially those in regard to tax adminis-
tration. In mid-1978, the Government increased railway fares, and in the
course of FY79 and FY80 it raised foodgrain ration prices, several utility
rates, and commodity sales prices of public sector enterprises. Fertilizer
prices, for example, were increased by an average of 28% in August 1979 and
petroleum product prices by up to 45% in November 1979; issue prices for food-
grains from the public distribution system were increased in May 1979 and
again in May 1980 by a combined 40%, as the Government began to move toward
a gradual elimination of the foodgrain subsidy. In some cases, these price
adjustments only kept up with inflation, but in others--notably the food and
fertilizer subsidies--they served to reduce the subsidy per unit of product
in real terms. Petroleum product prices were raised by a further 45% in
mid-1980--an adjustment which should serve to greatly reduce if not eliminate
the subsidy on this account during FY81.



-6-
19.       The Government is expected to incorporate the essential long-term
recommendations of the various review committees concerning the reduction of
subsidies and the rationalization of the pricing policies of public sector
enterprises and utilities into a comprehensive fiscal strategy paper for the
SFYP period by April 1981. This strategy paper will set out a time-phased
action program for fiscal policy measures and other steps to imnprove the
mobilization of public sector financial resources for the finaincing of the
development program embodied in the SFYP.
20.       Current budget revenues increased by 21% in FY79 and by 19% in FY80,
reflecting primarily the continued liberalization and growth oE merchandise
imports and, hence, of import duties and sales tax receipts. Current expendi-
tures rose by only 9% in FY79, but by 19% in FY80 owing to inflationary
tendencies in general and a large increase in the foodgrain subsidy in par-
ticular (caused by the need to purchase and distribute large quantities of
grains in order to avert a famine). Development expenditures (in current
prices) rose by almost 40% in FY79 and by 32% in FY80 and there were commen-
surate increases in project aid disbursements in both years. These expendi-
ture and disbursement increases reflected a substantial augmentation of
development activity as measured in real terms. Food-for-work allocations
in FY80 were more than double the FY79 level as large quantities of foodgrains
were made available in support of a countrywide canal excavation campaign and
other rural projects.
21.       Inflationary pressures, which had re-emerged in FY78 (sparked
primarily by excessive liquidity creation by the banking system) continued
into FY79 and gained force in the latter part of the year when rice prices
rose very rapidly.  The cost-of-living index for urban consumers rose by 19%
between June 1978 and June 1979, pushed by a 48% increase in average rice
prices; since most of this rise occurred in the last months of the year,
however, the index for FY79 stood only 9% above the average for FY78. Rice
prices levelled off in the second half of 1979, and the inflationary pressure
eased considerably during FY80. Nevertheless, for the year as a whole, the
cost-of-living index was about 15% above the average for FY79, with overall
liquidity (money supply plus time and savings deposits) expanding by some
18%.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
22.       FY79 and FY80 constituted the period of the Two-Year Plan, which
was meant to provide an opportunity for policy reappraisal and for prepara-
tion of the Second Five-Year Plan. In the process of preparing the Plan, its
authors addressed the factors underlying the slow development of the economy
over the past decade. These include poor land use, insufficient irrigation
and flood control, inadequate administrative capacity, low domestic resource
mobilization, and social impediments to change. The planners also analyzed
the problems posed by the basic structural characteristics of the economy: an
environment prone to natural disasters; poor physical capital stock; a high
rate of population growth; mass poverty; a highly skewed distribution of
income and land ownership; a high ratio of population to land; extreme frag-
mentation of landholdings and growing landlessness of the predoiminantly rural



population; high illiteracy; poor health and short life expectancy; high
unemployment and underemployment and scarce employment possibilities outside
agriculture; and a heavy dependence on foreign aid, not only for investment
financing, but also for food and other recurrent inputs.
23.       The Second Five-Year Plan, issued in draft form in May 1980 and
presently undergoing final public discussion, accords top priority to three
major efforts: (i) achievement of self-sufficiency in foodgrains by FY85,
with domestic foodgrain production targeted to increase to an annual amount
of 20 million tons by FY85; (ii) reduction of the population growth rate
with a view of bringing the net reproduction rate down to unity by the year
1990; and (iii) progress towards mass literacy through the vehicle of free,
universal primary education.
24.       The potential for increasing foodgrain output in Bangladesh is con-
siderable. Yields and cropping intensity are well below potential levels,
fertilizer application rates are modest, and the available surface and ground-
water would permit a substantial expansion of irrigation. There is large
unsatisfied demand for irrigation; where irrigation is available, the increase
in fertilizer use and the shift to high-yielding varieties of rice and from
dry season rice to wheat have been widespread and rapid. The growth of fer-
tilizer consumption and of wheat acreage and production during the past few
years have been among the most notable positive developments in Bangladesh
agriculture and justify some optimism concerning the ability of the country to
achieve self-sufficiency in foodgrains in the foreseeable future. The Govern-
ment has formulated, with assistance from IDA, a Medium-Term Foodgrain Produc-
tion Plan which provides an investment portfolio geared towards the attainment
of the SFYP target of 20 million tons of foodgrains. 1/ While the feasibility
of this target is beyond doubt, its achievement will be possible only if the
Government demonstrates the determination and capacity to allocate the resour-
ces required to provide the inputs needed by the farmers, and to permit the
private sector to play a substantial role in the provision and servicing of
modern agricultural implements and inputs. Other necessary requirements are
adequate levels of foreign aid to finance imported inputs,, improved farmer
extension and training, and adequate farm income and incentive levels. With-
out adequate attention to these latter factors, farmers demand for inputs
could soon start to level off.
25.       Achievement of the second objective, reduction of the population
growth rate, will require more determined efforts than have been made thus
far. Recent projections 2/ indicate that, unless the net reproduction rate
is brought down more rapidly than present trends indicate, the population
of Bangladesh, estimated at almost 90 million in January 1980, could rise
to 143 million by the year 2000. Birth control efforts in Bangladesh have
1/   The MTFPP target is flexibly set at the 18-20 million tons range, allow-
ing for a 10% shortfall due to adverse weather or other factors beyond
the control of the implementing agencies.
2/   IBRD projections prepared for the World Development Report 1980.



-8-
suffered thus far from poor implementation and have had only limited success.
Recently there has been some encouraging progress, however. Ihe coordination
of birth control activities within the Government is improving, while training
programs for field staff have been revised and are now, for the first time,
considered adequate. GOB has decided to prepare a medium term implementation
plan for population and the Bank has agreed to provide technical assistance
in preparing this plan.
26.       Vigorous pursuit of the measures that have been identified to improve
performance should enable GOB to come gradually to grips with the population
problem. It should make it possible to double approximately the number of
acceptors of family planning during the SFYP period (from 14% of couples of
reproductive age in FY79 to 28% by FY85). Officially, the planners aim at
reducing the net reproduction rate to the level of one by 1990, although they
note that, as yet, no other country has succeeded in reducing reproduction at
such a rapid rate. This target is clearly not achievable, but the Government
means to use it to galvanize institutions at all levels as well as the popu-
lation itself into determined action to stabilize the size of the population
as early as possible.
27.       The third of the central objectives of the SFYP is the drive for
general literacy. The planners recognize that its attainment will take
longer than five years, but they have set themselves the target of intro-
ducing universal primary education and enrolling 90% of all children of
primary-school age by 1985. This program is to be supplemented by a national
non-formal mass education scheme for those already past primary-school age.
28.       A plan aimed at effecting a significant departure from past trends
will place a severe strain on domestic finance and managerial skills. Even
with the adoption of labor-intensive and low capital-cost techniques, a
significant step-up in development spending will be required. This in turn
will require sizeable increases in the mobilization of domestic and the
inflow of foreign resources. A critical factor will also be the extent to
which project implementation capabilities are improved. Although immediate
improvements can be made in the ability of the administration to expedite
project implementation, it is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies
alone would be adequate to achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government
recognizes that in certain key areas greater reliance will have to be placed
on the private sector. It also believes that, to a certain extent, activities
such as education and rural development should be carried out in a decen-
tralized fashion, with greater emphasis on local initiative and grass-roots
participation.
Need for Program Aid
29,       The need for program lending to Bangladesh is due to the inadequacy
of the country's domestic savings to finance its investment and the equal
inadequacy of its export. earnings. A large inflow of external capital is
required merely to achieve a very modest growth of per capita income. At
present, monetized savings constitute about 3% of GDP. Thus, although mone-
tized investment is quite inadequate at around 14% of GDP, external assistance



- 9 -
is financing about 80% of this total. Foreign capital, directly and indirectly
in the form of counterpart funds generated by commodity aid, finances about
75% of the development budget.
30.       The corollary of this savings/investment disequilibrium is a siml-
larly severe imbalance in the country's external payments position.  Export
earnings during FY77-FY79 averaged only 43% of imports. The main imports are
capital goods (24% of the total in FY79), food (16%), other essential consumer
goods (18%), fertilizer (8%), industrial raw materials (22%), and petroleum
products (12%). A significant deterioration in the terms of trade is foreseen
for the next few years, mainly due to rising costs of petroleum products. As
a result, exports in FY80 were equivalent to only 28% of imports.
31.       The severity of both the savings and the trade constraints makes
it impossible to transfer to Bangladesh the amount of external assistance
required to sustain a modest rate of growth by means of project financing
alone. As discussed in paras 23-27, the major priorities underlying
Bangladesh's development program--self-sufficiency in foodgrains, reduced
population growth and increased literacy--are well chosen. There are, however,
limits to the extent that the components of a country's development program
can be formed into projects suitable for external financing. The share of
externally aided projects cannot usually exceed 50-60% of the total development
program lest resource allocation priorities become distorted. As external
financing rarely exceeds 75% of total project cost, a reasonable limit for
project financing is usually reached when it approaches an amount equivalent
to 40-45% of total development expenditures. A large measure of program
assistance is therefore required to help finance Bangladesh's development
program.
32.       Similar structural constraints exist in the composition of imports.
Export earnings, after covering debt service payments, are sufficient only
to finance about 55% of imports other than food and capital goods. Without
program assistance to finance imports of general commodities, the supply of
essential raw materials and intermediate goods would be reduced greatly. In
particular, production in the industrial sector, which provides commodities
essential to the livelihood of the population and to exports, would be reduced
substantially.
33.       The need for foreign aid in general and non-project aid in particular
will remain large in the next several years. Even with growing import sub-
stitution in the case of foodgrains, the trade gap is expected to widen
because of increasing needs for capital goods and raw materials imports to
sustain the growth of the economy, the poor prospects for jute exports and
the very small base from which non-traditional exports are now beginning to
grow. Increased imports of essential commodities are crucial if GDP is to
reach a 5% growth rate during FY81-FY85, a target which is feasible if further
progress is made in overcoming the stagnation in agriculture and if investment
can be increased from 14 to 17% of GDP. Even with successful domestic resource
mobilization efforts, monetized national savings are unlikely to rise to more
than 5-6% of GDP, leaving about 65-70% of investment, equivalent to 11-12% of



- 10 -
GDP, to be financed by foreign aid.  This is about the same proportion of aid
to GDP as prevails at present.
34.       While significant progress has been made in recent years in expand-
ing the country's ability to absorb project aid, the proportion of project aid
is unlikely to rise above 40-45% of the total investment program leaving at
least 20-30% of the total investment program to be financed through non-project
aid. To the extent Bangladesh succeeds in its drive to become self-sufficient
in foodgrain production, food aid would decline over the course of the next
five years. It is unlikely that Bangladesh will be able to increase national
savings by enough to substitute for declining food aid and simultaneously
raise the investment coefficient from 14% to 17% of GDP; this will add to
the need for commodity aid, cash aid and program credits.
35.       Bangladesh's need for program aid has been recognized by the inter-
national community. Many bilateral donors and international groups (WFP, EEC,
etc.) have provided food and commodity aid and certain bilateral donors have
provided cash aid. The IMF has provided assistance in the context of its
relatively short-term goals of monetary, fiscal and balance-of-payments
improvement, and IDA has given program credits aimed at improving the long-
term viability of certain industrial subsectors.
36.       There is a strong case at this time for linking Bank program aid
to policy improvements in the agricultural sector and to foodgrain policies
in particular. Agriculture is the dominant sector in the Bangladesh economy
and without a breakthrough in agriculture there is no prospect for more rapid
overall growth of the economy. The Government's recognition of this priority
is not only clearly announced in its policy statements but also shown by
various recent measures to step up agricultural growth and to rationalize
food policies. The formulation of a detailed Medium-Term Foodgrain Production
Plan, increased budgetary allocation to agricultural development, increased
recognition of the private sector's role in the provision of inputs, more
effective price support policies and strengthening of agricultural planning
are factors which make it possible to foresee a more rapid growth of agri-
culture and therefore of the economy as a whole.
PART II - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR: PERFORMANCE AND POLICIES
A. Background and Output Performance
37.       Agriculture dominates the Bangladesh economy, accounting for 55%
of GDP, 75% of total employment and, directly or indirectly, over 90% of
the country's exports. About 70% of agricultural value added is derived
from crops and the rest from forestry (6%), fisheries (9%) and livestock
(13%). Bangladesh has a gross area of about 35 million acres, of which about
21 million acres are cropped at a cropping intensity averaging 150% in recent
years. Rice, by far the most important crop, accounts for about 80% of the



- 11 -
gross cropped area; jute, the principal export, for 6%, and a variety of
other crops--such as wheat, pulses, oilseeds, sugarcane, and vegetables--for
the remainder. Agricultural productivity in Bangladesh is still very low,
though rice yields have been rising by about 1% a year. The average rice
yield of 1.3 tons per hectare achieved in FY80 was 15% above the average
yields of FY66-FY70.
38.       During the 1960s, agricultural output rose at an average annual rate
of 2.5% and foodgrain production at about 2.4% per annum--both lagging behind
the population growth rate of about 2.8% per year.  As a result, foodgrain
imports required to meet domestic consumption requirements increased from
less than 0.6 million tons in FY61 to over 1.5 million tons by FY70.
39.       In the early 1970s agricultural output declined sharply as a result
of the struggle for independence and several major natural calamities. The
aggregate output of the last normal pre-independence year was not achieved
again until FY76, and although significant production increases in foodgrains
were recorded in both FY76 and in FY78, the overall performance of the crop
sector during the 1970s was disappointing. Foodgrain production in FY80 was
only 13% higher than in FY70, while the population increased by over 30%
during the same period. With jute production still well below the levels
achieved during the late 1960s, aggregate value added in agriculture in FY80
was only about 10% higher (in real terms) than in FY70.
40.       The most promising development in the foodgrain sector in recent
years has been the rapid increase in wheat production. Wheat requires only
about one-third as much water as boro rice and its cultivation therefore
presents a far lower risk to farmers. Production costs for wheat are lower
and the new varieties are fertilizer-responsive and have shorter maturing
periods than boro rice. Wheat production increased from an annual average of
only 107,000 tons during the first half of the 1970s to 486,000 tons in FY79,
as acreage planted and average yields both doubled. Wheat production in FY80
increased to about 1.2 million tons. Wheat is increasingly accepted as a
staple food even in the rural areas, and the potential for further significant
production increases is good. Allowing for overlapping acreage requirements
for other crops, at least 3 million acres of land now fallow in the dry
winter season are estimated to be suitable for wheat cultivation; with yields.
presently averaging about 750 kg per acre (or over 1.85 tons per hectare),
this would imply a potential wheat crop of over 2.2 million tons at current
average yields. The main requirements for continued rapid expansion in wheat
output are availability of seeds and fertilizer, dependability of irrigation
facilities, proper field drainage to prevent waterlogging, and reasonable
incentive support prices at harvest time. With more reliable irrigation, and
accompanying increases in the use of good seed and fertilizer, wheat produc-
tion of 3 million to 6 million tons would be feasible.
41.       The drought of 1978/79, the worst in decades, affected four
consecutive rice crops and caused significant crop losses in many parts of
the country. The first crop affected was the FY79 aman: targeted for 7.8
million tons, it actually amounted to only 7.3 million tons (roughly 100,000



- 12 -
tons less than the record harvest of FY78). When the drought continued, the
subsequent boro crop, at only 1.9 million tons, fell 20% short of the 2.4
million target and 14% below the level of FY78. The failure of the Govern-
ment's diesel fuel delivery systems to keep pumps working throughout the
drought exacerbated the problems of scarce surface water and insufficient
soil moisture: diesel fuel deliveries were inadequate and late, and pro-
longed electric power outages in the western part of the country idled many
tubewells for weeks during the most crucial period of the growth cycle.
42.       The aus crop of FY80 suffered most from the drought, with output
Ealling almost 15% below the record level of the preceding year. At only 2.8
million tons, it was the smallest aus harvest in seven years. The FY80 aman
-roo was also not very good, estimated at 7.1 million tons (even below the
disappointing level of FY79).
43.       Taken together, the FY80 aus and aman crops were roughly 600,000
tons less than the corresponding production in FY79. With more favorable
weather conditions and a determined effort by the Government to provide ade-
quate inputs and to assure incentive output prices, the FY80 boro and wheat
crops more than offset the shortfalls in the aus and aman harvests. The FY80
boro crop was in the order of 2.5 million tons, a new record. With a wheat
crop of perhaps 1.2 million tons, the two winter crops were more than one
million tons larger than in FY79. While this brought total FY80 foodgrain
output to a level slightly above that achieved during each of the preceding
two years (about 13.3 million tons), domestic grain output failed to keep
pace with population growth for the second year in succession.
44.       Achievement of a higher agricultural growth rate requires increased
commitment of financial resources and increased administrative efforts. The
allocation of financial resources in the Annual Development Program (ADP) to
agriculture has been insufficient in the past several years in view of the
importance of the sector. The sector's allocation in the ADP has averaged
only some 30% between FY76 and FY79, and only about 22% if the fertilizer
subsidy is excluded. The FY81 allocation, exclusive of the fertilizer
subsidy, rose sharply to 27%. However, achieving rapid growth in agricul-
tural production--one of the three central objectives of the Second Five-Year
Plan--will require increased allocations and efficient utilization of finan-
cial and administrative resources, significant improvements in the utilization
of existing productive capacity (especially of irrigation facilities already
operational or to be fielded), the removal of administrative impediments to
project implementation, the strengthening of input delivery systems, a greatly
expanded role for the private sector in the distribution and management of
agricultural inputs and outputs, a more effective foodgrain procurement
system to help assure incentive output prices for farmers, further rational-
ization of the price structure for agricultural inputs and outputs, and a
sectoral plan implementation program to provide the framework and timetable
for concerted action in these areas.



- 13 -
B. Agricultural Production Strategy
45.       The central objectives of the Government's agricultural development
efforts are spelled out in the Second Five-Year Plan. In addition to the
attainment of self-sufficiency in foodgrains by the end of the Plan period,
the Plan aims at creating employment opportunities for the rural poor in order
to raise their incomes and nutritional standards, as well as at increasing the
output of agricultural products suitable for export. The Plan's strategy for
the agriculture sector emphasizes the strengthening of rural institutions and
self-help activities, improving the utilization of existing irrigation facili-
ties, increasing the supply of modern agricultural inputs, and expanding the
acreage irrigated through low-cost and quick-yielding schemes. It also recog-
nizes the need for a significantly greater involvement of the private sector
in the delivery and servicing of modern inputs and agricultural equipment,
which in the past have been mainly the responsibility of the Bangladesh
Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC).
46.       With virtually all arable land already under cultivation, increasing
grain production will require improvements in cropping intensity and yields.
The potential for further gains in these areas is considerable. Average rates
of fertilizer application, despite rapid increases in recent years, remain
well below optimal levels. The acreage under HYVs and local improved vari-
eties (LIVs) remains very small for the aus and aman crops (only 10-15%) and
could be expanded within five years to 25-30% even with currently available
varieties. Available irrigation facilities are significantly underutilized,
and very little use is made of existing irrigation equipment to supplement
the water supply for rainfed crops.
47.       The weakness and inefficiency of the Government's delivery systems
and support services have proven to be serious impediments to agricultural
development. The capabilities of the public sector--to deliver greatly in-
creased quantities of inputs, to reach a larger number of farmers with essen-
tial support services, and to guarantee effective support prices to all
cultivators--are already severely strained. Further expansion of these
activities, therefore, will require not only much-improved performance by
government agencies and delivery systems already in place, but also greater
reliance on private sector distribution, management and maintenance capabili-
ties. The latter would serve to reduce somewhat the burden on the public
sector and permit some of its resources to be redirected to tasks beyond the
ability of the private sector to perform.
48.       Several positive steps have been taken in the past two years to
help lay the foundation for accelerated growth in foodgrain production. The
supply of agricultural inputs--notably of fertilizer, of modern irrigation
facilities, and also of improved seeds--has been steadily increased. Fertil-
izer distribution has been turned over to the private sector at the wholesale
level throughout the country. A start has been made in selling tubewells and
low-lift pumps to private owners rather than renting them at very heavily
subsidized prices. Pump repair and maintenance services have been opened up
to the private sector. The wholesale and retail distribution of pesticides
has been entirely handed over to the private sector. Steps have been taken



- 14 -
also to reduce the rate of subsidies on fertilizer, irrigation equipment and
diesel fuel by increasing sales prices or rental charges. Subsidies were
useful when these modern inputs were first introduced, but have become less
desirable now that modern inputs have become accepted because they impose a
heavy burden on the Government's limited financial resources. Finally, the
procurement prices for paddy, rice and wheat have been raised twice in 1979
and the number of grain purchasing centers has been increased substantially
during the past two years in an effort to ensure that farmers will obtain
incentive prices for their crops at harvest time. Since November 1979 the
procurement price for rice has been Tk 170 per maund, or the equivalent of
$300 per ton, and for wheat Tk 110 per maund or about $193 per ton. These
prices have been close to international prices for comparable grades of
grain, and appear to offer substantial incentives to producers.
49.       Another important positive step has been a review with IDA technical
assistance of the project portfolio of the Bangladesh Water Development Board
(BWDB). This led to the endorsement of a strategy of emphasizing small, low-
cost, quick-gestation irrigation and flood control schemes. This successful
effort has been followed by the formulation of the Medium-Term Foodgrain
Production Plan (MTFPP), the centerpiece of the Government's development
program for the foodgrains subsector in the Second Five-Year Plan. The MTFPP
is to be put in final form in the fall of 1980 and then to be submitted for
approval as an official planning document. The Government and IDA will review
jointly and regularly progress in implementation of the MTFPP. Meanwhile the
draft has already served as the background for the ADP of FY81, which is the
MTFPP's first year, and for decisions on a number of associated policies.
The MTFPP's aim of raising foodgrain output to 18-20 million tons by the end
of the SFYP period is to be realized essentially through a time-phased program
of implementing a variety of interconnected, yet divisible, projects in the
areas of irrigation, flood control, drainage, fertilizer distribution, and HYV
seed provision, as well as numerous supportive activities in the construction
of rural roads, storage facilities for fertilizer, diesel fuel, foodgrains,
and the like. The projects included in the MTFPP have been carefully screened
for their compatibility with the requirements of low cost and quick gestation
and are suitable for support by aid donors. Some of the projects are already
in various stages of implementation, while others will have to be initiated
soon in order to come to fruition by the later years of the SFYP period.
50.       Within the MTFPP, the single most important contribution to
increased foodgrain output is to be made by the provision of additional
irrigation facilities which will make grain production less vulnerable to
the uncertainties of rainfall. Newly irrigated acreage alone is targeted
to contribute some 3 million tons in additional grain output by FY85; in
addition, the utilization of available irrigation facilities to supplement
the natural supply of water for the primarily rainfed aus and aman crops is
expected to add some 500,000 tons to the gross output. The expansion of
the actually irrigated command area of existing irrigation facilities should
contribute a further 500,000 tons by the end of the Plan period.
51.       Additional drainage and flood control schemes included in the
MTFPP are expected to lead to increased fertilizer use on about 1.5 million



- 15 -
acres protected against the risks of waterlogging and untimely flooding and,
thus, to about 400,000 tons of additional grain production. The expansion of
the acreage under HYVs for rainfed aus and rainfed aman could account for
about 1 million tons in additional rice output by FY85, and the expansion of
the rainfed wheat acreage could bring a further 500,000 tons of grains.
Finally, improved cultivation practices--including better nursery care, line
sowing instead of broadcast sowing, increased fertilizer use, regular and
proper pest and disease control, and intensified weeding--should improve
average yields per acre by about 1 maund and, thus, add some 1 million tons
to the aggregate grain output. Annex IV provides a summary of these com-
ponents of the overall grain production scenario that underlies the MTFPP.
52.       Clearly, the targets of the MTFPP are ambitious--both those for the
provision of inputs and those for aggregate output. There is no doubt that
these targets are technically feasible, however, and that the agreed programs
being launched are adequate to the task. The reality of past project imple-
mentation in Bangladesh points to the crucial importance of the total and
unwavering commitment of all available financial, administrative and technical
resources to the implementation effort if the goal of foodgrain self-
sufficiency is to be reached by the end of the Plan period. Thus, the final
determinant will be the success in the monitoring and implementing of these
programs, and the ability to minimize bureaucratic delays.
C. Foodgrain Policy
53.       Foodgrain policy plays a major role in shaping the Bangladesh
economy. It affects the rate and structure of economic growth, income dis-
tribution, the balance of trade and the financial position of the Government.
The chronic and growing food deficit has made the country dependent on large
food imports, while the management of food crises has at times made it diffi-
cult for the Government to pay enough attention to longer term development
issues. In recent years, the Government has made increased efforts to solve
the food problem through the design and implementation of policies geared to
make official procurement an effective means to support prices received by
farmers, expand open market sales to stabilize food prices, reduce the coverage
of the ration system and make it more of an instrument for achieving equity
and employment objectives, reduce the food and fertilizer subsidies, build up
and maintain adequate security stocks to cope with natural disasters, and
strengthen overall food policy management and coordination.
Procurement
54.       Until the mid-1970s, official procurement was primarily seen as a
tool for the Government to obtain grains for the public distribution system.
In recent years, however, Government has increasingly tried to use the procure-
ment system as a farmgate price support mechanism that will provide adequate
incentives to farmers to increase their output through the use of modern
inputs associated with high-yielding technology. An effective price support
program requires not only establishment of attractive procurement prices while



- 16 -
maintaining reasonable relationships between foodgrain and other agricultural
and non-agricultural prices, but also adequate numbers of procurement centers
and sufficient storage capacity to permit the Government to purchase all the
grain offered to it, and a competitive and efficient private sector to buy
grain both for resale to procurement centers and for storage and resale during
the lean season. Development of feeder roads and other planned improvements
in rural transport and marketing during the SFYP and beyond will further
improve the prices received by farmers in areas which now are without such
facilities.
55.       Procurement prices of rice and wheat have been increased markedly
in recent years and offer substantial incentives to most farmers to use HYVs,
fertilizer and irrigation. Procurement prices for paddy and wheat were raised
in stages from Tk 78 per maund in February 1977 to Tk 110 in November 1979, or
to about $300 per ton of rice at the official exchange rate. In normal crop
years, however, harvest-period market prices have fallen well below procurement
prices and farmers could not be confident that they would receive the procure-
ment price. Even in the drought-affected poor aman harvests of 1978 and 1979,
market prices in many surplus areas were below the procurement price for at
least a few weeks.
56.       In order to support farmgate prices for grain more effectively, the
Government has been steadily expanding the number of procurement centers and
seeking to increase their storage capacity. Between the 1976 and 1979 aman
harvests the number of procurement centers increased by one-fourth, from 466
to 592 and further increases to as many as 950 centers are being considered.
Especially in good harvest years, however, many of the procurement centers
have to suspend procurement because of lack of storage space. Farmers and
others seeking to sell at procurement centers regularly encounter long delays
and sometimes receive payment only the next day.
57.       The Government is attempting to solve each of these problems.
Actions have been taken or are under study to speed the processing of purchases
and payments procedures at procurement centers, to end discrimination against
farmers and small traders who present themselves at the procurement centers,
and to encourage more private traders to enter the market. Steps have been
taken to assure that a bank branch office or payment booth is close to each
procurement center, and that these promptly get the necessary documents and
have adequate cash on hand to make payments without delays. A decision has
been made to phase out the system of Approved Grain Dealers (AGDs), which
has restricted the access of farmers and small traders to the procurement
centers while apparently contributing little to the intended effect of ensur-
ing that farmers are paid the full official procurement price. I/
58.       The goal of guaranteeing farmers an incentive price for their
output requires a further concerted effort on the part of the Government to
1/   Approved Grain Dealers are required to sell to procurement centers all
the grain they purchase during a harvest period and to pay farmers the
official procurement price, collecting the transportation fee and a small
additional fee for their services. In practice, however, AGDs have paid
farmers only the price which other dealers are offering.



- 17 -
upgrade and expand its procurement system. The most pressing need is for
additional storage and intake capacity both through the creation of new
centers and expansion of existing ones. Many existing centers lack measuring
equipment to assess the extent to which grains being offered meet official
procurement quality standards. Many centers also lack sufficient storage
facilities to take in all grains when harvests are abundant, and well-trained
staff to operate the centers. The Association's involvement in this subsector
is discussed in para 111.
59.       Decisions to establish more procurement and storage facilities
should be closely related to plans to improve road and other transportation
links, to establish thana and village level storage, to expand agricultural
credit, and to reduce present obstacles to private trading in grain. While
improvement and expansion of the capacity of the Government to procure and
store grain is an urgent priority, the main responsibility for marketing,
storing and processing foodgrains will remain with the private sector (see
discussion and table on paragraphs 106-111). The size of the forecast in-
crease in the marketable surplus of foodgrains is such that a greatly
increased share of the Government in the distribution of foodgrains would
unavoidably lead'to gross inefficiency and the tying-up of inordinate finan-
cial and administrative resources. The Government is considering several
steps to enable the private sector to carry out its responsibility in this
respect, such as provision of bank credit for establishing storage and pro-
cessing facilities and for holding grain stocks, and revision of the country's
anti-hoarding legislation.
Distribution and Subsidies
60.       All grain purchased by government procurement centers and all
imported foodgrain is channelled to consumers through the Public Food Distri-
bution System (PFDS).  The 1.8 million or more tons so distributed in a normal
crop year are equal to about one-seventh of total consumption; the drought
conditions led to an emergency scale of public food distribution in FY80 of
close to 3 million tons. Roughly two-thirds of the public food distribution
is allocated to certain priority recipients such as government employees,
members of the armed forces, police, employees of semi-government and auto-
nomous official bodies, and to other persons who have been residents of six
urban centers since 1974 or before. The balance is allocated for Food-for-
Work programs, periodic rationing to the rural poor during times of short
supplies, or to relief for those affected by natural disasters.
61.       The Government's efforts to reform the system have focussed on
reducing the subsidy element, using a substantial portion of government
grain for open market sales as a buffer stock to reduce seasonal and annual
market price fluctuations, and directing a greater portion of the ration
distribution to the poor. During FY78 and FY79, the government subsidy
including all handling costs amounted to nearly two-thirds of the ration price
of rice and more than one-third the ration price of wheat. Since the ration
system is not only targeted towards the poorest, the subsidy has limited
social justification. Studies show a decline of 15% or more in food consump-
tion during lean season months, borne mostly by the rural and urban poor who



- 18 -
are not protected by the ration system. These people would be the chief
beneficiaries if substantial quantities of government grain were used for open
market sales to limit free market price increases during lean seasons.
62.       The Government has taken several steps to reduce the subsidy element
in the ration system. Between February 1977 and May 1980 the excess of the
procurement price over the ration issue price for rice was only reduced from
Tk 35 to Tk 33 per maund, but as a percent of the procurement price declined
from 29% to 19%. For wheat, the excess of the procurement price over the
ration issue price has been reduced from Tk 11 to Tk 3 per maund, or to less
than 3%. Although the total subsidy is larger than these amounts indicate
because of post-harvest handling (transportation, storage, distribution), the
reductions do indicate a significant decline in the subsidy element.
63.       Another important measure to reduce both the subsidy cost and
the ration offtake by higher income groups was taken in May 1980 when the
content of the foodgrain ration was changed from 1.5 seers of rice and 1.5
seers of wheat per adult per week to 1 seer of rice and 2 seers of wheat.
Since the subsidy involved in wheat sales is much smaller than that in rice
sales, the result of this change in the content of the ration was a further
significant decline in the subsidy element in the ration system.
64.       To serve better those outside the ration system, the Government
doubled the size of its Food-for-Work Programs during FY80, and further
increases are expected. A modest start has also been made in open market
sales of wheat to help stabilize rice and wheat prices during seasonal
periods of high prices. Open market sales of rice are under consideration,
but public rice stocks have been too small to permit any sizeable government
interventions in the open market.
65.       Subsidies on agricultural inputs such as fertilizer, irrigation
facilities and irrigation water are primarily incentives to farmers to increase
use of the subsidized inputs and hence to increase farm output. Incentives to
use these inputs would still be high without the subsidies, however, and the
Government therefore has decided to phase them out in order to free budget
resources for other purposes and to improve the efficiency of input use. The
Government increased fertilizer prices by 28% in August 1979 and has decided
to raise them by another 24% in the fall of 1980. These increases were in
part offset by increases in prices of imported fertilizer; as a result of the
two price increases, the unit subsidy will decline from 50% to 36% of the cost
of fertilizer, including transportation costs. A beginning has been made in
reducing subsidies on irrigation equipment through the introduction of higher
rental charges. In addition, the Government is planning to shift increasingly
toward sales rather than rentals of minor irrigation equipment, and shallow
tubewells will be sold at cost rather than at subsidized prices (see para-
graphs 89-96).
Policy Planning and Monitoring
66.       The Government decided in early 1978 that a food policy unit be
established with a full-time professional secretariat to (a) monitor and
forecast food production, prices, stocks, offtake, procurement and imports,
(b) devise and operate an early warning system for crop failures and short-
falls, (c) analyze food policy issues, and (d) advise the Government on needed



- 19 -
policy reforms. The Government reviewed various proposals for implementing
this decision, but took action only in the spring of 1979 when the nation
faced a serious shortage of foodgrain stocks. The President then reconsti-
tuted the Cabinet-level Council Committee on Food, with himself as Chairman
and with the Minister of Planning as Coordinator. 1/ He also set up a Food
Planning and Monitoring Unit (FPMU) at the Secretaries' level with the Minister
of Planning as Convenor. 2/ During the crisis period in the summer of 1979
the Council Committee met twice weekly with the President to review import
schedules and arrivals and to plan and coordinate the movement and distribu-
tion of food. These actions reduced substantially the severity and duration
of food shortages.
PART III - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
67.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of eleven
credits, amounting to US$148.6 million, made originally to Pakistan before
1971. In addition, as of August 31, 1980, 45 new credits have been approved,
totaling US$1,271.7 million as well as one consolidation credit of $31.0
million; of these, US$600 million have been for program credits (eight import
program credits and two fertilizer imports credits). Annex II contains a
summary statement of IDA credits and disbursements as of August 31, 1980,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh
became a member of the IFC, and one investment in a shipbuilding and engineer-
ing company and one investment in a development finance company have been
approved.
68.       Bangladesh's debt service ratio was 15.8% in FY79. 3/  While the
debt service ratio is not expected to exceed 20% before the mid-1980s, it
could do so thereafter, unless careful debt management policies are pursued
and aid is provided on appropriately concessional terms. Bangladesh's total
outstanding and disbursed external public debt amounted to just over US$3
billion as of June 30, 1979, with IDA credits and the single IBRD loan
accounting for 25% of the total. In FY79, the Bank Group accounted for 9% of
Bangladesh's total debt service payments; because assistance is now entirely.
in the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
1/   The other members are the (1) Prime Minister, (2) Deputy Prime Minister
and Minister for Water, Power and Irrigation, and the Ministers for
(3) Agriculture, (4) Food, (5) Finance, (6) Foreign Affairs, (7) Com-
merce, (8) Ports, Shipping and Inland Water Transport, and (9) Railways,
Roads, Highways and Road Transport.
2/   Other members are the Secretaries of the Ministries of Food, Agriculture,
Finance (ERD), Planning (Statistics Division), and the Member for Plan-
ning of the Planning Commission.
3/   As a percentage of merchandise exports only.  (If workers'remittances
amounting to US$140 million are added to total merchandise export earn-
ings of US$602 million, the debt service ratio would drop to 12.9%.)



- 20 -
69.       The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture
(15 of the 45 new projects approved since independence, and two fertilizer
imports credits). This is consistent with the country's needs and the Govern-
ment's priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on projects
that provide agricultural inputs, including in particular the provision of
adequate fertilizer supplies to farmers. Emphasis is also given to the
provision of irrigation, improved seeds, extension, credit and storage
facilities.
70.       In addition to agriculture projects, emphasis is also being placed
upon projects in other sectors which facilitate agricultural development or
which reduce bottlenecks interfering with the economy's overall performance.
In Iransportation, for example, improvements are required to facilitate the
movement of imports and to bring products to market. Future projects will
emphasize improving rural transportation services, eliminating key bottle-
necks interfering with commodity flows, and improving the maintenance of
facilities. Similarly, in power we expect to emphasize rural electrification
and eliminate shortages of generation capacity or distribution facilities
which have been a major impediment to utilization of existing industrial
capacity.
71.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an ex-
tremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive capacity.
The first population project is now making encouraging progress, and a second
population project was approved in FY79. Improved education and availability
of trained manpower is also crucial, and lending in this field has emphasized
agricultural, technical and vocational training, and primary education.
72.       Industry has been the main beneficiary of the eight imports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfer of
resources and the persistent structural weakness of the economy, program lend-
ing will continue to be a desirable component of IDA operations in Bangladesh.
The industrial sector has also benefited from two fertilizer production proj-
ects, a jute industry rehabilitation project and DFC and small-scale industry
projects. IFC is currently in the process of identifying further suitable
investment opportunities.
73.       The primary rationale for the first three program credits to
Bangladesh was to address the critical rehabilitation needs of the country
after independence. The program content of these credits focused upon the
industrial sector and its needs for raw materials and spare parts to help
achieve a better utilization of industrial capacity. Under the Fourth Imports
Program Credit, emphasis was changed from a general balance of payments
approach to program lending to a specific focus on the factors inhibiting the
efficiency of the country's two largest industries, jute and cotton textiles.
Under the Fourth and subsequent credits, specific measures were developed to
improve (i) capacity utilization, through mill maintenance programs and
improved spare parts availability; (ii) production planning and control; (iii)
raw material procurement; and (iv) the financial performance of the respective
industries through asset replacement programs, capital restructuring, product
rationalization, pricing policy adjustments and rationalization of production



- 21 -
facilities. Additionally, a number of studies were initiated as a first step
towards formulating long-term develoment programs for the jute, cotton textile
and pulp and paper industries.
74.       Given the problems facing the industries concerned, it was antici-
pated that progress in institution building, policy and procedure upgrading
and restoration of financial stability, would be slow. This proved to be the
case, and it was not until FY78 that sufficient progress had been made in
these industries to allow later credits to focus upon such issues as export
development and the structural problems of the industrial sector. Thus the
Seventh Imports Program Credit addressed the need to develop a comprehensive
export policy and medium term export strategy to serve as the basis for the
development of a national export policy and strategy.
75.       Since 1975 when the first industry-oriented action program was
introduced, progress in creating the basis for the long term development of
the country's major manufacturing subsectors--jute, textiles and pulp and
paper--has been satisfactory albeit in some instances considerably behind
schedule. In the jute industry sufficient progress had been made in strength-
ening the operating and financial position of the industry to justify a move
to more project-specific involvement. 1/ Major weaknesses in marketing and
production planning have been eliminated and a market information system is
now under implementation. With the assistance of UNIDO, the Bangladesh Jute
Mills Corporation (BJMC) has improved quality control and this, coupled with
the introduction of an export inspection service, has resulted in a significant
reduction of claims for substandard materials. These measures have helped
Bangladesh improve its share of the jute goods market vis-a-vis other major
competitors. In addition to production and market related issues, BJMC has
also tackled problems of organization and management. Mills have been
regrouped to reduce spans of control and permit better use of scarce manage-
ment skills. These measures have resulted in an improvement in the opera-
tional performance of BJMC's mills and have helped contain a deteriorating
financial performance, pending implementation of GOB's capital restructuring
of the Corporation. Under this restructuring, which is to be completed by
December 31, 1983, GOB agreed to convert into equity about Tk 370.0 million
(US$24.0 million) of ADP loans and about Tk 500.0 million (US$32.0 million)
of GOB interest free loans. This conversion was implemented on September 22,
1980. In addition to the conversion, GOB agreed to provide BJMC with about
Tk 2,700.0 million (US$175.0 million) of equity in the form of four annual
infusions of cash, the total amount of cash infusions to be adjusted to
reflect any after tax profits or losses incurred by BJMC and its units
during the period to December 31, 1983. On June 30, 1980, the first tranche
of the cash infusion was received by BJMC and was used to repay amounts due
to the Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) and the Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha
(BSRS). On the basis of improvements achieved to date, the BJMC reported
an operating profit of about Tk 850 million for FY80 and expects to maintairt
its profitability during FY81.
1/   Credit 1023-BD Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project.



- 22 -
76.       As part of GOB/IDA's program to upgrade the performance of the
Textile Industry, short and medium term issues, such as the need for greater
managerial autonomy, improved maintenance requirements, etc. have been
addressed by the industrial action programs. Initially, progress was slow
due to delays in staffing expatriate teams, etc. to assist the Bangladesh
Textile Mills Corporation (BTMC). However, sufficient operational and insti-
tutional progress has now been made to justify consideration of a move to
project specific involvement in the industry. Two of the three studies under-
taken to determine the long term development needs of the industry have been
completed 1/ and the third, a study of the relative efficiency of handlooms
vis-a-vis powered looms, is scheduled for completion by October 1980. In the
critical area of industry profitability, GOB has implemented the first stage
of a five-part capital restructuring program by converting Tk 334.0 million
of ADP loans into equity and providing BTMC with a cash infusion of Tk 120
million. These actions will reduce BTMC's interest burden. In addition to
the capital restructuring, GOB has increased the price of yarn by 17.7% and
cloth by 15.0% in order to give BTMC an after tax return of 10% on shareholders
funds. However, because of rising raw cotton prices, these increases will
not be sufficient to achieve the rate of return by September 30, 1980 as
required under the Eighth Imports Program Credit and further action (most
likely further price increases) will be taken by GOB by March 1, 1981 to
achieve the required rate of return. In general, GOB/BTMC have implemented
or initiated action to implement all the requirements of the action programs
although progress in specific areas, such as training, introduction of man-
agement information systems and pricing, is considerably behind schedule.
Given the problems facing the industry, such as worn-out equipment, rising
raw cotton prices and controlled selling prices, BTMC's unit managers have
shown flexibility and capacity to adjust to changing conditions. The basic
objective of the action programs to attain reasonable operation of BTMC's
mills has oeen achieved and the industry has been restored to the stability
necessary to tackle the problems of raising productivity (through BMR),
increasing capacity (through the construction of new mills), and of develop-
ing the long-term strategy necessary to improve the overall efficiency and
cost effectiveness of the industry. The efficiency levels achieved by the
Corporation are still low by international standards but the targets esta-
blished for FY81 build upon the trend of improvement evident since FY77.
Achievement of the targets should be aided by the rehabilitation program
currently being implemented by GOB/BTMC on the basis of mill-by-mill rehabili-
tation surveys carried out under the Sixth Imports Program Credit. The
rehabilitation program aims at increasing the number of operational spindles
by 175,000, operational looms by 1,750 and improving spinning efficiencies
from 2.4 oz. per spindle shift to 2.83 oz. On completion of the program,
production of yarn is expected to increase by 38 million lbs. per annum.
Total cost of the program (FY80 prices) is expected to be Tk 1,080.5 million
(US$70.0 million) with a foreign exchange component of Tk 698.0 million
(US$45.0 million). GOB has requested IDA assistance to finance part of the
project cost and a preappraisal mission is scheduled for November 1980.
1/   The studies are (i) census of the Handloom Sector, and (ii) feasibility
of producing Manmade Fibres in Bangladesh.



- 23 -
77.       The Fourth Imports Program Credit addressed issues affecting the
pulp and paper industry, such as short term problems of production and the
lack of a long term development strategy. To resolve the short term produc-
tion problems, the Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation (BCIC) has
carried out a considerable amount of special maintenance/rehabilitation on
the sector's four pulp and paper mills. However, since FY75, the physical
condition of the older mills (Khulna and Karnaphuli) has deteriorated to a
point where major rehabilitation expenditure is now needed. Bilateral and
international agencies are providing assistance at all four mills. SIDA and
IDA are involved at the Karnaphuli Mill and in FY80, GOB approved a US$10.0
million BMR proposal and has sought SIDA financing. In the case of the Khulna
Mill, CIDA has provided technical assistance and is presently considering a
C$5.5 million proposal for mandatory rehabilitation of boiler facilities,
etc. KfW has provided technical assistance to the Sylhet Pulp and Paper Mill
and a BMR proposal has been prepared. However, KfW has been unable to reach
agreement on expatriate management considered necessary for the program to be
successful and has withdrawn its offer of assistance. GOB has requested
KfW to convert all previous loans for Sylhet into grant aid. For the North
Bengal Mill, IDA is currently considering a proposal for a US$5.0 million BMR
project. Given the number of bilateral and multilateral agencies involved
in the industry, coordination of the measures being taken to improve perform-
ance, and to carry out long-term rehabilitation of the mills, is of major
importance. This need was recognized by GOB and IDA and it was agreed that
a study should be carried out to formulate a long term development program.
Terms of Reference have been agreed with GOB, and the study is expected to
be completed by December 1980.
78.       Following the work of the Industrial Sector Mission in 1978, an
Export Development Program (Annex V) was included as part of the focus of
the Seventh Imports Program Credit. Under the Eighth Imports Program Credit
the focus was expanded and GOB agreed to prepare a comprehensive Export Strat-
egy for export development for FY81-FY85. The Export Promotion Bureau (EPB)
completed a draft for a detailed export strategy statement and presented
it to GOB. The main elements of the strategy were acceptable to IDA and
were also accepted by GOB. However, in compiling the SFYP, GOB did not
include a separate clearly defined section on export strategy. Unless the
strategy is presented as a GOB document, and used as a guide to export
development, much of its value will be lost. Consequently, GOB has agreed
to formulate an Export Development Strategy statement which should be pre-
sented to IDA for comment and thereafter approved by Cabinet by March 31,
1981. Progress in implementing the strategy will be monitored carefully.
Special attention would be given to progress in product and supply develop-
ment programs, particularly for non-traditional export items. In addition
to the formulation of an export strategy, GOB agreed to (i) revise the Export
Performance License (XPL) system; (ii) improve the duty drawback system; and
(iii) develop a more efficient system of collating and presenting export
statistics. The objective of changing the XPL system is to shift the general
basis of awarding the license from gross FOB values to a net foreign exchange
criterion, thus encouraging the efficient use of domestic resources and
promoting diversification of exports. The objective of changing the duty



- 24 -
drawback procedures is to reduce the delays and complexities of claim proce-
dures which add considerably to the cost of financing the import of materials
used for export items. With the growth in exports, the need for comprehensive,
accurate statistics on which to base future development decisions has become
pressing. Thus, the objective of the export statistics review is to design
a rational system of data collection and analysis to provide this information.
A preliminary report on necessary modifications to the XPL system is under
preparation and it is expected that a revised XPL scheme will be in operation
by December 1980. The review of the duty drawback system is to be completed
by July 31, 1981. Currently, the National Board of Revenue is reviewing the
impact on revenue generation of the proposals made to date but progress overall
has been slow. The primary review stage for the revision of export statistics
has been completed and implementation of revisions is on schedule. Expedi-
tious completion of these covenants will be one measure of performance in FY81;
TDA will expect compliance with items (i) and (iii) by March 31, 1981.
PART IV - THE CREDIT
79.       The proposed credit was appraised by missions which visited
Bangladesh in April/May and July 1980. Negotiations took place in Washington
in September 1980; the Bangladesh negotiating team was led by Mr. A.Z.M.
Obaidullah Khan, Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and Forests.
80.       The objective of the Credit is (i) to provide foreign exchange for
the import of raw materials, components and equipment to enable the indus-
trial, construction and agricultural sector to reach their full production
potential; and (ii) to support the policy improvements introduced or planned
by GOB to increase the production, and efficiency and equity of the distri-
bution of foodgrains, and thus to improve the overall conditions for economic
growth in Bangladesh.
81.       The Government's policies for improving agricultural production
and the efficiency and equity of foodgrain distribution were discussed in
general terms in Part II of this report. The following paragraphs describe
actions taken or to be taken by GOB which have stemmed specifically from the
dialogue with IDA concerning the Credit and some of which are conditions of
the Credit.
Outlays for Agricultural Development
82.       The Government has taken a number of measures to achieve the break-
through in agricultural development which is the aim of the Medium-Term Food
Production Plan.
83.       Financial Allocations for Agriculture and Irrigation, Drainage and
Flood Control. Government has made adequate allocations in the FY81 ADP for
the critical irrigation, drainage and flood control sub-sectors. Those for
the Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB) are in line with the invest-
ment program for BWDB proposed for the first year of the Medium-Term Foodgrain
Production Plan. Allocations to the Bangladesh Agricultural Development



- 25 -
Corporation (BADC) permit slightly faster growth in the installation of minor
irrigation equipment than was foreseen for the first year of the MTFPP.
84.       The MTFPP's emphasis on minor irrigation is reflected in these
budget allocations. The total budget amount devoted to minor irrigation in
FY81 increased by 117% over the preceding year and accounts for 63% of total
outlays for water resources development in FY81. The Government's determina-
tion to step up the pace of agricultural development in general is shown by
the increase in the total amount of resources allocated to agricultural devel-
opment projects by 51% in current prices (roughly 36% in real terms) in FY81
and an increase in the proportion of budgetary resources devoted to agricul-
ture excluding the fertilizer subsidy from 22% of the FY80 ADP to 27% in the
FY81 ADP.
85.       Diesel Fuel.  An important factor in the success of the minor irri-
gation program will be the full utilization of existing and newly installed
irrigation pumps. In the past year, pumps have been frequently idled by
shortages of diesel fuel and spare parts. In order to avoid these shortages
in future, GOB has agreed to provide in the BADC budget and the Annual Import
Policy for adequate supplies of diesel fuel and spare parts to ensure the
full operation of irrigation equipment (Schedule 3, Section B1 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement)
86.       BADC continues to play an important role in the supply of irrigation
fuel. In times of scarcity arising either from drought or disrupted supplies,
farmers turn to the BADC sales outlets as their supplier of last resort.
Until equilibrium between fuel supply and demand has become better assured,
BADC will have to make strong efforts to reserve fuel for the operation of
irrigation pumps as a matter of extremely high priority. The BADC budget for
FY81 allows BADC to procure about 60-70% of farmers' requirements of diesel
fuel. BADC will closely monitor the supply situation in rural areas before
and during the irrigation season. There is also a strong need to build addi-
tional bulk storage capacity for diesel fuel in rural areas to make outlying
rural areas less vulnerable to fluctuations in diesel fuel supplies. The
Government is about to commission a project preparation study for the con-
struction of such storage; the terms of reference for this study have been
reviewed and endorsed by IDA.
87.       Agricultural Credit.  A further important requirement for achieving
an acceleration in agricultural production is the provision of additional
agricultural credit by the banking system. The projected increase in agricul-
tural production is predicated on greatly increased use of irrigation equip-
ment as well as purchased inputs such as fertilizer, improved seeds, pesti-
cides, diesel fuel and hired labor. This will lead to a sharp increase in
the credit needs of farmers. At present, agricultural credit from insti-
tutional sources amounts to the equivalent of only 4.3% of the value added
of the sector.
88.       Expansion in the volume of agricultural credit is held back by
several institutional shortcomings of the banking system, such as the small
number of banking offices in rural areas, the lack of well-trained and
experienced credit officers, and the poor rate of recovery on agricultural



- 26 -
loans. The Government has encouraged the banking institutions to take
corrective measures in each of these areas. The number of branch offices
has 'been rising fast in recent years and efforts are being made to improve
the training of banking staff, to simplify lending procedures, to improve
the availability of credit for fertilizer purchases and to improve records
on defaulting borrowers. As a result, the default rates in certain banking
institutions have started to decline while lending volume has been rising.
The agricultural credit project, which is now under preparation with the
assistance of FAO/CP for consideration for financing by IDA in FY82 and which
aims mainly at the provision of term-credit for shallow tubewell equipment,
provides for assistance in improving agricultural credit institutions.
Meanwhile, further corrective action to reduce the default rate is in order.
Actions now being discussed include linking the allocation of credit limits
between banks and refinancing by the Bangladesh Bank to the credit recovery
performance of each particular bank, the sharing of lists of defaulters
between rural branches of various lending agencies and finding ways to speed
up the processing of local recovery cases by civil courts. The Agricultural
Credit Program for FY81 will provide for an increase in the volume of short-
term institutional credit allocated to the agriculture sector by 15% in real
terms. In trying to cover more of the short-term credit needs of the agri-
culture sector, the authorities propose to rely to a larger extent than at
present on using some of the better functioning KSS cooperatives as a channel
for credit and for its recovery. The medium-term credit needs of the agri-
culture sector are expected to increase rapidly with the implementation of the
Government's policy of encouraging the sale of irrigation equipment to farmers
and farmers' groups. To a large extent these needs are met under foreign
assistance credits channeled through BKB and BADC. To give private importers
a better chance to compete, however, the Government has decided to increase
the disbursement of medium-term credit to the agricultural sector by over 20%
in real terms in FY81. This provision ties in with the initiation of direct
private sector sales to farmers and farmers' groups of irrigation equipment
(particularly shallow tubewells).
Private Sector Role in Irrigation
89.       Government agencies, primarily BADC and, to a lesser extent, also
BWDB, have pioneered the introduction of pump irrigation in Bangladesh. From
1961, the year of its establishment, BADC has undertaken the import of deep
tubewells, low-lift pumps and, most recently, shallow tubewells. It has main-
tained spare parts and diesel fuel depots and provided maintenance and repair
services. Most of the equipment has been provided to farmers on rent, but
recently BADC has begun to offer low-lift pumps and shallow tubewells for
sale to farmers and farmers' groups.
90.       With the increase of farmers' demand for minor irrigation equipment
and the expansion in the size of BADC's minor irrigation activities, certain
inefficiencies have come to light. There have been frequent delays in the
installation of pumps and shortages in the availability of spare parts and
maintenance personnel. At the same time there has been increasing evidence
of private sector interest in participating in the supply of irrigation
equipment and related services. Irrigation pumps, most pump accessories and



- 27 -
many spare parts are being produced by firms in Bangladesh, and a number of
small firms in rural areas provide maintenance services. A few private
engineering firms have shown interest in setting up plants to produce diesel
engines that can be used in pump sets. One public enterprise, Bangladesh
Diesel Plant, in collaboration with a German manufacturer, has started the
production of Deutz diesel engines. Production of Mitsubishi engines by
another public enterprise is likely to start soon. In addition, one private
firm has started to set up manufacturing facilities for irrigation engines,
and three other private firms have applied for and will probably shortly
receive licenses for such manufacture in collaboration with foreign partners.
91.       The Government considers greater involvement of the private sector
necessary for an increase in the supply of minor irrigation equipment and of
maintenance and repair services. It has started a procedure for selecting
the makes of shallow tubewell equipment to be imported in Bangladesh through
the Farmers' Preference Scheme. Under this scheme, farmers or farmers' groups
have been canvassed by BADC to ascertain the make of shallow tubewell equip-
ment which they would prefer to purchase. BADC has placed orders with the
four most preferred suppliers.
92.       It will take two to three years before a sizeable supply of domes-
tically produced diesel engines become available. Meanwhile, it is important
that firms which have received licenses to start manufacturing have the
opportunity to gain a foothold in the domestic market and get a chance to
set up a network of dealerships and maintenance depots. The Agricultural
Credit Project now under preparation (paragraph 88) will provide, among other
things, for involvement of private firms in the supply of irrigation equipment
and maintenance and repair services, but the presentation of this Agricultural
Credit Project to the Executive Directors may not take place until FY82. To
give the private sector the opportunity to start immediately, an allocation of
$8 million would be made available under this proposed Credit for the direct
importation and sale to farmers of shallow tubewell equipment. The foreign
exchange allocation would be made on Open General License to private firms
for the import of engines for use in shallow tubewells of makes selected
under the Farmers' Preference Scheme and for the import of raw materials
and components used in the production of irrigation pumps, pump accessories
and spare parts (Schedule 3, Section B 3 of the draft DCA). While the amount
made available to the private sector covers only about 10% of the total need
for imported shallow tubewell equipment, the provision should prove valuable
for private parties who intend to set up or expand their sales and services
activities in the field of minor irrigation. At the same time, the response
of the private sector to these opportunities should provide valuable inform-
ation about the extent of private sector interest in increased participation
in the supply of irrigation equipment and services. To enable the private
sector to participate in the supply of irrigation equipment during the forth-
coming irrigation season (December through March) it is recommended to allow
retroactive financing of US$500,000 of irrigation equipment ordered after
September 1, 1980 (Schedule 1, paragraph 2(b)).
93.       Private sector involvement in the import or manufacture of irrigation
equipment and selling it directly to the farmers or farmers' groups has been
tempered by its weak competitive position vis-a-vis BADC. At present, BADC's



- 28 -
charges for shallow tubewell equipment, which is the main type of irrigation
equipment suitable for sale to farmers, are based on the c.i.f. price (or
domestic manufacturing cost) plus a 14% charge to cover handling and overhead
cost. Private traders, however, also have to pay both 15% import duties and
interest on credits during the approximately six months between shipment from
abroad and sale to the farmer and also require a reasonable profit margin.
94.       GOB is aware that underpricing by BADC of irrigation equipment is
unnecessary in view of the strong demand shown by farmers, and undesirable in
view of the need for improving the public sector's financial position and
encouraging the domestic production of irrigation equipment. Therefore, BADC
would increase its prices for shallow tubewell equipment and spare parts
sufficiently to cover import duties. The price increase will be introduced
from December 31, 1980 (Schedule 3, Section B4 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). In order to reduce interest costs to importers, the Bangladesh
Bank has reduced the standard margin requirement at the time of opening of
letters of credit for the import of irrigation equipment from 25 to 20%.
95.       The proposed price increase does not reduce the subsidy which is
involved in BADC's rental or sale of other minor irrigation equipment, notably
deep tubewells and low-lift pumps. The rental fees and pricing of these items,
however, are being reviewed in the course of a joint review during September/
October 1980 by GOB and IDA of the Minor Irrigation Sector, the findings of
which should be reflected in subsequent Government policies concerning these
issues. The impact of all price adjustments on farmer demand for minor
irrigation will be kept under continuous review by the Food Planning and
Monitoring Unit and the Agricultural Planning Cell (paras 112-116).
96.       The emphasis in the above provisions is on enabling the private
sector to do its part. Bangladesh presents a sizeable market for minor
irrigation equipment and the production of such equipment in Bangladesh is
perfectly feasible and should be economically attractive. Once the number of
equipment makes that are allowed to compete in the Bangladesh market has been
narrowed down to a small number (not more than six according to the Govern-
ment's thinking) the domestic parties that have received licenses to do so
should start within a reasonable time period to set up domestic manufacturing
plants. The foreign exchange allocation for private sector imports of irri-
gation equipment under the proposed credit, moreover, should permit designated
firms to start organizing dealerships with spare parts and servicing capabil-
ity. To the extent the domestic parties fail to make adequate efforts in this
direction, the Government would consider revoking their licenses and perhaps
calling on other firms, or even on foreign interests, to enter into joint
ventures for engaging in domestic production. The Government would also watch
whether the designated private dealers make sufficient efforts to obtain
technical assistance and training from the foreign parent companies. The
Government has undertaken to monitor the private sector's progress in parti-
cipating in the supply of irrigation equipment and to report to IDA on this
subject by April 1, 1981 and semi-annually thereafter (Schedule 3, Section B2.
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 29 -
Private Grain Marketing
97.       The private sector's efficiency in storing, processing and marketing
foodgrains is an important factor in achieving the targets of the Medium-Term
Foodgrain Production Plan and in the distribution of its benefits to lower
income groups. Farmers will only produce the additional quantities of food-
grain required for national self-sufficiency if they feel confident that they
can sell it at attractive prices. The public distribution system cannot be
expected to reach most poor consumers and therefore the prices at which they
buy grain largely depend on the efficiency of the private marketing system.
98.       Of the present grain harvests of 13-14 million tons per year, roughly
30% or some 4 million tons is estimated to be sold for cash by producers. The
balance is either consumed by the farmers, paid in kind or bartered, used as
seed or feed, or lost in storage and handling. Government procurement in
recent years has varied from about 5% to 15% of the 4 million tons marketed.
99.       A large fraction of the envisioned increase in production is expected
to be marketed. Achievement of the MTFPP's target of production increase by
FY85 would result in a 3-4 million ton increase, or near-doubling in the
marketed surplus (see table para 108). It would be physically and economic-
ally difficult for the Government to procure more than half of this increase.
The balance would have to be held by producers or cooperatives for post-harvest
marketing, or bought at harvest time by private traders or consumers. The
greater the demand from private traders, the less harvest time prices would
have to fall to equate marketed supply and effective demand.
100       The ability of the private grain trade to perform its role in
supporting farmgate and rural market prices at harvest time and in carrying
surplus stocks from the harvest to the lean season is now hampered by a number
of factors. These include anti-hoarding laws, lack of bank credit to finance
the holding of grain stocks, transport and other obstacles to private grain
movements, the system of Approved Grain Dealers, lack of standardized private
market weights and limited availability of information on market prices and
quantities traded.
101.      Prior to August 1980, anti-hoarding laws prohibited traders from
holding more than 300 maunds (about 11 tons) if they were wholesalers or more
than 30 maunds if they were retailers, or from holding grain in one location
for more than seven days, or more than 20 days total. These provisions have
of course distorted and limited the private grain trade. One effect has been
to reduce purchases by traders at harvest time and thus to reduce prices
received by farmers. Because stocks in the hands of traders have been small,
even brief interruptions in the flow of grain into any specific major grain
market, such as may be caused by severe local storms or other temporary
disruptions to transportation, have at times produced sharp increases in
market prices.
102.      When paddy and rice prices fell sharply in the last half of July
1980, and in some rural districts reached levels well below the official pro-
curement price, the Government took several steps to encourage private traders
to buy more grain to help support prices. The time limit for holding paddy



- 30 -
and rice was abolished, and the permissible level of stocks was increased to
1,000 maunds (37 tons) for wholesale traders and to 100 maunds for retailers.
The Government also established a working group to prepare proposals by
December 31, 1980 on the provision of bank credit to private traders for
the purpose of building storage facilities and for holding grain stocks.
(Schedule 3, Section B6 of the draft Development Credit Agreement.) In
addition, the Government has appointed an inter-ministerial committee to
consider further liberalization of anti-hoarding regulations and laws. Most
officials feel however that the time has not yet come for scrapping all
anti-hoarding legislation. As long as the country's food situation remains
precarious, there remain dangers of speculative hoarding at times of overall
shortages. Officials therefore feel that it is necessary for the Government
to be able to exercise some control over the activities of private traders and
to have accepted methods of intervention if critical shortages occur. Propo-
sals from the inter-ministerial committee for further liberalization are to be
made and implemented promptly. (Schedule 3, Section B5(i) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement.)
102.      The designation of Approved Grain Dealers (AGDs), which has given
these dealers a near-monopoly on sales to government procurement centers,
seems not to have achieved the intended effect of securing higher prices to
farmers, since AGDs frequently do not pay farmers the official procurement
price if market prices are lower. For this reason, the Government has decided
to abolish the system. The AGD system is being abolished in at least 25% of
all procurement centers. (Schedule 3, Section B5(ii) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement.) This is seen by the Government as a trial step toward
total elimination of the system within 3 years.  One concern of officials is
that the operation of government procurement centers may have to be adjusted
to accepting considerably smaller lots if the AGD system is eliminated.
Whether the size of lots will indeed decline is not certain, however, since
farmers and traders may still not find it profitable to take relatively small
amounts of grain to procurement centers.
103.      Provision of standard weights to measure foodgrains and of adequate
market information are other areas where low cost government administrative
measures could significantly increase the efficiency and smooth functioning of
private markets. Standard weights are necessary for dealing in substantial
quantities of grain. In rural markets traders have to rely partly on their
knowledge of, and confidence in, the seller, partly on checking individual
bags. As long as grain moves only short distances, traders know the local
weights and the sellers. If traders are to be permitted to hold larger stocks
and to move grains greater distances, however, standardization of weights will
become increasingly important.
104.      The Ministry of Industry has asked the Bangladesh Standardization
Institute to draw up a plan for the introduction of metric market weights.
Consideration is to be given to the introduction of metric weights which would
be mass produced and widely distributed. A shift to the metric system is seen
as fairly easy to accomplish since there are few standardized weights to be
replaced and in view of the success of certain other developing countries in



- 31 -
making such a shift. Government is establishing a program for the standardi-
zation of market weights (Schedule 3, Section B5(iii) of the Development
Credit Agreement).
105.      Expansion in coverage of daily broadcasting of foodgrain prices in
major markets will help farmers to know what prices to demand from private
traders. Broadcast of central as well as rural market prices will help
traders (and larger farmers and truckers) to know when they can make profits
(and perform an important social function) by shipping grains from low-priced
to high-priced markets. The six radio stations in Bangladesh now give daily
crop prices only for the market center in which they are located. This
service should be expanded to give information about more markets and to
reach a wider audience; the Government has agreed to introduce this expanded
coverage promptly (Schedule 3, Section B5 (iv) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Foodgrain Storage
106.      Foodgrain storage capacity is insufficient to meet present require-
ments and much of it is suited only for short-term use.  Storage capacity pre-
sently available to the Ministry of Food, whether owned or rented, can hold
about 1.1 million tons of grain on July 1 each year. This is about 400,000
tons short of the stock levels required at that date to assure adequate
supplies and stable consumer prices for the July-October period. 1/ Unless
additional storage capacity is built, the shortage is likely to increase
rapidly. Under the pressure of recent large grain crops and the arrival
of large scale imports, the Ministry of Food had been instructed to rent
additional capacity to permit government stocks to rise to 1.5 million tons
by June 30, 1980.
107.      No estimates are available for present levels of storage capacity
on farms or in the private grain trading and processing sectors. According
to informed opinion, storage operated by private traders is small and often
unfit for use over periods of several months or longer; private traders have
not felt the need for better facilities since they hold grain for only brief
periods. Most long-term private storage of grain seems to occur on farms.
While small farmers collectively account for a substantial part of total grain
output, their individual post-harvest holdings are small. Studies show that
most small farmers sell grain at harvest time and have to purchase grain
within three months or less, but that larger farmers hold back much of their
harvest and sell it gradually as market prices rise. Opinions vary widely as
to the extent of stock losses due to the poor quality of on-farm storage and
of the storage in the private marketing system.
108.      The following table suggests that if the MTFPP target of a roughly
50% increase in domestic foodgrain production (to 20 million tons) is achieved
1/   See Annex 7 of Bank Report No. 2761-BD, Bangladesh Food Policy Issues
(dated December 19, 1979) for analysis of requirements for government-
held food stocks in present circumstances.



- 32 -
in FY85 or soon thereafter, the marketable surplus may increase by 70 to 90%,
and non-marketed production by about 25 to 30%. Such a large increase in
marketable surplus would make it possible to terminate imports in normal crop
years. The latter have been averaging about 2 million tons per year. On the
other hand, Government domestic procurement will have to rise over 200% to
replace previously imported grain if the Government is to continue to distri-
bute about 2 million tons annually through public food distribution programs,
including open market sales to stabilize market prices, and perhaps by more
in some years, depending on the absorptive capacity of the private market.
The percentage increase in privately marketed grain will be much less, but
in absolute tonnage it will be greater than the increase in government
procurement.
Distribution of Increased Foodgrain Production
(million tons)
FY80 at normal                        Increase
production        FY85          Tons    Percent
Production                   14.0             20.0          6.0        43
Non-Marketed                  9.8           12 to 13        2.7    22 to 33
Marketed /a                   4.2            7 to 8         3.3    67 to 90
Of which:
Govt. Procurement       0.6               2.0          1.4      233
Private Market          3.6             5 to 6         1.9    39 to 67
/a   Marketed grain is estimated at 30% of production in the base period.
The proportion of the increased production that will be marketed,
however, is estimated at 47% to 63%.
109.      The above calculations assume that the amount of foodgrains handled
by the public distribution system will not change, but that the volume of
domestic government purchases will more than triple from previous periods of
high procurement while imports become negligible. This shift from import to
domestic procurement will require substantial numbers of additional procurement
centers and much greater government storage capacity because the location in
which storage is needed will be partly different, because the average period
of storage will lengthen, and because the average size of government stocks
will increase to assure food security and price stability. If private traders
are to play a bigger role in marketing and processing of grain, they will also
need a big increase in the storage facilities at their disposal. The quality
of existing private storage also needs to be improved if private traders are
to hold stocks from harvest to lean seasons.
l'3.      A full assessment of the national need for additional storage capa-
city has not yet been undertaken. A rough approximation of the need for
additional storage capacity is made in the Medium-Term Foodgrain Production
Plan which calls for an additional one million tons of storage capacity by FY85
along with ancillary equipment for drying, testing and procurement, plus bal-
ancing, modernization and replacement expenditures, primarily for silos and
dilapidated godowns. Financial assistance has either been obtained or is in
advanced stages of discussion with donors for the construction of approximately



- 33 -
320,000 tons of storage, which would bring the Ministry of Food total to about
1.5 million tons. Of these 320,000 tons, about one-half (165,000 tons) are
being financed under the World Bank's Second Foodgrain Storage Project (Cr.
No. 787). This project covers six northern districts and provides about half
of the additional storage needed by the Ministry of Food in those districts.
While the progress in implementation has been satisfactory, current national
shortages of materials such as reinforcing rods, cement, and bricks are
beginning to slow the rate of construction. Special arrangements for the
importation of needed materials are in hand.
111.      In view of the large increase anticipated in the marketable surplus,
there is clearly need for rapid expansion of storage capacity in the immediate
future and for a comprehensive study of Bangladesh's needs for additional stor-
age capacity for foodgrains in the medium term. An FAO Cooperative Program
team is scheduled to visit Bangladesh in January to help prepare a possible
third IDA foodgrain storage project to help satisfy immediate requirements.
The Government has consulted with IDA about the terms of reference of a study
of Bangladesh's storage needs over the next five years or more as the basis
for a phased program for the construction of storage capacity and related
facilities. It-was agreed that the study would take into account the shift in
the location of storage requirements resulting from the movement towards
foodgrain self-sufficiency. At present nearly one-third of all government-
operated foodgrain storage is in the seaport areas of Chittagong and Khulna.
While some of this storage capacity can still be used for reserve stocks and
emergency imports once Bangladesh has become self-sufficient, a large part of
it might better be converted to other uses. It was also agreed that the study
would take into account the location of surplus and deficit areas, their
transportation links and the location of existing and required additional
grain processing facilities. The end product of the study would be a time-
phased program, by local areas, for the construction of the additional public
and private (on-farm and off-farm) storage required, and the establishment of
related processing facilities needed for the efficient marketing and distri-
bution of grains. Detailed terms of reference for the study form the basis
for a request of the Government to IDA for allocation of funds under the
Third Technical Assistance Credit 872-BD. (Schedule 3, Section B7 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement.)
Work Program of the Secretariat of the Food Planning and Monitoring Unit
112.      The urgent nature and the complexity of food policy issues in
Bangladesh demands the establishment of an institutional mechanism to provide
a framework of analysis for Cabinet-level decision making. A step in this
direction was taken in April 1979, at the time of an emerging food crisis,
when the President reconstituted the Cabinet-level Council Committee on Food,
assuming the Chairmanship himself and designating the Minister of Planning
as Coordinator. At the same time, a Food Planning and Monitoring Unit (FPMU)
was established with the Minister of Planning as convenor and the Permanent
Secretaries of the concerned ministries as the other members. Initially,
the FPMU did not have a secretariat; analytical work for FPMU deliberations
was done mostly on ad-hoc basis by staff of the Ministry of Food and the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forests. In the first half of 1980, however,



- 34 -
the Government established a Secretariat attached to the Ministry of Plan-
ning to which a staff of seven professionals was appointed; approval has
since been obtained for two more senior positions (at the level of section
chief). The serious lack of highly qualified personnel has made it extremely
difficult for GOB to identify suitable candidates for the senior positions
in FPMU. In view of the important role envisaged for this unit, the Gov-
ernment, however, has decided to appoint the head of FPMU by November 30,
1980 and to fill the two other senior positions by January 31, 1981.
113.      The work program of the Secretariat for the first part of FY81
focuses on achieving rapid improvement in the information and analysis flowing
to decision makers. This improved flow should provide a better understanding
of the short-term outlook and facilitate the planning of imports, procurement
and stocks of foodgrains and of inputs, particularly fertilizer and diesel
fuel, irrigation equipment, seeds, and pesticides. In the second part of
FY81, attention will shift towards improving the quality of the information
and obtaining data in a more timely fashion. The Secretariat will also assist
in preparing and monitoring the fertilizer budget and fertilizer supply and
distribution plan and in research and planning activities for developing
longer term fertilizer policies.
114.      The Government has moreover requested technical assistance in the
development of policy-oriented food information systems, the organization
of such information in ways most useful for policy makers, and the analysis
of food production, pricing, and related economic policy issues.
Planning Cell in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
115.      The Ministry of Agriculture and Forests has established an Agricul-
tural Planning Cell as part of an internal reorganization-of the Ministry
which, among other things, has led to the establishment of a separate planning
and development wing under a newly appointed Additional Secretary. The new
wing permits better organizational separation than hitherto existed between
tasks related to development activities in the agricultural sector, contacts
with aid donors, and policy preparation, planning and monitoring. The task
of policy preparation, planning and monitoring has been entrusted to the new
Planning Cell. The Cell is to function as the Secretariat to the Agricultural
Review Committee, which consists of representatives of other parts of the
Agriculture Ministry, and the agricultural agencies under its supervision.
The establishment of the Planning Cell involved the creation of five new
positions, four of which have been filled while the remaining one is expected
to be filled soon. When fully staffed, the Planning Cell will have 24 profes-
sionals, of whom 12 would be highly qualified and experienced professionals
and 12 research officers. The establishment positions before the creation
of the cell numbered 19, of whom 9 were full professionals.
116.      To enable the Cell to carry out its functions adequately, the
Ministry has prepared a statement of intent, which will be monitored in the
course of credit administration. The statement covers the following action:



- 35 -
(i) strengthening the project preparation and implementation
capability of various parts of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Forests;
(ii) establishing the role of the Agricultural Review Committee
in giving direction to project selection in the field of
agriculture;
(iii) strengthening the capability of the Planning Cell to review
projects in the various parts of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture and Forests and agricultural agencies; and
(iv) obtaining technical assistance to strengthen the Planning
Cell.
General Improvements in Plan Implementation: the Two-Year ADP
117.      The Government has prepared a two-year ADP covering FY81 and FY82
within the framework of the SFYP. The two-year ADP which is to be updated
annually and which therefore will constitute a rolling two-year program is to
set out the public sector development program in financial as well as physical
terms, indicating input requirements and expected output upon completion of the
projects or programs. This new style ADP is designed to be used to monitor
the progress of projects and the material balances of critically important
commodities such as cement, steel products, POL, etc. In the budget allocation
process it will also be used to determine the consistency of the Ministries'
request with the SFYP strategy. Finally, the two-year ADP will, once it has
become fully operational, permit the Ministries to procure materials from
abroad sufficiently ahead of time to assure uninterrupted progress on their
projects.
118.      It will take time before the new style ADP can reach its full poten-
tial for plan implementation and resource management. Initially, few of the
line Ministries have been able to comply fully with the requirement to present
financial allocation requests in conjunction with meaningful information on
physical input requirements and output objectives. The amount of information
available during the drafting of the FY81 ADP about the physical content of
project requests therefore varied widely. Substantially more information on
spending in physical units has become available since then, however. This
provides the Government with the opportunity to make a start with the intro-
duction of a system for monitoring the implementation of the ADP and of
critical material balances.
119.      The sector in which most progress has been made in formulation of
the new style ADP is the foodgrain sector. This is one of the benefits of
the formulation of the Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (paras 49-52).
The approximately 70 summaries of major agricultural projects and programs
prepared for the MTFPP have already served as a basis for budget decisions in
FY81 and can be used in the course of the financial year as an improved basis
for monitoring the progress of the MTFPP. The Government has decided to
prepare similar sector programs for certain other sectors: Industry, Edu-
cation, Health and Family Planning, Transport, Power, the Fisheries and



- 36 -
Livestock Sectors and the Non-Traditional Export Sector. These sector programs
should help in improving the quality of medium-term planning in these key
sectors and they should at the same time be essential building blocks for the
new style two-year ADP. This may provide a foundation for future program aid
assistance from IDA and other donors.
Administration of the Proposed Credit
120.      Eligible Items.  The Credit and Project Summary lists the categories
recommended for assistance under the proposed credit, government's estimated
total import requirements for FY81 and the maximum amounts to be allocated to
each category (paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the draft Development Credit
Agreement). To facilitate rapid disbursement of the credit during the first
few months of effectiveness, it is a condition for effectiveness that GOB
would have issued to potential end-users at least 50% of the import licenses
for goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the proposed credit (Section
4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
121.      Procurement will be handled by the enterprises to which funds have
been allocated. 'Responsibility for public sector procurement will rest with
the various sector corporations, while procurement for the private sector will
be made either through the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB) or by
individual private sector organizations. The Chief Controller of Imports and
Exports (CCIE) will be responsible for issuing all licenses for imports under
the Credit, and for handling the allocation of funds to the private sector.
Procurement procedures of GOB and its sector corporations have been reviewed
in detail, at least annually since 1975, and are in line with Bank Group guide-
lines. These procedures will cover about 66% of the total purchases under
the credit. All imports of cement and steel will be procured through Inter-
national Competitive Bidding (ICB). Except for proprietary items, other goods
costing US$100,000 equivalent or more will be procured either through ICB or
through Limited International Tendering (LIT) (international shopping with
three or more bids), invited from Bank member countries and Switzerland. As
was the case with the Eighth Imports Program Credit, IDA would review GOB's
procurement decisions after such contracts have been signed and prior to the
submission to IDA of the first withdrawal application in respect of such
contracts. Contracts for non proprietary items below US$100,000 would be
procured through normal comnercial channels with the invitation of bids from
not less than three suppliers. Any contract requiring proprietary items of
equipment or spare parts may be let on a negotiated basis.
122.      Disbursement.  Disbursements will be made against the foreign
exchange costs of qualifying imports on the basis of withdrawal applications
prepared by the Bangladesh Bank and forwarded to IDA. To expedite the pro-
curement process, it is expected that GOB will finance purchase of goods
costing less than US$100,000 through its own resources and then request
reimbursement from IDA. To meet GOB's needs for foreign exchange to cover
firm commitments during the period September 1, 1980 until the date of signing
of the Development Credit Agreement, it is recommended that US$1,500,000 of
retroactive financing to cover expenditures made on pesticides and irrigation
equipment after September 1, 1980, be allowed (Schedule 1, paragraph 2(b) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). The proposed Credit is expected to
be fully disbursed within 26 months, i.e., by December 31, 1982.



- 37 -
123.      Taka Fund.  As under previous imports program credits, GOB will
deposit taka funds, equivalent to the amounts withdrawn from the proposed
Credit, in an account currently being maintained with the Bangladesh Bank and
would utilize these funds for development expenditures under its development
programs. GOB would furnish to IDA quarterly reports on amounts actually
released from this account to IDA-financed projects (Section 3.04(d) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
124.      Swiss Financial Contribution.  The Swiss Government proposes to
appoint IDA as the administrator of the Swiss Francs 15.0 million financial
contribution to the Ninth Imports Program which it has now under consideration.
As such, IDA would review GOB's procurement decisions and withdrawal applica-
tions and request the Swiss Government from time to time to make payments on
withdrawal applications approved by IDA. In making these requests, IDA would
act on the understanding that the Swiss contribution and the IDA Credit should
be drawn down at approximately the same pace. Procurement procedures under
the Swiss contribution would be the same as those applying to the proposed
Credit except that withdrawal from the Swiss contribution could only be made
for contracts costing the equivalent of US$100,000 or more.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
125.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
126.      Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special
interest are referred to in paragraphs 85-111 of this report and Schedule 3(B)
of the Development Credit Agreement. The issuance of import licenses covering
foreign exchange allocations aggregating not less than US$32.5 million has
been made a condition of effectiveness (see Section 4.01 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
127.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit is in conformity with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
128.      1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
September 23, 1980



- 38 -
ANNEX I
_ AEG F 3_§OCI59  INDICATORS  DATA                  page  .1.
BANGLADESH                    RE7ERENCS GROUPS (WJZEEED AVFRAGES
-  MVST RCECU  ESTSSTh)!ES
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME                  MIDDLE INCOmE
1960  lb    1970 .R ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC               ASIA i PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ZNROLLh1T KATIOS
PRfl{AR't:    TOTA.L                47.0        61.0       81.0                80.9                      98.6
MALE                  66.0         80.0      103.0                94.3                     S9.2
FYYi.LE               26.0         42.0      58.0                 66.7                     97.7
SICOCNARY;   TOTAL                   8.0        19.0       23.0                26.6                      55.5
.,LEE                 14.0         30.0      33.0                 34.8                     60.7
EMALE                  1.0          8.0       11.0                18.2                     49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONOAR)   1.0             1.0       1.0                  9.9                     13.7
PUPIL-TEACWM RATIO
PRIARY                                ..         49.0      55.0                41.1                      34.6
SECONDOaY                             .         26.0       24.0                20.5                      28.5
AOiLT LITENACY RAIZ (PERC1NI)         21.6/:,       -.       26.0                 40.9                     85.8
CONSU.PTION
PASSENGER CARS PBR TNOOSAND
POPULATION                            *-         0.4        0.4                 1.8                       9.0
RA0IO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND                                                     25.8                     118.9
POPLLATION                            ..         6.0       14.2
TV RECEIVERS PER T0US04D
POPLrLATION                           -                     0.4                 2.4                      39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTPREST") CIR.CULA11.N PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..           ..       5.0                 13.4
clSE!A ANNUAL ATTMEiACE PER CITA   .                  .         ..                  ..                      4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    18515.0       23666.8   31000.G
FEKALE (PERCENT)                    15.2         16.5      17.0                29.4                      36.8
AGRICL'LToRE (PERCENT)              86.8         85.9      74.0                70.5                      51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.3         3.5       11.0                11.6                      21.9
PARTICIPATION R.ATE (PERCENT1)
TOTAL                                 36.0         34.6      34.4                 37.9                     39.1
MALE                                  58.7         55.8      55.3                 51.3                     48.5
FEMALE                                11.4         11.8      12.1                23.7                      29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3          1.4        1.4                 1.2                      1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCC6E
RECEIVED BY
HIGHE.ST 5 FERCENT OF HTOUSEHOLDS   18.3/g       16.7..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEOLDS  44.5/g         42.3h    38.0.                            
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9,L&         7.9/h     8.0.i
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.9.          19.6         ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     139.0               107.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..     111.0                86.5                     192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAP_TA)
U'RBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..                  ..                     182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCEN:)
UR8AN                                 ..           ..      86.0                46.2
RURAL                                 '-           *-      86.0                51.7                      33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages 'or each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless othervise notea. data for 1960 refer to ary year betweer. 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
ana .971; and for Xost Recent Estirate. ,etween 1974 and 1978.
/c   Registered, not all practicir.g in the country;  /d Government hospital establishments only;  /e 1973;
/f 19b2; S 1963-64; lh 1966-67; li Estimated percent of national income.
April, 1980



- 39 -
AMU I
page 2
BWAGWSR
ECOl)C INDICATORS
Population:                    89.5  million  (July  1980)
GNP  Per Capita:               US$90  (FY80)
Amount            Averae Annual ncreae (C)         Share of GDP at Market Prices (Z)
(million USS          (in constant FY75 pricee)              (in current prices)
Indicator                           in current prices)
Fn79             FY60-70  Pn70-75   PY75-80  FTY60        FY70      FY75       FY80 /a
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /b                   9,512.5                4.0      -0.6       6.3    100.0      100.0     100.0     100.0
Agriculture /b                            5,174.0               3.1       -1.3       4.3     59.9       56.9      63.6      51 9
Industry /b                               1,170.2               7.9       -3.2       8.9      7.7        9.6       8.6      12 5
Services 7b                               3,168.3               4.9        3.3       6.6     30.1      30.0       25.0      28 8
Consumption                                 9,187.5               4.4       -0.7       6.7     92.4       92.8    100.0      102 1
Gross investment                            1,330.0              10.9      -10.9      13.5      6.9       11.3       7.0      15 0
Exports of goods & nfa                        603 0               0.8      -11.7       4.3     10.0        8 3       3.1       7.1
Imports of goods & nfl                      1,603.0               8.8      -12.0      14.4      9.3       12.5      10.1      24.3
Gross national savings                        465.0              26.5      -17.7       ...      0.9        6.1       0.9      -0 4
Composition of Merchandise Trade (2)
(in current prices)
FY73       FY75      FY79     FY6O
MERCRA2rDISE TRADE
Merchandise exoorts                           603.0                                           100.0       100.0     100.0    100 0
Primary                                     217.0                                            41.9        31.4      36.0     30 1
Manufactures                                386.0                                            58.1        68.6      64 0     69.9
Merchandise imports                         1,603.0                                           100.0       100.0     100 0    100.0
Food                                        250.0                                            44.1        42.2      15 6     29 5
Petroleum                                   186.0                                             3.2        111        116     17.6
Machinery & equipment                       382 0                                            13.8         9.6      23.8     25 8
Other                                       785.0                                            38.9        37.1      49 0     27 1
FY74        FY75        FY76         FY77        FY78        FY79
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE (1972/73-100)
GDP deflator
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                               7.9661      8.8759      14.8521     15.4667     15.1215      15.2193
Export price index                                    104.6        132 9       108.7       117 7        136.7       168.9
Import price index                                    156 9       215.4        195.8       189.1       180.2        214.2
Terms of trade index                                   66.7         61.7        55.5        62.2         75.8        78.9
As  GDP
(at current prices)
FY73        FY75        FY77        FY79
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                     5.0         5.4         9.5         10.3
Current expenditure                                                 6.5         4.5         7.8          7.8
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                        -1.5         +0.9        +1.7        +2.6
Capital expenditure                                                 8.8         3.1         9 8        11.4
Foreign financing                                                   7 1         2 4         7 8          8.5
1960-70      1970-75      1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate ()                                                      4 2         -0 7           5 7
GNP per capita growth rate ()                                           1 5         -3 3            3.0
Energy consumption growth rate (R)
/a At constant FY78 prices
/b  At market prices, components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies
n cot available
- cot applicable
May 1, 1980
ASADD



-40 -
AN'NEX I
page 3
54180.41008
MALPiC-       PVIYMWS6.5 EXRMAL CAPITAL AllO DIST
(Sum' U0S$ Iv 0r052C ?ritc.s)
Aetoa                                                   Pr__ __ _ _ _ __ _ _   o  loo ted
F74       nY75       16 r       F77        FY78       FY79     _FR8      - SY8        FY82       FY83
s ot Yp.-oo of gxodsP  &. n o .ct36-563.7    -66.4    447.4    -340.3    -786.0    -865.0    -1610.0   -171S.0   *2057.0   -2271.0
50z-p    cL2ce2t s 03ot'k .s                               410.6      502.7     50f'6      610.0      643.0      819.0      993.0    1123.0    1176.0    1276.0
roooOg  of sooso *. oto-ojoo                              984.3    1199.1    1355.0       950.3    1429.0    1884.0        2603.0    2641.0    3233.0    3547 .0
Cootocl- loocvAC>-   bU e u565._    -696.4    -647,4    -340.3    -786.0    -865.0    -1610.0   -1718.0   -2057.0   -2271.0
2troor po.:Lo;   1.r-occltsozsl                                -          -          -          -        12.0       15.0        20.0       25.0      30.0       35.0
'.{L: l.auoo  o-.dL,                                         274.4      508.2      502.6      246,0     399.0      465.4       861.5     950.0      995.0    1145.0
200004   Orsaz-1120 2Io.oo                                   347.0      395,6      244.3     26. 7      386.1      495.2       504.3     810.0      950.0    1100.0
ZtSo  oo7o'tol tz.too (tu:) J7.0    -339.0                                       153.1    -216.1        14.0       13.4        80.0     -45.0      153.0       59.0
2So,)oio onoor oo 07 (- * iDe-oa33)                           *5753     131.3      -53.1       80.7     -25.2    -124.0        136.0      -22.0     -71.0      -50.0
Co:ornroooiooot  ooorvr-o  (/af of  -eoiSlo                  .15,0      266.3     313.2      293.9      260.7     393,0       257.0      279.0      350.0     400.0
P93e.5o20too to Y00_80  o; 7, r, o2 erA  oi 00 5o-.1 2s.38                          2.69       2.47      1.91       1.81        1.09       1.04      1.La       1.26
T'74      F1775      F78        FY77       1778      FY79
9ELS15 313515097001'11I-
7f.:_.l soortos                                             347.0      395.6    244.5       229.7      386.1      495.2
2200-3 d-bu-i.2 r7i ;'tt?A 0 co5 2 ba:                      3285.1      529.1     569.3      276.1      434.4      520.8
Cser-aootosrol                                                201.5     468.0      538.9      244.7      399.8     500.3
7it,otA ti                                                    82.4      305.$      357.3     117.3      237,3      226.8
15tO                                                          01.0      lt7.5     128.2       86.1       68.2      L52.5
3ehcr rr  Uol:titeo;:                        .68.1                       49.6      03.4       41.3       74.3      121.0
.ooo-zopac,s'oao3 65.7                                                   61.2       30.5       31.5       34.5       20.4
SIffotil a=p.o;o steditl                                      67.6       65.3       16.5       4.2        1.7        3.3
Och- -      tt:lat-r:i                                         5.4        0.3        1,2       0.5        0.5        0.1
P>tYloCs                                                      37.7       1$5.6      12.8      26.3       32.3       17.0
Dl-t   0t0t-d- a  diaborsd ead of ~priod)                     690.6    1359.2    1806.5    2068.1    2531.8    3005.1
OffiO,1                                                      303.3    1240.9    1701.8    1951.8    2442.3    2856.4'
1i5._                                                         -         54.9      54.9       54.9       54.9       54.9
I_                                                          1()5.6     755.3     379.8      465.9      534.2    706.7
Otbo*                                                       277.7      930.7    1267.1    1431.0    1833.3    2094.8
Pltvoe                                                       117.3      118.3     104.7      116.3      139.4      148.7
7odleboorseS 10D                                               550.2    1033,2     952.7    1011.0    1316.2    1647.5
,Qj1. 02070"7
T7t01 dobO          p.-n0                                      18.0       31.0       08.3       58.5      67.4       95.4
lolsront                                                       7.3       10.1      21.9       28.4       32.1      40.1
50y00-         - -totorts                                       4.3        6.2       17.4       9.6       10.5       11.6
?M0,E3 0$   G CN?                                               0.2        0.3        1.3       6.5        0.9        1.2
.0 oco4ro locottos: octo ox, n, loans (1)                       3.2        2.0        1.7        1.6       1.5        1.7
262OEt1s                                                       2.9        3.0        1.6        1.5       1.4        1.6
20:001                                                        o.6        2.3       7.8        6.4        6.2        6.1
lovrg         0, rito 3 o  loan  (y.or.)                       35.7       33.5       41.7      40.1       37.8       34.7
Cffic.il                                                      23.3       35.8      42.2       40.0       38.1       35.1
OrlvoL-                                                       13.4       13.2       11.3      11.0        9.5       14.a
I0PD  D03-                                                                4.0        3.0         2.6      2.1         1.8
1392 ozabotoooooate,totll goons flobur-soanto                                                               
1011' o bs t ootolor!1 5  4d6bt .arvi..                                                a -  1.6  5.6      5.0         4.0
12TD,   0'cI L -17                                             71.0V-    18.7       21.0       23.7      21.4        23.5
1Dd dglooosttnt,tstC  ro7sl dlobo.ant.                         1: .      21.2       223.        31.1     20.3        29.2
115 dmb1 Liootlo/toto1 dibt canne                               1. 1      3.2        2.4        5.2       5.6         4.6
of  bt  ot.stldig
at tad of FY7
.otur-ty  trtuc-re o dolt out tatdod    (7)
:tor'ttieo dote  Itchi  5 yraS                                                         12.0
Oeoootoiao moo vlthia 10 -ctr0                                                         32.7
ffilooo40 101,00rs of Snobt  uC.tsllaiit  (73
14osrcnt Otts olttLD  floor  yeor                                                       1.7
May 1, 1980
ASADD



-41 -                   ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of August 31, 1980)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                             US$ Million /a
Credit                                                                         Un-
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank      IDA   disbursed
One loan and 15 credits fully disbursed                     54.9    536.98       -
340    1972   Bangladesh   Chandpur Irrigation II
(replaces Credit No.
184-PAK of 1970)                      13.00      0.02
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                              14.00      1.30
343    1972   Bangladesh   Telecommunications (re-
places part of Credit
No. 145-PAK of 1969)                   7.30      0.03
407    1973   Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                 21.00      3.19
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)                   25.00      4.00
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                                7.50     3.45
487    1974   Bangladesh   Telecommunications II                      20.00     7.86
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                       62.00    13.05
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                                 15.00     5.58
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                         27.00    17.37
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                      22.00    11.79
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training            12.00     6.55
622    1976   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance II                     7.50     2.19
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                          16.00    11.33
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                     25.00     7.49
/a   Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



- 42 -                         ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                          US$ million /a
Credit                                                                        Un-
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                 Bank       IDA  disbursed
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                 -       16.00   13.53
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                 -       21.00   17.65
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research            -       10.00    7.50
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II         -        5.00    3.40
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                              -       21.00   16.37
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II              -       25.00   23.74
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Industry II           -        7.00    6.41
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research             -        6.00    4.64
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control        -       19.00   16.76
866    1978   Bangladesh   Imports Program VII               -       75.00    3.43
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III          -       10.00    9.43
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries             -        6.00    5.84
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training               -       25.00   24.90
921    1979   Bangladesh   Population &  Family
Health II                     -       32.00   32.00
934    1979   Bangladesh   Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                  -       28.00   27.93
941    1979   Bangladesh   Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                   -       22.00   20.27
944    1979   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports                -       25.00    3.11
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                   -      25.00   25.00
964    1979   Bangladesh   Highways II                       -       10.00   10.00
980    1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program VIII              -       50.00   25.78
990    1980   Bangladesh   Low-Lift Pumps                            37.00   37.00 /c
1001   1980   Bangladesh   Chittagong Water Supply II        -       20.00   20.00 /b
1023   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                  -      29.00   29.00 /c
1032   1980   Bangladesh   Jute Industry
Rehabilitation                  -      20.00   20.00
1042   1980   Bangladesh   Mangrove Afforestation            -       11.00   11.00 /b
1044   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports                -       25.00   25.00 /b
1054   1980   Bangladesh   Education IV (Primary
Education)                    -       40.00   40.00 /b
Total,                                                     54.9  1,451.28  574.89
of which has been repaid                                  0.0       0.40    -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                             54.9  1,450.88
Total undisbursed                                           0.0    574.89  574.89
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
7U   Not effective.
7T   Became effective in September.



- 43 -                       ANNEX II
Page 3
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at August 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                                       Amount in US$ Million
Year            Obligor                 Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1979      Highspeed Shipbuilding           Ship-
and Heavy Engineering           buildings
Co. Ltd.                                          1.20    0.37    1.57
1980      IPDC                             DFC               0        1.05    1.05
Total gross commitments                                      1.20    1.42    2.62
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales 0           0        0
Total commitments now held by IFC                            1.20    1.42    2.62
Total undisbursed                                            6.50    1.16    1.81
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:  US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: July 31, 1980
Project is completed except for arrival of some maintenance equip-
ment expected shortly.
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
All 3,000 deep tubewells have now been drilled and all but 30 have
been commissioned with the remainder awaiting arrival of engines. Approxi-
mately $1.2 million from the project and $0.7 million from the Extension and
Research Project (Credit 729-BD) will be consolidated to fund the Command
Area Development (CAD) of the deep tubewells in the Northwest of Bangladesh.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 44 -                       ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: September 30,
1980
There has been some improvement in the Bangladesh Agricultural De-
velopment Corporation (BADC) component; processing equipment is being installed,
and all of the revised program of civil works and land development with the
exception of the recently agreed 8,000 tons of additional storage has been
completed. BADC will undertake the construction of these stores on a priority
basis for completion by December 31, 1980. The Seed Certification Agency
(SCA) and Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) components are behind
schedule due to insufficient budgetary release of funds. The main positive
aspect of the project continues to be the success of the contract grower
scheme. Wheat seed sales remain good, but paddy seed sales are well below
appraisal targets. The main problem preventing increased paddy sales are
poor marketing arrangements and lack of suitable improved varieties for multi-
plication. Marketing consultants have completed their report recommending
improvements in seed distribution and marketing. The Seed Certification
Agency continues to be weak, however, and an intensive training programme is
currently under preparation. Future propsects have improved as a result of
GOB's recent strong commitments to stimulate foodgrain production and support
intensive seed production efforts. Closing date at present is September 1980
and extension to June 30, 1981 would be decided once 1980/81 ADP provisions
are known for SCA and BRRI.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project civil works continue to make progress and are expected
to be completed within six months of schedule. Poor quality work is being
remedied by contractors at no cost to the project. Slow delivery of primary
pumps has delayed installation. Sluice gates and accessories are in process
of delivery. About 735 low lift pumps were fielded in the FY80 boro season,
irrigating about 30,000 acres. The extension and cooperatives components
of the project are short of staff which is slowing development.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is now making adequate progress having been behind
schedule due to initial delays in hiring project consultants, and more
recently due to shortages of local Taka and a payment dispute with the con-
tractors. The payment dispute was settled in January 1980 and works have
resumed. Sluice gates and primary pumps are being delivered. Budgetary
allocation for FY81 is only half of what is needed and a revised allocation
is needed.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project:  US$16.0 Million Credit of
June 3 1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Project progress continues to improve after a difficult start. The
increasing production and income levels among project farmers are now becoming
visible. Irrigation equipment and agricultural input supplies are now being
provided on a reliable basis. Field level management appears effective but
headquarters management still requires strengthening. The rural works program
is making good physical progress and is having a significant impact on project
area families. However, supervision of contractors work and maintenance of
completed works require improvement. The livestock, horticulture and exten-
sion components continue to make satisfactory progress. The fisheries com-
ponent had been making good progress, but pond excavation has slowed recently
and improved progress is required in registration of fisheries cooperatives,
assignment of pond leases, and identification of additional ponds suitable
for development.
Cr. No. 724    Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
There has been progress in procurement of engines and pumps, tools
and equipment, office equipment and part of the transports. Sales of shallow
tubewells will be to both individuals and groups. The project has sold
its first phase of 2,050 pumpsets and procured its second phase of 8,450
pumpsets based on farmers' preference system. The construction of workshops
is proceeding with minor delays.
Cr. No, 725    Muhuri Irrigation Project: US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983
This project is about 20 months behind schedule, but progress
has improved significantly. The construction of Feni Regulator, the heart of
the project, was further delayed by two months due to difficulties in driving
long sheetpiles. This problem, however, has been partially overcome and major
concrete work started in June 1980. To make up for delays, the contractor
plans to continue concrete placing through the monsoon season. Supporting
works to Feni Regulator construction, such as access roads, buildings, stores,
workshop at site and electricial system, are almost completed. The design of
Feni Regulator has been rechecked, resulting in certain changes which increase
safety of structure, saving in cost and time for sheetpile driving. Other
project components also progress well: contract for a large regulator was
awarded; gates and hoists for Feni Regulator have been ordered; tender
documents for the Cross Dam and ten regulators are near completion.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date:
April 30, 1981.
Project implementation has improved. Most of the vehicles have been
procured and Phase I civil works construction is nearing completion. Contact
farmer attendance has increased by 60 to 100% in most areas. Main achieve-
ment of the extension service has been in expanding wheat cultivation through-
out Northwest. Key problem remaining is the revision of Project Proforma (PP).
Cr. No. 765    Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Jute Project has been very successful in getting the project
farmers to use higher quantities of fertilizer, resulting in higher yields.
Partly as a result of this, raw jute stocks are high, and the price of deshi
(white) jute variety (70% of area) is low. Some jute farmers are switching
their jute area to rice production as was envisaged in the project. Higher
foodgrain production can be expected as a result. To maintain jute production
levels, further intensification of the production in the project area will be
necessary. Steps for ensuring such intensification were discussed and agreed
with GOB.
Cr. No. 787    Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project actions are proceeding steadily: Batch I of construction
contracts have been awarded; for batch II, administrative approval has been
accorded and for batch III, PWD is preparing the estimates. Evaluation report
for purchase of pest control equipment has been finalized and consultant for
pest control has been selected. Consultant for the monitoring cell has not
yet been appointed. Disbursement claims have not been filed, although expen-
ditures have been incurred for civil works and project planning.
Cr. No. 828    Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 Million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Progress in the implementation of the technical aspects of Project
continues to be satisfactory. BARC headquarters building is under construction
and work has commenced on the civil works component of the three regional
research stations. Contracts for the provision of farm and laboratory equip-
ment have been finalized. Consultants on farm development and potato research
have been appointed but not for research monitoring. The National Research
Plan has been published and the recommendations of the BARC technical working
groups have resulted in the generation of 39 sub-projects to be financed under
the research grant scheme. Arrangements have been completed for 20 students
to take up overseas Ph. D. course and nine senior scientific staff have
attended career development courses. No progress has been made in the MSC
training prcgram.



- 47 -                        ANNEX II
Page 7
There has been insufficient budgetary planning and management of
project finances. In order to avoid substantial cost overruns, BARC and BARI
have developed closer liaison and a consultancy accounting firm will be
employed to ensure that future expenditures are properly planned and managed.
Cr. No. 864    Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Effectiveness had been delayed primarily due to delays by the Govern-
ment in approval of the project budget and staffing plan. In Chenchuri Beel
(CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) five regulators are under construction and
some embankment work has been completed. Some delays have occurred due to
difficulties in land acquisition. In Brahmaputra Right Bank (BRE) construc-
tion is underway. Some components proposed within this subproject have been
rejected as too costly, and the Government has been requested to prepare
modified proposals. Periodic project progress reports required under the
project are not being received.
Cr. No. 890    Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 Million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date: February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Fisheries and engineering consultants have commenced field opera-
tions. A detailed Project Action Timetable has been prepared and approved
by IDA.
Cr. No. 955    Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project; US$25.0
Million Credit of October 30, 1979; Effective Date:
May 21, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Effectiveness was delayed due to slow progress in approval of the
project proforma. Delays have occurred in formalizing arrangements for CIDA
financing of consultants for the project. Nevertheless the consultants are
at work and have assisted in the preparation of reports on 15 subprojects.
Cr. No. 990    Low Lift Pump Project:  US$37.0 Million Credit of April 4,
1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The Credit became effective on September 8, 1980 after having met
all conditions of effectiveness. Project Director has prepared a detailed
project Action Plan (timetable).
Cr. No. 1042   Mangrove Afforestation Project:  US$11.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.



~ 48 -                      ANNEX II
Page 8
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK
and US, providing a total of about US$190 million equivalent in addition to
the IDA credit. Site preparation work including the necessary dredging and
filling was completed on schedule. However, based on the soil analyses under-
taken by two specialist consulting firms, further preparation of the site was
undertaken to protect the plant against earthquake risks. Currently the
project is about 32 months behind schedule due primarily to the additional
site preparation and initial slow progress in (a) placing orders for time-
critical items and (b) planning for construction. Due to the need for addi-
tional site work, the delays and currency fluctuations, supplemental financing
was required. The required financing has now been obtained. The soil compac-
tion and foundation work has been completed and plant construction is now
progressing satisfactory. Some additional delays are being encountered due
to delays in the manufacture and delivery of some materials, but these delays
are still within the margin for contingencies provided in the schedule shown
at the time of IDA supplementary financing. The project is expected to start
production of urea in early calendar 1981.
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of August 31, 1980, disbursements were about US$17.5 million and
Qualified Agreements to Reimburse letters of credit (QAR) had been outstanding
for US$2.3 million.
Cr. No. 825    Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 Million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implement-
ing Banks have developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed
ahead of schedule. There has been good progress in training commercial bank
staff, distributing circulars to commercial bank branches describing project
procedures, and advertising the availability of funds for small industry
loans. The project was fully committed by the commercial banks in July 1980.
Staff of the Small and Cottage Industries Corporation have begun preparation
of subsector and area studies for small industry promotion.



- 49_                           ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 866    Seventh Imports Program:  US$75.0 Million Credit of
December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 8, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
As of August 31, 1980 disbursements were about US$71.6 million and
QAR were outstanding for US$1.9 million.
Cr. No. 944    Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 Million Credit of June 29,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
As agreed, fertilizer prices have been increased by an average of
about 28%. A staffing plan and administrative authorizations have been
completed for the provision of staff for the secretariat of the fertilizer
coordinating committee. Credit funds had been fully committed, but due to
currency fluctuations some additional fertilizer can now be ordered.
Cr. No. 980    Eighth Imports Program:  US$50 Million Credit of April 4, 1980;
Effective Date: April 21, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1982
As of August 31, 1980, QAR were outstanding for US$15.8 million and
US$24.2 million had been disbursed.
Cr. No. 1023   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project:  US$29 Million
Credit of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The reorganization of the project entities into three separate
fertilizer manufacturing companies has been accomplished, and project financ-
ing agreements have been executed.
Cr. No. 1032   Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project:  US$20 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
This Credit has only recently been declared effective. Proposals
for project consultants have been received and are under review.
Cr. No. 1044   Second Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
This Credit is not yet effective.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407    Education Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project finances completion of the construction of the Bangla-
desh Agricultural University (BAU), a fellowship program for BAU and building
of five new and equipping of eight existing technical institutes (polytechnics).
The BAU component is now about 85% complete. By the project closing date
(December 31, 1980), all civil works are expected to be completed except the



- 50 -                        ANNEX II
Page 10
nonacademic buildings (gymnasium and auditorium) which may be completed in
three months time if adequate funds are allocated by the Government. The
fellowship program is nearly complete. Equipment of procurement is progress-
ing well. Civil works associated with the technical education component are
complete and the polytechnics are now operating.   About 75% of all equipment
has been procured, installed and is being used by students. No problems are
foreseen in procuring the remaining equipment before the closing date. Proj-
ect costs (in dollar terms) are close to appraisal estimates due to currency
devaluation. Most local cost overruns are caused by taxes imposed on imported
goods.
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project finances a variety of training institutions for agricul-
tural extension and rural development staff. Technical assistance is also
provided to assist in the improvement of the training programs. Implementa-
tion of the civil works associated with the training institutions is about 85%
complete and about 95% of the equipment has been procured. The physical
aspects of the project are generally on schedule. However, the recruitment of
the consultants, who are to assist in conducting the studies and in improving
the training programs under the project, is delayed by about two years. This
is due largely to the ineffectiveness of the National Committee on Rural
Training (NCRT) which is in charge of the educational aspects of the project.
To improve the effectiveness of the NCRT, IDA has agreed to hire under the
project local consultants who would assist the NCRT in performing its func-
tions. The appointment of these consultants is now being finalized.
Cr. No. 912    Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 31, 1979; Effective Date: November 2, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The Project Implementation Unit manager and architect are in post.
All sites for project buildings have been made available. Agreements with
consulting architects have been signed and designs are in progress. The
equipment and office furniture lists are under preparation and master lists of
Technical Training Center equipment are ready to be submitted for IDA approval.
Curricula in ten trades have been prepared at Technical Training Centers
(TTC). Courses for 110 training officers in on-the-job training have been
concluded. Existing ILO/UNDP experts are assisting project development.
Cr. No. 1054   Fourth Education (Primary) Project:  US$40.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.



ANNEX II
- 51 -                      Page 11
Population Project
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of US$25 million equivalent in addition to IDA credit. Program performance
during the last year generally has improved with better coordination and
cooperation between the Health and Population Control and Family Planning
Divisions following the appointment of a single Secretary in charge of both.
Training programs for field workers have recently been revised and upgraded,
which should improve their performance. Implementation of civil works compo-
nents, initially encouraging in several areas, has deteriorated, and is now
behind schedule across the board. Specific performance targets were recently
set by GOB in consultation with IDA to expedite the rate of progress of con-
struction components. Due to the slow pace of construction, disbursement of
the credit has also shown less than expected improvements. A one year exten-
sion of the Closing Date will probably be required to complete the project
and full disbursement of the credit.
Cr. No. 921    Second Population and Family Health Project:  US$32.0
million; Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date:  April 1,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress has been made on project staffing, site acquisition, and
completion of master plan for the project. Project architects have been
appointed and design development and tender document preparation are under
way.
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1981
All works under the project are now complete with the exception of
the Surma River Crossing Study where the consultants' final report is still
awaited. Arbitration on the Sitalakhya Bridge contractor's claims is in
progress. IDA has agreed to a request from the Government of Bangladesh for
an extension of the closing date of the credit to March 31, 1981 in order
that credit funds may be used to defray the cost of eligible components of
the settlement.
Cr. No 735      Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date June 30, 1981
The Credit became effective on March 13, 1978 three and a half
months behind the original schedule. Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels,
navigation aids and for hydrographic equipment, and for BIWTC cargo vessels



- 52 -                         ANNEX II
Page 12
have already been prepared and most items agreed. All consultants' contracts
have now been signed and work is underway, after initial delays.
Cr. No 964      Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date June 30, 1984.
Effectiveness was delayed due to slow progress in approval of the
Project Proforma and in the appointment of consultants for supervision.
However, preparation for project construction is proceeding.  Construction
equipment bids have been called but orders have not yet been placed and the
Government of Bangladesh is currently identifying items of existing equipment
which can be temporarily diverted to the project. If such equipment can be
made available, contracts for the earthworks, bridges, and culverts are
expected to be placed in the near future, and it is expected that construc-
tion will commence, as scheduled, at the beginning of the 1980/81 construc-
tion season.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 343    First Telecommunications Project:  US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
The project has been completed and final disbursement requests
are being prepared.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project is behind schedule largely due to delays in procurement,
civil works, and reduced output of the domestic switching equipment factory,
combined with difficulties in ordering such equipment and in completing
local construction/installation works due to budgetary difficulties. About
one-third of the Credit not yet committed corresponds to national trunk and
international automatic switching equipment still to be procured. TTB and
Government have decided on the technique to be adopted for such equipment (not
manufactured locally) and corresponding commitment is to be made in 1980 for
delivery by mid-1982. A new ordinance for the Telegraph and Telephone Board
(TTB) was issued in February 1979 and the board was re-instated to function as
a "Government Board" effective from April 1979. Major institutional progress
is now being made: the regulations governing the functioning of the Board, its
powers and responsibilities and relations with the Government, have recently
been issued and a commercial accounting is being gradually introduced. The
absence of satisfactory accounts makes it difficult to assess the financial
positions of the beneficiary, although estimates indicate it may have to be
improved, in particular in consideration of TTB's present and future develop-
ment requirements. Following satisfactory progress in implementing agreed
improvements, the Closing Date was recently extended to June 30, 1983 to
provide time for delivery and subsequent installation of remaining exchange
equipment.



- 53 -                       ANNEX II
Page 13
Technical Assistance Credit
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit
of April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date:  June 30, l981
Twenty-four subprojects have been approved for financing under
this credit thus committing the total amount of the credit. However, due
to the slow rate of commitments during the early years of the credit, a one
year extension of the Closing Date was necessary to provide time for comple-
tion of agreed subprojects. The subprojects financed are expected to have
a significant beneficial impact on strengthening IDA's lending program to
Bangladesh.
Cr. No. 872    Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Implementation of this project has begun, with 16 subprojects
totaling about $4.4 million having been approved. Seven further subprojects
totaling about $3 million have been approved in principle, and would be
expected to be committed within the next few months.
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934    Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Consultants have been appointed as scheduled and have begun
design work.
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941    Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Consultants have been engaged and have begun design work as scheduled.
Cr. No. 1001   Second Chittagong Water Supply Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit
of April 4, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 54 -
ANNEX III
BANGLADESH
SUPPLEMENTARY CREDIT DATA
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
Identification of credit               March 1980
Appraisal mission                       April/May 1980
Post-appraisal mission                  July/August 1980
Negotiations                            September 1980
Date of effectiveness (planned)         October 1980
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
GOB will:
a)  as a condition of Credit effectiveness, issue at least
50% of the import licenses to be financed under the
Credit (paragraph 120 of the text);
b)  deposit Taka funds equivalent to the amount withdrawn
from the proceeds of the proposed credit in an account
currently being maintained with the Bangladesh Bank,
and utilize these counterpart funds entirely to finance
its development programs. GOB will inform the Associa-
tion annually of the local currency provisions made in
its Annual Development Budget for projects financed by
IDA; and GOB will furnish quarterly reports to IDA on
the amounts actually released to these projects
(paragraph 123' of the text).



- 55 -
ANNEX IV
BANGLADESH
FRAMEWORK FOR THE M!EDIUM-TERM FOODGRAIN PRODUCTION PLAN
Million tons
Aggregate Foodgrain Output, Benchmark Year FY78                        13.1
Switch to HYVs for rain-fed Aus and Aman                              1.0
(2.5 million acres at 0.4 t/ac /a)
Expansion of acreage for rain-fed wheat                               0.5
(U million acres at 0.5 t/ac)
Improved cultivation practices                                        1.0
(25 million acres at 1 maund/ac /b)
Improved capacity utilization of existing irrigation
facilities for Boro/wheat/early Aus                                 0.5
(0.5 million acres at 1 t/ac /c)
Additional irrigation facilities for Boro/wheat/early Aus             3.0
(3 million acres at 1 t/ac /d)
Supplementary irrigation for rain-fed Aus and Aman                    0.5
(2 million acres at 0.25 t/ac /e)
Additional drainage and flood control facilities                      0.4
(1.5 million acres at 0.25 t/ac /f)
Aggregate Potential Foodgrain Output, Terminal Year FY85               20.0
(Less contingency for adverse weather, implementation
deficiencies and delays, etc.)                                     (-2.0)
Aggregate potential net foodgrain output, FY85                       18.0
/a The acreage for rain-fed HYV Aus is to be expanded from 0.8 million to
1.8 million acres, that for rain-fed HYV Aman from 0.4 million to 1.9
million acres. Average yields for local varieties of rain-fed Aus and
Aman are 0.5 t/ac, compared to 0.9 t/ac fcr rain-fed HYVs.
/b Better nursery care, line sowing instead of broadcast sowing, ensuring
full stand, increased fertilizer application, improved pest and disease
control, improved weeding, etc.
/c Expanding the actual command area for 37,000 LLPs by 5 acres each, for
7,500 DTWs by 20 acres each, and 15,000 STWs by 7 acres each; expanding
the acreage served by existing BWDB schemes by some 60,000 acres.
/d Adding the following new irrigation facilities:
7,000 2-cusec LLPs, at 45 acres each        0.315 million acres
6,000 1-cusec LLPs, at 25 acres each        0.15  million acres
17,500 DTWs, at 60 acres each                1.05  million acres
105,000 STWs, at 12.5 acres each              1.312 million acres
500,000 HTWs, at 0.3 acres each               0.15  million acres
Additional BWDB schemes                       0.8   million acres
Total                                       3.777 million acres
Less: reduction in traditional
irrigation                         0.277 million acres
Net Increase                                3.5   million acres
It is assumed that about 500,000 acres of this additional irrigated
acreage will be utilized for the cultivation of non-cereal crops such
as potatoes, vegetables, oilseeds, cotton, etc.
/e Assuming that supplementary irrigation is both feasible and necessary
only on about 2 million acres out of a total irrigated area of about
7.2 million acres targeted to be operational by FY85.
/f The acreage irrigated by various BWDB schemes is targeted to increase
from about 153,000 acres in FY78 and some 177,000 acres in FY79 to
approximately 1 million acres by FY85. This is to be accomplished by
emphasizing the relatively smaller and quick-yielding schemes in BWDB's
project portfolio.



-56 -                         ANNEX V
Page 1
BANGLADESH
Imports Program Credit
Status of the Export Development Program
Introduction
1.        The Export Development Action Program was initiated by the Export
Promotion Bureau (EPB) in cooperation with an IDA Industrial Sector mission
(1978) and with the assistance of a team of advisers from the International
Trade Centre (ITC). The EPB prepared the Action Program (1978) and has been
influential in establishing the Program as a usable central framework for
developing Bangladesh exports. The Program was included as part of the focus
of the Seventh Imports Program Credit and formed the basis for important
covenants in the Eighth Credit.
2.        In preparation for the recent (June) supervision mission, the EPB
was requested to prepare the following: a detailed status report on each
component of the export development program showing, for each item, a summary
of the present position, a description of important developments and a proposed
program (next steps). EPB provided the information requested by preparing
summary status reports on each program element with cross references to
"Proposals on Export Policy 1980-81", the annual export policy document which
was published on May 30, 1980.
3.        During the supervision, special attention was given to the specific
items covered by the Agreement on the Eighth Imports Program Credit namely:
(a) Review of export statistics;
(b) Review of Export performance licences and.duty drawback scheme;
(c) Preparation of Export Strategy;
and to other matters discussed at negotiations, particularly product devel-
opment and supply problems.
4.        Extensive discussions on all aspects of the program were held with
the Vice Chairman (Mr. M.M. Haque), officers and advisors of the EPB. In
addition, progress on developing the Export Processing Zones was discussed with
the Project Director (Mr. Mahmoodul Haq of the Ministry of Industries).
5.        Progress has continued in the three basic areas of the Export Devel-
opment Program (institution building, policy and procedures and product and
supply development). However, progress has not been uniform and appropriate
shifts in the emphasis of the Program, especially, in its use by GOB as a
working tool, will be required in the future. The current status in each of
the three main areas is noted below.
Institution Building
6.        While recruitment efforts have been maintained, staffing of EPB has



- 57 -                        ANNEX V
Page 2
deteriorated. Whereas in FY79 only two senior positions remained to be
filled, EPB is now short of three staff members at Deputy Director level,
and is about to lose another senior person to the private sector. The dif-
ficulties of recruitment and retention of senior staff at present salary
levels are compounded by the continued use of Government Service personnel
to fill many lower-level posts. These workers do not, in general, remain long
enough in the EPB to generate any personal involvement in the functions of the
institution or in the possibility of a career in export development.
7.        The staffing problems of EPB are closely related to its high degree
of continued dependence on the ITC advisers.  The quality of the advisers is
excellent and the skill of senior EPB management in using them is most commen-
dable. But there is a need to accelerate the development and the responsibilities
of the local staff. This is clearly difficult, given the wide range of activities
undertaken by EPB in the past two or three years and the staffing problems dis-
cussed above. If the EPB is to avoid the danger of losing ground as the advisers
are phased out, serious consideration must be given to revising pay scales and
cond'tions in order to attract and retain a strong, permanent staff.
8.        EPB has expanded its training activities still further.  The FY80
training program was very full. Seminars were presented on Marine Products,
State Trading, Import Trade Information, with each seminar covering several
days and led by both Bangladeshi and foreign experts in each field. Workshops,
again each one of several days, were held on Export Market Research, Trade
Information and Statistics and Case Study Research and Production. The EPB
training program is now organized as a routine operation and is no longer made
up of ad hoc events at short notice. The events are carefully tailored for
Bangladesh and are organized around well qualified international and national
consultants, lecturers and, especially local institutions. For example, a
close degree of cooperation with the Institute of Business Administration has
produced valuable research on training needs, export strategy and on supply
studies. The program for FY81 (copy provided to IDA) appears to build on past
development, no major obstacles to the program were noted during supervision.
9.        The other services of EPB, fairs, trade information, including a
wide variety of publications (including the annual Export Policy document) and
the organization of branch offices appear to have made satisfactory progress
in FY80. One of the services, the development of an improved system of export
statistics, is covered by the Credit Agreement (Section 3.08). The report of
the ITC Adviser on Export Trade Statistics was presented in April 1980 and im-
plementation commenced. Several working meetings between EPB, the National
Board of Revenue (NBER) and the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS) have
resulted in virtual completion (by June) of the primary review stage. Provi-
sion of a computer print-out of export data by BBS together with extension of
the SITC Rev. 2 classification to 7 digits by early July 1980 should mark the
transition to implementation of the system.
10.       Despite its residual weaknesses, especially in staffing and self-
reliance, EPB is approaching a state of "institutional maturity". It is



- 58-                    ANNEX V
Page 3
capable, or can be, of providing the promotional services which are required
to support general export development. This is not to suggest that the Export
Development Program is in fine shape. On the contrary, unless action by
other entities (ministries, public corporations and the private sector) is
stepped up, exports will not expand rapidly. The EPB is not the Export
Development Program. It is merely one component in what must become a total
national effort if exports are to grow. If the improving capability of EPB
is to be useful GOB must provide still more authority and substance than in
the past by using the export development program and the export strategy as
its own blue print for action.
11.       GOB appears to agree with the view that it must take the lead in
export development. The Council of Ministries decided-recently (early June
1980) to set up a 12 member National Council for Exports with the President
as Chairman. 1/ This high-powered Council will coordinate national efforts
for the expansion of exports. The addition of this apex council would seem
to complete the superstructure of Task Forces and Export Coordination Units
aimed at providing a strong framework for export development.
12.       In general, the export institutions are in place and should be capable
of fulfilling their respective roles. If exports do not expand significantly,
it will not be due to a lack of an institutional framework, but to a failure
in policies, product development or supply generation.
Policies, Procedures and the Export Strategy
13.       In the past year the EPB has taken a more active role as a catalyst
and an agent of change in policy toward exports. At the same time, the effort
by GOB to make export development a national issue has encouraged greater
cooperation between the various agencies in the field. This enhanced coop-
eration was evident in the development of improved export statistics and has
also been an important factor in expediting some aspects of the work on in-
centives and policies.
14.       A Committee, under the chairmanship of the Deputy Governor, Bank of
Bangladesh, has held several meetings to review the scheme for awarding Export
Performance Licences (XPL), as required under the Credit Agreement (Section
3.09(a) ). The Committeeis expected to present a preliminary report before
the end of July 1980. The Committee is analyzing the feasibility of using
a net foreign exchange criterion for awarding 2PLs and, among other inputs, is
using the results of the IDA-financed Boston University study on DRC's and
effective protection in Bangladesh. EPB has offered suggestions to the Committee
1/ Membership of the Council is expected to be: the Deputy Prime Minister
in Charge of Industries, the Deputy Prime Minister in Charge of Fisheries
and Livestock, the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Ports, Shipping
and IWT, the Minister for Agriculture and Forests, the Minister for Civil
Aviation and Tourism, the Minister for Railways Roads, Highways and Road
Transport, the Minister for Jute, the Minister for Petroleum and Mineral
Resources, the Minister for Textiles, the State Minister-in-Charge of
Commerce and the State Minister-in-Charge of Manpower Development and
Social Welfare.



- 59 -
ANNEX V
Page 4
on possible modifications to the scheme including expansion of entitlement
to enable conversion of part of the XPL to foreign exchange for the purposes
of foreign travel and training. It is expected that a revised XPL scheme
will be in operation by October 1980.
15.       Cooperation between GOB agencies appears to be somewhat less effec-
tive in a related area of policy revision. Progress on the revision of the
duty drawback system has been relatively slow. The EPB has urged the Ministry
of Finance to accelerate the process. In addition the EPB has proposed the
introduction of a flat rate of duty rebate. This would be based on a periodic
calculation of the average percentage value of customs and excise duties and
sales tax for a product or product category. For certain fast-moving (or
potential'ly so) items such as garments EPB has suggested consideration of a
'notional' system of duty payment. This idea would require recording the raw
and packaging materials imported by an exporter and establishing a suspense
account for the duties and taxes payable thereon. Liability to pay the amounts
in suspense would be removed on proof of exports. This scheme could be further
supported by introducing a bank guarantee system to underwrite the exporters'
liability. This would eliminate the basic complaint of exporters that duties
and taxes repayable under the present system are refunded far too slowly.
16.       While the review of duty-drawback is to be completed by July 1981
(Section 3.09(b) of the Development Credit Agreement), GOB would prefer to
institute the changes much earlier. However, if the process is to accelerate,
the NBR must be persuaded to overcome its fear of revenue-loss from any revision
of its present practices.
17.       In collaboration with the Institute of Business Administration (IBA) the
EPB carried out an Export Growth Strategy Study for Bangladesh. The study,
a draft of which was reviewed during negotiations for the Eighth Imports
Program Credit, sets out guidelines for implementing a national program of action
accelerating export growth during the Second Five Year Plan FY81-FY85 (SFYP).
The Credit Agreement (Section 3.10) requires that the Export Strategy be incor-
porated in the SFYP document. The Draft Strategy was submitted to GOB, was
accepted in principle and was incorporated, although not presented fully, in
the SFYP (main coverage Chap. V, pp. 8-14).
18.       The main objectives of the Export Strategy are: (a) to provide a
basis for a significant acceleration in the growth of existing exports, both
major and minor, and (b) to create and develop new exports of agricultural and
industrial products. Export growth targets for the SFYP are somewhat ambitious,
and growing. In the Draft Strategy the estimated value of exports for the ter-
minal year of the SFYP was Tk 15.3 billion, implying an average growth rate in
exports of 6.2% at current prices.- The draft SFYP showed a terminal year
target of Tk 17.2 billion with a growth rate of 6.8%. The State Minister for
Commerce (Mr. C.T.A. Siddiky) announced recently (June 13, 1980, Bangladesh
Times) that export earnings in the terminal year of the SFYP would be raised
to Tk 50 billion. Taking the FY81 targets published in the "Proposals on Export
Policy 1980-81" as a starting point of Tk 13.0 billion, the new target requires
a growth rate of slightly more than 30% per annum in the value of exports over



- 60-
ANNEX V
Page 5
the SFYP. If it is assumed that the rate of inflation remains constant,
these targets imply one and one half times the rate of growth in the value
of exports achieved between 1975/76 and 1979/80. The true magnitude of
these aspirations may be seen more clearly by comparing the growth of the
value of exports in FY79 (25.3%) with the growth in average export prices in
the same year (18%). Thus, at constant prices, exports grew by about 6.2%
between FY78 and FY79 and at about half that rate between FY79 and FY80. The
proposed SFYP target would require a real rate of growth of exports of at
least 12% per annum over five years even if export prices continue to grow
at the same rate as in FY79.
19.       Analysis of the performance of individual export products from
FY78 to FY80 serves to emphasize that recent export growth was mainly the
result of some favorable price changes which hid a very mixed and relatively
weak performance (see table of-Export Earnings). Export volume declined in
jute goods and tea in FY78-FY80 and declined in raw jute in FY80. In other
exports, for which volume is not reported, value increased in leather, frozen
food and newsprint and was mixed in paper, naptha and furnace oil. The total
value of exports grew 25.3% between PY78 and FY79 and by an estimated 22.3%
between FY79 and FY80. Export value increased by more in the second period
than in the first (Tk 2.1 billion increase in FY80 over Tk 1.9 billion increase
in FY79) and export value targets were again exceeded. However, almost all
the net increase was accounted for by sharp price increases for jute goods
(Tk 1.3 billion) and a large increase in the proceeds from naptha and furnace
oil (Tk 748 million). Without these two factors, neither of which promise
longer-run benefits, exports would have stagnated, even in value terms, with
losses offsetting gains.



- 61 -
ANNEX V
Page 6
Export Earnings /-
FY76 - FY80
Value: Tk million
FY76                FY77          PY78          FY79          FY80  2
Raw Jute                1838                1765          1454          2179           2163
(million bales)        (2.34)              (2.28)        (1.67)        (1.97)        (1.88)
Jute Goods
incl. twine and
carpet                  2631                2686          3735          4250           5526
(million tons)       (0.439)              (0.454)       (0.522)       (0.454)       (0.402)
Leather                  448                 587            681          1148          1206
Tea                      258                 559            679           621           529
(million lbs)        (49.26)              (64.86)       (63.13)       (61.05)       (54.06)
Frozen Food              158                 262            292           522           624
Newsprint                 18                  23             88            89           112
Paper                      3                  12             22            10            44
Naptha & Furance Oil    58                   222            175           142           890
Others
ncl. handicrafts         105                 139           280            321           256
TOTAL       5517                6255          7406           9282         11350
1/ Source: "Proposals on Export Policy 1980-81" Export Promotion Bureau, Dacca
May 30, 1980. Tables 3, p.20 and 8, p.30.
2/ Based on data for July 1979 - April 1980 and EPB estimates for May and June
1980.



- 62 -
MAEXV
Page 7
20.       If real growth in exports is to be achieved GOB must ensure that
it uses the export strategy as a working document for all arms of Goverwment.
For this reason, the Strategy should be clearly presented in its entirety in
the SFYP document. Raising export targets can be a useful device for in-
spiring a greater effort, but it is not a substitute for raising export
volume - it is merely much easier. It is clear, from even a superficial
comparison of recent performance and the SFYP targets, that if anything ap-
proaching the export growth projected is to be achieved, there must be a
major national effort. Much has been achieved by way of institution-building,
policy adjustment, promotional activities and target setting. Now GOB must
focus on volume increase, product and supply development and marketing. The
Strategy covers these areas quite thoroughly and this part of the program
should be given prominence.
Product and Supply Development
21.       The "Export Policy Proposals 1980-81" presents a comprehensive
five-year program for each major export product (see pages 129-157). The
treatment of each product includes:
-    export projections 1980-85;
-    policy objectives;
-    policy implementation requirements
over the SFYP period and:
-    a short-term action program for FY81.
22.       The products covered are:
Raw Jute. Despite an expected downturn in world imports of raw
jute of 4.3% by FY85, Bangladesh proposes to seek a 3-4% increase in raw jute
exports (from 2.6 million bales in FY81 to 3.0 million in FY85). A crucial
factor in the program will be advancement of intensive jute cultivation to-
gether with improved purchasing; transport, storage, shipping and an expansion
of credit facilities. While the target is numerically modest, its achievement
will be difficult. The poor performance in FY80 (1.88 million bales against
a target of 2.5 million) and a decline in exports in five years out of the past
seven (from 2.8 million bales in FY73 down to the 1.88 of FY80) do not suggest
that even holding on to current levels of exports will be easy.
23.       Jute Goods.  This industry accounts for about 47% of total export
earnings. World consumption has been static since FY70 and only slow growth
can be expected in the SFYP period.  Bangladesh will attempt to raise its share
of the world market from 40% to about 50% by FY85, mainly by taking advantage
of an expected reduction in India exports. Proposals for action include the
IDA-financed BMR project for the industry, changes in product-mix to meet
market requirements, improved production quality, management, promotion and
marketing including the development of new uses for jute.



- 63 -
ANNEX V
Page 8
24.       Leather.  Exports of leather have grown consistently since FY72.
However, a range of problems in production and marketing must be solved if
the full export potential of the industry is to be realized. A Committee
on Development of Leather Export has submitted its report to GOB, which is
studying the findings and recommendations. The main recommendations on which
implementation can be commenced immediately include:
(a) establishment of a Leather Board with adequate capital to
oversee the industry and carry out infrastructure development,
marketing and other facilitation programs for developing the
industry;
(b) improvement of infrastructure in the Hazaribagh tannery area. 1/
This could be one of the proposed Leather Board's first tasks;
(c) establishment of a special fund (based on wet-blue export
duties) for infrastructure development;
(d) various proposals for incentives and policy changes aimed at
increasing value added in leather exports.
25.       Fresh Water Shrimp and Marine Products.  During FY80 several problems
developed in the industry. Several exporters were 'blacklisted' by USFDA on
quality grounds. The problem is now being overcome and eight exporters have
already been removed from the blacklist. However, further work is required
on tightening quality control and implementing more careful inspection if the
U.S. and other major markets are to be expanded.  Another impediment to growth
appears to be slow implementation of approved trawler projects caused by poor
project preparation and the lack of free foreign exchange to purchase special
steels and deck superstructure equipment.
26.       Tea.  Phases I and II of the Bangladesh Tea Board/EPB/ITC project
are now completed. The final steps required to implement Phase III - the
campaign for marketing packetted tea - are now in progress.
27.       Newsprint.  The newsprint industry has the potential to be one of
the larger exporters of manufactured goods in Bangladesh.    The program to
be implemented during the SFYP will focus on (i) increasing the utilization
of existing capacity through BMR; (ii) improving product quality by stricter
quality control and improved equipment, and (iii) development of an appro-
priate market strategy by improving contacts with buyers in India, Sri Lanka,
Pakistan, Burma and Nepal.
1/ This proposal is consistent with the proposed Institute of Leather
Technology project for common finishing facilities. Additional water,
power, effluent disposal and access would be required to facilitate the
program.



- 64 -
ANNEX V
Page 9
28.       Handicrafts.  Export performance has been encouraging.  The
program for the SFYP includes: the strengthening of Banglacraft and the
establishment of an Export Development Fund. The main objectives of the
program are to strengthen the industry in the areas of supply and market
development and to attempt to assist the sector to organize and develop on
an industrial basis. 1/
29.       Ready-made Garments and Specialized Textiles.  The main problems
preventing more rapid expansion of exports are the excessively complicated
procedures for establishing production facilities and inadequate export
credit facilities. The proposed program for the SFYP will attempt to stream-
line procedures for purchase of fabrics, accessories and parts, and try to
eliminate procedural delays; introduce the system of notional duties (see
para 15), and improve financing and export credit facilities.
30.       Special Export Development Products.  Certain export products have
been selected for special development assistance. These are:
-    fresh fruits and vegetables
canned and processed fruits
spices
potatoes
cane and wood furniture
dried and salted fish
handloom products
leather goods (other than handicrafts).
The program for the SFYP will focus on (i) interesting the private sector in
investing in export production through incentives; (ii) in developing means
of providing or facilitating investment funds; and (iii) carrying out product-
specific market development programs.
Export Processing Zone
31.       This project appears to be progressing.  Land has been acquired (252
acres) for the Chittagong Zone with plans to expand the acquisition up to a
possible 1000 acres. Land-fill of 101 acres is completed and it is planned
to have some 60 half-acre industrial plots, complete with services, ready by
October 1980. It is also planned to build 2 or 3 standard factory buildings
and to provide accommodation for all necessary agencies in an administrative
block. The necessary legal requirements have been approved by Cabinet and it
is expected that, by October 1980, the Zone, under a duly constituted authority,
will be able to advertize its services to interested parties. A second zone
at Dacca airport, under the same authority and specializing in light products,
will also be advertized in October 1980. A third zone at Khulna is planned for
the future. The implementation of the zones seems to be following a rational
program, although not based on any detailed feasibility study. The test of the
1/ See, the SAR for the Third Small Industry Project (3017-BD - forthcoming)
for more details.



_ 65 -
ANNEX V
Page 10
effectiveness of the program will be the response received in October when
the facility is advertized. GOB may request some assistance from IDA for
investment in infrastructure for the Zone.
Other Export Possibilities
32.       If the ambitious SFYP targets recently proposed are to be taken
seriously, the export development proposals described above will be inadequate
to meet them.  Additional large-scale export projects would have to be found
to provide the increased exports to meet the targets. Possible projects
could include:
1.   Sponge-Iron Project:  Bangladesh may consider an arrangement
with the Indian Goverament to import iron-ore from Tamil
Nadu, and convert it into sponge-iron in a plant to be set up
in Bangladesh using natural gas as reductant. While a small
part of this production could meet the needs of the Bangladesh
Steel Mill, the major portion could be re-exported to India
through buy-back arrangements. India originally set up this
mine and crushing plant to provide iron-ore to Iran and as
this arrangement has now been abandoned, India might be very
interested in such a proposal. This project, if implemented,
could realise about US$300 mm. in the form of export earnings.
2.   Urea Fertilizer Project:  Another possibility may be that
the output capacity of the urea plant being set up in
Chittagong could be increased to provide substantial quan-
tities for export.  Export markets are readily available
in the neighbouring countries and the establishment of such
capacity would help to earn considerable foreign exchange if
such a project were feasible.
3.   Additional Newsprint Plant:  At present, supply is inadequate
to meet the demand from existing customers. Market studies,
commissioned by the EPB recently in the ASEAN countries, in-
dicate that possibilities exist in these markets as well. In
view of the market demand, the feasibility of establishing an
additional newsprint mill with a capacity of about 40 thousand
tons, of which about 30 thousand tons could be exported, may
be considered.
4.   Natural Gas based products:  Use of gas for liquification,
methanol production, or other petro-chemical production is being
considered and feasible projects in this area could add up to
US$2 billion to gross foreign exchange earnings.
In addition to such "break-through" possibilities and its attempt to deal with
supply problems, GOB must improve the possibility of approaching its ambitious
export targets by maintaining and accelerating its efforts to reduce shipping
problems; port congestion; lack of storage at ports, and inland transport
difficulties.



ANNEX VI
BANGLADESH
UTILIZATION BY SECTOR OF PREVIOUS IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDITS
(in US$ million as at September 12, 1980)
First     Second    Third      Fourth    Fifth       Sixth     Seventh   Eighth    Total
(345-BD)  (458-Rn)  (515-BD)  (591-BD)  (676-BD)  (752-BD:  (866-BD)  (980-BD)
Agricultural Equipment           8.4        N.E.      Nil        N.E.       N.E.      N.E.       N.E.        -         8.4
Fertilizers & Raw Materials
for Fertilizer Manufacture    5.5         2.2       9.0        4.1       10.0       4.4        6.4        6.6       48.2
Components, Chemicals, Raw
Materials, Spare Parts,
Equipment and Packing
Materials for:
Jute Industry                    1.6        3.8       4.9        5.7        7.5       5.7        0.7         -        29.9
Textile Industry                 9.8       11.4      18.6       50.0       28.5      27.9       30.4        7.6      184.2
Paper & Board Industry           0.9        2.9        6.5       0.6        1.2       5.6        4.5        0.4       22.6    1
Food & Allied Products                                                                                                        0"
Industry                       3.1        2.8       N.E.       N.E.      N.E.       N.E.       N.E.       -          5.9
Chemical & Pharmaceutical
Industry                       7.3        9.6       7.3       15.3        5.0       4.1        5.4       1.2        55.2
Sugar Industry                   0.3        1.0       0.9        0.8        N.E.      N.E.       N.E.        -         3.0
Steel & Foundry Industry         0.5        7.3       9.6        8.7        3.0      15.5       17.0        2.1       63.7
Selected Export-Oriented
Industry                       N.E.       N.E.      0.7        0.9        2.0       0.7        0.2         -         4.5
Commercial Vehicle Industry      6.3        3.4        2.7       2.7        N.E.      N.E.       N.E.        -        15.1
Small Scale Industry             1.5        0.4       0.5        N.E.      N.E.       N.E.       N.E.        -         2.4
Construction Industry            1.3        4.3      14.3       11.2       17.8      11.1        6.9        6.8       73.7
Shipbuilding Industry            3.3        0.9       N.E.       N.E.      N.E.       N.E.       N.E.        -         4.2
Telecommunications Industry      0.2        N.E.      N.E.       N.E.       N.E.      N.E.       N.E.        -         0.2
50.0      50.0       75.0     100.0       75.0      75.0       71.5       24.7      521.2
N.E. - Not Eligible
Source: IBRD, Disbursements Division.



