0UP, u dREDIT NUMBER 1071 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Ninth Imports Program)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                v      /,, 1980


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          A    /-/  1980, between PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project by extending the Credit as
hereinaft-r provided; and
(B) the Borrower and the Swiss Government have agreed on a
financial contribution in the amount of fifteen million Swiss
francs (SwF 15,000,000) to be extended by the Swiss Government to
the Borrower to assist in the financing of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement between the Bor-
rower and the Swiss Government.
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE. the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980 with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of
the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "BADC"   means Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation, a corporate entity established under Ordinance No.
XXXVII of 1961, and includes any successor thereto;


﻿-2-
(b) "Policy Improvements" means the collective measures the
Borrower intends to take, including inter alia those set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, to enhance the production and
distribution of foodgrain in the Borrower's territory; and
(c) "Tk" or "taka" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to forty nine million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 49,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Project is a part of the Borrower's program
(i) to make available foreign exchange to eligible imp^,rters for
the import, into the Borrower's territory, of (A) diesel fuel, raw
materials, irrigation equipment and spare parts as necessary for
the carrying out of the Policy Improvements, and (B) industrial
components, chemicals, raw materials and spare parts required by
high priority industries, (ii) to monitor the implementation of
the ongoing action programs for the jute, textile and pulp and
paper industries, (iii) to continue and consolidate ongoing export
development programs, and (iv) to carry out the Policy Improve-
ments as more fully set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The


﻿-3-
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing March 15, 1991, and ending Septem-
ber 15, 2030, each installment to and including the installment
payable on September 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.10. The authorized representatives of the Bangla-
desh Bank are designated as representatives of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause it to be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) promptly upon receipt of appropriate applica-
tions from the eligible importers issue, or cause
to be issued, such import licenses as shall be
required to carry out the Project;
(ii) make available, or cause to be made available
to the eligible importers promptly as needed,


﻿-4-
such amounts of foreign exchange as shall be
required to import goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit; and
(iii) take, all such action as shall be necessary to
facilitate the timely importation of goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be insured, or
cause adequate provision to be made for the insurance thereof,
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the purposes
described in Section 2.03 (i) hereof.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project and to identify the gooda and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit; (ii) enable the Association's accredited
representatives to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any re.evant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the program
(referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement) of which the
Project is a part, the cost of the Project and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(b) The Borrower shall, not later than six months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Association, prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execition and initial
operation of the Project, the benefits derived and to be derived
therefrom, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of
their respective obligations under this Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Credit.


﻿-5-
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall deposit amounts in
taka equivalent to the amounts disbursed by the Association
pursuant to Section 2.02 of this Agreement, in an account cur-
rently being maintained with the Bangladesh Bank, which amounts
are to be described in a .cordance with standard practice, as
the proceeds from "'IDA Credit No.  /   /  BD".
(b) The amounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
shall be utilized entirely to finance the Borrower's development
programs.
(c) The Borrower shall, not later than July 31 of each
calendar year, inform the Association of the local currency
provisions made in the Borrower's Annual Development Program
for the fiscal year which began on the preceding July 1, for
the development projects being financed by the Association.
(d) The Borrower shall inform the Association on a quarterly
basis of the amounts of taka actually released for the projects
being financed by the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 3.06. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, the action
described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement for the purpose of
carrying out the Policy Improvements.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Section 4.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has issued import licenses
in respect of goods to be financed out of the pioceeds of the
Credit covering foreign exchange allocations aggregating not less
than $32,500,000 equivalent.


﻿-6-
Section 4.02. The date   e19j            is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
Sections 3.04 (c) and (d) and 3.06 of this Agreement shall cease
and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall terminate or on a date 10 years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 5.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary or Deputy Secretary of the External Resources Division
of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Livision
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dacca
Bangladesh
Cable address:
BAHIRSAMPAD
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
Distric4 of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By   1.5yJ~
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                  dAA
,4cA, Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported goods
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and
the maximum amount of the Credit which may be withdrawn in respect
of each such Category:
Maximum Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                   SDR Equivalent)
INDUSTRY: Raw materials,
spare parts,
chemicals, com-
ponents and
packaging mate-
rials for:
(1) Textile industry                               19,100,000
(2) Paper and board industry                        3,900,000
(3) Export-oriented industries                      7,700,000
(excluding jute)
(4) Steel and foundry industry                     11,500,000
(5) Chemicals and pharmaceutical                   11,500,000
industry (excluding proprietary
items)
(6) Sugar                                           3,900,000
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES:
(7) Cement and raw materials for                   15,300,000
cement manufacture including
packaging materials, spare parts
and other intermediate building
materials


﻿-9-
Maximum Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                  SDR Equivalent)
AGRICULTURAL INPUTS: Raw materials,
spare parts,
chemicals, com-
ponents and
packaging mate-
rials for:
(8) Diesel fuel                                  6,100,000
(9) Pesticides                                   3,100,000
(10) Irrigation Equipment                        6,100,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $1,500,000 may be made, in respect
of Categories 9 and 10, on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after September 1, 1980;
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; and
(d) expenditures under Categories 1 through 7 in excess of
the aggregate equivalent of $50,000,000.
3.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Parts A.3 and A.4 hereof, contracts for
goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more shall be let,
at the Borrower's option, either through international shopping,
on the basis of not less than three offers invited from major
suppliers from member countries of the Bank and Switzerland, or
through international competitive bidding, under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March-1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines). The award of any
contract shall be made to the supplier whos.e offer is the lowest-
evaluated offer. However, whenever the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall be satisfied that goods of a specific type, design or
manufacture shall be required in the interest of equipment stan-
dardization or of other valid considerations relating to the
efficient utilization of existing productive capacity, such goods
may be procured on a negotiated basis on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent may
be procured through normal commercial channels.
3.   Contracts for steel and cement shall be let on the basis
of international competitive bidding under procedures consistent
with those set forth in the Guidelines.
4.   Diesel fuel shall be procured in accordance with the proce-
dures for negotiated contracts of Bangladesh Petroleum Corpora-
tion, acceptable to the Association.
5.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification


﻿- 11 -
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   With respect to any contract for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such
contract, (a) two conformed copies of such contract, (b) the
details of the offers sought, the names and addresses of the firms
invited to submit offers and a summary of the offers submitted for
goods subject to international shopping, (c) the bidding documents
as well as a report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received for goods subject to international competitive bidding,
and (d) such other information as the Association shall reason-
ably request. In the event the lowest offer or bid is not accep-
ted, the Borrower shall also furnish to the Association the
reasons for the award of the contract to the successful supplier.
The Association shall, if it determines that the award of such
contract was not consistent with the provisions of this Schedule
or the Guidelines, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Asso-
ciation of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, and such other information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Policy Improvements
A.   General
1.   Policy Improvements under the Credit concern the alloca-
tion of resources to agricultural development, particularly to
the development of foodgrain production, encouragement of the
private sector's role in the supply of irrigation equipment
and in the trading of foodgrains, expansion of foodgrain storage,
improvement of food policy coordination and strengthening of
agricultural planning.
2.   Dates by which actions are required to be taken pursuant
to this Schedule may be extended by notice from the Association to-
the Borrower.
B.   Action to be taken
1.   The Borrower shall take all necessary action, including
making provision in the BADC budget and the Annual Import Policy,
to ensure the availability of adequate supplies of diesel fuel and
spare parts for the full operation of irrigation equipment in
Bangladesh.
2.   The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Associa-
tion for its comments, not later than April 1, 1981 and thereafter
semi-annually, a report on the private sector's progress in
setting up domestic facilities for the manufacture of diesel
engines for irrigation, and dealerships and servicing depots for
irrigation equipment and in obtaining related technical assistance
and training.
3.   The Borrower shall make available $8 million through its
Import Policy during fiscal year 1981 for the direct importation
by the private sector of shallow tubewell equipment and raw
materials used in the production of irrigation pumps, pump
accessories and spare parts.
4.   The Borrower shall cause BADC to increase, as of Decem-
ber 31, 1980, its prices for shallow tubewell equipment in such
amounts as required to cover the equivalent of a 15% import
duty imposed on such equipment when imported by private traders.


﻿- 13 -
5.   The Borrower shall promptly take all such action as
shall be necessary to promote the private marketing of foodgrain,
including inter alia:
(i) revision of anti-hoarding legislation to permit
private dealers to hold larger stocks and to
carry such stocks from harvest to lean season;
(ii) elimination of the Approved Grain Dealers system in
at least 25% of all official foodgrain procurement
centers (both permanent and temporary) with a view
to achieving complete elimination of the system
within the next three years;
(iii) establishment of a program for the introduction of
standardized market weights in private foodgrain
markets; and
(iv) expansion of the coverage of daily broadcasts
to farmers on rice and wheat prices and market
conditions in major rural and central wholesale and
retail markets.
6.   The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared,
and furnish to the Association, for its comments, not later than
December 31, 1980, proposals for a reasonable allocation in the
Annual Credit Program of credit to private traders for holding
foodgrain stocks and construction of storage facilities therefor.
7.   The Borrower shall, under terms of reference satisfac-
tory to the Association, promptly carry out a study, and furnish
the Association with the findings thereof, of the Borrower's
needs for additional storage capacity for foodgrains, such study
to provide a time-phased projection of such needs by geographical
area, together with the required expansion of foodgrain processing
facilities.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   17       day of
198 .
FOR SECRETARY


