Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1551 
P
roject Name 
Cambodia Trade Facilitation and Competitiveness 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Other domestic and international trade (100%) 
Project ID 
P089196 
Borrower(s) 
ROYAL GOVERNMENT OF CAMBODIA 
Implementing Agency 
 
Royal Government of Cambodia 
HE Kem Sithan, Secretary of State 
Ministry of Commerce 
20 A&B Norodom Blvd 
Phnom Penh, Cambodia 
www.moc.gov.kh 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
April 13, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 19, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
June 2, 2005 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Cambodia is among the world’s least developed countries.
 
It is characterized by: 
 
·
Deep poverty.  
According to the NPRS, 36 percent of the total population of 13.1 million lives below the 
poverty line of US$0.46-$0.63 per day; a third of this population have access to an improved water source; one 
third is illiterate; half of young children are underweight.   
 
·
The legacy of conflict. 
 Decades of conflict, ruinous policies and embargo destroyed the institutional fabric of 
civil society and commerce.  Cambodia’s challenge is compounded by the legacy of internal conflict that not 
only depleted the country’s reserves of human talent on which entrepreneurship is based, but also disrupted the 
continuity of social institutions and formal and informal rules that provide the framework for trade and 
investment. The economic landscape reflects this lack of key institutions.  It also reflects an attempt by the 
Government to fill the institutional vacuum through administrative measures that have largely not worked, and 
created opportunities for corruption.  Basic public services and infrastructure are absent for most Cambodians.   
 
·
Narrow growth based on an extremely small formal private sector.
 
The majority of the population is rural, 
and linked to subsistence agriculture.  An estimated 80 percent of families headed by someone employed in 
agriculture are poor.  According to the 2001 labor force survey, manufacturing employs less than nine percent 
of the workforce.  A large share of the private sector operates informally, contributing minimally to the tax base 
and facing limited access to finance and trade. 
 
·
Extreme dependence on one export sector, and substantial risks.
 
The remarkable growth of the garment 
sector from 1997 to 2001 demonstrated the potential impact of private sector development on poverty. 
 
Garment 
sector exports grew from $28 million in 1995 to approximately $2 billion in 2004, employing over 270,000.  By 
the end of 2004, Cambodia had become a top 20 garment exporters to the US. However, the quota system under 
which Cambodia’s exports emerged has ended, giving way to a competitive marketplace in which China is 
rapidly increasing share. Cambodia now faces significant risks because garments comprises 4/5
th
 of its exports.  
 
·
Poor infrastructure. 
 Cambodia’s infrastructure coverage is the lowest in the East Asia region, contributing to 
high cost, poor quality services and limited access to markets. There is no power grid, a lack of adequate 
highway and rail service, and high port costs.  Competition is minimal in all sectors, lowering quality and 
Page  2
raising costs. The services that exist are mainly concentrated in urban areas, and the rural population suffers 
f
rom lack of access to markets, from unsafe and unreliable water and dependence on traditional biomass energy.  
Future growth in such sectors as agroindustry and tourism are particularly sensitive to infrastructure. 
 
·
Declining FDI
 over the past decade. FDI has been on a secular trend downward since 1996, when inflows 
reached nearly $300 million.  FDI inflows for 2003 were $87 million (WDI). 
 
Policy Environment and Institutional Performance 
 
To supp
ort the Government’s reform objectives, the World Bank conducted an Investment Climate Survey in 2003 
of 502 enterprises in 10 sectors in five major Cambodian cities:  Phnom Penh, Siem Reap, Kampong Cham, 
Sihanoukville, and Battambang.  These enterprises ranged in size from micro (fewer than 10 employees) to large 
(over 100 employees) and included both domestic firms and those with foreign ownership.  In addition to the main 
survey, a survey of 200 rural non-farm enterprises was conducted, evenly divided between rural firms around 
Battambang, Kampong Som, Kampong Chhang, and Kratie.  The key findings were that:
 
·
Excessive regulation and weak institutions contributed to low productivity levels.  
The Investment Climate 
Survey found that total factor productivity and labor productivity are low in comparison with Bangladesh, India, 
China, and Pakistan.
 
Some key factors that contribute to low productivity include corruption, weak rule of law, 
informal practices and complex and costly regulation.  Cambodia’s unique history has resulted in economic 
openness, and yet administrative controls that are a heavy and costly burden to Cambodia’s private sector.   
 
·
Vulnerability to corruption.
 
These administrative measures create frequent interaction between public 
officials and firms, and therefore enable corruption to take place.  In the World Bank’s Investment Climate 
Survey of 502 urban firms, 82% of respondents reported that they pay bribes, and 71% of large firms suggest 
such payments are frequent.  
 
·
Trade facilitation processes are particularly constraining, 
with the second longest clearance times after 
Pakistan and some of the highest observed incidence of unofficial costs in any ICA.  Within Cambodia’s 
regulatory environment, import and export processes were identified as having the highest unofficial costs at the 
time of the survey (June 2003). The Bank’s 2003 Value Chain Analysis found that the cause of high trade costs 
was not related to any one particular institution, but rather the cumulative impact of overlapping institutions, 
each of which required streamlining.
 
·
Weak governance of public-private partnerships and concessions.
 
The private sector represents the best 
opportunity for infrastructure development given financial and human resource constraints and the need for 
efficiency.  However, consumers will only accrue the benefits of private participation if there is competition and 
transparency.  However, private infrastructure transactions suffer from a lack of clarity over roles and 
responsibilities within and between various government agencies with respect to PPI design, procurement, 
approvals and implementation, a general lack of transparency in the handling of dealings between the public 
and private sectors, and specifically in the negotiation and management of specific contracts between 
government and investors, from the initiation of a potential project through the construction, implementation or 
transaction to the operation of the project — few if any concession agreements or negotiated contracts have 
been made available for audit or public scrutiny.  The consequences of these problems include non-bankable 
projects, higher than necessary prices to consumers in the Cambodian economy, and a lack of information on 
the value-for-money received by the public and the RGC from infrastructure projects, due to the inability to 
assess and allocate revenues, risks and profits in concessions. 
 
·
A
lack of a credible judicial system.  
Progress is being made in enacting commercial laws and adopting 
related regulations, but judicial system capacity, remuneration and integrity are not yet being addressed in any 
adequate way.  The inability to enforce laws and contractual rights and obligations in a predictable, transparent 
and efficient fashion has restricted the ability of the financial sector to expand services to even 10% of the 
private sector, and continues to undermine investor confidence.  Judicial decisions are seen in the private sector 
as arbitrary and subject to capture. 
Page  3
P
olicy Reforms in Support of Trade Facilitation & Competitiveness 
 
1. 
Cambodia now faces an historic opportunity to change its growth path.
 
Cambodia is faced with a 
growing, stable, and integrating East Asian region, macroeconomic stability, and new market opportunities afforded 
by its successful bid to become the first Least Developed Country to be invited to join the WTO.  Beyond WTO, the 
ASEAN Free Trade Area and China Early Harvest measures provide Cambodia with an increasing number of 
market access opportunities free of tariffs.  This provides a good context to undertake a second generation of reform 
focused on enabling broad-
based growth.  However, without also addressing “behind the border” investment climate 
constraints, the extent to which market access can be converted to employment gains is sharply limited.   
 
2. 
The Government has elaborated a private sector development strategy. 
 In August 2004, the 
Government released its Rectangular Strategy, in which it committed to “broaden the base of growth by 
strengthening governance to attract investment and ensuring competitiveness.”
1
In February 2005, the Government 
further described its platform as (i) trade facilitation, by rationalizing government agencies that impose high costs 
and delays on the private sector and reducing transaction costs; (ii) promotion of market infrastructure and 
deregulation; (iii) enhancing market access and access to information; (iv) institution building and enhanced Rule of 
Law; and (v) promoting small and medium-sized enterprises.  Key features of this strategy are listed below: 
 
·
Implementing WTO commitments and promoting exports are cornerstones of the Government’s 
strategy.  
Cambodia’s Protocol of Accession commits the country to low bound tariffs, phased implementation 
of the agreements on Trade Related Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS), Trade Related Investment Measures 
(TRIMS), the Telecom Reference Paper, and opening key service sectors, and use of WTO-compliant trade 
measures (pricing, tariffs, fees, subsidies and customs measures 
inter alia
)
in exchange for MFN treatment by 
all members.  To take advantage of market access, a new National Export Strategy is being developed with 
support of the International Trade Center Gevena (ITC), which focuses on expanding the base of exporters to 
include agro-industry, handicraft, aquaculture and organically-certified products.   
 
·
Evolving legal framework.
 
Legal and judicial reform has been an area of slow progress over the past five 
years, but there are indications that CY05 may see the development of a more conducive regulatory framework.  
At the time of writing, the following laws had either already been presented to Parliament or were in an 
advanced stage of the drafting process: the Company Law, the Insolvency Law, Secured Transactions Act, Civil 
Code, the Law on Commercial Arbitration, Sub-Decree on Economic Concessions and Law establishing a 
Commercial Court.  Drawing attention to the pressing issues of transparency and reliability in the 
implementation of the law, in March 2005, the Prime Minister took initial steps to crack down on judicial 
corruption
.
·
A
Twelve-Point Plan of investment climate reforms.
 The Prime Minister appointed a Special Inter-
Ministerial Task Force (SITF) to respond to the findings of the Investment Climate Assessment.  In June 2004, 
the SITF defined an integrated program of reform to reduce unofficial costs and clearance times, while 
increasing public revenue.  It determined, 
inter alia,
 to create a cross-agency Reform Team, consolidate 
inspection mandates across agencies, introduce selective inspections based on risk criteria, reduce documents to 
a
Single Administrative Document, introduce a Single Window process, and reengineer and automate 
procedures.  At present, five of the twelve actions have been implemented, and the remainder is being 
implemented on a schedule through December 2005 (see Box 1).  Importantly, within the Twelve-Point Plan, 
the Ministry of Commerce has substantially reduced the cost and time required to register a business.  The cost 
to register has been reduced by over $400, while the Minimum Deposit Requirement has been reduced from 
US$5,000 to US$1,000. 
 
·
Redefining the Role of CamControl.  
Cambodia Import Export Inspection and Fraud Repression Department 
(CamControl) has long been recognized as a source of redundancy with CED. As part of the Trade Facilitation 
Reform program, the Government with EU support conducted a review to examine the role of CamControl and 
how the Government can discharge its important regulatory responsibilities, while maintaining and/or further 
1
“Our Hope, Our Strategy, Our Actions” 
Keynote Address
,
Seizing the Global Opportunity Conf., Feb 11, 2005. 
Page  4
improving its contribution to the overall trade facilitation objectives.  The main options considered are merging 
C
amControl functions with the CED, and creating an FDA within the Ministry of Health, or in MOC.   
 
·
Customs reforms.  
As part of WTO accession, Cambodia prepared a new Law on Customs consistent with the 
R
evised Kyoto Convention that addresses a number of discrepancies with modern international practices 
including in valuation, staff remuneration, inspection and audit.  This Law was forwarded to the National 
Assembly with a target passage date of July 1, 2005. The RGC’s pace on delivering on WTO commitments has 
been mixed. 
 
·
Streamlining trade documentation.
 
The Government, with EU, and has completed technical work that would 
introduce an enhanced customs declaration to serve as a Single Administrative Document, replacing 45 
documents that are currently involved in an import transaction.  Streamlining documentation is a proxy for 
reengineering the information flow, an essential prerequisite for ICT. This reform specifically included the 
elimination of the Economic Police Permit, Export License and Import Permit, the withdrawal of the Officially 
Certified Invoice, the consolidation of inspection, rather than multiple agencies inspecting independently, the 
conversion of Certificate of Origin from pre-shipment to post-shipment. 
 
B
OX 
1:  T
WELVE 
P
OINT 
P
LAN
:
G
OVERNMENT 
C
OMMITMENTS TO 
I
MPROVE THE 
I
NVESTMENT 
C
LIMATE AND 
T
RADE 
F
ACILITATION 
-
J
ULY 
2004 – D
ECEMBER 
2005 
 
Action 1.
Establish a Cross-Agency Trade Facilitation/Investment Climate Reform Team 
 
Action 2.
Establish Transparent Performance Measurement including Private Sector Monitoring.
 
Action
3.
 
The trade facilitation process, including all licenses, procedures and documents, will be reviewed to 
remove overlaps and unnecessary approvals.  Following the reengineering, a Single Administrative Document will b
e
implemented and other documents progressively eliminated
.
Action 4.
Introduce an overall risk management strategy to consolidate and rationalize all examination requirements 
of the different control agencies 
 
Action 5.
A
strategic review of the role of CamControl will be launched to more productively deploy the 
organization’s unique knowledge of quality control processes and make optimized use of inputs and resources from 
other agencies, such as the CED. 
 
Action 6.
A
Single Window process to manage trade facilitation will be piloted in the Port of Sihanoukville by 
December 2005.  The Trade Facilitation process, once streamlined, will be automated by 
December 2005.
 
Action 7.
The Government will introduce a WTO compatible flat fee for service, and the service will be defined by 
a
service-level agreement.  The fee structure will be public. 
 
Action 8.
Streamline the process and reduce the cost of incorporating with the Commercial Register, which is 
maintained at the Office of the Clerk of the Commercial Court, and costs an average of $630 and 30 days. 
 
Action 9.
Streamline the process notification of the Ministry of Labor to start hiring employees, which costs $250 
and 30 days to complete. 
 
Action 10
.
Harmonize registration for VAT, income tax and company
registration using the same form and resulting 
in the same unique identifier.  This would facilitate information sharing across agencies. 
 
Action 11.
Implement a national award to promote good corporate citizenship in the private sector.  
 
Action 12.
Monitoring and Reporting will take place through the Private Sector Forum
.
Page  5
·
A
Policy on Private Participation in Infrastructure and Law on Concessions is being considered at the 
Council of Ministers.
 
In the PPI/investment climate area, the Government has defined a clear process for 
planning, approving, awarding, negotiating, and managing PPI investment, and has enshrined this revised 
process in a new Concessions Law and subdecree which is currently under review at the Council of Ministers 
f
ollowing extensive consultations with the private sector. 
 
Trade
Facilitation:
Institutional
R
eform &
Automation
Legal
Transparency
Transparency
&
Investor
Confidence
REGIONAL
Recovery 
Export-led
Growth
&
Diversification
Broader
Growth
&
Employment
Export
Market
Access
F
und
COMPLEMENTARY
REFORMS
GOALS
Long clearance
times
Institutions
Vulnerable to
corruption
Unclear PPI
Regulatory
Environment
Lack of Trade
Support
Institutions
Non-transparent
Transactions
Lack of credible
Legal Institutions
CONSTRAINT
High clearance
costs
Narrow
Export
Base
Customs Law
Single Admin. Document (EU)
CamControl Review (EU)
Risk Mgmt Strategy (AusAID)
WTO Accession
Tariff Reform
National Export Strategy (ITC)
Ag. Quality Improvement (AQIP)
Better Factories (ILO)
Gov’t Concessions Law
UNIDO Concessions
UNCTAD “Blue Book”
Gov’t Amended LOI
Electricity Law
Water Law
Commercial Court
Company Law
Insolvency Law
Commercial Arbitration
PROJECT
RESPONSE
PPI
Governance
ASEAN
Market
Integration
WTO
Market
Access
BILATERAL
China
Early
Harvest
EU Everything
B
ut Arms
OPPORTUNITY
 
·
New investment promotion strategy. 
The Council for Development of Cambodia (CDC)’s Cambodian 
Investment Board (CIB), as Cambodia’s investment promotion agency, is currently undergoing the process of 
re-defining its role as a result of the Amendment to the Law on Investment, which was approved by the 
National Assembly in February 2003.  The Amended Law on Investment explicitly moves the CIB toward 
serving as a facilitative and promotional agency, with many evaluative and regulatory functions replaced by 
automatic systems.  FIAS and MIGA are currently helping CDC define a new corporate strategy including goals 
and objectives, the strategies and resources it will use to achieve these and the performance measurements by 
which it will assess its progress and success. 
 
·
Merit-Based Pay Initiative (MBPI).
 
The Government is introducing, on a pilot basis, differentiated 
compensation based on performance and merit in the context of Public Financial Management (PFM) in the 
Ministry of Economy and Finance.  A team comprised of the Ministry of Commerce, Customs & Excise 
Department and Port Authority has been tasked with proposing a framework, using the MBPI framework 
developed by MEF, by 20 May 2005.  It will be funded, in part by user fees. 
 
·
Acceleration of the judicial reform process
.
The RGC’s avowed Legal and Judicial Reform (LJR) Strategy
2
outlines seven broad objectives that are aimed at improving access to, and the quality of, Cambodia’s legal and 
judicial services.  The third of these objectives requires the “provision of better access to legal and judicial 
information by promoting dissemination of basic legal knowledge through official publications, electronic 
media and information folders and ensuring easy accessibility to all legal and juridical information for legal 
practitioners and any other interested party”.  And, in accordance with the LJR Action Plan formally adopted by 
the RGC in November 2004, acceleration of the LJR process is to occur in part by making “the improvement of 
access to legal and judicial information” an “operational priority” of the RGC in 2005-2006.    
 
2
The Strategy was formally adopted by the RGC’s Council of Legal and Judicial Reform in June 2003.   
Page  6
2
.
Objectives 
 
The objective of the Project is to support the Recipient’s strategy to promote economic growth by reducing 
transaction costs associated with trade and investment, introducing transparency in investment processes and 
facilitating access of enterprises to export markets.
 
Indicator 
Baseline 
Measure 
The share of firms reporting corruption as a moderate, 
major or severe problem declines by 10%. 
74% in 
2003 ICA 
Follow-up Investment Climate Survey in 
2006/2007 
A
50% reduction in the number of documents required to 
clear imports.  
45 Cross-agency 
process 
map, 
Performance Monitor ing System 
Share of export shipments that are physically inspected 
less than 40% by December 2006. 
100% 
Performance Monitoring System 
50% reduction in time required to clear import shipments. 
6.5 days 
Performance Monitoring System  
The enabling environment facilitates integration of new 
firms into the global economy, as indicated by the number 
of firms preparing draft export development plans. 
Zero Fund 
manager 
reports. 
Transparency / accountability introduced into PPI.  
Number of PPI contracts publicly disclosed and subject to 
competitive procurement processes. 
Zero-few 
Gradual increase to 80% of transactions 
by year 5. 
Number of judicial decisions publicly disclosed. 
Zero-few 
50% of commercial cases in Supreme 
Court and Court of Appeals 
Response time on investor inquiries. 
 
10% reduction per year 
The higher level objectives are to
 
increase the private sector’s contribution to poverty reduction through 
growth, export diversification and improved service delivery.
 
The reforms to be funded by the project originated 
in the policy dialogue surrounding the Investment Climate Assessment in which governance-related constraints were 
seen as the most severe obstacles to private sector-led growth.  The reforms focus on using transparency, 
competition, regulatory streamlining and market-based standards to increase confidence and improve private 
sector’s capacity to make investment and trade decisions.  The reforms will help Cambodia convert the market 
opportunities afforded by WTO to jobs by streamlining and reengineering trade institutions, helping local firms meet 
international market standards, engage the private sector to increase the efficiency of public service delivery through 
the introduction transparency, competition and accountability into private participation in infrastructure provision.   
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Trade facilitation reforms are positively associated with increased trade and GDP growth,
 while investment 
climate reforms more broadly are associated with decreasing corruption, increasing formalization of business, 
increased growth and public sector revenue.  Wilson, Mann and Otsuki (2003) found that if below-average APEC 
members could increase trade facilitation performance half-way to the APEC average, inter-APEC trade would 
increase by $254 billion.  UCTAD (2001) found that a 1% reduction in the trade facilitation costs could increase 
Asian GDP some $3.3 billion.  Given the end of MFA, any cost reduction associated with trade facilitation would 
also have the effect of making the garment sector more competitive, and in the long-term contributes to 
diversification. 
 
The operation supports Cambodia’s results-based Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
 The CAS includes a 
pillar on Private Sector Development which defines results in removing governance impediments to growth.  The 
proposed operation is aligned against three results.  On 13 July 2004, the Bank received an official request for a 
project to finance the reform. 
 
4. Description 
 
Component 1.  Trade Facilitation Component. 
The application of appropriate IT to border management activities 
can significantly streamline operations, improve the level of transparency and accountability and facilitate the 
achievement of all border related government objectives.  The project will finance (a) an electronic Single Window 
Page  7
integrating all trade facilitation agencies, including the deployment of ICT for automation of Customs functions, 
l
inked to complementary improvements in systems, procedures and developments in the organizations involved in 
product clearance (b) adherence to the Kyoto Convention including the adoption of a risk management capacity; (c) 
a
design of a merit based pay system for Cambodia’s trade regulatory agencies; and (d) the development of an 
Integrity Action Plan for CED based on a self assessment.  
 
Component 2.  Export Market Access Fund.   
 
The component will finance (a) technical support to the Ministry 
of Commerce’s Department of Export Promotion to establish the exporter technical assistance window, and (b) a 
technical assistance matching grant facility that would cover 50% of the cost of achieving market standards, or 
evidence of compliance with those standards. The EMAF would offer its services solely in response to private sector 
demand on a nondiscriminatory and a first-come-first served basis.  An initial survey suggests demand from at least 
100 enterprises.  The Garment Manufacturers’ Association of Cambodia (GMAC) is expected to apply for $600,000 
cofinancing over three years to finance the International Labor Organization’s Better Factories campaign in order to 
achieve Core Labor Standards. 
 
Component 3.  PPI and Investment  Component. 
The PPI and Investment Component will finance a program of 
capacity building to implement the Law on Concessions and the Amended Law on Investment.  The objective of the 
technical assistance is to improve the organizational capacity of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, Council for 
Development of Cambodia, National Audit Authority, infrastructure regulatory bodies such as the Electricity 
Authority of Cambodia, and infrastructure line Ministries to manage and deliver of PPIs transactions that are 
conducted fairly, transparently, competitively and in the public interest. The Investment Promotion sub-component 
is aimed at supporting the CDC and CIB to adopt strategies that streamline the process of foreign direct investment, 
and that enhance the attractiveness of Cambodia as an investment destination through improvements in the 
regulatory environment as well as in factor markets.  The program consists of three distinctive activities:  (a) 
appointment of a local long-term resident advisor; (b) a series of 5-days training workshops for 15-20 CIB staff on 
subjects like investment generation and facilitation; and (c) installation of IT system. 
 
Component 4.  Legal Transparency Component. 
This Component will finance (a) the establishment and 
maintenance of a website in the Khmer language to make readily available to the public the final judgments of all 
cases in the Supreme Court and in the Court of Appeal; (b) the establishment and maintenance of a website to ensure 
the electronic publication of all Cambodian laws, related regulations and draft legislation in the commercial law 
field, broadly defined; and (c) training to utilize the established systems.  A link will be established between this site 
and other relevant websites, including, most importantly, the website of the Ministry of Commerce and to the 
legislation and the subsidiary legislation (i.e. decrees and sub-decrees), as referred to in the judgments. Publication 
of such information will contribute to increasing confidence in the capacity of the appellate courts to interpret, apply 
and enforce Cambodian laws generally and the commercial legal framework in particular in a fair and consistent 
manner.  An increase in confidence in the transparency and predictability of judgments will reduce the risk now 
associated with private domestic and foreign investment.  
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0.33 
IDA GRANT FOR POOREST COUNTRY 
10.00 
 Total 
10.33 
 
6. Implementation 
 
Partnership with donors.  
The World Bank leads a donor sub-working group on trade facilitation.  This working 
group includes seven other donors who coordinate policy and have achieved a division of labor with respect to 
implementing the 12-Point Plan of investment climate reforms.  The European Union, with its Multilateral Trade 
Assistance Project, has supported the streamlining of documentation necessary to introduce a Single Administrative 
Document, as well as the review and redefinition of the role of CamControl.  AusAID, with its Cambodia-Australia 
Technical Assistance Facility (CATAF) has provided important support to help implement a risk management 
strategy. The IMF and JICA have led the work of reforming the Customs and Excise Department, while UNCTAD 
and UNIDO have been extensively involved in reform of investment and PPI.  Export diversification work has been 
led by the International Trade Center and GTZ. 
Page  8
P
artnership with the private sector
.
The private sector has played a critical role in demanding and defining the 
reforms financed by the proposed project.  The Government-Private Sector Forum includes an Export Processing 
and Trade Facilitation Working Group, co-Chaired by the Sr. Minister of Commerce and the Chairman of the 
Garment Manufacturers’ Association.  It has been raising and discussing key issues throughout the duration of the 
Bank’s engagement. 
 
The project will utilize existing coordination structures established by the Government as its management 
structure.  
In August 2004, Prime Minister’s Decision No. 12/2004 created a Special Inter-Ministerial Task Force 
(SITF) on Trade Facilitation and Investment Climate, Chaired by the Minister of Economy and Finance and Vice-
Chaired by the Minister of Commerce.  On 26 July, 2004, following the formal creation of the new Government, the 
Prime Minister signed Decision 44/2004, formalizing this as the Government’s focal point for reform of the 
investment climate, trade facilitation, SME promotion, and PPI – the Steering Committee on Private Sector 
Development.  The Government established the Trade Facilitation Subcommittee, Chaired by the Sr. Minister of 
Commerce, as well as the Investment Climate and PPI Subcommittee, Chaired by the Sr. Minister of Economy and 
Finance. 
 
Project Management Units.  
In each key agency (Customs & Excise Department, Ministry of Commerce, Council 
for Development of Cambodia, and Ministry of Justice) a project manager will be named to supervise the daily 
implementation of the Project activities. 
 
Executing Agency. 
Given that over 80% of funds will be utilized to finance the Trade Facilitation and the Market 
Access Components managed by the Ministry of Commerce, the Government has nominated the Ministry of 
Commerce as the Executing Agency. 
 
Reform Team (Project Coordination Unit).
 
The Government’s Reform Team will be response for coordinating 
project tasks, executing all procurements and preparation of Quarterly Management reports that the Executing 
Agency will provide to the Bank and other donors. 
 
Procurement.
 Particular attention will be given to procurement arrangements to ensure that the project is executed 
in a timely, transparent, efficient and integrated approach.  Procurement of works, goods and services under the 
project will follow World Bank Guidelines.  All procurement will be executed by the Reform Team, on behalf of the 
other PIUs. This team’s capacity will be strengthened to ensure that staff has adequate skills and competence. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The sustainability of the technical capacity financed by the project will depend on (a) the government’s political will 
to enforce policies supported by the project through positive and negative incentives; (b) the ability to finance, after 
the project, maintenance of the investments.  Positive and negative incentives to maintain policies will be 
established through government’s policy messages, enforced by sanctions placed on civil servants who violate 
policies, appropriate performance-based  remuneration and promotion of staff who promote policies.  This will 
require intensive, ongoing policy dialogue with and within government, a robust monitoring system whose results 
are available to the public, and donor collaboration.  
 
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
Ascertain political will
.
The reforms financed by the proposed project have wide-ranging implications for both 
public institutions and private sector behavior.  As such, they require strong political will to be achieved.  The 
project has incorporated these lessons through sequencing decisions that demonstrate such political will – such as 
passage of enabling legislation, removing CamControl from routine inspections and streamlining documents – ahead 
of project approval without using conditionality. The approach has also created venues for very broad dissemination 
and consultation, such as the Seizing the Global Opportunity conference. 
 
The need for a cross-agency perspective.
 
The key problems in trade facilitation presented themselves as issues – 
such as high unofficial payments - that could easily be interpreted as caused by the Customs & Excise Department, 
which has recognized the need to improve its performance and has developed a plan to that end.  However, through 
Page  9
a
value chain analysis, the problem was recognized as involving both internal issues within departments, problems 
o
f
role clarity across agencies, and problems of information sharing and coordination both across agencies and in the 
interface with the private sector.   
 
Reengineer processes ahead of ICT investment
.
One of the broad and enduring lessons from technology 
investments around the world are that much of the efficient gain resulting from ICT investment is from 
simplification and streamlining of underlying process rather than from the technology itself.  A corollary of this 
point is that processes should be streamlined and information flows simplified before technology investments.  The 
project has incorporated this point through mapping of the full process involving all relevant agencies, elimination 
of process overlaps, and sharing a Single Administrative Document across all relevant agencies. 
 
Address incentives and financial sustainability
.
Many ICT investments have failed due to weak incentives to use 
the new system.  The proposed project addresses this question through adoption of the merit-based pay initiative 
funded through a WTO-compatible fee on transactions. 
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [ 
] 
[x] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) [ 
] 
[x] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[x] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) [ 
] 
[x] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) [ 
] 
[x] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) [ 
] 
[x] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60) [ 
] 
[x] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50) [ 
] 
[x] 
10.  List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
World Bank 2004: 
Seizing the Global Opportunity: An Investment Climate Assessment and Reform Strategy for 
Cambodia
.
Washington, DC:  The World Bank. 
 
_____.  2003a.  
Cambodia: Legal and Judicial Sector Assessment
.
Washington, DC: The World Bank. 
 
_____.  2003b.  
Towards A Private Sector -Led Growth Strategy for Cambodia - Volume 1: Value Chain Analysis
.
Washington, DC: The World Bank. 
 
International Labor Organization.  2002.  “Second Synthesis Report on the Working Conditions Situation in 
Cambodia's Garment Sector.” 
 
World Bank and Asian Development Bank.  2003.  
Cambodia - Enhancing Service Delivery through Improved 
Resource Allocation and Institutional Reform: Integrated Fiduciary Assessment and Public Expenditure Review. 
 
Washington, DC, The World Bank. 
 
World Bank and the Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility.  2002.  
Private Solutions for Infrastructure in 
Cambodia: A Country Framework Report.
 
Washington, DC, The World Bank. 
 
Trade Facilitation and Economic Development: Measuring the Impact.
 
John S. Wilson, Catherine L. Mann, and 
Tsunehiro Otsuki.  World Bank Policy Research Working Paper 2988, March 2003. 
 
European Union Multilateral Trade Assistance Project for Laos and Cambodia (EU MULTRAP),  
Strategic Review 
of CamControl
 Digby Gascoine, Phnom Penh, February 2005. 
Page  10
European Union Multilateral Trade Assistance Project for Laos and Cambodia  
Final Report: Review and 
R
ationalization of Trade Documentary Requirements, 
Ian James Scott, February 2005. 
 
Streamlining Trade Facilitation: A Recommendation for Comprehensive Trade Facilitation Reform in Cambodia. 
 
SMS Cambodia, Consultant to World Bank, October 30th, 2003. 
 
Project Concept Note 
 
Aide Memoires 
 
Royal Government of Cambodia
Prime Minister’s Decision No. 12/2004: Special Inter-Ministerial Task Force (SITF) on Trade Facilitation and 
Investment Climate. 
 
Prime Minister Decision 44/2004 SSR dated 26 July 2004. Steering Committee for Private Sector Development, 
dated 26 July 2004. 
 
Decision 46 SSR, 11 August 2004. Establishes Three Sub-Steering Committees relating to Investment Climate and 
Private Participation in Infrastructure; Trade Facilitation; and Small to Medium Enterprises. 
 
Draft Law on Concessions, Draft Customs Law, Draft Sub decree to the Amended Law on Investment 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Magdi M. Amin 
Title: Sr. Private Sector Development Spec. 
Tel: (202) 458-4216 
Email: mamin2@worldbank.org 
 
12.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
