Documet of
The World Bank
FOR OMCUAL USE ONLY
Rqmzt No. P-4085CE
REPORT AND RECOMHENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THEE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PRCPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT OF US$38.0 MLLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
SECOND DAIRY DEVELOPMET PROJECT
.
May 22, 1985
This d0cma ba a ieddud ilium amd ma be wed by hepiems  iy In the pwiferu  of
their  .d_ ditks la.tmt may me etbewe be dldoud wfitout WoU Ba.k autbodua



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =   Sri Lanka Rupee
US$1.00     =   SL Rs 25.00
SL Re 1.00  =   US$0.04
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMUL    -       Anand Milk Union Ltd.
CWE     -       Cooperative Wholesale Establishment
DAPH    -       Department of Animal Production and Health
DDF     -       Dairy Development Foundation
MILCO   -       Milk Industries of Lanka Company
MPC     -       Milkshed Producers' Companies
MRID    -       Ministry of Rural Industrial Development
NLDB    -       National Livestock Development Board
NMB     -       National Milk Board
VMPA    -       Village Milk Producers' Associations
VMPC    -       Village Milk Producers' Companies
FISCAL YEAR -
January 1 - December 31
, '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
SECOND DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan-and Project Summary
Borrower:            The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Beneficiary:         Dairy Development Foundation
Amount:              US$38.0 million (including loan interest during
construction)
Terms:               Repayment in 20 years, including 5 years grace at
the standard variable interest rate
Relending Terms:     The Government would relend the loan.proceeds to the
Dairy Development Foundation for 15 years including
years grace at a variable interest rate coinciding
w.th the Bank's lending rate, plus a fee of 2 percentage
_ points to cover the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:       The project seeks to provide support for the long-term
development of dairying in Sri Lanka by assisting in the
generation of an organizational structure for the dairy
industry; increasing rural employment and incomes;
improving efficiency in production, collecting,
chilling, processing, and marketing milk; increasing the
supplies of domestically produced and hygienically
processed fluid milk; providing technical assistance and
training; and strengthening the monitoring and evalua-
tion of development projects in the livestock sub-
sector. About 180,000 farm families are expected to
benefit from increased on-farm employment, mnd more
evenly distributed incremental income derived from
increased milk production. Risks arise from the sub-
stantial institutional changes to be effected by the
project, and farmer acceptance of the new village milk
companies.
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officud duties. Its contents may not otherwse be disckoed without Word Bank authorzation.



Estimated Costs: la                                     Local   Foreign   Total
-- -US$ MiLlion-
Land                               0.8       -        0.8
Civil Works                        8.6      1.9      10.5
Machinery and Equipment            4.4     15.6      20.0
Vehicles                           0.6      1.0       1.6
Technical Assistance               0.8      2.7       3.5
Training                            -       0.9       0.9
Technical Services                 1.9      5.3       7.2
Organization and Management        3.6       -        3.6
Support to VMPC/VHPA               8.8      0.2       9.0
Recurrent Costs /b                 7.8       -        7.8
Working Capital 7c                 4.0       -        4.0
Total Base Costs                 .41.3     27.5      68.8
Physical Contingencies             1.7      1.3       3.0
Price Contingencies               19.7      9.7      29.4
Total Proj' -t Costs              62.7     38.5    101.2
Interest During
Construction                      -      10.0      10.0
Total Financing Required        62.7     48.5    111.2
Financing Plan:                                         Local   Foreign   Total
US$ Million
Donated Comodities                39.5     17.4      56.9
IBRD Loan                         11.1     26.9      38.0
Netherlands                        3.3      4.2       7.5
Short-Term Loan (Government)       0.4      -         0.4
Funds from KILCO and Other
Project Entities                5.8      -         5.8
Equity Investments                 2.6      -         2.6
Total                           62.7     48.5    111.2
/a   Including taxes and duties of US$4.2 million equivalent.
7T   Incremental costs relating to DDF's operations and support to MILCO
and the MPCs.
/c   Incremental working capital for MILCO, MPCs and initial working
capital requirement for DDF.



-lll-
Estimated
Disbursements:
IBRD FY                FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90
- -       US$ Viflions----
Annual                   0.6   14.5   13.7    5.6    3.6
Cumulative              0.6   15.1   28.8   34.4   38.0
Rate of Return:       23 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:             No. 5089-CE, dated May 13, 1985
Map:                  IBRD 18398



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO TRE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LADKA
FOR A SECOND DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed loan
of US$38.0 million (including interest during construction) to the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka to help finance a Second Dairy Development
Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years including 5 years grace at
the standard variable interest rate. The Covernment would relend the loan
proceeds to the Dairy Development Foundation for 15 years, including 5 years
grace, at a variable interest rate coinciding with the Bank's lending rate,
plus a fee of 2 percentage points to cover the foreign exchange risk.
Cofinancing has been arranged with the European Economic Coumnity (EEC) for
a grant in commodity aid valued at US$36.5 million equivalent, the
Netherlands for a grant of US$7.5 million equivalent, and the World Food
Program (WFP) for a grant in commodity aid valued at US$20.4 million
equivalent.
PART I - TEE ECONOMY 1/
2.     A country economic memorandum, "Sri Lanka: Recent Economic
Developments, Prospects and Policies" (Report No. 5038-CE dated May 4, 1984),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 18, 1984. Country data are
provided in Annex I.
3.     After several years of relative stagnation, Sri Lanka's economy has
experienced sustained growth as a result of the economic liberalization of
1977 and a significant increase in foreign assistance. Before 1977,
Sri Lanka's growth performance had been below the country's needs and
potential. Although in the 1960s the annual GDP growth of 4.4 percent was
above the average for low-income countries, between 1970 and 1977 it slack-
ened to 2.9 percent annually, which was just below the average for low-income
countries. Through much of this period, the terms of trade deteriorated
steadily, eroding even these modest gains. The slowdown in economic growth
in 1970-77 was the result of a combination of factors, including inadequate
investment, poor management of the economy, and a policy environment not
1/ This part is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report
for the Second Roads Project for Sri Lanka (Report No. P-3999-CE), which
was approved by the Executive Directors on April 16, 1985.



-2-
conducive to growth and investment. These difficulties were compounded by
poor weather in some years and by a sharp rise in the cost of imported food
and petroleum over the period.
4.      In contrast to this poor economic performance, Sri Lanka's social
achievements in relation to per capita income have been outstanding. With
respect to the most important social indicators-life expectancy, literacy,
infant mortality, birth rate, nutrition levels-Sri Lanka ranks significantly
higher than other countries at the same per capita income level.
Improvements in the quality of life, particularly the rise in heaLth
standards, the spread of education, and the availability of subsidized food,
have been important factors in the decline in mortality.  Also. the increas-
ing age at marriage, the spread of female education and employment, and a
family planning program contributed to a sharp decline in fertility. As a
consequence, population growth, net of migration, dropped steadily, from 2.7
percent annually in 1953-63 to 2.2 percent annually in 1963-71, and to 1.7
percent annually in 1971-81.
5.      However, the Government largely financed both its investment and
social expenditures by extracting the surpluses yielded by the three major
tree crops (tea, rubber, and coconuts), which traditionally have furnished
easy sources of revenue and foreign exchange. However, these surpluses began
to decline in the late 1960s, as government export tax policies discriminated
against tree crops and export unit prices weakened. With growth in other
productive sectors declining during 1970-77, budgetary resources available
for social programs were squeezed between inelastic revenues and rapid
inflation. As a consequence, expenditures for social services other than the
food subsidy declined as a proportion of total current expenditures and of
GDP, thus threatening the gains in health and education. In short, the
economy could no longer generate the resources needed to sustain a large
program of welfare expenditures. Moreover, the size of that program reduced
the scope for policy-makers to shift resources to other development
activities.
6.      In 1977, the Government, in consultation with the IMF, introduced a
package of policy measures to liberalize the economy and allow a greater role
for the private sector. These policies were designed to (a) reduce govern-
ment intervention in commodity markets, (b) reduce government consumption
subsidies to assist in restoring producer incentives and public savings, and
(c) create a favorable environment for private (foreign and domestic) invest-
ment through tax concessions, the creation of an Investment Promotion Zone,
and the unification and depreciation of the exchange rate. Two important
consequences of this policy reform package were: (a) a decline in the cost
of selected subsidies and transfers from about 10 percent of GDP in 1977 to
about 3 percent by 1981; and (b) a periodic increase in the domestic support
price for paddy (which brought it into line with world prices) that spurred a
highly positive response from paddy producers.
7.      These policy reforms were introducei! along with an ambitious public
investment program that was made possible by the increased availability of
domestic and foreign resources. As the Government began to tackle long
overdue investments, its capital expenditure as a share of GDP jumped from
6 percent in 1977 to an average of 13 percent in 1978 and 1979 and a peak of
19 percent in 1980, but subsequently declined to an average of 14 percent



-3-
during 1981-83. The Government's investment plan centered on three major
initiatives: (a) accelerated implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga
Development Program, the largest multipurpose river basin development program
ever undertaken in Sri Lanka; (b) establishment of a 200-square mile free
trade zone to attract foreign investors located north of Colombo near the
international airport; and (c) institution of a massive housing and urban
renewal program focusing mainly on the Colombo metropolitan region, including
the construction of a new capital complex at Kotte, a suburb of Colombo.
8.      The initial result of both the policy reforms and increased level
of investment was an impressive jump in the GDP growth rate during 1977-80 to
an annual average of 6.8 percent, which then declined to 5.3 percent in
1980-83. The activities responsible for most of this increased growth were
production of paddy, export of garments, and services. The real growth rate
of paddy production since 1977, for example, has averaged 5.7 percent a year
with the result that rice imports declined from an average 33 percent of
total rice consumption in 1970-77 to only 12 percent in 1978-83.
Manufactured garment exports, which have increased from US$12 million in 1977
to US$197 million in 1983, raised their share of non-petroleum manufactured
exports from 41 percent in 1977 to 76 percent in 1983. Tourist arrivals
increased from 153,665 in 1977 to 407,230 in 1982, with a setback to 337,342
in 1983 due to ethnic disturbances during July.
9.      Despite these advances, some of the basic structural weaknesses
within the economy-have not been addressed. Among the directly productive
activities, three subsectors have continued to perform poorly, namely tree
crops, public manufacturing enterprises, and non-traditional exports. The
volume of output from the centrally important exporZ-oriented tree crops
subsector has continued to decline or stagnate. Public manufacturing
enterprises, which account for approximately 40 percent of the value added in
the non-petroleum manufacturing sector, utilize resources inefficiently,
thereby reducing the overall growth rate in manufacturing. In addition, the
real growth of non-traditional exports, other than garments, has been fairly
low and erratic. Underlying the poor performance of these subsectors are two
principal factors: poor management of publicly-owned enterprises, and an
overall incentive framework characterized by high and uneven levels of effec-
tive protection with a general bias against export activities. Moreover, the
incentive to invest in the production of traded commodities has been reduced
in favor of non-traded goods, as the exchange rate has not been fully
adjusted in a systematic way since 1977 so as to compensate for the high
levels of domestic inflation.
10.     Another principal source of macro-financial instability, particularly
in recent years, has been the Government's budgetary policy. As a share of
GDP, budgetary spending increased from 23 percent in 1977 to a record 43
percent in 1980, subsequently declining to a still high 32 percent in 1983.
Although much of this increased expenditure was accompanied initially by a
corresponding inflow of foreign concessionary capital linked to the public
investment program, the need to resort to domestic or commercial foreign
financing increased. In addition, the Government's efforts to mobilize
additional domestic resources fell short of requirements. Due to falling
volumes and prices in the tree crops subsector and an insufficient effort to
widen the tax base beyond traditional sources, the Government increasingly
relied on ad hoc taxation measures to maintain existing revenue levels. The



-4-
rapid growth in spending coupled with increased inflows of foreign savings
and a weak domestic revenue effort resulted in large budget deficits, which
peaked at the equivalent of 23 percent of GDP in 1980 and still amounted to
15 percent of GDP in 1983. In response to increasing domestic deficits, the
Government has squeezed current spending with negative and positive
repercussions. On the positive side, the reduction in subsidies is welcome,
but on the negative side, the limits placed on both public sector salaries
and operation and maintenance expenditure are beginning to impose significant
costs on the economy in terms of recruitmentlperformance in the public sector
and the efficient use of the existing publicly-owned capital stock. Even so,
savings on the budgetary current account have remained negative since 1979.
In summary, despite considerable donor support for the country's development
programs during 1981-83 (equivalent to 7.3 percent of CDP), the high level of
public expenditure has meant that only 45 percent of the overall deficit was
financed by concessionary flows, with about 10 percent being covered by
foreign commercial borrowing and the remaining 45 percent through domestic
borrowing.
11.     The rapid expansion in investment and general economic activity has
been reflected vividly in the balance of payments. Between 1977 and 1980,
import volumes grew at an average anmual rate of 18.8 percent-imported
investment goods increased from US$83 million to US$493 million, while inter-
mediate goods and petroleum imports tripled in current prices. As a result
of this fairly broad-based expansion, merchandise imports as a share of GDP
increased from 23 percent in 1977 to 51 percent in 1980. Export volumes,
however, expanded at a much lower rate (an average annual growth rate of
4.7 percent between 1977 and 1980) and the decline in tree crop export
volumes offset the strong growth in garment exports from firms established in
the Investment Prvmotion Zone. Consequently, merchandise exports as a share
of GDP increased frcm 21 percent in 1977 to only 26 percent in 1980. These
diverse trends in the volume of trade were accompanied by a 26 percent
deterioration in the terms of trace over the same period. Rapid growth in
tourism receipts and private remittances from abroad failed to offset this
deterioration in the trade account, and the current account balance
deteriorated from a positiva 2.4 percent of GDP in 1977 to a record 19.8
percent deficit in 1980. Deficits in 1978 and 1979 were more than offset by
increased net aid disbursements, even to the extent that Sri Lanka could
continue to add to net international reserves. Yet, in 1980 the situation
changed, international reserves fell by US$220 million, and the public sector
began to increase its use of commercial financing.
12.     Since 1980, the external deficit has mirrored the erratic movements
of the budget deficit. Realizing that a continuation of the 1980 trends
would result in serious financial instability, the Government began in 1981,
to take corrective measures. The measures agreed upon, in consultation with
the IMF, included tighter overall monetary policy, a substantial reduction in
government spending, and a gradual realignment of the exchange rate. The
economy began to respond positively by the end of 1981 (the current account
deficit in the balance of payments had declined to 13.7 percent of GDP and
the budgetary deficit to 15.6 percent), but in 1982 the political resolve to
continue to apply the needed policy mix weakened, largely because of the
presidential elections and a subsequent referendum to extend the life of
Parliament. As a result, both the external and internal deficits increased
in 1982 (to 15.3 percent and 17.3 percent, respectively) and the GDP growth



-5-
rate declined to 5.1 percent (the lowest since 1977). Although policy
measures did contribute to the decline (to 12.4 percent of GDP) in the cur-
rent account deficit in the balance of payments in 1983, the primary factor
was the estimated 14 percent improvement in the terms of trade. By the end
of 1983, net international reserves were slightly negative, gross official
reserves were equal to about two months of imports, and the debt service
ratio continued to increase (para. 16). In addition, as a result of the
budgetary deficit and some movement in the exchange rate, inflation during
that year accelerated to an average 14 percent and the CDP growth rate fell
to 4.9 percent.
13.     Although the 1983-84 terms-of-trade improvement is bringing the
economy some relief, the need for basic structural change has not diminished,
particularly in the tree crops and manufacturing subsectors. One of the
foremost objectives of government policy should be to restructure the economy
toward exports rather than producing for the very limited domestic market.
Basically what is needed is a more neutral incentive framework that would
permit the full diversity of Sri Lanka's particular comparative advantage to
develop. In the short run, however, such a policy package would have to be
supplemented by other measures because, first, the capacity of the economy to
respond to a changed set of incentives may be limited and, second, the
non-policy-related constraints on economic growth (such as the basic
infrastructure and imperfect credit markets) will continue to require the
-careful attention of Government.
14.    Although an uncertain sociopolitical situation constrains the
Government from adopting a comprehensive economic policy package, recent
measures demonstrate Government's awareness of medium-term problems and its
willingness to implement some required reforms. For example, in the
November 1984 budget the Government moderately reduced the overall tax burden
on tree crops. This reduction, in combination with the management/incentive
reform package for state-owned plantations implemented in early 1984, has
improved incentives for producers throughout the subsector. The budget also
introduced tariff changes based on recommendations made in the final report
of the Presidential Tariff Commission on trade taxes. Although important
activities were omitted from these reforms, the general thrust of the _nanges
is towards a more neutral framework. The Cabinet has also laid down criteria
for selecting projects in future public capital budgets--a measure that, if
implemented, should redirect public investment into those areas where it
could be most efficiently used. In light of the rapid build-up of the
country's capital stock since 1977, the highest return to public investment
probably would come from complementary investments in existing
infrastructure, and in a few new projects that are appropriate in long-
gestating activities (such as, power). However, on the negative side, the
1984 budget also provided a wide range of tax concessions that will not serve
to reduce either the budget deficit or level of inflation. The currently
high tea price has enabled the Government to implement a basically expansion-
ary budget while containing its budget deficit below 10 percent of CDP. Thus
in the medium term, difficult issues related to changing the tax base and the
overall incentive framework stil' need to be addressed if the economy is to
undergo the type of structural change necessary for sustained growth.
15.    The international aid community has responded enthusiastically to
the Government's recent development efforts by stepping up project aid, in



-6-
recognition of the Government's'efforts to increase such investment,
particularly in the Accelerated Mahaweli Program. The overall level of aid
commitments iacreased from US$250 million in 1977 to a record US$814 million
in 1981, equivalent to US$55 per capita. Disbursements grew much more slowly
so that the aid pipeline rapidly expanded to around US$1.63 billion by the
end of 1981. In 1982-83 public capital spending had to be curtailed, both
because of implementation and domestic financial constraints, with the result
that commitments declined to US$550 million in 1982 and US$370 million in
1983, halting further increases in the pipeline. Aid disbursements have
increased steadily, from US$200 million in 1977 to US$450 million in 1983, or
nearly US$30 per capita. The slow growth of disbursements relative to com-
mitments through 1981 can be explained largely by two factors: the rapid
acceleration in aid commitments and the relative shift over time from food
and commodity aid to slower-disbursing project aid. Continued high levels of
aid will depend upon donors' willingness to finance a sizeable portion of
local costs, provide supplementary financing for ongoing p-ojects, where
needed, and to increase non-project aid. To maintain donor confidence in its
economic policies and management, the Government will have to strengthen its
domestic resource mobilization effort and continue to restrain government
expenditures as long as the budgetary situation remains tight. Local cost
financing in support of Sri Lanka's resource mobilization efforts will not
only provide valuable relief from budgetary pressures, but will also supple-
ment foreign exchange resources needed to support the balance of pavments.
16.     At the end of 1983, external public debt outstanding and disbursed
stood at an estimated US$2.2 billion, which was about 46 percent of GDP.
Although a greater part of this debt is on concessional terms, the increased
financing resorted to in 1981 and 1982 helped to push the debt service ratio
(excluding IMF charges and repurchases) up from 10.1 percent in 1982 to
11.9 percent in 1983. Even though the record tea prices in recent mnnths
have enabled Sri Lanka to reduce its dependence on commercial financing in
the near term, any deterioration in the terms of trade would rapidly reverse
the situation. This threat to the economy is partly offset, however, by the
Governsient's recent efforts to contain the budget deficit and to implement
policy measures designed to stimulate exports and efficient import substitu-
tion activities. If progress along these lines continues, the current
account deficit in the balance of payments should decline to approximately
7 percent of CDP toward the end of the decade, and the debt service ratio,
after temporarily rising to almost 17 percent because of existing debt repay-
ment commitments, should drop below 15 percent in 1990.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.     Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, the World
Bank has approved 11 loans totaling US$151.7 million (net of cancellations)
and 38 credits totaling US$769.1 million (net of cancellations) in support of
49 projects. About 52 percent of World Bank assistance has been for agricul-
ture (irrigation, tree crops, and rural and dairy development), 23 percent
for power, 10 percent for transportation, and the remainder of 15 percent
among development finance company operations, a program credit (involving the
import of raw materials for industry), water supply, construction industry,
telecommunications, and small and medium industries. Eight loans and 13



-7-
credits have been fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of
World Bank Group operations as of March 31, 1985.
18.     In Sri Lanka, the IFC has a total investment of US$2.13 million
equivalent in equity and US$16.39 million equivalent in loans as of
March 31, 1985. Investments have been made so far in two textiles
industries, one polypropylene bag industry, one equipment-leasing company,
one hotel, and two IFC lines of credit, one of which has been extended to the
government-owned Bank of Ceylon for term loans to medium-sized industries.
19.     The World Bank Group's current strategy is primarily to assist
Sri Lanka in reaching a more sustainable balance-of-payments position in the
medium term through export promotion and import substitution in viable
economic activities. In order to achieve this, the lending strategy includes
support to policy changes in a number of areas: investment priorities,
incentive framework, coordination of economic policies and programs, opera-
tion and maintenance expenditures, and cost recovery.
20.     Within the above framework, the World Bank Group lending program
would concentrate resources on productive sectors and in support of energy
and transport infrastructure. Within agriculture, the strategy gives the
highest priority in the vital tree crops subsector. The objective is to
channel resources into an activity in which Sri Lanka has a comparative
advantage so as to stabilize the sector in the short term and to promote
sustainable export growth in the medium term; Whether in the irrigation,
rural development or tree crops subsector, the strategy focusses on
rehabilitating the existing capital base, increasing its utilization capacity
and ensuring better operation and maintenance in the future.
21.     The Government's priority to rehabilitate rundown infrastructure is
well placed and needed to support expanded economic activity, particularly in
the private sector. Major elements of the lending program would be directed
at helping the energy needs of the economy and easing transport bottlenecks.
The World Bank has provided financing to a number of power projects for
generation, transmission and distribution. The future program would focus on
energy conservation through both required investments and policy measures.
The old and inefficient power distribution system would be rehabilitated to
reduce system losses; small but significant improvements in energy conserva-
tion would be undertaken in large energy consuming industrial/commercial
units; and a study is underway to recommend measures to improve energy
efficiency in the transport sector, a large consumer of commercial energy in
Sri Lanka. All of these activities would be supported through policy
measures and institutional development. Support to the transport sector
would continue with rehabilitation of the road network, institutionalizing
proper maintenance methods-and improving sectoral planning of policies and
programs.
22.     The World Bank has provided financing for a broad range of large-,
medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises, primarily in the private
sector, through support of development finance companies. Export development
would focus on this assistance which has also included support to improving
the performance of private enterprises. Future lending in the sector would
continue to have this focus.



-8-
23.     Institutional capabilities, at both the planning and implementation
levels, have been constrained with the recent rapid expansion of public
investment. While continuing the emphasis on institution building project
components, future projects would also focus on such areas as human resource
development, business and industrial management, and public administration.
24.     The need for a substantial transfer of resources to Sri Lanka has
been a recurrent theme of World Bank economic reporting, both to offset the
deterioration in the world trade environment and to support a high and sus-
tained growth rate. Despite Government's increased domestic resource mobi-
lization effort in the recent past, World Bank projects in Sri Lanka have
included financing of local expenditures. The World Bank's strategic focus
on agriculture, rehabilitation rather than new infrastructure, and institu-
tional development means that the foreign exchange component of projects
tends to be small. Also, the Government's budgetary situation continues to
be tight as increased operational and maintenance requirements make-demands
on domestic resources.
25.     The World Bank Group, as of the end of 1983, accounted for 10.7
percent (IBRD, 1.6 percent; IDA, 9.1 percent) of Sri Lanka's total debt
outstanding and disbursed, and 5.0 percent of debt service on medium- and
long-term debt. The projected World Bank Group's share in total existing
external debt outstanding and disbursed will increase to 17 percent by the
end of 1985 (with IBRD's share deslining to 1.3 percent). The IBRD and IDA..
portions of debt service are expected to decline to about 4 percent by the
end of 1985.
PART III - THE LIVESTOCK AND DAIRY SUBSECTOR
26.     Agriculture plays an important role in the economy of Sri Lanka:  it
accounts for about 25 percent of GDP, about 50 percent of the labor force,
and 60 percent of export earnings. The contribution of livestock to the
gross value of agricultural production is estimated to be 8 percent. This
figure may be considerably lower than the actual contribution because it does
not take into account the value of manure, hides and skins, and draft power.
Furthermore, the subsector generates employment and contributes significantly
to the economy by utilizing much land that would have little alternative use.
Milk Production and Processing
27.     Estimates of domestic milk production range from about 0.4 million
liters per day (lpd) (according to consumption surveys) to 0.7 million lpd
(according to numbers of livestock). Some 70 percent of the milk produced is
consumed at home or is marketed locally, and only about one-third is procured
by the organized dairy subsector. Most of the milk processed by the National
Milk Board (NMB) is collected by middlemen directly from producers or through
cooperatives. The country's processing capacity is about 0.6 million lpd.
Current throughput (locally produced milk plus imported commodities) is about
0.3 lpd.



-9-
Milk Imports, Consumption, and Demand
28.     In 1983, Sri Lanka imported about 27,000 tons of dairy products,
which provided the liquid milk equivalent of a further 0.4-0.5 million lpd.
The total value of milk imports has increased from SL Rs 55 million in 1970
to SL Rs 380 million in 1978, and SL Rs 870 million in 1983. Average urban
per capita consumption of milk and milk products is estimated at 76 grams per
day compared with an average rural per capita consumption of 48 grams per
day. Consumption varies considerably between income classes, the poorer
urban classes consuming an average of about 40 grams per day and the upper
income classes up to 130 grams per day. The income elasticity of the demand
for milk and milk products is about_0.6-0.8 at mean consumption levels,
indicating that a 10 percent growth in per capita income would result in an
estimated 6 to 8 percent rise in per capita milk consumption.
Milk Prices, Subsidies, and Tariffs
29.     Prices.  The Government controls both producer and consumer prices
of milk bought and sold by NMB, which, in turn, controls all sales of liquid
milk except small quantities traded in rural markets. Up-to March 1983,
producer milk prices generally ranged from SL Rs 2.00 to 2.80 per liter,
depending mainly on fat content. In March 1983, the Government increased the
producer milk price to about SL Rs 3.20 per liter and consumer prices to
SL Rs 6.07 per liter. In September 1984, the producer milk price was further
increased to SL Rs 3.70 per liter'and consumer price to SL Rs 8.00 per liter.-
While the consumer price remains at SL Rs 8.00 per liter for pasteurized
fluid milk, the current producer price is SL Rs 4.30 per liter of 4 percent
fat milk as a result of a recent (post-September 1984) government decision.
Bulk imported whole milk powder (the main substitute for pasteurized fluid
mi't), repackaged in Sri Lanka, is currently retailed on average at SL Rs
8.90 per liter equivalent after payment of a 15 percent import duty. The
current retail price set by the largest processor of domestically produced
whole milk powder is SL Rs 8.40 per liter equivalent.
30.     Subsidies.  NMB operates at a financial loss and has a negative cash
flow which is financed by government subsidies. These losses occur in large
measure because of insufficient margins between government-controlled prices
of raw milk and finished products, low plant throughput combined with a high
proportion of fixed costs, and overstaffing. The size of the subsidy has
been reduced in recent years as a result of the above-mentioned consumer
price increases and increased efficiency in NMB's operations. In 1983-84,
the average annual subsidy payments to UMB for liquid milk amounted to SL Rs
23 million compared with SL Rs 45.9 million in 1982. The Government had
expected that continued improvements in the efficiency of NMB operations
would permit the elimination of the subsidy by the end of 1984. The neces-
sary improvements in NMB were not forthcoming and ir. the November 1984 budget
the subsidy was raised from SL Rs 0.375 to SL Rs 0.50 per liter of raw milk
processed as fluid milk. The Government, however, remains committed to the
elimination of this subsidy and specific action to accomplish this objective
is included under the project (Section 4.05(a), draft Loan Agreement). There
is at present a need to ensure that some local fluid milk is incorporated
into locally produced whole milk powder (which also incorporates bulk recon-
stituted imported powder).  Without this outlet, some rural producers would
lack an effective market for their milk. Also, markets distant from milk



-10-*
processing plants would be mainly dependent upon imported milk products. To
make local fluid milk an attractive ingredient for local milk powder
processors, the Government presently pays a subsidy of SL Re 1.00 per liter
on fluid milk absorbed by these processors. The total subsidy to NMB
budgeted for 1985 is SL Rs 33 million. The Government, however, has agreed
to progressively abolish, but in any event not later than December 31, 1987,
the existing SL Re 1.00 subsidy (Section 4.05(b), draft Loan Agreement).
31.     Until 1983 the Cooperative Wholesale Establishment (CWE), which is
the agency responsible for most imports of dairy products, was also receiving
a subsidy to cover its operating losses. Prior to March 1983, the subsidy
amounted to about SL Rs 5.00 per kilogram of powdered milk. The annual cost
to the Government was about SL Rs 100 million. In March 1983, the consumer
price of milk powder imported and repackaged by CWE was raised sufficiently
to eliminate this subsidy.
32.     Tariffs.  Until January 1985, import duties on whole milk powder,
skim milk powder, and butter oil were 5 percent, 7.5 percent, and 12.5
percent, respectively. Effective January 1, 1985, the duty on all these
products was raised to 15 percent. A Steering Committee to be established
under the project would periodically review cost data for domestic milk
production and international prices of dairy products and recommend any
necessary changes in tariffs on imported dairy products (Section 4.01, draft
Loan Agreement). The Government would seek the concurrence of the Bank
before raising the tariff above 25 percent.
Dairy Cooperatives
33.     Dairy cooperatives in Sri Lanka date back to about 1930; however, the
major force in the cooperative movement, the Cooperative Union in Colombo,
was organized during the 1940s and continued to work efficiently until the
inception in 1954 of the state-owned NMB.  The NMB started selling milk in
Colombo at prices lower than those of the Cooperative Union, which was run on
sound financial principles, and eventually drove the Union out of business in
1958. The dairy cooperative movement resurged in 1979 under the IDA-assisted
dairy project (Credit 504-CE).
34.     At present, there are 100 milk cooperatives in Sri Lanka, 90 of which
are classified as small primary societies and 10 as large primary societies.
Cooperatives of the former type cover a relatively small area (generally one
village) and their by-laws do not provide for elected branches. Some 50 of
these societies, known as Dairy Producers' Associations (DPAs), were
organized by the National Livestock Development Board (NLDB) under the first
dairy project and are members of the Coconut Triangle Milk Producers'
Cooperative Union. The large primary societies, organized by both the NLDB
and the Department of Animal Production and Health, have adopted by-laws
similar to the existing multipurpose cooperatives and consist of central
units with varying numbers of branches which are supervised by elected branch
committees. The central units of these societies are frequently located at
the headquarters of the assistant government agent, and their executive
committees generally consist of four government nominees and five members
seLected from among the producers by an electoral college. Four of the ten
large primary societies each cover an administrative district. Because of
its more centralized nature, distance of the Central Unit from the villages,



-ll-
and the presence of government nominees on its board, producer influence and
cooperative autonomy are limited, and the Large primary society is often
viewed as another agency of the Government. The dairy cooperative societies
to be formed under the ADB-assisted livestock development project would be of
the large primary type.
35.     The total membership of the primary milk societies is about 23,000,
and since 1979 these societies have averaged about 31 million liters of milk
collected annually (about 54 percent of the total milk collected by NMB).
Although many of these societies have operated with considerable degree of
autonomy and with producer-based participatory management, they have had
little or no involvement beyond the village level, that is in milk processing
and marketing. Furthermore, while both types of cooperatives offer
advantages in terms of economies of scale in milk collection and transport
compared to the private collector, both place the producer in a disadvan-
tageous position in terms of bargaining for price increases and for the
provision of production inputs. As a consequence, producer milk prices are
only about 54 percent of retail prices with margins between collection,
chilling, transport, and processing being extensive. Likewise, retail price
increases have a significant likelihood of not being fully reflected in
producer prices but may result instead in increased margins and losses
between producer, cooperative, chilling center, processing plant, and
consumer. Thus, a reorganization of the existing cooperative system, which
would allow producers wider participation and greater control, is needed.
The ADB Livestock Development Project
36.     The ADB is financing an ongoing livestock development project which
proposes, inter alia, to undertake dairy development in six districts of
Sri Lanka. Under the project, assistance would be given in the establishment
and operation of dairy producer cooperatives. The structure and operation of
the cooperatives are expected to be similar to the structure and operation of
the Village Milk Producers' Companies (VMPCs) to be established under the
proposed project, and would therefore provide a consistent approach to dairy
farmer involvement at the village level.
Bank Involvement in the Subsector and Project Rationale
37.     The Bank's involvement in Sri Lanka's dairy industry began with an
Agricultural Sector Mission in 1971. In early 1973, a project was prepared
by a Government interagency team with the assistance of the FAOIIBRD
Cooperative Program. This multicomponent project--which included credit and
technical services for dairy farm development, credit to cooperatives, supply
of equipment for expansion of milk collection, and the establishment of
demonstration units for calf rearing and for forage production and
management-was appraised in mid-1973. Because of slow progress, the project
was reformulated in 1978 and emphasis was shifted from providing commercial
dairy farms with credit to forming dairy producer associaticn .
Subsequently, project progress still remained slow, and in December 1981,
after a one year extension, the project closed. Although the project con-
tained no provision for monitoring and evaluation, as pointed out in the
Pro ect Completion Report, the results obtained indicated that the formation
of producer associations, and milk collection through them, had been suffi-
ciently successful to demonstrate the validity of this approach to dairy



-12-
development. Furthermore, it was clear from the outcome of the project that
issues pertaining to institutional structure, pricing, and project perfor-
mance could not be separated. Consequently, it was agreed that, before
further livestock investments were considered, a joint Government-IDA review
mission would study the sector. A review mission, which was carried out in
November-December 1982, confirmed the potential of the Sri Lankan dairy
industry and recommended that substantial institutional changes leading to
the privatization of the industry be initiated.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.     The proposed project wab prepared/appraised in October 1983 after the
Government had reviewed the sector mission's report. Negotiations were held
in Washington, April 22-26, 1985. The Government of Sri Lanka was repre-
sented by a delegation led by Mrs. S.L. Kuruppu, Additional Director,
External Resources Department, Ministry of Finance and Planning. A staff
appraisal report (Report No. 5089-CE) is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. Special conditions of the loan are listed in Annex III.
Project Design
39.     If both producers and consumers are to gaijn from a program of dairy
development, major institutional and organizational changes must be intro-
duced that would increase milk production and promote efficient processing
and marketing. The proposed project would therefore put the greatest
emphasis on these goals. The proposed project would be nationwide in
coverage and the country would be divided into five milksheds for operational
convenience. Each milkshed would consist of three to seven districts.
40.     To improve the efficiency of milk collection, processing, and
marketing, the Government has agreed that it would divest itself of the
management of investments in milk processing and marketing. These commercial
activities would be carried out by the private sector. If producers are to
receive the benefits of higher milk prices, they should be granted greater
control over milk processing and marketing and be permitted to enter into
partnership with entrepreneurs in building the dairy industry. The project
design draws heavily on the experience gained during the last ten years in
cooperative dairy development in the region. The proposed project would
establish an organizationaL infrastructure patterned after the Indian AMUL
(Anand Milk Union Ltd.) model.  The various entities created under the
project, except for the Village Milk Producers' Associations (VMPAs), would
be registered under the Companies Act rather than the Cooperatives Act, which
would minimize some of the limitations in the cooperative structure. This
arrangement would have the advantage of embodying the most desirable features
of smallholder dairy cooperatives while minimizing public sector influence,
and it would place each project entity under the same requirements of
accountability and operating procedures as any other private sector firm.
The proposed institutional changes would ensure that the technical inputs and
advisory services necessary for increasing milk output and improving the
efficiency of production are provided to producers. They would also allow
producers to participate in the profits obtainable in milk processing and
marketing and would provide a mechanism by which incentive prices could reach



-13-
the farmer.  Given the substantial institutional and infrastructural
development, the project would be implemented over seven years.
Project Objectives
41.     The primary objectives of the project would be to:  (a) create an
institutional structure to provide technical support and financing for the
long-term development of dairying in Sri Lanka; (b) increase rural employment
and incomes; tc) improve efficiency in producing, collecting, chilling,
processing, and marketing of milk; td) increase the supplies of domestically
produced and hygienically processed fluid milk; (e) provide technical assis-
tance and training to support the development of the industry; and
(f) strengthen and support the monitoring and evaluation of projects in the
livestock subsector.
Project Components
A. Organization and Management
42.     The project would support the establishment of an institutional
structure for the dairy industry consisting of The Dairy Development
Foundation (DDF), The Milk Industries of Lanka Company (MILCO), five Milkshed
Producers' Companies (MPCs), and about 1,950 Village Milk Producers'
Companies (VMPCs). Dairy cooperatives, (referred to as Village Milk
Producers' Associations CYMPAs)), meeting specific criteria, especially those
relating to management practices and financial status, and abiding by the
same rules and procedures as the VMPCs, would participate under the project
(Schedule 2, draft Loan Agreement). As part of the privatization of the
dairy industry in Sri Lanka, the Government would lease NMB's chilling cen-
ters and milk plants to MILCO (Sections 4.03(a) and 6.01(f), draft Loan
Agreement), and would abolish NiMB by September 30, 1986 (Section 4.03(b),
draft Loan Agreement).
43.     DDF has been established as a non-profit guarantee-limited company to
provide financing for investments in dairying, as well as training, technical
assistance, research and development, and management support in organizing
and developing the dairy industry. DDF would be the focal point for
implementation, and all project funding would flow through it. It would use
funds derived from donated commodities, the Netherlands and the Bank to
finance investments in dairy production, processing and marketing, and it
would also provide or obtain training, technical assistance, management, and
research to support the organization and development of the dairy industry.
As a non-profit organization, DDF would be exempt from income tax.
44.     MILCO would be owned by producers (49 percent) and private investors
(51 percent) and its functions would be to: (a) purchase, process and market
fluid milk and milk products (it would set the pricing from producer to
retail level); (b) reconstitute donated and commercially procured milk
products; (c) expand the capacity and continue the modernization of the miLk
processing industry; (d) operate existing processing facilities now owned by
NMB; and Ce) provide professional management under contract with concerned
organizations to undertake the management of dairy processing facilities and
any other entities in the dairy industry.



-14-
45.     Five MPCs have been established to cover all districts of Sri Lanka.
These companies would be owned by producers and would: (a) lease from MILCO
and manage NMB chilling centers as well as new chilling centers; (b) tran-
sport milk from VMPCs and VMPAs to chilling centers or dairy plants; (c)
provide technical and extension services to VMPCs and VMPAs; td) train VMPC
and VMPA staff and farmers; and (e) invest in MILCO on behalf of their member
VMPCs and VMPAs and pass on to them MILCO dividends earned.
46.     About 1,950 VMPCs would be established.  They would be owned by
producers and would: (a) collect, test, and arrange payment for milk from
individual producers; (b) provide technical services (artificial insemination
and animal first aid care) to their members; (c) disseminate to their members
extension information on fodder and dairy production; and (d) invest in MPCs
on behalf of their members.  The VMPAs would perform the same functions for
their members as the VMPCs.
B. Technical and Extension Services
47.     To increase the productivity of the national herd, the project would
provide dairy producers with: (a) artificial insemination services using
imported frozen semen; (b) routine and emergency veter-inary services;
(c) paraveterinary first aid services; (d) production inputs, such as plant-
ing materials, compound cattle feed and minerals; and (e) advisory services
on fodder and dairy production. The VMPC and VMPA members would pay for
artificial insemination and emergency veterinary services. Individual
farmers would expect to benefit from these activities in two important ways.
First, more effective services would be available to them at the village
level, and second, farmers would have opportunities for training provided
through extension services.
C. Dairy Processing Plants and Chilling Centers
48.     To modernize, expand, and improve the efficiency of milk chilling,
processing, and marketing, the project would refurbish the existing Colombo
milk plant; construct three new dairy plants at Colombo, Kilinochchi/
Vavuniva, and Ampari; and construct about 10 new chilling centers.
Refurbishing of the existing Colombo plant for the reconstitution of donated
commodities would be carried out as a part of the Netherlands assistance. To
ensure that the designs and layouts of the new pLants and chilling centers
are completed in a timely manner, the Government would appoint by
December 31, 1985 a dairy plant engineer to work with local staff (Part II,
para 2 of the Schedule to the draft Project Agreement). Further, the
Government would ensure that acquisition of building sites and the Einal
designs for the processing and chilling facilities scheduled for construction
in the first two years would be completed by September 30, 1986 (Section
2.07, draft Project Agreement).
D. Training and Technical Assistance
49.     About 700 staff-months of overseas training and study tours would
be provided in addition to the training of local staff at the MPC training
centers. The training program would cover Spearhead Teams who would be
responsible for organizing VMPCs, trainers for the MPC training centers,
study tours of selected milk producers, and fellowships for selected



-15-
personnel of DDF, MILCO, and MPCs. VMPC and VMPA staff would be trained in
artificial insemination, animal first aid, fodder production, milk testing,
basic record keeping and accounting at the MPC centers. The centers would
also be responsible for the training of project farmers. About 400 staff-
months of technical assistance provided under the proposed project would
cover management and human resource development, dairy engineering, process-
ing and marketing, planning, monitoring and evaluation, farmer organization,
livestock and fodder production. The terms of reference for all the techni-
cal assistance have been drawn up.
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
50.     A project monitoring unit would be established within DDF to monitor
physical and financial progress of the project. Also, an existing technical
monitoring unit within the Ministry of Rural Industrial Development (MRID)
would be strengthened to enable it to organize and carry out studies assess-
ing the impact of the project on a number of variables, including the impact
on small farmers. The MRID unit would prepare annual project evaluation
reports as well as the Project Completion Report.
Cost Estimates and Financing
51.     The total project costs are estimated to be US$111.2 million, includ-
ing taxes and duties of about US$4.2 million. The foreign exchange component
amounts-to US$48.5 million, which represents 44 per.cent of total project
cost. Physical contingencies have been estimated at 5 percent of of base
costs, except for vehicles for which no physical contingencies have been
provided. Price contingencies have been applied at 8 percent in 1985; 9 in
1986-1988; 7.5 in 1989; and 6 in 1990-1992 for foreign costs. For local
costs, rates have been applied at 12 percent in 1985; 11 in 1986; 10 in 1981;
9 in 1988; 7.5 in 1989; and 6 in 1990-1992.
52.     Ihe proposed Bank loan of US$38.0 million would finance about 34
percent of total costs, including foreign exchange costs of US$26.9 million
(55 percent) and local costs of US$11.1 million (18 percent). The EEC and
the WFP would donate cozmuodities the value of which would amount to a total
of about US$56.9 million (51 percent of total costs) (Section 6.01(a). draft
Loan Agreement). The EEC has indicated that it would be prepared to &onate
about 13,000 metric tonnes of skim milk powder and about 6,500 metric tonnes
of butter oil over the life of the project, subject to year-to-year reviews
of project requirements. The WFP has also indicated that it would be
prepared to donate about 13,000 metric tonnes of skim milk powder.
Assistance from the Netherlands of about US$7.5 million (7 percent of total
costs) would be provided (Section 6.01(b), draft Loan Agreement). Local
sources of financing would include a short-term loan from the Government to
DDF for about US$0.4 million, on terms and conditions comparable to those
extended by DDF to MILCO and related project entities (para. 53); funds from
the operations of MILCO and related project entities amounting to about
US$5.8 million; and equity investments of about US$2.6 million.
53.     The Government would be the Borrower of the Bank loan and would
execute a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with DDF under which it would onlend Bank
funds to DDF at a variable interest rate coinciding with the Bank's rate, to
be repaid over 15 years, including 5 years of grace. The Borrower would bear



-16-
the foreign exchange risk and charge the DDF a guarantee fee of 2 percentage
points. Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and
DDF on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of
effectiveness (Section 6.01(c), draft Loan Agreement). 'aDF would enter into
Participation Agreements with MILCO, MPCs, and VMPCs and VMPAs providing for
relending part cf the funds onlent to DDF by the Government, along with other
arrangements for project execution. Execution of the Participation
Agreements between DDF and MILCO, and between DDF and the MPCs would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 6.01(d), draft Loan
Agreement). Sale proceeds of the commodity aid would also be lent by DDF to
the other project entities on the same terms as the onlending terms of the
Bank loan. DDF would extend both long-term and short-term loans to MILCO,
MPCs, and VMPCs and VMPAs at interest rates ranging from 14 percent per annum
(long-term loans) to 16 percent per annum (short-term loans). Onlending
rates of DDF would be reviewed semiannually by the Government and DDF to
ensure that they remain positive in real terms (Schedule 5, Part II(b), draft
Loan Agreement).
Procurement
54.     Proposed procurement arrangements are:
Procurement Method          Total
Project Component                      ICB    LCB    Other    N.A.    Cost
- ---(Us$ Million)--
Land                                                  1.0               1.0
Civil Works                                   14.7                     14.7
(10.3)                   (10.3)
Machinery, Equipment,                  16.8   23.1    3.0              42.9
Vehicles and Materials             (13.4)  (0.5)                    (13.9)
Consultant Services, Training,                        9.5               9.5
Fellowships and Study Tours                        (2.5)             (2.5)
Organization and Management                                    27.5    27.5
and Recurrent Cost                                           (1.3)   (1.3)
Working Capital                                                 5.6     5.6
Financing Charges                                              10.0    10.0
_____  _____  ___ (10.0)  (10.0)
Total Project Costs             16.8   37.8   13.5      43.1   111.2
(IBRD Financing)               (13.4) (10.8)  (2.5)   (11.3)  (38.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are amounts to be financed from the IBRD loan.



-17-
55.     Goods and services financed by the Bank would be procured by DDF.
The land for the construction of the dairy plants and chilling centers would
be procured in accordance with established government procedures acceptable
to the Bank. Civil works contracts (US$14.7 million) would be small and
dispersed in time and place. Thus, they would be unsuitable for ICB and
would be contracted through local competitive bidding under procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Machinery, equipment, vehicles and materials
(US$16.8 million) would be procured in bulk by ICB in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Minor equipment (US$0.5 million) costing less than US$15,000 per
contract that could not be suitably packaged for ICB, or that would be
required urgently for project implementation, would be procured after
solicitation of quotations from at least three independent suppliers in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Bids for imported
frozen semen (US$6.0 million) would be sought from at least three suppliers
(to be selected in agreement with the Bank). Consultants (US$4.2 million)
would be hired in accordance with Bank guidelines. Machinery, equipment and
materials supported by aid from the Netherlands would be procured according
to their procedures. Bids for civil works contracts costing more than
US$185,000 equivalent and equipment contracts exceeding US$50,000 would be
subject to prior Bank review. Other contracts would be subject to selective
post-award review.
Disbursements
56.     Disbursement: under the loan would cover:  Ca) civil works-90
percent; (b) equipsent, vehicles and materials (including frozen semen)-100
percent of foreip-. expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-
factory), and 6', percent of local expenditures for other items procured
locally; (c) cinsultant services, training, and fellowships and study tours-
100 percent; and (d) incremental staff salaries and operating costs on a
declining basis: 95 percent in FY1986 and FY1987, 80 percent in FY88.
Disbursements for small civil works contracts (that is, less than SL Rs
500,000) and for items under (d) above would be made against statements of
expenditure certified by the chief executive of the executing entity
concerned. Documentation supporting the statements would be retained in the
reler.vat project office and made available for review by Bank staff on
requsest. All documents supporting statements of expenditure would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Disbursements for
civil works contracts for SL Rs 500,000 or more and for items under (b) and
(c) above would be documented in accordance with the Bank's standard
requirements. Approximately 80 percent of total project expenditures are
expected to be incurred by year 1990.  In the later years, after Bank funds
have been utilized, the Government would permit DDF to purchase foreign
exchange for the purpose of financing project activities. Disbursements of
the Bank loan are expected to be completed by December 31, 1991.
Project Preparation Facility
57.     The Bank and the Government have agreed upon an advance of US$600,000
through the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) for recruiting and training
key staff, establishing pilot milk producer companies, obtaining technical
assistance, and undertaking key organizational activities. Disbursements
From the advance would cover: (a) 100 percent of expenditures for technical
a3sistance and training; (b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly



-18-
imported equipment, chemicals, and vehicles, 100 percent of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured items, and 65 percent of local
expenditures for locally procured items; and (c) 95 percent of expenditures
for DDF and MILCO staff salaries and other operating costs. Advances drawn
from the PPF, with the service charges accrued thereon, would be repaid out
of the proceeds of the loan as soon as it is declared effective (Section
2.02(d), draft Loan Agreement).
Project Special Account
,-_    To ensure that adequate funds are available for the prefinancing of
small contracts and other project expenditures and to facilitate the
project's timely implementation, a Project Special Account in US dollars
would be established in the Central Bank of Ceylon and operated under proce-
dures acceptable to the Bank. Only the Bank's share of project costs would
be deposited into and disbursed out of the account. The account would be
operated by the Chief Executive of DDF, or his designate. The initial
deposit made by the Bank into the Project Special Account would be US$1.0
million, equivalent to about four months expenditure (Section 2.02(b), draft
Loan Agreement).
Preinvestment Activities
59.     To ensure more rapid implementation of the project, the Government
has initiated a number of activities. Some activities have already been
completed. These are: (a) establishment of an Interministry Action
Committee chaired by the Minister of Rural Industrial Development and includ-
ing representatives of the Ministries of Trade and Shipping, and Finance and
Planning; (b) registration, under the Companies Act, of DDF, MILCO, and the
MPCs, and the appointment, by Government, of the initial chairmen and boards
of directors of DDF, MILCO and MPCs; and (c) plans for initial staffing of
DDF, MILCO and MPCSs. Activities underway include: (a) recruitment of the
first 50 Spearhead Team members and about 15 trainers; (b) market survey to
assist in detailing the product mix of the milk processing plants; and
(c) initiation of work on the refurbishment of the Colombo Milk Plant.
Interministerial Coordination
60.     A Steering Committee, with terms of reference and composition
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 4.01(a), draft Loan Agreement), would be
established to coordinate interministerial activities and policies and serve
as a decision-making body on policy matters affecting the dairy industry.
The Committee, chaired by the Minister of Rural Industrial Development, would
formulate and recommend to the Cabinet, through the appropriate Ministry,
policies and directives for Sri Lanka's dairy development.
Marketing, Prices, Subsidies, and Tariffs
61.     Domestic milk production would not be sufficient to meet demand.
Although milk production under the proposed project would increase by about
100,000 lpd by 1991 and 200,000 lpd by 1994, imports of dairy products are
not expected to decrease during the project period and may, in fact, increase
somewhat. The main marketing strategy of the proposed project would be to
increase consumption of fluid milk in both urban and rural markets.



-19-
Pasteurized milk would be distributed in the larger urban markets closer to
the dairy processing plants, while long-life milk would be supplied to more
distant markets. The existing private distribution system would be used to
retail project milk and milk products.
62.     Under the project, MILCO would be granted autonomy to set prices of
its milk products from the producer to the retail level (Section 4.04, draft
Loan Agreement).
63.     The proposed project would promote the development of a more
efficient dairy industry through the introduction of major institutional and
organizational changes. However, improved efficiency in the production,
collection, processing and marketing of milk would not be apparent until
these changes are in place and the industry is adequately staffed with
trained personnel. The dairy industry in Sri Lanka would, therefore, con-
tinue to need some protection from imports during the life of the project.
The price of dairy imports would determine the upper limits within which
MILCO would be able to set retail prices of milk and milk products. Producer
prices would be determined by deducting from the retail price the marginal
costs of marketing, processing, collecting and transporting.
64.    The level of tariffs on imported dairy products would need to be set
in the light of actual trends in international prices. At the present time,
world prices of milk products (US$650, US$950 and US$1,475 per metric ton for
skim milk powderr whole milk powder and butteroil respectively) are at or
near the GATT minimum prices, below which dumping is deemed to occur.  The
Steering Committee would conduct periodic reviews of costs and prices related
to domestically produced and imported milk and make recommendations to
Government on tariff policy (Section 4.01(b), draft Loan Agreement).
65.     The Government is committed to removing the existing subsidy to NMB.
It has therefore agreed that as a condition of loan effectiveness the exist-
ing subsidy of SL Re 0.50 per liter on fluid milk would be removed (Sections
4.05(a) and 6.01(g), draft Loan Agreement). Furthermore, it has agreed that
the present subsidy of SL Re 1.00 per liter on milk used for the local
manufacture of whole milk powder would be phased out by December 31, 1987
(Section 4.05(b), draft Loan Agreement). At this stage, it is not possible
to say whether elimination of these subsidies can be eventually absorbed by
the processing industry through improved efficiency and reduced costs, or
whether there would have to be some combination of higher consumer prices and
lower producer prices. It is expected, however, that the SL Re 0.50 subsidy
would be passed entirely to the consumer initially, raising the retail price
of fluid milk to SL Rs 8.50 per liter. Under the proposed project, MILCO
would take over the operation of NNB's existing milk powder factory and,
through diversification into more profitable products, eliminate the basis of
the subsidy on fluid milk processed locally into powder.
Financial Viability of Project Entities
66.     DDF's main operational concern would be to ensure that sufficient
funds were available to provide the necessary inputs to project operating
units during implementation. Detailed financial projections indicate that
net fund flows for DDF would be adequate. From 1989 on, DDF would generate
sufficient internal cash flow to cover operational requirements and could



-20-
begin retiring its debt. While DDF's cumulative profits are not positive,
its cumulative cash flow is and it would have sufficient assets to retire its
remaining debt.
67.     Detailed financial projections indicate that MILCO would be a viabie
and profitable operation from its incorporation at existing levels of
protection. Sales revenues are projected to increase from a level of about
SL Rs 800 million in 1986 to upwards of SL Rs 4,400 million by 1995.
Profitability is relatively consistent over the period, with gross profit
averaging 11 percent of sales and net profit after tax about 3 percent. Net
cash flows are positive for all years, and after dividend payments and
including allowances for working capital would accumulate to about SL Rs 900
million by 1995. The financial rate of return is estimated at 26 percent.
Over this period, MILCO's total assets would increase to SL Rs 1,326 million
and owner's equity to SL Rs 902 million in current terms.
68.     A consolidated income statement for the five MPCs indicates that
estimated revenue would provide sufficient funds to cover operating costs.
Consolidated revenue is expected to increase from SL Rs 96 million in 1986
to about SL Rs 600 million in 1995. Cash flow from operations is expected
to accumulate to SL Rs 150 million over the first ten years.
69.     Significant growth of the VMPCs is projected, with sales revenue in
current prices increasing-from about S. Rs 89 million in 1986 to SL-Rs 1,518
million in 1992. Net cash flow is expected to be positive for all VMPCs from
1986 onward. Total net cash flow is expected to total SL Rs 1.6 million in
1986 and to reach SL Rs 28.5 million by 1992.
Benefits and Risks
70.     Benefits.  The main institutional and organizational changes brought
about by the project would (a) help ensure that the technical inputs neces-
sary for increasing milk output and improving the efficiency of production
are provided; (b) allow producers to participate in the profits obtainable in
milk processing and marketing through shareholdings in MILCO; (c) provide a
mechanism by which incentive prices can reach the farmer; and (d) help ensure
that consumers have increasei access to high-quality milk and milk products
at fair prices.
71.     Milk production is projected to increase by 4 percent annually by
1992. Incremental milk production would result from increases in milk yield
as a result of improved feeding and management and the partial conversion of
the herd from low-yielding indigenous animals to higher yielding crossbreds,
and modest growth of the national herd due to increased calving rates and
reduced mortalities. The technical and extension services (para. 47)
provided to VYPCs and VI4PAs under the project would contribute to increased
milk production.
72.     Incremental on-farm employment generated during the first seven years
of the project is estimated at 25,000 person years distributed among about
180,000 households. The producers' share of consumer payments for processed
milk (now about 54 percent) is expected to reach 60 percent under the project
thr3ugh more efficient collecting, processing, and marketing of milk. The
shiEt to a vertically integrated organizational structure with producer



-21-
ownership in the collecting, processing, and marketing entities would ensure
that benefits from increased efficiency in milk processing and ma:keting are
passed on to the farmers. In terms of gross income, project participants in
1992 would receive an estimated SL Rs 750 million (US$30 million) from the
sale of milk. This is expected to yield an increase in net income of about
SL Rs 265 million, or SL Rs :.470 per household. The overall economic rate
of return is about 23 percent.
73.     As cattle are more evenly distributed than land, the incremental
income from milk production among rural households would tend to be more
evenly distributed than in land-based development projects. Furthermore,
since dairying is expected to expand into the Dry Zone (where incomes and
opportunities for alternative productive activities are particularly low),
regional distribution of income should also improve.
74.     Risks.  The proposed project would require substantial institutional
changes and, like all such projects, would have inherent risks. Change,
while welcomed by many, is resisted by those with vested interests in the
status quo, despite the inefficiencies and costs this imposes. The
Government realizes that such inefficiencies must be alleviated through
rather drastic change. Further, registration of DDF, MILCO and the MPCs
within a relatively short time also reflects Government's commitment to
privatization of the dairy industry and the interest of the private sector in
dairy development. The success of-the project would also depend on ensuring- -
that tha project entities are managed by qualified personnel. The institu-
tions established in the private sector under the project should be able to
attract and hold highly qualified management staff available in Sri Lanka.
75.     The project carries a financial risk.  Monetized donated commodities
are expected to finance about 50 percent of total project costs. Both the
EEC and WFP have indicated an interest in supporting the project through the
provisiin of dairy commodities, and it is expected that such support would be
provided throughout the project implementation period.
76.     There is a risk in the degree of farmers' response to the project,
since they may be reluctant to accept the new village companies. The MPCs'
Spearhead Teams will be formed and trained under the project to minimize this
risk.
PART V - LEGAr. INSTRUHE.7rS AND AUTHORITY
77.    The draft Loan Agreement between the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and the Bank, and the report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
78.     Special conditions of the proposed loan are listed in Section III
of Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness include arrangements
for commodity aid from the EEC and the WFP; effectiveness of cofinancing
agreement with the Netherlands; execution of the Subsidiary Loan and
Participation Agreements; signed lease agreement between NMB and NILCO and
abolition of SL Re 0.50 subsidy. Other conditions include appointment of
dairy engineering consultant by December 31, 1985; and completion of the



-22-
final designs and the acquisition of land for four chilling centers and the
new Colombo plant by September 30, 1986.
79.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
80.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 22, 1985



-23-                                       wANN  I
TABtE  S3                                  Page 1 of 5
QRI LANKA             - SOUCK  IIDICATOM RIA SEK
SRl LANlKA                         WKRUU GROUPS IMECCD  YUfBJ 
Hst        D         URST  E-Z uma) A
MM                     CHbI UWC  DE"A Z
MaLb    1970L    tSjj~             ASA & PAUP           ASI & PACIC
_ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     90k    i,o          nL            ai.aNWa tmf
AMUN Ci00SNDa So a)
TOTAL                              65.6        45.6        5.6.
AGRICULTURAL                       17.2        24.2       26.0
Cy PM CAPU Co")                       60.0      I10.        320.0            278.6                 1091.2
Rom  OMartONs sKcan
CRILOQAs or o. OIL vquuval)       122.0       152.0      123.0            272.0                  567.3
VOAOfA     nL  S      _IZC
POPULATION.MID-MR, CYNOUSAJUS)   9359.0     12314.0    15149.0
UNmAm POPULATIN (2 Or TOAL)        17.9        21.9       24.4             21.7                   34.7
POPUIATION PRDJXCIOIS
TOPUAIONI  IN US  200 CMILL)                            21.1
-STAOA   POIWLI  (Nu)                                   32.5
POPULATION NU tEi                                       I.6
PER SQ. 1D.                     1507        190;8      2Z8.0            166.6                  261.9
PU SQ.  L AU;Il LAW             573.9       517.6      57646            345.5                 1735.1
POPMLATION ACE SXUCtUE (Z)
0-14 US                         42.1        41.9        35.2            35.0                   39.0
15-4 YES                         54.3        54.5       60.8             59.8                   57.6
65 AM AROE                        3.6         3.6        4.3              4.3                    3.3
POPMJTIO1  RM   RAtE CZ)
TOTAL                             2.5         2.4        1.6              1.9                    2.3
UnM                               4.7         4.3        2.5              4.1                    4.3
CRME SI    RATE (PU TMMS)          35.7        29.4       26.5             27.7                   30.1
CIURD DEATH RATE (t  TBDS)          9.2         7.5        6.0             10.1                    9.5
GROSS WRISClTION RATE               1.6         LZ         1.7              1.8                    2.0
FARMIY PLANNIN           -- 
ACCErORS. AUNUI  (THOU)             .        55.3       100.5
-i-rH (2 or   RIED waS)                         .       55.0                                    57
INDX OF FOOD PRD. PUR CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      93.0       103.0      154.0            112.8                  t23.0
PU CAPTA SUPLX oF
CALORIES CZ or REgITCNTS)       102.0       108.0     lWO               97.7                  114.4
PRUIEDS (CRcS PU DMY)            46.0        47.0       43.0             54.6                   17.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AN    E        1P0         12.9        t.0            14.9                   14.1
ClM.D (ACAS 1-4) DEM  AE            7.1         5.1        2.9              9.8                    7.2
LIF  rXECr. AT DIXIR (TEARS)       62.0        63.6       56.9             60.0                   60.4
INFANrT PKIT. RATZ (C   OS)        70.6        56.5       32.0             8J                     66.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WAMt (flOP)
TOaL                               *-        21.0       20.0 /d          32.9                   37.0
on"                                ..        46.0       45.0 7i          70.9                   54.6
RURAL                              ..        14.0       13.0r7d          22.1                   26.4
ACCESS TO !flEZA DISPOSAL
Z OP POPULATINm)
TOAL                               ..        S4.0       59.0 /.         1.1                    41.3
son                                          7640       U.O7             7L8                    47.4
LR                                 ..        61.0       55.0              4.G                   33.3
POPULATION PU IMSICIA            4490.0       950.0     7170.0           3U4 .2                 7749.4
OP. P    SICN  PERSON            4170.0 /f   2260.0     130.0            4793.1                 2460.4
POP. PU IOSPIAL BID
TOZIAL                          320.0       33L0       310.0 A         1066.5                  1014.2
URBAN                           120.0 f    210.0       240 id           2960                   651.2
RAL                           z1060.o 7     570.0      550.0           593.4                  2594.6
A    1WM PUR HOSPTAL HO              .         54.4         ,,               ,,                   27.0
LYRRUS SZE or HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.4         5.8.
6.37i       6.3
RUAL                               5.2A       5.-
ALISa NO OF PRSOUS/ROON
TOTAL                             2.0 A       2.5
DaN                               2.1 A       2.7 
LUNA.                             12.0 f      2.5
ACCESS TO EXLCT. (X aF OWELl3S)
TOTL                              7.5 1       9.0
D~lREAD                          35.9 A      34..
-aL                               2.3         3.0



-24-
ADJUSTED ZNI.OUNENT BATIOB~~~ANEX 
HAIR        100.0       104.0       104.0TAZ         110.5105.
90.0  94.0  100.0        83.7                    93.2~~~Pae    0  
*sx~~~~~~~~~~a  li                               lm         PC
SEMAKTIT TOTML                    17.0         99.0      103.0             97.9                   102.0
ILUZ                   100.0       104.0       106.0            ILO.5                   105.9
rnmLA                   9O.0        94.0       100.0             83.7                    98.2
SEOD:OYS TOTAL                    27.0        47.0        51.0             33.9                    46.0
HALE                    38.0        46.0        49.0             ".6                     4. 7
pUZw                    16.0        48.0        54.0             26.8                    43.1
VOCAT1OAL (0 orCOUDAYT)               O- 0.4                 0.4 jd           2.2                     17.5
PUPIL-ThWC BATEC
PIRIA                             31.0          ..        32.0             3L5                     31.8
SECOA                               ..           ..         ..             15.7                    23.5
ADUL LITfLCT BZA (2)                75.0 /f      77.6       86.0             53.4                    72.9
PASSCE  CARS/u1oSAD POP              8.4          7.0        7.3 /I           0.9                    10.1
RADID pEEIopSIUSUD POP           - 35.8       * 39.9        98.7             112.1                   113.6
TV RECE SITUSAD POP                   ..           ..        L4               15.7                   50.1
UN.APYZ ("DAY GEEMAL
MIERBES`) CICUATIO
m PERTHUSAJ POPULATION            36.0         48.9         ..              16.2                   53.9
CINiA ANNUAL ATXENDANCE/CPFA         2.9 LI       7.8        4.9 LI           3.6   -                 3.4
TOL  LABOR FORC (TWOUS)           3391.0       4188.0     5771.0
FrEALe (PERET)                    22.6         23.7       24.9             33.3                    33.5
AGRICULTRE (PERCENT)              56.0         55.0       54.0             69.6                    52.2
XNDUSrY CPEJITp)                  14.0         14.0       14.0             15.8                    17.9
PARTXCIPATXON RATE (PECENT)
TOTAL                             34.3         33.5       3B.0             42.6                    38.7
NALR                              50.8         49.1       53.0              54.7                    50.9
FEAL                              16.2         16.5       21.0             29.8                    26.6
cnuaKIC DEPENDECY  RjxM              1.3          1.4        1.0              LO                      1.1
IXNCOK osmxutxm
P_n,CENr OF PRIVAZ XNC!
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 52 OF HOUSEHOLDS          26.4 /b      18.2         ..               ..                    22.2
HICHEr 20S OF HONSEHOLDS          52.1 7Th     43.4         ..               ..                    48.O
LOVEST 2S OF HOUSEHOLDS            4.5 Z       7.5          ..               ..4
LOVES 402 OF HOUISEHOLDS          ! 7          19.2          .               .                     _.5
ESYIMAZED ABSOLUIE PriVERTT INCC-'.
LEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..         ..             133.9                   188.6
RURAL                               ..           ..         ..             111.6                   152.0
ESTIBAMED EULfrg= POVERTT INCOME
LEVE (US$ PMR CAPIMA)
URBAN      ..           ..         ..                ..                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~177.9
DURAL                               ..           ..         ..               ..                   164.6
ESTUATED POP. Ui AL
POVERTY INcOI lEVEL (Z)
uAN                                 ..           ..         ..             43.                     23.4
RUAL                                ..           ..         ..             51.7                    37.7
NOT AVALARZ
NOT APPLICABLE
nur    c ~  ~       ~       ~       NOE
/b&gre Sup averaes for eah 1nd1"tor are papulaet1ou-uShtbd aritmetic _mm. C.veage of countrtes amog the
indiators depends an avlablity of data and la not unhfam.
/b Utl_ otbeahrd  noted, "hta for 1960" refer to ay year between 1959 and 1961 "Do  for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; a  data for 'Mat Scat Eatlace" between 1980 and 1982.
/e  1977; /d 1976; f 1975; /f 1962; 1  1979; A   1963; /. 1978; /j 1958.
lE. 1984



- ~ ~ ~  ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~ ~           -5
-s25ess                                                          MANEX I
mttE|enot umeePage 3 of 5
bass  St ela asm em tvr  teeU swim ineeclt  jeip P t          MO IV dcUeleteeK it alah  OIt hlt sAs he. wee aleS Slav aO      M.as Nhe ISe SII
VsWih   ,          s.. i e ra., _aa   RAW&. en jesa I  Wtesar it       hes. _s*s_W le.
S. idseem sgenes at, cap     - e -s  1,apy ia  so am  ven.I 5        (ti ealogue, p-a  s-tab sesh  1l1ev -_dc tem  _a.. a. steepM m er abs
ebje  sewiISsue Oeg 'NO Nstea UtL sqegst  msep rs, KISS   ieee kh aeias as NatL. lass' in aSses keowsee .6 e            rasesimte'wtasit
M.lis)   ta   elaega   n   b asses as psetas elaac seabmese sea  in web .Attaine  sl Alee WtAR h-.  ..jsse  Wt a. Vesesmto a.
en-" kw iet ,la cs i        .        -* aesn     VA settl   -s sh  idAns tpes, Ms sW eslhtili  or &M es tern  aitte_s, iAMe" ent h
ItIDs aJttleg  sss or -_ _Lceac at Uesle_. 1e  5f._15w asle _L ecist Is -Pt1 ams ate a -e le"te   a. Al  wet on ama-   GM
, eta   -  ealt en_em  sew    alq_ tad a.s  as sea_ _eg 15 l Armed- astst t ia-sd                                    a  ete_ectap  1est.
- 113 as atel da"                                                                                                               -    et-sas await _7 mind pees"hit'tls
flhLP... :- t            ad t Mavtern asr ed _      U.  p      tv             es       weIL         was. *ca  wa_l passe   wa _s.
I-."Mdft          blss eMe-t e lew_*tlal t.                _        es" tt c
-u Ps. team  --wi-inLc-   _    qUa| -LAt-e a     t wctma   wise.                a*-la  to pablc a  pleswep t adspatas    led as
'U MaUWRE   ssea  sits - heed iCsi ll. seS! he.ad                              AbIMLalw ese  le_ 1eteen   a ass Veabilaef     imee  Ueti
ten, Ips -m    . as,nteae,by a_ taei a pbyeaiaec  ciatse F eetI    iF$ad                                                                 aSSet
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  _1 "d.w 118- he1l  _l.. ;-                                                   A."%rl, _ s_,
"U" "Posts wereorts-  r                 -494a as  as Rtlci. tat hsegtate hewing"La intt1s eab asi
p-       Pezvolerel, eler."  o CM wd-. -1-                 -Ietast ma as pftealy nail  Ipt * ebyfleet ha esefa mi"teS
m        s M             at.l pee d..  Jisst IT -isr- o. _ctcet               sciestaW  -ss. loa I   "MP .-  aS ds1     5 a1 w_r _U)
as .sael etait     I. h- MWsrs e                                                   __ s   i ses    .  ed     es  w7t sen  lis
aeie. aiim  in..                   __.Ay _ X _zsmtiaets .r _n e  ate dlafle.~rpe _  _                           m  ___
_ -se   I_. I.                  Jay Is two. lore. -U INSr.                                       __.
dre-   1 _fw he sq s  is se-q. ass., a sea                                                        _                               _
imisesee         ci site cues e     .t  _qe-tl_tly1 _  ast                 ast sher a-. eels. a bte - W..r- a. -e sy ah te              1isi , ,,
&In. Ross       patas " e s. swe     tlle pe    n,cFser                                nr H _   d  5 rle r _r 
uAs  t a n. _al me7s iAgeud _- tlstw                               a pesiatp. ketl    l Dedw _st_*    a
Va.. VNIeale rele reta hi erectly iM Aemewlm 51 5km                         Peeetd,ele
tamie --wete  tIre --  -  a harsh teeea  ish weLse,' pegAiistctliyse,lttise  eeLst,eEwn 
pets. I I-  perias tel  iel.lisy ass eta he... ie   e                      ci _instlree  as awl iaL e  gmpse         .
Ross   des Be  et          L          . we.ts _ e    bm tea _t cat t _ ed
wr=_t _MI U-try *-_ It_n- _ew     r  ec-   11_el
ht.f_ 1      1 -._ 0_d                            e_nle                        -    -             a            - "_   MA.       _rt
patesi _pr Irsefeme. test, easy Be .ts aW. t _ t ass am  s t
n93. t        e   IA-Id -M  speir 1c atett                       Y-         - li n e  C          - tf-s s1_ tl etcr id _1l
ianee  tetaset,r" =w   ea aptewe Ub   elet Sm       d R.               prie, fla-see sepestitmas  eerlty leleiss chles. ed  a~g-ti
_ssat  see'Xs;. me w *s _a p asli, a ntn gem aces _e  as lijec  Rei  sm   etee  ecysw                                           mi
_ s       I aatt an istate, an s         ee  ale   sced, as se               mete   n __tewe   d_es s.le  e t t le              P
metS we is met Us esisaep  _ _t  d_ as asse     a sh                        stem  me _u-t as bse s_          sheo *Iet sf_is e.
t-ea   a  a      ejels           Pt .. teises B an iIMs "eesits! - inst. ma. t  et.                                  a _  -  _     rdea     sm-_egy,
aSi. _t the is t f isUli e tigttiy veft it  s t-   1-b1.                    As      e        Hm   t  _1,        -t ppads el        I_e i
San30  M. Ie  lg p.pstie   th - s-. n1-_ sttelis _ l es                                 t. ti is1  de2ltie assesws     i
.~~~~~~~~etl te bee ceasasn                                         wait emi,a it *__ _a D-   _4c   sgeeis  wsa
belld cm a   tl_; mot- M       1 retau    b.  I-   m eis "Al                 Pol  x,IFr    sM_ t7 Iil l. ttl; __
L.-  state Uw  t sat_s_ telst ke mesa slay. To.                             emsaily  t._i_.
e.    n 5    etali  Be a y-       *      t sc gate ii an                  eesit-semO                S  s eAl                 t
an-.uta    setlt    es cm  aetest_ Ic    ._ pse1-                  t_    '                          e C _            ls...
meet t _a at.     ___ _ ______  ___ ___                                  =                       _n   * __  _- tact smt _sats  55
_ _ =jenei.  1-Stee, a    W _a                                                                              by r  a 5 a_1 .  _. a
".                                                                                                  -        edgpt s ttre  -  nt-Ud - i  .asr eepdils tcsste.
'tU         , t'taetnc s e.t ins.                                                                       e        . (this at seal st es -
Mo  C99  -e I_} d-                                                                               U_-         _l.1  A t.M., M t-l _4 ,w_ _fgd
tre stlse la._s_s sEt_i_i_S
st_  e_se     - _ipet a .   n ob     . ts t _  ie rallet                ie_te     _ _      css cl            _     t.
Lo_ _-6.,  _ .76-fi s w ,|.                              n   _-==
*~~~~~~!M    _    - fte_r S-    -_o ef SU  b-                                                      P.    .     f     _     ' We"_B f   Xd
_f          _ ___ __t     __-   t sti ti - _ga (c-l  LeLtp aewis'It.'       ___ _ a_            r    _a
vseetaslse ieee. Stwig, a s tse.L                                             M. seesSe tm   te e  r ft  pseyt: s."les    5. _ba. "W  -
- Ae-t Cu  - e ac   -t   t ases   l  i                t   f
resins..  ESs h.& (pems - wes -  es e rmlb--   gal sfsi                     se-eme atsssi pstl peg si.aeas 5psTV i-  -  Mllee
pse  se Iss-aC  the-v . ita a. _t- e                                         at_sme t igelm  _c eawi              - a _    e_ t        isl
gnt eeeejgsie4  - _Ws  lis bleas pe  _e      dli    _                m     sese mz Re cttei in-. in a     ps . msh ssl   _,c  a
i_eebs wee sateS .1  i-~eee                              asseaesi   tes-             g eseshi h-_is
-lc.C  -- P-_   I         tb 7-   t-I   -  t'_ 1- &"D    ._t.                _t .-Lessm       -Y iey I_ =         _     .    'X 
sn..flSaha-*~.ec ame     teat....    cttt her s            is nets. d.tejee.-. Wh qAseefi  s 9Sw sew em Beets
kg    -ee _ps_trl           pst i f t_ n sh e  qeiA - wr wrst s             C._b.e   tr U- _Iss ans 1yees _    t
_eatc _   e s_ti  _ s-i  wesee tales:  as_ ass7.. _twa, a                   aeaiai  as t-.     ml  taem i.its  w                     al
vent FIetsta - asies asst _-ig.es*s s- nes  at  cD sgee                       ad h-tf'It II ca     aIe  tin .:e  tt _ 1-I
ci Slsksee J_etis ae  empe. tir ess. 15517 ,ter                    _        Im  _su   ssee me beee 5w_ Ye  _                  se 
pite.                                      _sac_   bits _5k pinlt. _g.ts  tie..                                           * *e =.  - s 
Peels' .ttse _  tees i_ss a?_ s_t mit -            _gsaee sut0sbi  act.
. _ _ahf N  ' t _d- s _ s. em psttsts- eae  Wsehe  ,as
piseisrlee _ meesslis os sit _et ass. _*5st 55tE _1
_-.e   _ _-e --_*.I  Ae. II  t4e                18 Aeer 
-Likta Acemesai  amb     c a- ae  . elshsfl tee tessssel  ilspecs                                                              
ses  tagpse rt  isr _e s "- ete_ c tines                                    lS        I    ............s... sn. as.. s ailsr_
ermuser leec-ovel- -W L.               -a-         e.                                 c t te.   fs           Bet iane estarR_  e_t es
-  45ce-                                                                        Leabice VAN, tea as ins _s _.
iatl pals as s  tesi _       tt    elt   eTwt .                                              -h   e-e 6    es. i i  t-est
t*t _t Be _ e_s *_a heels.  _d         e igg ptsvy ie    .(eg._      U        es    wie - islt lake ffe.. B. t l- na 15
sees- lem  eDge!, sta  as- siUtbt s-s  - sacte mit    (e..S.               JSf.fryffP--.. - taete  Is sleas cIsIgaa. - inir
t st we emlt  s tt-.In ss. Pitat  e  as    e                                       BAY.  _ed ses 5 psimef teat laWe fleai
ta es _gul. ag         gin pets ete_tel telst-i. h _e. aes                   a 1    i*s.
__lt.                                                                      1e       .Sl  s         em en-wetr eta.   Vts  n__        S
ga aceat   fsel  sea 5  seabg)-cees  ema yil   mtaet-ta. i,aemeahstr.a
musete     51 as t_r sw s                   -_tB  a_ n sep1r pe            Ir                  ste" a-c_ tR-t p wt _  .1_ a      rr_Ptlel-pT
i.w  es_alt antIs anets a. e pedltls,  ma  le                                sne. tei. - 5ise. *1a  l     s    a  we Ras pen1tePals gw-
qasetta   IaiB  tea  oee UKet i. asi A ses _te tit_g li -.      D      r     _     1tr-  i  _t ies ee f    m   g.I
as  si  reSd by f-i PSI kest " 1- m i    Asesseteat matect- sta  lete   _ t-  kits  ata  i e -    -
austeRe, as leAsh metteras .eigmesiti ansaita. heip elatet.           iheatbseMpseitsls (_see ci - 354.
e seE -  ilsltas cipswelseia aS sileeg  50 --5  inE- i
a tboeebi teats f9it-i.   0s tE  t_ ef                                            a ;
eree  kg .1 _iet -. se-tCtle    by am  W-Lt  ce
s  e    ! arm t    e_ra .    t. a "     we sm t  2s 0 1   sl- -a
p      ete _rese. e iat t g-  aat h. _ase pitis-. _he
- 3-  ab- :=   .9 71  ~~~ .9  -I. "-" -4 2 a-                     s---F ppian.- as .a etP--t  le-2..a
Msdss eieas _1m  s   ekes 51 Plasm.    _ s      t stE t tip                                     I
lu.  re V-   _u_t _Wy gm-". IVD      &no.-
_ Ir n~                       R                  ._1j _1't                   12M=WY191 2.L                               ieb _M M=
met  nt et    ys  ectfl.tar astes b..    [m    IV                es ue-as   1 ,hesteroetesr ises  taes lstz me-I-ds -"set  a- neal
gg bates aee         r   is          g           so .                                        e   t     t   sS
icelet ii. tase aswItsBeAce)  A.eg   l tilt-iV.,sr       e             swielyaeneEs vies nact a-ta ftegee-  Be as
OMr(te_ i-A  teoestese C-  aLtesst-1 iesa. teels peS srtma                  W-rtae"   la t..     ..  . on e.- temJt (selet-4 ft-  as. ee5-
c   s.t   us.a  etseB  bee  eigteAt veal4 te-tegie                             hetmcleperyieta  B                           e      e 
ealsise sgs igs tlft-d -rebic ess tenet  sesC   e                       ssetim   tanne.at  Igil  nes  g                          sd
"O     DMOM                     ION.           91 dbs c-a                                                    S ts Be
Bt l..FP2bnbr st - t1                                                                                                     ta.  l (e_e.  - s" ,ts
I       ydet -,a  -gM is) - Cltasre  sAle" Oeteeaslies e"KW e. -                  sgs  swessi  eb    evet  se                 ia
toobl,elie)ts  ni  a te-intier                                               pse. e.2--  ' Z
fat- kerel . bee (see Iheec ,t.-.... icehe          .1 se    te m
,,     c   I S         Ma h        te   ipee I_B cm ,id e.
tei   C hft  bittd  n     si :aet7  a -:asse tsm.drt
sas?wIlse) C ddpsfeesetes S that-3 t          dit evett"  lss
ie  Is        %Fn kqeee  isg-e sO- sets      ts,st.  e   at reset-1



-26-
Annex I
Page 4 of 5
SRI LANKA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
OUTPUT IN 1984 BY SECTOR                                  ANNUAL RATE OF GRO1WTH
{Z, constant prices)
Value Added
$ million    z           1970-77    1977-84     1970-84
Agriculture                    1,519     28.0           2.0         4.0        3.0
Industry a/                    1,347     24.8           2.1         5.3        3.9
Services                       2.566    47.2            3.7         7.1        5.4
Total b                      5,432    100.0           2.9         5.7        4.4
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1984
US$ Million      Z
GDP at Market Prices                           6,012       100.0
Investment                                     1,567        26.1
Gross National Savings                         1,347        22.4
Current Alccount Deficit'                        220         3.7
Exports of Goods and NFS                       1,755        29.2
Imports of Goods and NFS                       2,121        35.3
GOVERINENT FINAFCE
Central Government
(Rs million)    Z of GDP at Market Prices
1984         1975     1983      1984
Current Receipts &/                        33,342        17.2    18.9       21.8
Current Expenditures  /                    27,795        18.3    18.6       18.2
Current Surplus                             5,547        -1.1      0.3       3.6
Capital Expenditures e/                    21,105         7.3    13.7       13.8
External Assistance                        12,934         3.2      8.0       8.5
a/ Manufacturing, mining, and construction.
bl GDP at factor cost.
cj  Includes capital revenue.
A/  Includes advance accounts.
e/  Includes net lending.
South Asia Programs Department
May 14, 1985



-27-
Pala  of 5
MOUnT. ClUD!?. hUD lUCXE              1970    1972    1111    1111    m5aS   JULA    19U2    JIl            JIM.
(eDd of period)                                                       (Rs million)
Money and Quasi Money                3,115   .8,717   10,892   15,055  19,60  24,447   30,510   37,257.  43.427
Bank Credit to Public Sector         2,B56   4,659    4,226   6,267   13,0f5  17,277  21,S28  21,91S   18,703
Bank Credit to Privaet Sector        1.320   4,116    6,449    8,705  12,709  16.690   20,570  27,375   31,224
CI'ercntages or Index Numbers)
kmony atA Quasi Money am 2 of CDP     22.8    23.9    25.5       28.7    29.9    2S.8    30.5    30.6        28.4
C-enral Yrice Index (1970-100)       100.0   147.0   164.5    18.6   230.2   271.6   301.1   343.3    400.5
Annual Percentage Cbaeg.. In:
General Prie Index                    +5.9    +1.2   +12.1    .10.8   +26.1   418.0   .10.8   +14.0    +16.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector         +10.4    +7.7    -9.3    448.3  +109.0   431.9   +26.3    40.4    -14.7
lank Credit to Private Sector         +8.6   440.5   +56.7    +35.0   446.0   +31.3   +23.2   +33.1          14.1
RALARC 07 ?PADUTE                                                MUCUUDISI ZPORT8 (1984)
1982    1983    J2IM                                 JSlNiWn 
CUSS M{illion)
Tea                           620       42.0
Exports of Goods, Ws                1.305   1,360   1,755        Rubber                        130        8.8
Deort. of Goods, Ws                 2,205    2,138   2,121       Coconut Pr)ducta               60        4.1
Resource Cap (deficit - -)           -900    -778    -366        All Other Commdities          665       45.1
Not rector Income                     -98    -138    -131             TOTAL                   1,475     100.0
Not Transfers & Ramittanee            264      274     277
Balance on Current Account   >       -734    -64Z    -220
-                        XX~~~~~~~EIDRi. DOI (S Million) jI
Direct Foreign Inyentsent              63       37      36
Not MALT lono                         403      292     311                                 December   December
Disbursements                       472      373     410                                  _983       .9..
Auortizatiou                         69       1       99
Capital Grants                        162      171     154       Total Out.tandiag          3,678       3.738
Other capital (net)                    79      143      24
Chang- in Aee .:e_       : eace;      -27      *1      305       Total Outstanding
and Disbursed            2.214       2,420
Groca I.j     t, ten. -_*.:           .*e
.--, Up.   ,:^ -.                              :;
*rcde EL .u ndn.tx  u*   - . :.                                  DZIT SUVICIU ATiCO II (S)    17.7       14.2
npaor:.                             590 60
Txcoor- .1
ITh/DU   LlIDIN. Marcb 31. 1985 (USS Million)
.'at OF amaCII P-
End 1979              ZALd 1982
US$1.00 - Rs 15.45     USS1.00 - Rs 21.32                        Ogtstcndiug and Diabtreed      53.9   329.2
Ra 1.00 - 1S$ 0.06     PA 1.00  JS  0.05 UOdiubursed                                            14   287.0
t1940 ad 1943                                                    Outetandiung  including
US$l.OO - Rs 18.00     US$1.00 - Rs 25.00                          Undisbured                   64.3   616.2
Rs 1.I0 - 19$ 0.06     3. 1.00 - 1SS 0.04
flId 1941               d 1981
US$1.00 - Rs 20.55     USS1.00 - 11a 26.28
Rs 1.00 - 'S$ 0.05     R 1.00 - uS9 0.04
x/ Rayable in foreign currencies end with a aturity over one year.
i  Ratio of debt service on public end publicly guarnated KLT debt (including fw charges
and repurchsee) to exports of goode ad services.
South Asia Programe Department
May 14, 1985



-28-                      A   II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1985)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                                    Amount
Credit                                                             (net of cancellations)
No.    Year   Borrower        Purpose                            Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Eight loans and thirteen credits fully disbursed                  72.9   96.1
701     1977  Sri lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Development II                  19.0       9.2
818     1978  Sri Lanka  Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea)                 21.0       9.3
891     1979  Sri Lanka  Kurunegala Rural Development                   20.0       8.9
900     1979  Sri Lanka  Road Maintenance                               16.5       6.3
931     1979  Sri Lanka Agricultural'Extension and
Adaptive Research                            15.5     10.6
942     1979  Sri Lanka  Small and Medium Industries                     16.0      2.9
979     1980  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Technical Assistance             3.0       1.4
994     1980  Sri Lanka  Road Passenger Transport                       53.0      17.4
1017     1980  Sri Lanka  Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation              16.0      12.1
1020     1980  Sri Lanka  Telecommunications                             30.0       4.9
1041     1980  Sri Lanka  Second Vater Supply                            30.0      17.2
1048     1980  Sri Lanka  Sixth Power                                     19.5     10.0
1079-/a  1981  Sri Lanka  SecoudRural Development                        33.5      15.4
1130 /a  1981  Sri Lanka  Construction Industry                           13.5      4.8
1160 /a  1981  Sri Lanka  Village Irrigation Rehabilitation              30.0      19.2
1166 /a  1981  Sri Lanka  Nahaweli Gauga Development III                  90.0     36.4
1182 La  1982  Sri Lanka  SKI II                                         30.0      24.4
1210 /a  1982  Sri Lanka  Seventh Power                                  36.0      14.0
1240 /a  1982  Sri Lanka  Tea Rehabilitation and
Diversification                              20.0     12.7
2187     1982  Sri Lanka  Eighth Power                            42.7     -       10.4
1317 /a  1982  Sri Lanka  Forestry I                                      9.0       8.0
1363 /a  1983  Sri Lanka  Third Rural Development                         23.0     20.0
1401 /a  1983  Sri Lanka  Industrial Developmernt Project                25.0      18.0
1494 /a  1984  Sri Lanka  Nabaweli Ganga Development IV                  30.0      30.0
2437 /b  1984  Sri Lanka  Mahaveli Ganga Development IV           12.1             12.1
1537 la  1985  Sri Lanka  Major Irrigation Rehabilition                   17.0     17.0
TOTAL                                                            127.7  712.6    352.6
of which has been repaid                                        49.7    5.6        --
Total now outstanding                                             78.0  707.0
Amount sold                               3.6
of which has been repaid                3.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA /c                                 78.0  707.0
Total Undisbursed                                                 10.4  342.2    352.6
/a  IDA 6th Replenishment Credits, principal amounts shown in US dollars equivalent
at date of negotiations, as shown in the President's Reports and undisbursed
amonts shown in US dollars equivalent at the rate of exchange for the SDR at
March 31, 1985.
lb  Not yet effective.
Lc  The original principal of credits under replenishments 1, 2 and 3 has been
increased by the amount of the translation adjustment as a result of the
devaluation of th US dollar in 1972 and 1973.



-29-
ANNE II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMNTS (as of March 31. 1985)
Year            Obligor                      Tvye of Business       Ahount (US$ Million)
Loan   Equity  Total
1970       Pearl Textile                     Textiles                 2.50   0.75    3.25
1978/80J83 The Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon          Development Banking        -     0.45    0.45
1978/81    Bank of Ceylon                    Development Barking.      7.00    -      7.00
1979/81    Cyntex                            Textiles                 3.15   0.54    3.69
1979       Mikechris Industries              Polypropylene Bag        0.89   0.10      .99
1980184    LOLC                              Leasing                   -     0.34    0.34
1981       Taj Lanka Hotels                  Hotel                   19.30    .70   20.00
Total Gross Comitments                                 32.84   2.88   35.72
Less: Cancellations, Terminrations,
Repayments, and Sales                           16.45    .75   17.20
Total Commitments now Held by IFC                      16.39   2.13   18.52
. ,
A,     



-30-
ANNEX III
Page1 of 2
SRI LANKA
SECOND DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable and Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Government to              24 months
prepare the project
(b) The agency which has prepared                Government with Bank
the project                                  assistance
(c) Date of first Bank mission to                November 1982
consider the project
(d) Date of departure of appraisal               October 1983
mission
(e) Date of completion of negotiations           April 1985
Cf) Planned date of effectiveness                September 1985
Section II: Special Bank IDplementation Actions
None
SECTION III: Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Lease agreement between NMB and MILCO has been entered
into (para. 42).
(b) Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and DDF on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 53).
(c) Execution of Participation Agreements between DDF and NILCO,
and DDF and MPCs (para. 53).
(d) Effectiveness of cofinancing agreement and arrangements for
commodity aid (para. 52).



-31-                       ANN   III
Page 2 of 2
(e) Abolition of SL Rs 0.50 subsidy (para. 65).
Other Conditions
(f) Government would abolish NMB by September 30, 1986
(para. 42).
Appointment of dairy engineering consultant by
December 31, 1985 (para. 48).
(h) Final designs and land acquisition for four chilling centers
and Colombo plant by September 30, 1986 (para. 48).
(i) Establish a steering committee to recomuend policies and
directives for Sri Lanka's dairy development (para. 60).
(j) MILCO would be granted autonomy in milk pricing (para. 62).
S.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



IBRD 18398
=---~~~s                                                a, : l-: ..SRI LANKA                       S2
DA I RY DEVELOPMENT 11 Pr2OJECT
MILOO Headquarters
Milkshed Boundarls
Proposed New Piant
C  Kllilnochchl'                                          EC3 - -    Proposed Pant to be Rehabilitated
4c                                                                           P )gMUIIaItlw  Proposed New Chilling Center
a          10000-20000 Ipd capacity
*20000--40000 Ipt capacity
Existing Milk Plant
-WET MEDIATE CRY
9                                                                                    C        Rainfall Zone                   9
MDtnnartS . J                                       _2015  65
Percentae of Cattil bY RaIntall Zone
*                                                                                       E J7          Percentage of Buffalo by Rainfall Zone
Gulf of  \                         e0                                           0         National cpital
t                ~~~~~Vavunlya 
*nnar    1    e Selecte Towns and Cities
vTlnc.nalee        szrX aJri Dsw 
or WkovaeL
Anuradhapuira
Puttaiam
Pbilonnanswa                                                     8
*Galleia
e          ~~~Ch'enkl Al 
'  -    3esBatticaloa
Kurunegaia*I-
'1                                 -Malaek
-l c-                    Knit1  xlekai                                -i'Am>,arS' ',
Kuuna; J'''9W!*,. -                .'                                       ' e       J;; t\
o  Cit  -X ;<- 'W    eSh1r                                                   )
Yi aM.paha                                                                        -1
-7                                         -                        Ri -;  adull a-,3S7
cowmanu%m                    -              . c                                                -a
OCrAN~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~4ail                                    ..- -8  -4                   -      _
~~~~~-              .-.    - 02 06 0di
twa~~~~~ataua
Kalutaa
-Tissamaarna
INDIAN       yl   we..m
OCEAN          -Hmat
60                    aie                                                                                                   60-
.0      20     40      650      80o
8no       - ~ ... 81  KILOMETERS          820 f  e_f _
JULY 1984






