Document of            FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2932-HA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR A
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 4, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banlc authoriztion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Gourde (G)
$1:             G5
Gl:              $0.20
(The Gourde has, since 1919, been pegged to the
U.S. dollar at the rate of G5'$1)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                           British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                   =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2      =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )      =  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)          =  2,204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAIPP          -    Administration de l'Aeroport International de Port-au-Prince
(International Airport Authority)
APN            -    Autorite Portuaire Nationale (National Port Authority)
formed as successor to Administration
Portuaire de Port-au-Prince
APP            -    Administration Portuaire de Port-au-Prince (Port-au-Prince
Port Administration)
BRH            -    Banque de la Republique d'Haiti (Bank
of the Republic of Haiti) (The Central Bank)
CONADEP        -    Conseil National de Developpement et de la Planification
(National Development Planning Council)
CSDS           -    Coastal Shipping Development Study
GRT            -    Gross Registered Tons
KfW            -    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
IDB            -    Inter-American Development Bank
NTS            -    National Transport Study
SAT            -    Service Autonome des Transports (Autonomous Transport Service)
SEPRRN         -    Service d' Entretien Permanent du Reseau Routier National
(National Road Maintenance Service)
TPTC           -    Secretairerie d'Etat des Travaux Publics des
Transports et des Communication (Ministry of Public Works,
Transport and Communications)
UNDP           -    United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Haiti
Amount:              SDR 8,700,000
Beneficiary:         Autorite Portuaire Nationale (APN)
Terms:               Standard
Relending Terms:    The proceeds of the Credit would be onlent to APN for
25 years, including six years of grace, at 1 percent for
the first five years and 2 percent thereafter.
Project
Description:       The project provides for (i) expansion and rehabilitation
of the international port at Cap Haitien, for which
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) (Federal Republic
of Germany) is considering cofinancing equivalent to US$6
million; (ii) construction of five and rehabilitation of
two coastal shipping ports; (iii) supplementary works at
Jeremie; (iv) preparation of a master development plan for
the Port-au-Prince harbor; and (v) institutional assistance
for APN's management in the maritime sector and consulting
services for project supervision.
Benefits and Risks: Cap Haitien: In addition to preventing the collapse of
the existing wharf, the main benefits are additional
earnings from cruise ships and from the on-shore expen-
ditures of their passengers. The most significant risk
is that traffic development may not take place as rapidly
as expected. This risk is minimized by avoiding over-
investment through a staged construction program.
Coastal Shipping Ports:  The main benefit is to improve
access to communities not linked to the main road network.
The main risk is that traffic will not develop as rapidly
as expected. Risks are reduced by holding investments
to a minimum and by institutional assistance to the
maritime sector to foster the growth of coastal shipping.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii~ -
Estimated Cost
and Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign   Total
--Costs (US$ million)--
Cap Haitien Port
IDA                                     -       6.3      6.3
KfW                                     -       6.0      6.0
APN                                   5.0         -      5.0
Total Cap Haitien Port                   5.0      12.3      17.3
Coastal Shipping Ports
IDA                                     -      2.5       2.5
APN                                   1.1         -      1.1
Total Coastal Shipping Ports             1.1       2.5      3.6
Supplementary Works Jeremie
IDA                                     -      0.3       0.3
APN                                   0.1         -      0.1
Total Supplementary Works Jeremie        0.1       0.3      0.4
Port Studies
IDA                                     -       1.9      1.9
APN                                   0.5         -      0.5
Total Port Studies                       0.5       1.9      2.4
GRAND TOTAL
IDA                                     -     11.0      11.0
KfW                                     -       6.0      6.0
APN                                   6.7         -      6.7
6.7     17.0      23.7
Estimated
Disbursements:                           IDA FY   1981    1982       1983      1984
-------- US$ million ---------
Annual                           1.1     6.6       2.7      0.6
Cumulative                       1.1     7.7      10.4     11.0
Economic Rate
of Return:         24 percent for the project as a whole.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 3205b-HA dated February 24, 1981.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE
RFPUBLIC OF HAITI FOR A PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit of SDR 8.7 million (US$11.0 million equivalent), on
standard IDA terms, to the Republic of Haiti to help finance a port develop-
ment project. The proceeds of the credit would be onlent to the National Port
Authority (APN). The Federal Republic of Germany is considering a grant equiva-
lent to US$6.0 million in support of the Cap Haitien component of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The last economic report on Haiti, distributed to the Executive
Directors on January 8, 1979, was Report No. 2165-HA, entitled "Current
Economic Position and Prospects of Haiti". A mission has recently updated
the macroeconomic situation and its findings are reflected below; an economic
memorandum will be distributed shortly. Relevant social and economic data
are presented in Annex I.
3.        Haiti is the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere.  GNP
per capita in 1979 stood at US$260. Data for 1976 indicated that almost
75 percent of the population lived under conditions of absolute poverty.
An infant mortality rate of about 150 per thousand live births, an average
life expectancy of 51 years, low nutrition and sanitation standards (malnutri-
tion and gastroenteric diseases account for over half of the deaths in the
country) and an adult illiteracy rate of about 80 percent illustrate the
depressed living standards of the population. Though accurate information
does not exist, underemployment is widespread, particularly in the agricul-
tural and informal sectors.
4.        The Haitian economy was characterized during the 1970s by modest
growth subject to cyclical fluctuations. The average annual growth rate
was 3.8 percent or 2.1 percent per capita during the 1970-79 period. Gross
domestic product (GDP) growth has fluctuated from 1.3 percent in 1977 to
5.3 percent in 1978 and to 1.7 percent in 1979. These results were strongly --
influenced by the performance of agriculture. Manufacturing and construction
show a more even performance.
5.        Agriculture provides employment for about 73 percent of the popula-
tion. It accounted for about 40 percent of GDP growth between 1970 and 1979.
The sector is characterized by erratic behavior, extremely low productivity
and heavy dependence on climatic conditions. Its weak performance is reflected
in rapidly increasing food imports and declining agricultural export volume.
Between 1970-71 and 1978-79, the share of food imports in total imports
increased from 11 percent to 18 percent, while agricultural exports decreased
by 1.3 percent annually, in real terms. Recognizing that sustained economic
1/   All references to fiscal years are to Haitian Fiscal Years ending
September 30. Reprinted verbatim from President's Report No. 2933-HA
of February 18, 1981, for a Post-Hurricane Agricultural Rehabilitation
Project in the Southern Peninsula of Haiti.



- 2 -
growth and a broadening of its benefits requires measures to improve agricul-
tural productivity, the Government has recently initiated programs to introduce
improved grain varieties, rehabilitate coffee plantations, restore the major
irrigation systems and develop agro-industries.
6.        Since 1970, manufacturing industries, construction and public
utilities have emerged as the most consistently dynamic activities with annual
average growth rates of 6.6 percent, 13.9 percent and 9.0 percent, respectively.
Their combined share in real GDP represented 21 percent in 1979 (in constant
prices), but, despite their strong growth dynamics, their combined contribution
to GDP growth during the nine-year period did not exceed one-half of the GDP
increment. The manufacturing sector owes much of its expansionary drive to
the export processing industries and to a rapid increase in output of construc-
tion materials. Growth of locally manufactured products for the domestic
market was necessarily limited by the thinness of this market, explainable by
the early stage of development of Haiti.
7.        Starting from very low levels, public investment has increased
rapidly since 1970, at an average annual rate of 23.4 percent in real terms,
and its sectoral composition has undergone significant changes. While during
the first Five-Year Plan (1971-76), only about 11 percent of total government
development expenditures was for agriculture, the latter's share in the second
Five-Year Plan (1977-81), on the basis of projects already approved, is
estimated at about 24 percent. Other areas of high priority are transport,
education, and health, especially geared to rural areas. The overall orienta-
tion of the 1977-81 development program also reflects the Government's objec-
tive to decentralize economic activity in favor of rural areas and provincial
towns. Their share in total development expenditures is likely to increase
from about 50 percent in the recent past, to about 70 percent during the second
Five-Year Plan period. However, the Government's decision to carry out three
major investment projects outside the Five-Year Plan, will displace or delay
planned investments and could substantially alter the expected pattern of
outlays.
8.        Institutional strengthening is among the second Five-Year Plan's
highest priorities, and technical assistance for project preparation and
implementation has been considerably increased. A Joint Commission for the
Implementation of External Cooperation Programs was established in 1975
to consider the country's economic situation and external technical and
financial assistance programs. The Commission, for which the Organization
of American States (OAS) provides the secretariat, is composed of senior
government officials and of representatives of the multilateral and bilateral
aid agencies active in Haiti. The Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic
Development, under the chairmanship of the World Bank, is another forum for
policy dialogue with the Haitian authorities.
9.        The mobilization of domestic resources for development expenditures
is hampered by institutional weaknesses in the banking sector and in public
finance. During the 1977-79 period, gross national savings (GNS) amounted to
2.9 percent of gross national product (GNP), down from 5.5 percent in FY75.
As the public sector provides a sizeable share of total savings, success in
raising national savings would depend, to a considerable degree, on efforts



to improve public finance management. In line with the recommendations of the
Bank and other donor agencies, a major reorganization of fiscal management,
currently taking place with IMF assistance, should help strengthen such
efforts. Inflation was not particularly high in the recent past, but its rate
is increasing pari-passu with world inflation, rising from 9.4 percent in 1979
to around 12 percent in 19.80. An expected lower supply of food in 1981 will
probably increase the consumer price index by 20 percent.
10.       Most public revenues have been integrated into the budget; the
Treasury now centralizes all current expenditures and a significant share
of capital expenditures; tax collection is being consolidated and para-
fiscal functions have been removed from the Regie du Tabac; sound accounting
procedures are being established in all public institutions; customs duties
have been consolidated and their average rate raised; new taxes have been
imposed on the lottery and on international communications and the income
tax law was amended to improve equity and elasticity of income taxation.
11.       Notwithstanding a very strong performance of coffee export tax revenues,
the public sector deficit increased significantly from 3.4 percent of GDP in FY79
to around 4.7 percent in FY80. As a result, the Government could not reach
agreement with the IMF on the program related to the remainder of the 1979-81
Extended Fund Facility (EFF) until March-April 1980, and this agreement was
substantially revised in December 1980 in the light of the impact of Hurricane
Allen. The situation will require both additional revenue measures and tight
control of expenditures. FY81 will be a difficult period for Haiti inasmuch
as the coffee crop will be a poor one, world coffee prices have dropped and
bauxite export revenues will also decline.
12.       Despite the slowdown in national savings, gross investment has
accelerated, reaching 14.9 percent of GNP in 1977-79. This growth in invest-
ment was entirely attributable to the public sector, whose share of total
investment has increased to two-thirds. The gap between national investment
and savings, therefore, averaged 12 percent of GNP between 1977-79, compared to
8.4 percent in 1975 and 4.1 percent in 1970. The most important contributions
to filling this resource gap, have come from government borrowing from inter-
national and bilateral aid agencies (40 percent), grants-in-aid (35 percent),
and private transfers and direct foreign investment (25 percent). The public
sector depends almost exclusively on foreign sources for the financing of its
deficit. These inflows permitted prior to 1980 an increase in foreign
reserve holdings despite a net outflow of short-term funds.
13.       Gross international reserves fell from a level equal to two months
of imports of goods and net factor services (NFS) in 1977-79, to a level of
one month of goods and NFS by September 1980, as a result of a sharp expansion
of Central Bank credit to the public sector and of government investment in
several industrial projects in 1980. Private transfers continue growing as
the number of Haitians working abroad increases. Private direct investment has
also been rapidly rising with political stability, fiscal incentives, and
cheap labor as the main factors. It is expected to continue to rise. In
1979, new private foreign investment was almost five times higher than in
1975 (in nominal terms).



- 4 -
14.       The high proportion of grants and concessionary loans has helped in
maintaining the debt-service ratio at an estimated 4.2 percent for 1979. The
rising level of private foreign investment and of suppliers' credits, however,
will bring with it larger factor payments in the form of dividend repatriation
and interest payments. Net factor payments have doubled in 1979 over 1976 and
the ratio of public debt amortization, plus net factor payments (including
private non-guaranteed debt) to exports of goods and non-factor services, is
11.6 percent.
15.       A necessary continuation -- at a somewhat quicker pace than in the
past -- of Haiti's economic development will require a further increase in
the use of foreign savings, given the extremely low domestic saving capacity.
This would require external financing of a high proportion of the cost of
development projects, including local cost when the latter constitute a major
share of total cost. Furthermore, in view of the country's poverty, Haiti
will continue to require external assistance on concessionary terms for some
time to come, if it is to achieve a significant improvement in the standard of
living of its population. An important factor in determining the availability
of this assistance will be the effective implementation of the fiscal reform,
and, in particular, the control of expenditures, including those of a capital
nature. This aspect will be closely monitored by the Association.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
16.       Since 1974, IDA has financed nine projects in Haiti.  Two credits
for highway projects were made in 1974 and 1975. In 1976, a credit was made
for an education project and, in 1977, credits were made for power and rural
development projects. In 1978, credits were made for a transportation project
(secondary roads and a pilot coastal shipping ports component); for a second
education project and for a water supply project in provincial towns. In 1979,
a credit for a second power project was approved. Documents for a credit of
US$3.2 million equivalent for a post-hurricane agricultural rehabilitation
project in the Southern Peninsula were recently distributed to the Executive
Directors for their consideration. The total of credits outstanding is US$110
million, of which US$38.9 million were undisbursed as of January 31, 1981.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group operations in Haiti as of
January 31, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. IFC has not
made any investments in Haiti but is now considering two projects, one in
agri-business and the other in a housing bank.
17.       Various multilateral and bilateral development agencies are active
in Haiti. IDB has made loans for rural development, transportation, industrial
credit, rural education, water supply, development of the Port-au-Prince
harbor and urban drainage in Port-au-Prince. IDB has a number of projects
under active consideration for agricultural and industrial credit, rural
development and reforestation, and road maintenance. In addition, projects
are being prepared for secondary road construction and for water supply.
USAID is providing assistance for integrated rural development projects,
community development, malaria eradication, maternal-child health and family
planning, modernization of coffee production and marketing, construction of
feeder roads and for highway maintenance. In addition, USAID is considering
a program of assistance under Title III of PL480 to help strengthen the staff
and improve the efficiency of key ministries. CIDA (Canada) is supporting a



- 5 -
rural development project in the Southern Peninsula; a power project in
Port-au-Prince in connection with IDA's Second Power Project, and is assisting
agricultural and technical education and the construction of school facilities.
CIDA has also completed a study of Haiti's water resource potential for both
irrigation and for power generation and is financing a rural development project
in the Southern Peninsula. France is financing seed production, educational
planning and research, road construction and equipment for provincial airports.
The Federal Republic of Germany is providing technical and financial assistance
for a regional development project in the Gonaives Plain, power facilities for
Cap Faitien and the Drouet and Gonaives-St. Marc areas, and, together with
France, is providing technical assistance for the execution of the IDA-assisted
rural development project in the Northern Plain.
18.       Recent and prospective IDA operations in Haiti take into account the
ongoing and planned roles of other official lending agencies. In line with the
Government's Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan (1976-81) and with
Haiti's development priorities, current and planned IDA operations are meant
to support the improvement and expansion of basic infrastructure in transporta-
tion and power; to expand educational opportunities and upgrade technical skills,
to promote regional development in both rural areas and provincial towns and
to create new employment opportunities in the directly productive sectors.
19.       Negotiations for an industrial credit project were recently completed.
The project would establish a rediscount facility in the Central Bank to
encourage financial intermediaries to engage in term lending: incentives would
be offered to promote lending to small- and medium-sized Haitian enterprises.
The ongoing Rural Development Project provides for the preparation of another
project which would extend the scope of the Regional Development Agency's
programs to additional areas of the Northern Plain. A pilot fuelwood project
is also under preparation. It would address the severe soil erosion problem and
the related need to rationalize fuelwood production. An urbanization project,
being prepared, is expected to help the poorer segment of the population
through upgrading of a produce market in Port-au-Prince and sites and services
assistance in one or two provincial towns. A third power project has been
identified and is in preparation by Electricite d'Haiti and its consultants.
20.       The Bank Group's share in Haiti's external debt disbursed and out-
standing came to 28.5 percent as of October 1, 1979. The Bank Group's share
of external public debt service was about 3.8 percent. While its share of out-
standing public external debt is expected to increase to about 29.8 percent in
1980, its share of external debt service would rise to about 4 percent.
PART III - THE TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Background
21.       Haiti is a relatively small country; it covers an area of
approximately 27,800 km2 and is situated on the western third of the Island
of Hispaniola, with a shoreline of 1,540 km. The interior is very mountainous:
40 percent of the land is above 500 m in altitude. Only some 50 percent of



- 6 -
the land is suitable for cultivation and agricultural areas are widely dis-
persed. Total population is estimated at approximately 5 million. Besides
Port-au-Prince, with a total population of approximately 900,000, there are
seven provincial centers ranging in size from 20,000 to 60,000 inhabitants and
61 smaller towns, many of them poorly served by the present transportation
system.
22.       The country's location, its rugged terrain, its long coast line,
the dispersion of its agricultural production and the dominance of the capital
city determine the characteristics of Haiti's transport system and underscore
the importance of the transport sector in the country's economy. In external
trade, maritime transport accounts for over 98 percent of Haiti's freight
tonnage; the balance is moved by air or by land transport to the Dominican
Republic. Over the years, Port-au-Prince has developed into the major inter-
national shipping center of the country. International passenger traffic is
moved mainly by air and by cruise ships. The latter serve Port-au-Prince and
Cap Haitien and bring an important number of one-day tourists to the country
(close to 200,000 in 1978).
23.       In the first Five-Year Plan (FY72-76), the Government focused
upon the urgent need to improve the productive sectors of the economy and
on transport infrastructure. This emphasis was continued under the Second
Five Year Plan (FY77-81), in which transport investments account for about
23 percent of planned investments. In an effort to correct the spatial
imbalances which characterize the country, the Government aims primarily at
further reconstruction and improvement of the road network and at expanding
coastal shipping services in order to integrate presently isolated community
centers and rural areas and to achieve a better balance between Port-au-Prince
and the provincial towns. As a result of this strategy, much of the main road
network has already been improved. In 1975, the Government agreed to the
execution of the National Transport Study (NTS), for which the World Bank was
executing agency. It was carried out between 1975 and 1977 under a UNDP
grant. The study concluded that, after road rehabilitation, highest priority
areas were: (a) improvement of international and domestic shipping facilities
at Cap Haitien, and (b) expansion and development of coastal ports, as an
alternative to more costly road connections. The Government has adopted the
NTS recommendations.
24.       The inter-city road network totals 3,725 km of roads, of which
750 km are paved, 1,715 km are surfaced with natural gravel and the balance
consists of earth tracks, most of which are less than 4.5 m wide. It was not
until the early 1970s that the Government accorded priority to the rehabili-
tation and improvement of the basic road network. Today, much of the main
network has been improved, but the rehabilitation of a number of bridges and
improvements of some roads are still pending. In 1979, the motor vehicle
fleet numbered 30,200 units. Vehicle ownership is about six vehicles per
1,000 inhabitants, the lowest of the entire Latin America and Caribbean
Region.
25.       The share of air transport in total traffic is small but important
since Haitian export-oriented industry, especially the assembly industry,
which assembles imported components and is the largest user of air transport,
has performed dynamically in recent years. In 1978, about 24,000 tons of cargo
were handled by the international airport of Port-au-Prince, in addition to



- 7 -
departing passengers. The nation's second airport is located at Cap Haitien;
expansion of this is envisaged in the future to accommodate tourism and
industry development of the area.
Maritime Transport
26.       Haiti's foreign trade is served predominantly by foreign-owned
shipping lines through the port of Port-au-Prince, of which 373,000 tons (oil,
wheat and cement) moved through privately-owned facilities and 467,000 tons
through the recently modernized commercial port which is managed by the
National Port Authority (APN). Since 1973, investments in international port
facilities have been concentrated in Port-au-Prince. Cap Haitien, the second
international port of the country, has not seen any major improvements since
1953, although the port is vital to the economy of the north.
27.       Domestic coastal shipping has traditionally played a significant
role as a means of internal transport. While the ongoing rehabilitation of
the road system will tend to reduce the relative share of waterborne traffic,
the continuing importance of domestic maritime trade has been recognized, and
an increase in coastal shipping traffic is expected.
28.       International shipping was served at numerous small ports in Haiti
up to the 1950s. While the 1962 Customs Code still recognizes 25 coastal
ports, of which 12 are "open to foreign trade," international shipping
and trading patterns changed in the 1960s, and, with the centralization of
commercial activities in the capital, the terminal at Port-au-Prince has
become the major center for maritime transport. At present, the only public
berthing facilities which can accommodate general cargo and tourist vessels of
conventional size (e.g., with about 9 m draft) are at Port-au-Prince and Cap
Taitien.
29.       The international port at Port-au-Prince completed in 1978 with
assistance from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), has modern facilities
for general cargo and container vessels; they consist of a marginal wharf 460 m
in length (effectively used as three berths), with de3ths alongside of 9.5 m,
a container crane, two modern transit sheds (11,200 m total area), and ample
paved yard areas. In addition, the port has two ramps for Roll-on/Roll-off
vessels and a finger pier with two berths for major tourist ships. The
tourist pier is connected to the shore by a 10 m wide pier which can provide
additional berthing space.
30.       Cap Haitien's terminal facilities were constructed in 1952-53
and comprise a marginal wharf in two sections. One is for international
traffic (181 m length), effectively one berth designed for tourism and
general cargo vessels of up to 9 m (27 ft.) draft. The other section (87 m
length) is shallower (1.5-3.0 m) and is used mostly by coastal shipping and
small pleasure craft. The wharf is in an advanced stage of deterioration
despite remedial measures recently attempted by APN. Tourist ships are the
only regular traffic at the international wharf at present (normally two
vessels per week). Nearly all cargo through the port is currently handled by
coastal vessels.



- 8 -
31.        The most urgent needs for improvement of port facilities serving
international traffic in Haiti are at Cap Haitien because of the deteriorated
condition of the existing wharf structure and because of prospects for signifi-
cant increases in trade which could not be accommodated under present capacity
constraints. As the port of Cap Haitien is expected to play a major role in
the development of agriculture, industry and tourism in the northern region of
the country, the repair and expansion of this port are considered among the
highest priority investment in the transport sector of Haiti.
32.        The need for expansion of the international port at Port-au-Prince,
while less urgent than the development of Cap Haitien because of recently
completed terminal facilities financed by IDB, nevertheless requires considera-
tion because of a variety of prospective trade developments and physical
changes in the immediate vicinity of the port, which should be coordinated
with port activities. Among the factors to be considered at Port-au-Prince
are expansion of a central market complex and major road improvements adjacent
to the international terminal, construction of a new coastal shipping terminal
(under Credit 807-HA), proposals to create an international Free Trade Zone
within the port, expansion of container-related terminal activities, and
possibilities of establishing a transshipment center at this port for the dis-
tribution of container traffic within the Caribbean region. The Port-au-Prince
planning study, which APN funded from its own budget, began in late 1979, is
nearly completed and indicates the need for expansion of international cargo
facilities in the 1983-85 period. Agreement was reached on the timing of
this expansion, estimated to cost about US$30 million, for which studies are
included under the proposed credit (Section 3.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
Coastal Shipping Development Program
33.        The proposal to expand and modernize domestic coastal shipping
was made in 1977 by the NTS and was adopted by the Government to complement
the development of the country's road transport system. In the NTS report,
which compared overall economic costs of land and maritime transport, the
development of 19 coastal ports was recommended; however, this recommendation
was not based on a comprehensive analysis of alternative systems that might be
adopted for coastal shipping services, nor was it established at the time
which Government agency (or agencies) would be responsible for such port
development and the required parallel support of fleet services and auxiliary
systems. It was therefore decided to: (a) go forward initially with only
three "pilot ports," at locations where there was clear evidence of a need for
terminal improvements, even without decisions on an optimal system for coastal
shipping services; and (b) test the capability of the port administration of
Port-au-Prince to become an agency of national scope, with responsibilities
for terminal development at smaller communities along the coast. The three
pilot ports selected were Port de Paix (a small town on the north coast of
the northern peninsula), Jeremie (a medium-sized town on the north coast
of the southern peninsula) and Port-au-Prince (the "hub" of the existing
coastal shipping freight system, where over one-third of all freight tonnage
is handled). Investments of US$3.5 million in new facilities at these three
pilot ports are being financed under Credit 807-HA.



- 9 -
34.       The coastal trade complementg internal land transport, which is
erratic and costly in many parts of the country. However, the maritime
alternative, where it exists, also presents difficulties, such as: (a) inade-
quacy of existing ports, even for small vessels; (b) unsafe conditions of
most of the fleet due to primitive vessel construction methods, lack of
maintenance and repair facilities, and absence of effective inspection and
controls; (c) inadequate operating crews and lack of training for vessel
operators; (d) the inability to obtain insurance coverage for vessels, and
(e) the absence of aids to navigation and of provisions for assistance to
vessels in distress.
35.       Concurrently with the initiation of terminal developments at the
three pilot ports, a Coastal Shipping Development Study (CSDS) was undertaken,
with UNDP and IDA financing, to assist the Government in defining a program
for development of Haiti's coastal shipping system in the next decade. The
objectives of Phase I of the CSDS, for which the Bank acted as UNDP's Executing
Agency, were to provide: (a) an analysis of alternatives for development of
the coastal shipping system; (b) definitions of vessel and fleet charac-
teristics; (c) identification of the highest priority port improvements for
the proposed coastal shipping fleet, and (d) recommendations on a program of
Government support.
36.       In 1979, Phase I of the CSDS reviewed all existing coastal ports
and fleet operations, prepared traffic projections, and developed and evaluated
alternative systems solutions. The study resulted in recommendations to
support the development of regularly scheduled service by modern motor vessels
among 11 coastal shipping ports (the three pilot ports, Cap Haitien, and seven
others) and to supplement motorized service by improved feeder services of
conventional sailboats to and from smaller communities. While the motorized
fleet would primarily handle traffic of general high-value cargo, agricultural
produce and passengers, sailboats would continue to serve traffic in salt
and charcoal, which constitute a large but low-value portion of the traffic.
For the 1981-1990 period, the development program as recommended would require
a coastal fleet, port construction and related support services estimated to
cost over US$20 million; however, the economic justification of an investment
of such magnitude would depend upon implementation by the Government and
private sector of coordinated actions relating to the institutional development
of the maritime sector, and provision of facilities for credit, vessel repair
and general assistance to shipping and it is therefore proposed to implement
the program in stages consisting of investments that would be individually
justified.
37.       Phase II of the CSDS, completed in September 1980 with financing
under Credit 807-HA, consists of preliminary engineering designs, economic
analyses and financial forecasts for port terminal developments at the follow-
ing ports: Gonaives, Anse a Galets, Baraderes, Corail, Anse d'Hainault,
Port-a-Piment and Les Cayes. This phase of the CSDS provided the basis for
appraisal of the coastal shipping ports component of the proposed project.
38.       Success of the proposed coastal shipping development program
will depend, in large measure, upon decisions to be taken by the Government
concerning support for development of the maritime sector in general. Specific



- 10 -
recommendations on this subject were made under Phase I of the CSDS, but their
implementation was considered premature since there had been insufficient time
for discussion among the various agencies concerned. Phase II of the CSDS was
therefore deslignated as a period during which the Phase I recommendations
would be considered in detail, with the objective of reaching a consensus on
key issues relevant to coastal shipping. Proposed government actions are
summarized in para. 43. For two of the proposed coastal shipping ports, at
Baraderes and Anse d' Hainault, road improvements would be required for proper
terminal operations. The Government agreed to undertake these improvements
(Section 3.04(a) of the draft Credit Agreement).
Institutional Framework
39.       Overall responsibility for transport investment lies with the
Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications (TPTC), but the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs, the Bank of the Republic of Haiti
(BRH) , the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and, since 1978, the Ministry
of Planning are also closely involved.
40.       TPTC's responsibilities, as defined by law of June 17, 1971,
include - in addition to roads and bridges - public buildings, zoning and
construction regulations, city streets and public utilities. The increase
in transport investment and agreements with external lending agencies led to
the establishment of three specialized services within the TPTC: the National
Public Works Laboratory, responsible for materials testing and standards; the
Construction Service and Coordination Unit, responsible for contract super-
vision, and the Autonomous Transport Service (SAT), responsible for planning,
engineering and coordination. SAT was established in December 1975 and acts
as a sectoral planning unit and a highway planning and engineering office.
41.       The 1962 Customs Code made administration and management of all
ports in Haiti the responsibility of the Customs Service in the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Affairs. In 1973, jurisdiction over the ports of Port-
au-Prince and Cap Haitien was transferred to a new public agency, the Port-au-
Prince Port Administration (APP), and, by Presidential Decree in 1978, APP was
replaced by a national port authority (APN), with jurisdiction extended to the
ports of Port-de-Paix and Jeremie. While it is foreseen, under existing law,
that responsibility for other ports will eventually be transferred to APN, the
Customs Service is still in charge of vessel clearance, collection of duties
and provision of facilities in all ports other than Port-au-Prince, Cap
Haitien, Jeremie and Port-de-Paix. In practice, however, the Customs Service
exercises jurisdiction only over ports designated as "open to foreign trade,"
delegating responsibility for "local ports" to the Internal Revenue Service.
A time schedule for expansion of APN's staff and organization at Cap Haitien
to levels that would be adequate for effective administration and operation
was agreed during negotiations (Section 2.09) of draft Project Agreement).
42.       APN is a tax-exempt, public service agency, enjoying administrative
and fiscal autonomy. Although legally autonomous, it reports to the Government
through the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs. APN is governed by a
Board of Directors, comprising the Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs,



- 11 -
the Minister of Commerce and Industry, the Minister of TPTC, the Governor of
the BRH and the Director General of APN. Except for the addition of the
Coastal Shipping Department, APN's structure is identical to that of its
predecessor. Notwithstanding regular salary increases since 1976 (the latest
ranging from 14 to 20 percent in October 1980), APN's salary scales are lower
than those of the private sector and thus are not sufficient to attract
qualified technical and professional personnel. In connection with Section
3.03 of the draft Project Agreement, APN intends to undertake a salary survey
to determine appropriate salary levels for its staff.
Government Support to the Maritime Sector
43.        Government actions needed to support the maritime sector are
(a) the introduction of stricter vessel inspection and licensing procedures so
that vessel owners can obtain insurance and finance and (b) the establishment
of a government maritime agency, to promote and regulate the domestic and
international fleet of Haiti and to coordinate government policies and actions.
The Government has agreed to establish a national maritime agency not later
than October 31, 1981 (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Credit Agreement), and
assign to it specific functions related to the development of the maritime
sector (Schedule 3 of the draft Credit Agreement).
Bank Group Assistance to the Transport Sector
44.       The Bank Group's involvement in the transport sector of Haiti began
with a loan for a road maintenance and rehabilitation project (Loan 141-HA for
US$2.6 million in 1956). A second operation (Cr. 32-HA for US$0.35 million in
1962) for an interim project, completed work undertaken in the first project.
The third and fourth operations (Cr. 478-HA for US$10 million in 1974 and
Cr. 556-HA for US$20 million, in 1975) included construction of the Northern
Road, the National Transport Study and rehabilitation of major bridges. They
have been successfully completed. The fifth transport project (Cr. 807-HA for
US$15 million in 1978) included construction of two bridges, 53 km of road
sections in the Northern Plain and 13 km in the South, and a coastal shipping
component providing new terminals at Port-au-Prince, Port-de-Paix, and Jeremie.
The road component is proceeding satisfactorily, but the coastal shipping com-
ponent is about 10 months behind schedule because of hurricane damage to the
contractor's facilities at his home base on the Dominican Republic in 1979 and,
more recently, because of delays in obtaining permits to transport dynamite
and hurricane damage to the works at Jeremie.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Objectives and General Description
45.       The objectives of the proposed project are to:  (a) rehabilitate and
expand the international shipping port at Cap Haitien, and (b) support the
development of a modern coastal shipping system for domestic transport by
constructing new port terminals in selected locations and by assisting in
related institutional developments. The main components of the project are:
(a) at Cap Haitien, engineering and construction of two vessel berths to



- 12 -
serve international tourist and freight traffic, a coastal shipping wharf, and
auxiliary terminal facilities; (b) at the coastal shipping ports (Baraderes,
Corail, Anse d'Hainault, Port-a-Piment, Anse a Galets, Gonaives and Les
Cayes), construction or rehabilitation of new coastal shipping wharves and
provision of engineering supervision services; (c) at the port of Jeremie,
supplementary construction for shore protection at the coastal shipping
terminal financed under Credit 807-HA; (d) at Port-au-Prince, preparation of
a general plan for port development, feasibility studies and design for the
next phase of development in terminal facilities for international trade, and
(e) institutional development of the maritime sector and for APN's management.
46.       A cost summary and financing plan of the project are given in the
Credit and Project Summary. Proposed co-financing under consideration by
the Federal Republic of Germany, through KfW, equivalent to US$6 million,
would be confined to the Cap Haitien component of the project.
47.       Cost estimates for the Cap Haitien port construction are based
on preliminary engineering studies; detailed engineering for this project
component is substantially completed. Cost estimates for the seven coastal
ports are also based on detailed engineering completed in January 1981. Cost
estimates for the supplementary construction at Jeremie are based on designs
by APN's consultants for the pilot ports, and on a contract already awarded.
All costs are calculated free of taxes and duties since APN is tax-exempt and
Haiti has exempted international contractors and consultants from such duties.
The proposed credit includes US$3.5 million for consultant services for studies,
detailed engineering and supervision of construction. The estimated cost of
consulting services is based on US$10,000 per man/month of foreign expert's
time (all inclusive rate).
48.       The foreign exchange component for civil works is estimated at
70 percent for Cap Haitien and the coastal shipping ports. The foreign
exchange component for engineering services and for the technical assistance
component is estimated at 80 percent. A contingency allowance of 10 to 15
percent was used for all civil works at Cap Haitien and 15 percent for civil
works at the coastal shipping ports. Basic costs of construction and equipment
have been estimated in mid-1981 prices and contingencies for price escalation
were based on annual increases of 8 percent for the implementation period 1981
through 1983.
Execution, Procurement and Disbursements
49.       Implementation of the project would be the responsibility of APN,
which would retain consultants satisfactory to the Association for this
purpose and would expand its own staff capabilities. The proposed project
is expected to be completed within a period of three years.
50.       All civil works and equipment to be financed under the proposed
project would be awarded in accordance with ICB procedures specified in
the Bank's guidelines, except for the supplementary construction item at
Jeremie, which has been contracted with the construction firm selected after
international competitive bidding for the portion now under construction.
Professional services for engineering, planning and management advisory
services would be retained in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.



- 13 -
51.       Disbursement of the credit would be made against:  (a) 32 percent
of total expenditures for port construction at Cap Haitien; (b) 70 percent of
total expenditures for construction of coastal shipping ports and supplementary
works at Jeremie, and (c) 80 percent of total expenditures for engineering
services for project construction and for technical assistance for (i) planning
and design for Port-au-Prince, (ii) assistance in coastal shipping development,
and (iii) advisory service to APN. All disbursements would be fully documented.
IDA funds for the project components are expected to be disbursed in accordance
with the estimates given in the financing plan shown in the Credit and Project
Summary. For the Cap Haitien port component of the project, in which the
proposed joint financing with KfW would apply, specific disbursement procedures
were adopted during negotiations. A condition of disbursement for this component
is that the KfW financing has been made available (Schedule 1, para 3(b) of
the draft Credit Agreement). Retroactive financing of US$0.3 million equiva-
lent is recommended for the supplementary works at Jeremie (para. 45) and of
US$0.8 million equivalent for final engineering for Cap Haitien and for the
port development plan at Port-au-Prince.
Financial Management of APN
52.       Different accounting systems are used in Port-au-Prince and Cap
Haitien; a further system has been designed for the coastal shipping ports.
In Port-au-Prince, the existing system is adequate for overall control of port
finances, but does not provide cost-center related information and budget
comparisons for effective management control. In Cap Haitien, the accounting
system is cash-based, accruals are not accounted for and only part of the
assets in use are entered in APN's accounts.
53.       A uniform accounting system for all operations will be developed and
implemented with consultancy assistance (Section 2.02 of the draft Project
Agreement and Schedule 2,E,5 of the draft Credit Agreement). Assets employed
in Cap Haitien will be verified, valued and brought into APN's books in 1981
(condition of disbursement, draft Credit Agreement, Schedule 1, (3), (b)(i)).
To improve APN's financial planning, management and control, the format and
content of APN's budgets will be improved with the help of consultants. It was
agreed that (i) the 1982 and 1983 operating budgets would be prepared on a
quarterly, and thereafter on a monthly basis; (ii) beginning in 1981, and
through 1986, a five-year investment budget would be prepared; and (iii) start-
ing in 1981, for a period of five years, investment proposals over US$350,000
would be subject to economic and financial evaluation. This analysis and also
APN's operating and capital budgets through 1986 would be forwarded for IDA's
comments prior to implementation (Section 4.07 of the draft Project Agreement).
54.       APN's financial statements are regularly audited by an independent
auditor. While past audits were conducted properly, the reports were not as
extensive as would be expected from a firm having experience with large
international ports. Beginning in 1981, an audit firm having appropriate
experience will be retained, subject to IDB and IDA concurrence (Section 4.02
of the draft Project Agreement).



- 14 -
Financial Performance of APN
55.       APN has been a profitable organization over the past five years,
and has not needed financial assistance from the Government. Between 1976 and
1980, the Authority's aggregate profit was about US$8.3 million. Despite
these positive financial,results, APN's profitability has deteriorated since
1976. Net revenue in 1980 (about US$1 million) was US$401,000 lower than in
1976, and represented 19 percent of total revenues as against 41 percent in
1976. The profit erosion was due to increasing financial expenses, including
debt amortization, and to the fact that operating expenses grew at a faster
rate than operating revenues.
56.       The Government and the management of APN are firmly committed to
maintaining the Authority as a profitable, financially self-sufficient entity.
APN's financial target, to earn an annual return of at least 6 percent on
total net fixed assets employed, was established in its loan agreement with
IDB, at a time when international operations in Port-au-Prince represented the
bulk of APN's activities. APN's earlier agreements with IDB and IDA, were
confirmed during negotiation. APN would adjust its tariffs as necessary to
maintain a 6 percent return on the net value of its assets employed and
revalued every three years, with intermediate adjustments, as needed, for
inflation. APN's revenues would be retained in APN. Further, APN would
continue to levy charges on cargo handled in private terminals (Section
3.03(b) of the draft Credit Agreement and Sections 4.03 and 4.06(a) and (b)
of the draft Project Agreement).
57.       The character of the Cap Haitien operation would be similar to that
of Port-au-Prince; consequently, similar financial targets would be appropriate
for both ports. However, since Cap Haitien has relatively low traffic, it may
take several years before this port could achieve a 6 percent rate of return
on its assets. Major traffic increases would take place only after the com-
pletion of the new facilities, but, even with the expected growth, substantial
tariff increases would be necessary to make the operation profitable.  Since
implementation of such tariff increases in one step would almost certainly
have a drastic, adverse effect on the traffic, gradual tariff increases would
be more practical; a phased improvement in rates of return to achieve the
6 percent rate within a reasonable time is considered more appropriate.
Tariffs at Cap Haitien would be increased to the level of those at Port-au-
Prince in 1981. In 1982, the potential of the cruiseship market would be
assessed ,ith consultants' assistance and subject to a review of the study's
findings, tariffs would be adjusted to ensure that the rate of return on net
assets in Cap Haitien would be at least 3 percent in 1987 and 6 percent in
1989 (Section 4.08 of the draft Project Agreement.)
58.       For the coastal shipping ports financed under Credit 807-HA, there
is no rate of return requirement but steadily improving working and operating
ratios have to be achieved each year. These targets reflect the need to
balance two objectives: (a) to maintain the profitability of APN as its
operational responsibilities are expanded to domestic coastal shipping ports,
and (b) to establish, for the coastal shipping ports, cost-oriented tariffs,
affordable to users, which would promote coastal traffic and the further
development of the port system.



- 15 -
59.       Based on a recovery of about 80 percent of the direct financial
benefits accruing to port users, a tariff structure was designed for the
"pilot" ports in 1978. Recently, the benefit calculations were updated
and tariffs applicable to the coastal shipping port system were adjusted.
The proposed tariffs' impact upon traffic would be reviewed with consultants
assistance about one year after the "pilot" ports commence operations. Port
revenues based on the proposed tariffs would not recover full costs; and the
operation would not yield positive financial results. Consequently, APN's
international port operations would have to provide financial support for the
coastal shipping ports. This support is justified given the poverty of the
regions served by the coastal shipping ports. Nevertheless, to control costs
and limit the extent of assistance, progressively improving working ratios
were agreed, providing for working ratios of 80 percent in 1982 and 1983; 75
percent for 1984 through 1986 and 67 percent thereafter (Section 4.04 of the
draft Project Agreement).
60.       During the next five years, APN's financial position is expected
to remain sound, provided the proposed tariff measures are taken promptly,
such as the 30 percent increase of February 1981, and expenditures are kept
under control. Although borrowings for the investment program would be
substantial, debt/equity ratios would improve from 1982 onward and the liquidity
position is also expected to be satisfactory. However, by the end of 1985,
about 90 percent of APN's cumulation cash surplus (estimated at US$16.6 mil-
lion) would be required to finance additional equipment and construction in
Port-au-Prince. Pending an assessment of the composition and timing of fund
requirements, these have not been included in the financial projections.
61.       APN's management would closely monitor the utilization of its
financial resources. In addition to the introduction of capital investment
control measures, it was agreed that: (a) APN would not, unless the Association
agrees otherwise, contract any further long-term debt in excess of US$1.25 mil-
lion; and (b) APN would maintain its accounts receivable at a level of not more
than an average two months of revenue in Cap Haitien and in Port-au-Prince
(Section 4.05 and 4.09 of the draft Project Agreement).
Long-Term Financial Obligations of APN and Proposed On-Lending Terms
62.       APN has received total financing of US$17.5 million from IDB (US$10
million loan in 1972 and US$7.5 million in 1975) for the construction and
improvement of the Port-au-Prince international port. From its own resources,
APN contributed US$3.3 million to the construction of the new terminal at
Port-au-Prince and, in 1977, committed an additional US$5 million to reha-
bilitate the existing pier. Ulnder the loan agreements with TDB, APM cannot
enter into long-term loan contracts without the prior authorization of IDB
and can use its funds cn'y for port projects. APN has obtained IDB's consent
to borrow for the project.
63.       In 1978, a US$3.5 million IDA Credit was extended to the Government
and in turn, onlent to APN for the construction of three coastal shipping
ports (pilot ports). The on-lending terms were 25 years amortization with a
six-year grace period, 1 percent annual interest rate until 1985 and 2 percent
thereafter.



- 16 -
64.       For on-lending of the proposed Credit, the Government would enter
into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with APN (condition of effectiveness, Section
5.01 of the draft Credit Agreement). The on-lending terms mentioned above
are recommended for the following reasons:
(a) The coastal shipping port component of the project is a logical
expansion of the system that was initiated under Credit 807-HA. The expansion
would not improve APN's finances: the coastal ports would still require
support from APN's international operations. In view of the financial position
of coastal shipping ports and their importance to the economy, on-lending terms
similar to those under Credit 807-HA are warranted.
(b) In Cap Haitien, where most of the facilities would serve
international traffic, the situation would be somewhat different. This
port should eventually become financially self-sufficient, although its
future revenues would depend heavily upon whether tourist traffic
materializes as expected and whether the contemplated tariff adjustments can
be implemented without adverse effects upon the port's competitive position.
(c) The operation in Port-au-Prince is expected to be profitable, and
future cash surpluses, unless otherwise committed, would be more than suffi-
cient to cover the concessional interest costs of the coastal shipping and the
Cap Haitien port projects. However, by about 1985, the expected export and
import traffic of Haiti would require the expansion of Port-au-Prince's
international terminal with new berthing and equipment needs costing some
US$30 million. An investment of this order would require heavy commitment
of APN's cash surpluses for counterpart funds and debt servicing, in addition
to the financial support needed by the coastal shipping port system.
65.       The Government would on-lend to APN a total amount equivalent to
US$17.0 million to transfer the proposed IDA credit and KfW grant. It is
expected that the grant under consideration by KfW would be made available
to APN on the same interest terms as the IDA credit: APN would pay interest
and principal to a trust fund account with the Central Bank, to be used,
in agreement with KfW, for future port investments.
Benefits and Risks
66.       Two of the main benefits of the Cap Haitien component are additional
earnings from foreign cruise ships and an average net shore expenditure of
US$14 per foreign visitor calculated on current expenditure patterns.  Other
major benefits are the savings in road transport cost, and avoidance of the
cost of a future collapse of the existing dock, if not replaced. As explained
earlier, the existing dock at Cap Haitien is reaching the end of its useful
life. Major reconstruction of this facility would be necessary in the next
few years merely to retain it in service. Furthermore, the bulkhead con-
struction would not allow deepening of the berth alongside. The economic
effects of a curtailment of cruise ship calls, which would result from a
collapse of the dock would be very severe. Berthing alongside the dock
is not imperative, but with only a few hours in the port, the number of
passengers who would go ashore by lighter would drop to such an extent that



- 17 -
ship owners would be reluctant to call on the port. Thus, the number of
sightseers and shoppers would be reduced drastically, with a serious loss of
employment opportunities in the area. The relatively short port stay gives
rise to economic activity which is very labor-intensive as not only a large
handicraft market but also a large number of jeep drivers, guides and horsemen
are completely dependent on these visitors. This trade has far-reaching
- fects for the whole area.
67.       The main benefit for the smaller coastal shipping ports is to
enable improved access to communities which are not connected by road to
the rest of the country, or which are reached by road for only part of the
year. In time, roads to some of these communities will improve, but
experience has shown that the necessary investments are high and the time
required for construction is long. Even though roads will be built,
coastal shipping using the advantage of favorable wind conditions and the
1,530 km of Haiti shoreline will remain competitive for certain trades
and certain commodities. The major limitation of the smaller ports for
such a system is that operations are now mainly over the beach using
lighters or small docks without direct transfer from ship to shore. There
is little or no protection to ships and cargo. The advantage of the new
small port facilities is that access to shore is provided for small (up to
200-ton) motorized vessels. This improved access will enable more regular
services to be provided at virtually the same en-route costs as before but
with reduced damages and losses and fewer handling costs.
68.       The benefit assigned has normally been the difference of the cost
for the selected coastal shipping alternative compared to the transport cost
of the next best solution for each main commodity group. Feasible ports
under these selection criteria are those with a return exceeding 8 percent
(the opportunity cost of capital in Haiti).
69.       The quantified benefits result in a rate of return for Cap Haitien,
conservatively estimated over only a 12-year period, of 26 percent.
Sensitivity tests indicate a minimum of 12 percent under adverse assumptions,
and the first year return (of 22 percent) is also more than adequate. For
the coastal ports, the total return is 14 percent, based only on transport
cost savings over a period which varies from 10 to 25 years, depending on
location. The first year's return for the small coastal port system is
higher than the opportunity cost of capital. For the project as a whole, the
rate of return is 24 percent.
70.       The design and scope of the project have avoided risks of over-
investment to the extent possible, i.e., by staged construction at Cap
Haitien and minimal investment at the smaller coastal shipping ports.
Nevertheless, the most significant risk is that development in shipping
may not take place as, and when, anticipated. In the case of Cap Haitien,
a conservative valuation of benefits as above gives a high return, which,
in extreme cases of 25 percent and even 50 percent reduction of benefits,
yields a rate of return of 20 percent and 12 percent, respectively. The
likelihood of serious cost overruns is less, but a 15 percent cost overrun
combined with a 25 percent reduction in benefits gives a return of 17 percent.



- 18 -
71.       For the coastal ports, the situation does not appear equally secure.
Total benefits, however, have been underestimated because the development
impact on agricultural production is not quantified; therefore, the risk of
cost overrun is likely to be more important. The return varies from port
to port, but a 15 percent cost overrun in real terms gives a return of
11 percent for the system as a whole.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Haiti
and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and
the National Port Authority, and the recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions are listed
in Section III of Annex III. An additional condition of effectiveness would
be that the Republic of Haiti has entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
with APN. A condition of disbursement for the feasibility study and detailed
engineering for the next phase of development of the Port-au-Prince harbor
would be that APN had adopted a general land-use plan for the port. Conditions
of disbursement for the Cap Haitien component of the project would be that
assets at this port had been verified, valued, and entered in the accounts of
APN, and that KfW financing has been made available for the Cap Haitien
component. A condition of disbursement for the coastal shipping port of
Baraderes would be that a road linking the port to the town's street system
had been completed.
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by: Ernest Stern
Attachments
March 4, 1981



- 19 -                                    ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TADLt 3A,
HAITI - SOC2I INDICATORS DATA SKEST
HAITI                            RErUENE CPCOPS (UFIGPTED AVI ACES
4e AusA (THOUSAND SO. K.                                                            - )ST RECENT ESTIMATE)
W            ~~~~~27. 8
ICULTURAL         13.9                                MOST RECENT           1L3E IICCQE              MIDDLE INC(VF
1960  lb   1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMEICA 6 CARIBBEAN  AFPICA SOUTH OF SAPARA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 100.0       120.0    260.0                   1562.9                    868.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       ..        43.0      57.0                  1055.9                    699.4
OfULATIO1K AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     3.6         4.2       4.8
IRBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 15.6        19.8      23.8                   63.4                     28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
QOPULATION IN TEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      B. 0
STATIoNARY POPMATION (MILLIONS)                        17.0
TM  STATIONARY POPULATION IS RnACn                    2145
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. EM.                      131.0       153.0    173.0                    28.1                     61.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    259.0      300.0    345.0                     81.7                     126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        42.0        41.5      43.5                    41.4                     45.5
15-64 YRS.                        55. 0       54.0      52. 9                   54.7                     51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3. 0        4.5       3.6                     3.9                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.6         1.5      1. 7                    2.7                      2.7
URBAN                              4.4         3.9      4.1                     4.1                      4. 9
CRE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    45.0          43.0      43.0                    34.8                     46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    23.0         18.0      17.0                    8.9                     16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..         3.0       2.9                     2.5                      3. 2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCErTFCS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..          ..      16.1
USERS (PERCENT OF  ARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..       5.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
IDCt OF F0OOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        104.0       100.0      91.0                   106.9                     94.0
P- CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALM IES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  88. 0       87.0      93.0                   107.4                     92. 7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         47.0        47.0      51.0                    65.6                     53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.0        17.0      18.0                   33.7                     15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    39.0        29.0      23.0                     8.4                     21.3
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   42.0        47.0      51.0                    63.1                     50.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..       150.0/c      ..                    66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..       14.0                   65.9                     31.0
URAN                               ..          ..      38. 0                   8. 4                     66. 8
RURAL                              ..          ..       7.                     44.40
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..                    62.3
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..                    79. 4
RDRAL                              ..          ..        ..                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        13600.0    11730.0   5936.0                    1849.2                  14508.2
POPUIATION PER NURSIC PESON    11880.0       74600    3513.0                   1227.5                   3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1790.0     1370.0   1219.0                    480.3                   1141.5
URBAN                              ..          ..
UtAL..                                         .         ...
AtSSSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED
ARACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..         3.6       4.4
URBAN                              ..         2.2       4.2
RURAL                              *4.3                 4.5
AVERAGE NIMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..         1.9
URBAN                              ..         2.0
RLRAL *1                                       1.9
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..       2.9
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..



ANNEX I
- 20 -                                      Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
HAITI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HAITI                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV AGES
- MDST RECENT ESTIMATFE)'
MOST REC ENT           MIDDLE INCMEE           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN  AFRICA SOCUB OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                46.0         49.0      71.0                    99.7                     61.7
MALE                 50.0        55.0       ..                    101.0                     69.2
FEMALE               42.0        43.0       ..                     99.4                     51.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  4.0         6.0       ..                     34.4                     20.6
MALE                  5.0         8.0       ..                     33.5                     29.2
FEMALE                2.0         3.0       ..                     34.7                     14.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY) 21.0         19.0       8.0                    38.2                      7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           43.0        45.0       ..                    30.5                     36.6
SECONDARY                         13.0        18.0       ..                     14.5                     24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       15.0        20.0      23.0                    76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        2.0          3.0      3.5                    43.0                     38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        6.0        20.0      21.0                   245.3                     83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        0. 5        2.6       2.9                    84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAIID POPULATION 11.0                      19.0     20.0                     63.3                    24.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..         ..        ..                      ..                      0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    1967.1       2101.9   2340.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 47.4        47.4      46.0                    22.2                     38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             80.0        74.2      69.8                    37.1                     54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                6.4          7.2       8.0                   23.5                     17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               55.8        50.6      50.5                    31.5                     38.8
MALE                                59.7        55.2      55.1                    48.9                     *8.4
FEMALE                             52. 1        46.4     46.2                     14.0                    29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.8        0. 9       1.0                     1.4                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   ..          ..
LOWAEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..      169.0
RURAL                              ..          ..      144.0                  190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..      82.0                   474.0
RURAL                              ..          ..      73.0                   332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..          ..      55.0
RURAL                              ..          ..       78.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c  1965-70 average.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



AN'NFEI
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITI NOS OF SECIAI. INDICATORS0
No---:  Although dt. dof- so  d-aw  frs source  gSeraly  odged the  -oe  euthorlttisa ood reftble, Er ehould  .1.0 be  eted than they may et be ta--
.. ioldyconp  tble  fcu-       ofth   oc   f etadeedioed d:fiitttoeo  ..d cspte .eed by differn- cntre --                  s i ol. tr   fhl dat.  The data r.        n~
thele...e.. uful to de-libe order. of magnitude.  iadi_te trends, ad cheracte  ee  ertis major diff.renc. b.tmo   coatrie..
The referenc   .ro.ae()teaacutr   re   ftecb~tOot  ad(2) a  o                                             -tygru  sith eoehat high.. serag. Insem  the. the remary S_Wm
of  he eujeo og sr  (esrept for  .Cait.'l SurPle  Oil E.purte-" group where "Mliddl  Ioos  North i.ftir. aed Middle  _teat  le sh_m  hao_a  of etr_ag
eoiocltrl  fioties  .1s      reeres  greep data  h  avrg. a-  po aI.=     weighted arilthetit  -en  for sah indicator      h-  eny  h-a at
leect ha0  f the c.Ouutrle  it agroup h. date for that idiator,  tiers the. corag  of cotetriem  e-r  the imdilt.to. depend. on the  -siIsbfity ef
deeed  sst ..if.-n. 000010  mut he e-erted i. relsutng evrgee of On  indi-tor to entrhe.  The.e  -nragee Zre only u-fl in r-arfe    the rais
ofor  Idisorat tie    ugth   -utr-y endreare group..
LANDO AREA (tho...eud sq.hn.)                                                                  roOolateer Pyties-   foputlatt   dividd by ab.r at pretiaia  pay-
T.t.1 - Toig1  -uface area oopri.tug loud are  end island _aters                    .          elOea  qolif Ed froe m mdical bool gt cal--rity level.
Agricultural - Earinecs of agicltrel ar-  used tap-reily  or pe-anoly                        Ppuat.ion Eer Nor ina Pereon - Pepultion divide  by              erb of  -rat-e
for crope. pasture   markegtand hitcher garden  or to lIe tallow; 19'77ly dat,               al  -an  female gradma    rce  practical asrane.             esie-ten   me
Peametonoa  Weria  ld - total. -rhs-. edeel Pplt                            tt
,gLPttCAIT  (i)  -GNP? pot capita saiae t curost maket pri-e.   l -                       rbn  ad  ual   iVided by their reeplltti    -mber-f hsptal be&
oulated by saec -rrioo nthod on W-1td teak Atlae  (1977.79 b.ete); 1960,                       avilable Es pbllr  _ad privte_ genra  en"geilad hesptel sade
190,sd  1979d.ta.                                                                          bhlitation  teree          .sit.le er  estbHlA-ltl pasmentlY eteted
by at 1eat s-  pby.fieia.  gsteblab.-t. proeviMeg psintiaRp y ommo.l
ENtGRY CONSUMPTEON PER CA01TA -  sualcoemptior of torcial. enrgy I(oa                            c r. r  nat ioladed.  Wural heepital., h -nve, O-lad  b-1th    d sedsma
and liguito, petr-le.-   etca-I gaa end hydro-.. nulear. nd sautbhrme  ale-                    retee  a  patmnaly  utff d by a plwei1ian  (her by a maddel   maI
tr ility) It kiloges  of coaI eqivalent per capita; 1960. i7lE, end 1979Bus  mid.ife, ate.) skih effm ga-patiemt  -ninedatiaMl    p55wb  a
data.                                                                                          lilited renga of  "eiri f-asliti-n  Fer e.ltaieial papame   -ee  hesi-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS ~~~~~tel. tar1ede WW. pninop.l gem-e  mad e.salad    pitale.  M   NM
POPULATIOf 080 11102 STACIOIIC                                          haep=rIelocal orrua  heepita=. ed madi-a1                  amiyr e
Total P.palatios. Mid-Ys.r (mllions) - As of July Of 1960. 1970. aud 1978                    Ah,eeeptWeia   a       oa  abre   dism   ee   deep
date,  'ti '                               t    o      -t...1from  h.epitrla divided by the emer of bda..
different defini,tion   at urba  ara   may effect csparability of data                  BpUSINGi
eneog coontrins; 1960, 1970. and 1978 dat.                                                  Av-rag  Si.. of gosehad irroe  a =ea,d     ftl   aSs,M
Paloleto  Prueoloh  bna id conis.  ofagupe .                                                                                        Eadvdnl   basee   Eie f             ct
toaac   EuYear 2000 - Curreut population Projertou   err..  bare.d ou 1960             end thsir main mel.Ahadrorlde   a   rma   e                          edd
total  poplation by age end son cod their mertality erd fertil ity rae.                   the  echi  fur etaintical pmpuee
PrIeo,  a  prmters for  urtality  rates omprina of throa level. arso-                   Aeaeebro   mae   e   om-ttl   oe.                             md-Aesaa
tag lif   apetta..  e t birth  Ecees    ith coun.try's par capita inon                    hr of perer  Per root. I  alluban, and rura   -.omIa" gevti-la
lee,adfena  lit0  espeotany atebilising at 77.5 years.  Th. parc-                   dereliug.. reepactive1y.  DIellinge antlnde e-pseast et-ntne  SW
Metoo  fo  fertility rate alsohe.   thre  leves .a.oIn decline ir                        onooupind pAr-e.
fetiit   accrding to incom   leve  ad pat faml  planing perfornso.                  ooe   rXetiiv(esa   fdelea      ae.ahn                                    eS 
Ee-  -ousry is then easiged ose of thsaa alas coebiustlone of mertality                 A....otirEal.dtri.lta   wirth latitynlvigqrtsenpuese
adfrtillty trend  for projection p es.of total, -rban, and rura  duallinga tep-ti-vly.
Stationar. " nrolanbo  - Ia.  n etatlony popu:latios there ia so growh  irce
tho birth rate in eqm1 to the death rate  so-d also the  g  nt-uctu.re in-                   ,,
maine costant.  Tis ia  -ohl-d oaly after f-otility rteedolr  to                   Adusted f.rol-mn  Retioe
the replcmn  lee  o   st st roprodoctie  rte,  herecth 1geserti.                           Primry achool - total, male an  fsmale - Grsee total. MIc  -  femcIn
of ome  rspla... itself ematly.  The a.t tlar  populatiostse-                                sarllen  of all age. at the prinaoy leve  -s paromt.n  ef 'ccyatism
-aiaeted ott the bade. of the proJeote  thr-tneriatice of the popula:tion                    prmr   oolaeppltas tmlyicaa   hlemMd61
inthe yea  2000i. ad the rats of decline of fertility rate to  elae                          year. but adjusted fo- dWfErma lemthe of primar  edmttim. for
metlve.I                                                                                   o.tustile  iEth s.I .r.I eduction enrelet may  ..nnd SM0 peat
Yll. statienarY P.P.Lttoion  le  ehbd - The yar  hbo  atationry pop.latier                     a-r appl   rehlsa   hv  the affiri1  Wse                         p.
itee ha. bean reahed.                                                                     S..nar  aohos  -ttl  ml  n  female - C.cym-a  -  shsa   enade
Poplation Denity                                                                               edatiol requires at 1et four pear of spysevad p.laCe  ietrstisng
Par e. bkn. -fd-year pcpulsrioa por aqure kilomter (100 hbet.tee) of                           proidesgnra.o.uoa.or teache  t-aila  inatemtio    fee peuib
total  rm.-                                                                                  u-IIl  of 12 to 17 years of age; crapedna  ormeaegeealy
Per a. ke. agricultural land - Computed ce shor  for agricultural laod                         eaclded.
only-31.                                                                                     Voc..tiomel enrolmet (r!Er t of seosedary  - Vocational istimtuis
Popltio   Agp-rutse  recot) - Children (0-li year.), :orkts-a_go  (151                          iclude techslca      o. ideriml  or other prgr   shio pre   adepo-
64 yoars), en  rtired  (65yeaaed ove r) aeP-.. pretages  fmid-year popo-                       dontly or andea tmet of secondary inenta tion
latios; 196f, 1970. and 1978 date.                                                           ?purl-t ...h.. ratio               - onry Wn easuede   - Total etsdet. eelld ia
PIPleio  Groth Rat. frer-oen) - total - AIIs grroh rate. of total  itd-                          pri,aary aud seo-ear  level. dtVided by rmbar. ef tsaohar  Or the
yer  popoti_r  for  '95-_  09I60-70. ned 1970-70.                                            corresponding level..
PPorultito  Greh Rats (Pr ... t) - uha  - A-Ioa  growh rates of urban p09p-                    Adul ltcro    aeforet       itrt   dl.  a                     oradsdaia
1-tiutt  for 195060-h, 1960-70. and 0970-70.                                                  ______________
Crndr girth Ello (pat thousad) - Asoal. lIve births pot thc...aad of mId-year                     aeporcetage  of tte1 adult popolatil  Med 10 year. andevr
pcpulation; 1960. 1970. and 197f data.                                                  CONSUNTIpON~o
Credo Dastb Rate (par thcuand) - ,tA--l deaths per thcuaasd of aid-year                      mssse   a. (eec thouan  oeltion) - Pcaacagerar er acnr
popula,tios; 0960, 1970, and 197f data.                                                      cara s.Crn   aatita  eight  eeoe  or-1sd..                        b-lns,  e n  cad
GroanR terduoti.n  ats -Average raba  of da-ghtera-             na    ill bear 10              aiiay vho 
her nna  ceprdooti-e period if  bh.neracsProetf-ePOoif is for-                             paE.errt   oa   huadcolatiur,  - Ant typse ofreavefu   sh
tility races; ue..lly five- pera-rgaa  adiag is 1960. 1970, and1917.                         b-odoats to ge-ra  public per thuread of poptaetion; caclda  cal-
Fanily Pl . ognn- A,cepto-n. Assualtho.. asda) -.As-',l rubhe  of~ acPtra                      r .. cosd   ci eic conrissd Es year  sh-nrgitato                      f .adin ass
of    ..thootro    eicuudr  upce   frtiol f1 sally ploanlog pregran.                    wa-ifec;dt   o  recent year. nay not be comparble ames neat
haiyPaena.E-Ene-  (p.r-et ofmareauo-Percentage of maried                                  countries abolabdi cning
ooe   fichild-hb-ing oar (05-44yer wouebirch-control d-vic-  to                        T  R...sciv-rs (rer thousad p.pulation   .. TV r-nev-- far brsadOa   to
ol arid  -oo  10  -araE  group.                                                        general public Pro thenna-d population; anoldee olaedTV resi-a.
P0012 AND 0JfitIlitN                                                     in~~~~~~~~f oontri.n And Er year. shea rgiatration of TV sate  -a  in eff at.
FOMa ANf PIRTONd PrdcinprCaia(997.40      ae   f  e   aia-ono                                 Iee         Circulation (rer thonee  Poe=nio    - Sham  the -q ea       .g  -ta-ia
d V71-1110) - Id,, of pl,  lpill   -1                       -.flow.f "daily gEusa   neet  eeg.    dfined asapeied1ifalp"-'
production of all food! c-eetitiee   Production  .nlde ..  ..d aud fend and                  litation  devted primarily to r ....diseg genra - sse.  It ie uomidaed
is  ott caeda  yr...  butiar. Conmdltie  cure..r primary goods (e.g.B. fru                  to he "daily" Of it appeara an 1at foor tIme  a sek.
iantrad of.....c) whicrh ar diblo and coutainrutriecta  (e.g9. ..tfor. ad                  Cisen  Annul Attrdenca ret C.Pita oar Tea  -  esed on the ambar ef
te  ar  ouclude,,d) .Aggrega,te pro,duction ofl eah,c,,rtry is buse  on 1                    ticketsisold dartg the year. istluding amai              to driv-intia
ato lavago produce  p           bc egts; 1961-5. 197.  ud97  dat,an    ehl  oie
Percaris  uoly  f cloirn(pecet of roguiroets) - Computed from
euorgyoqu-l-loo  ofnt foo "..PIPte  avilblo 00 --stry Per ccpito                     L.ABOR itRCE
Per day.  Available aupplies comprise datic pouductiom, imp-te I..s                     Total  Lao   ote(huads) - PoEom.ically artive persona  imldieg
rePorts, and changes to  -tok.  Net auPPlion  uclud. -ima1 teed, needs,                    are  foc.sduepoe   o   nldighuein,aeet,ae
qanatittenona,d is frod proesing, and loa-   in distrihutico.  Requie                      Drfliti-in   Eu variu  rtrrina ar  met  tmeab               90. 1978 d
"Int,  ara  tninated by PAC b... d on phyi.lolgioal needn for --Ia a-ti-                   0910 data.
vEy.andh helth con..idertug evroerlrueao    body weighta. age                           Peaeprcn) - PFnal  labor fort  aspercentage sof teta  lake  ferra
an   s   intrib.tio  of population, and  1llowlg 10 perc..at fut  este a           Agricl.ture  (p.rcat) - Labor for_  in farmIng. foretry. itiatg  -d
household Il.vol; 1961-61. 170, nd 1977 data                                               ftnhing as percertage of totl labor forte; 0960. 1970 an  1975 data.
Per caira arrlr  E proein (tamo  er da) - Prtein ooto   f per caPita.           nuor  (pr ...nt) - Llao  f.ro. is sEing. cotru.ttio, manfanenrg
set supply of food Par day.  Net supply of food ia dofiurd as ebv.  to-                    eud electricity, water a ad ga. as p-reofsg   oftae  lbo   ora  1960.
qulon-t  O or al l countries c-tblihod by USDA provide for elau                            0970fendt1918 data
allowance of hi gra  of total protein per day and 20 gr_  of animal an                   arcero    aefare)-ttl   am d P.~7   91                 femal  -Paa'tipetien e
Iun .pr-trIn, of which 10 gras ehoad be onina  protein.  Thes  stn-                      ativiZty oleaernda   oa,nl.adIegel rfe.a
a-d, era loe  than thoae of 75 area of total protein and 21 grac  .f tsgen of total, n                                    n  f ala  p.pulation ef-aleg          cpaenivmly:
Aliaa  protrin  - an a-eag  for the  -Iod, propr...d by FAR in rho Third                   p90e    90rce95n..                   h..r    LO.Pt.it--                   -f-i
World Pond Survey  1961-65;.011 ad 0977 data,                                              19017,ad175dt.Tesam120    atoptnertcrfate
P_r c.pita proteinsuppl  fro  animl and pulse - Protais aupply of food de-                   age -to   tro r  of the pupulatie        ad long tine trsed,  A fen ati-
ryed from animal  aId Pue  in. fre  p.  day; 1960-61, 1970 and 0977 data.    E toomb  OrretfrcRtin_ .. Rai   f  uuano    ndr1  ad6  cdoe
ChIld (eae 1-i) MrtalIty Rta ( perthousad) - Annual dntha per iousad In              torotra  lbo Rtjors
aegop1-4 yasra, to children in thia age grop; for meet develpingron
tries dai  derived f ro  life  table.; 1960. 1970 and 1977 data.                        INCO~M DISigryRITON
BMTH                                                                                                                       =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pretg  o   rvt   es    hr   ncnbcdhn) - enedvef by e1t5t
S percent  riobset 20 percent. poormen 2  peen.ed pesren  40 pse-te
Life fEpecta y an airth (rea.) -Averag. nmber of yenoc of life raisin                          of ho.holda.h
at birth; 1960. 1971) and 19701data.
Isf at Mortality Rte (Pe  thoAeor) - Ansual deaths of iofots order roe Year    POVEiTY TARrEl GROUPE
of en  per thousand lIve. birtha.                                                          Eatimated Abaclute Povert  I-o- LercI (05   a   sia     e              .edesl
Acce.. gtc Safo Water (percent of p.p.lati-n) - t.t.l.  rban. and rur1 -                        bcuopvrt    uafrlI  ta   ealvlb  I msta  5maS
Ncaber of people (rta.t1  orba, and rurl) with raasbhe acr., to safP                              i urtionll P dequar  diet p1us essnti.1 nsa-fond requir-mn     in net
wat.rreupp ly (icludra treated    raemtat or..-itreted but nscteaiutad                       off-rdble.
_tior n-h sriot fron p  rotectdborho.:  spring, and san itary wells) a                     fE.tinated S1-ivo Poverty ic    Leve  (US$ Pre  -pit.) -                 -Iden       res. 
porcontngen o  the ir respective populations.  In on urban area a public                     ARal reltive  -ootyit   leva  is on-third of  vrA-ga par" caita
fcanaiu  r arndpot locate-d rot  ere tba 200 matern Ero    j hous    y be.              _ocoua  income ofthey country.  Urban leve   a derived fro  the ruea
conoidarod  n bting nitir roneoela coe  of riot hous .      _rrel.r..              loya  uith udjuntrt f or hig*er cost of living in uramams
r.....ablcren...... d imply tha trho h...-ilf. or s-b-n  of thl hcusohod                   cetnebd Porltion ads Absolute Povrty icm  Levl   atet   - be,
donthave to epond'a disproportio... e part of the day io fething the n.ua       ecn   fpplto    ubnadrrl   h   s   amlt   mr~
Access cc tetteta Otarocal (usrumett of nooaIli.an.1bior. -rtotal.  -rhb-l.t..Pgd
r   Na -bgshr of people(aa.obs   n  rurl  servd byecrt
dieptea1 aa peroantogas of their r..psc-i- populatior...          . focta die-                                                c-soic end Social Vata DirfLam
posal may incud  trho culoinad dlcpuaa. w, ith or without tr-armet,lceoi Aalyeis end PruistAin    Dfparten
of boe   -arata end wesne-tere  by voterb-horn  system   or tha  -s  ufOcoe                                                                             O
Pit Prtvie ard similar to._ellt iona.



-22 -
PANe 4 of 5
HAITI - ECONOHIC DATA
GROSS NATIONAIS PRODUCT IN 1979                                                                    ANNUAL RATE o0  GROWT!H  %. constwnt prices)
US$ Million              %                                            1965-70            1970-75           1975-79
GNP at market price.          1,259.8               100.0                                             -0.1                3.7               4.1
Gross Donestic Investmnt        180.8                14.4                                             11.6               13.8               2.5
Gross National Saving. 2/        32.5                 2.6                                             42.3               15.9             -41.7
Current Account Balance         -63.3                 5.0                                              -                  -                 -
Export of Goods, NFS            190.0                15.1                                              4.4               -3.7               2.2
Import of Goods, NFS            324.0                25.7                                              4.4               0.9                9.6
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979
Value Added                                            Labor Force                                         V.A. Dar Workar
US$ Million                                                                       % U$ million  7           Us4 Nil
Agriculture                     507.1                39.8                               ..
Industry 3/                     282.9                22.2                               ..
Services                        484.2                38.0                               ..
Total/Average               1274i10                                                   ..                                                    ..
GOVERMNDT FINANCE
Goenral Sov4rEn"t 4/                                              Central Governnt
(C Million)           % of GDP                                  (G Million)           % of CDP
1979          1979           1975                                1979          1979           1975
Current Receipts                            877.1          13.8           13.1                               588.0            9.2           9.3
Current Expenditures                        803.8           12.6          11.7                               567.7            8.9           8.2
Current Surplus/Deficit                      73.3            1.2           1.4                                20.3           0.3            1.1
Capital Expenditures                        574.6           9A0            7.5                               436.4           6.9            5.5
External Assistance (net) 5/                426.5           6.7            5.2                               388.5           6.1            4.5
PUSY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1970         1975         1976          1977          1978            1979
(Million C Outstanding Snd Period)
Money  nd Quasi Money                             198.2         583.4        779.9        930.6        1,159.7        1,353.5
Bak Credit to Public Sector                       189.2         318.0        346.3        288.9          332.0          393.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector                      65.3         451.3        519.7        657.9          791.5          921.8
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money end Quasi MHey as % of GDP                   10.0          14.7         15.9          16.8          19.9            21.2
Coneoer Price Indax (1965 - 100)                   114.6         199.9        218.7        234.9          228.8          250.3
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Conesmr Price Index                                 3.3          18.0          9.4           7.4          -2.6            9.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector                       -2.1          10.4          8.9         16.6           14.9           18.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                       9.9         45.3          15.2         26.6           20.3           16.5
Note: All conerione to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period cowered.
1/ Data refers to FT ending Septmber 30.
/ D_e not include current trnsf re.
2/ Nisag, _emfactsring, public utilities and construction.
4/ Celideted accents of Central Governownt and Public Enterprises.
N et disb-re_ments of loans and grants.
LClDC
January 30, 1981



- 23 -
pag 5 of 5
HAM  - COUNTRt DATA
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                 MERCHDISE EXPDOTS (AVERAE 1976-79)
1975       1976        1977       1978        1979
(We$ Million)                                                                          USSNilifon          S
Export of Goods, NFS                 105.7      140.6       173.9       199.2      189.6            Coffee                                         53.0           39.3
Import of Goods, NFS               -165.1      -218.8      -262.8     -293.7      -323.5            Sugar                                           1.0            0.7
Reso.rce Gap (deficit-. -)         -            -78.2      -88.9       -94.5      -m                Essential Oils                                  8.0            5.9
Sisal                                          1.3             1.0
Interest Payments (net) 1/            _7.0       -7.2       -12.1      -14.7       -14.3            Bauxite                                       17.7            13.1
Other Factor Payment. (net)           ...          ..         ..          ..         ..             Assembly Industry (not)                        18.2           13.5
Net Tranfetrs                         39.4       6S.O        63.5        67.9       85.0            S.ll Industries andigandicraft                 16.1           11.9
Balance on Current Account            2                     :           -41.3                       All Other Cmoditi..                            19.5           14.5
Total                              134.8
Direct Foreign Investment              2.7        6.8         8.0        10.0       15.0
Net MLT BorrominS                     19.7       24.8        62.5        48.1       38.2            EXTERNAL DEBT, SEPTEMBER 30. 1979          US$Million
Disbursements                       24.9       33.3        i          57.         4
Amorti..tion                         5.2        8.5         8.3         9.2        6.7            Public Debt, including guaranteed            208.6
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Items n.e.i.                  -18.5         7.5       -19.3       -2.6        26.3            Total Oustending mnd.Disbursrd
Increase in Reweaves (.)            -23.1        18.8        13.6       14.2        16.2
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FPi 1979
Grose Reserves                        12.7       28.3        35.9        46.8       53.1
Net Reserves                         -23.7       -4.9         8.6        22.9       39.0            Public Debt, including Guaranteed              4.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                          Total Outstanding and Disbursed
I.ports                            12.9        17.1        23.6       24.5         n.e.
Exports                             -           -           -          -                          IBRD/IDA LENDING (SEPTEMBER 30, 1979)    USSMillion
1B885          IDA
RATE OF EXChANGE
Outstanding  nd Disbursed                      -              45.3
Sisc;e 1971                                                                                        Undisbureed                                                   48.2
US$1.00 = G5.o0                                                                                     Outstanding including Undisbursed              -9
G1.00 = US$0.20
I/ Includes al fator  ervices.
-  not applicable                                                                                                                                      LCIDE
.. not *vail.ble                                                                                                                                  ............ January 30, 1981



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of January 31, 1981)
---------$ Million-------
(less cancellations)
Loan or
Credit                                                     Bank
Number       Year        Borrower           Purpose       Amount      IDA     Undisbursedo
One loan and four credits have been fully disbursed          2.6     46.4
618-HA        1976     Republic of Haiti   Education                  5.5          1.1
675-HA        1977     Republic of Haiti   Rural
Development            10.0          7.3
757-HA        1978     Republic of Haiti   Water Supply               6.6          3.8
770-HA        1978     Republic of Haiti   Education                  10.0         8.7
807-HA        1978     Republic of Haiti   Transporta-
tion                   15.0          4.1
895-HA        1979     Republic of Haiti   Power                     16.5         14.0
Total                              2.6    110.0          38.9
of which has been repaid    2.6
Total now outstanding
Amount sold                        0.4
of which has been repaid    0.4        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA             110.0 1/
Total undisbursed                                        38.9
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of January 31, 1981)
No IFC investments have been made in Haiti.
C.   EEC SPECIAL ACTION FUND
4-HA          1979     Republic of Haiti   Power                      6.0          3.3
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
C.   PROJECT IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 618      First Education Project; $5.5 Million Credit of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: May 20, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project is about 14 months behind schedule due to original
start-up delays in school design and in contracting for construction, and
subsequently because of climatic conditions and six months of administrative
problems, including a shortage of counterpart funds. Some 50 (of 65) rural
schools have been completed and are in use, and the rest will be completed
by the end of September 1981. The three teacher training colleges will be
completed by June 1981. There has been considerable progress in the educa-
tional aspects of the project, including curricula revisions, teacher training
and communal use of school facilities. The problem of counterpart funds has
been largely resolved between the Ministries of Finance and of Education.
Credit 675     Rural Development Project; US$10 Million Credit of January 14,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 27, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Substantial progress was made in 1980. The Water Supply component
is proceeding well and will be expanded and agricultural field trials have
been successfully carried out and will be expanded. Administration and
staff problems in the Organisme de Developpement du Nord, the project agency,
have been largely resolved, but lengthly procedures for approval of local
expenditures and delays in the provision of counterpart funds still continue.
On the other hand, disbursements are well behind schedule because of delays
in feeder road construction, irrigation rehabilitation and rural credit
components. Weaknesses continue in the extension service provided to ODN by
the Ministry of Agriculture. Some progress has been made recently in feeder
road construction.
Credit 757     Provincial Towns Water Supply Project; $6.6 Million Credit of
January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This project is about 18 months behind schedule because of original
delays in the appointment of consultants and delays in issuing bid documents
and the subsequent need to rebid for three of the seven project towns, for
which satisfactory bids were received in July 1980. Technical assistance from
PAHO is proceeding well. Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW) is considering
financing two of the three towns included under a related UNCDF project (which
IDA is administering) because of a shortage of UNCDF funds and bids higher than
expected.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects/investments in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Credit 770      Second Education Project; $10 Million Credit of March 16,
1968; Date of Effectiveness: July 25, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Implementation of this project is about a year behind schedule
because of initial start-up delays; subsequent administrative problems;
changes in the consultants' contract and delays in purchasing cement on a
tax-free basis. A revised construction schedule still allows completion of
school construction (46 units of various types) by the original Closing Date.
The educational component is proceeding satisfactorily. Performance of the
Project Unit, and of consultants, is also satisfactory.
Credit 807      Fifth Transportation Project; $15 Million Credit of June 9,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 26, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
(a) Road Component: This includes construction of 54 km of roads in
the Northern plain, 13 km in the Southwest, construction of two
bridges and preinvestment studies of high priority projects in
the transport sector. Work is substantially on schedule and no
serious problems have been encountered.
(b) Coastal Shipping Ports Component: This includes construction of
two coastal shipping ports in the Northwest and Southwest and of
a main coastal shipping port in Port-au-Prince. Construction is
about 10 months behind schedule largely because of hurricane damage
to the contractor's facilities in the Dominican Republic (his
home base) in 1979 and a delay in obtaining permits to transport
dynamite. This has now been resolved. Training of coastal shipping
port staff has been rescheduled to coincide with the estimated
completion of port construction. Management advisory services are
proceeding well, though a study on the development of coastal
shipping was delayed by the illness of consultant's staff.
Credit 895         Second Power Project:  $16 Million Credit and US$6 Million
and EEC Special   Special Action Credit of May 31, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
Action Credit 4   April 24, 1980; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983.
These two credits were declared effective almost 11 months after
signing because of delays in contract award. These delays arose because of
opposition to the award to the lowest evaluated bidder within Electricite
d' Haiti (EdH). The contract with suppliers was signed in April 1980, and
with the new consultants, in June 1980. EdH's financial performance is
satisfactory. Government arrears due to EdH increased from $1 million at
appraisal, to about $1.8 million before declining to $1.2 million. EdH's
Chairman is taking steps to ensure settlement of bills as rendered.



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENT PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project Identification
(1)  Project prepared by:                APN, consultants, and Bank
staff.
(2)  Initial request for IDA             Consultant services to help
financing:                         prepare the project were
financed under Credit 807-HA
(Fifth Transport Project) of
June 1978.
(3)  First mission to consider           April 1980, though supervision
project:                           missions for Credit 807-HA
assisted APN and consultants
in the course of the study.
(b)  Appraisal mission departure:              July 1980.
Post-appraisal:                          October 1980.
(c)  Negotiations completed:                   January 1981.
(d)  Planned effectiveness date:               May 1981.
II.  Special IDA Implementation Action:                   None.
III. Special conditions: Assurances were be obtained that:
(a) A time frame for development decisions regarding the port
of Port-au-Prince was adopted (para 32);
(b) Road improvements for coastal shipping ports at Baraderes
and Anse d' Hainault would be undertaken (para. 38).
(c) APN would provide appropriate staff for the port of
Cap Hait ien and adopt a program to improve personnel
policief. (paras 41 and 42);
(d) The Government would establish, by October 31, 1981,
a new maritime agency and to enforce stricter vessel
inspection and certification (para 43);



- 28
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e)  Assets in Cap Haitien would be verified, valued and brought
into APN's accounts (condition of disbursement, para 53);
(f) Investments of more than US$350,000 would be subject to economic
analysis, which would be forwarded for review by IDA (para 53);
five year investment budgets would be prepared annually beginning
in 1981 and forwarded to IDA for review through 1986 (para 53);
APN would not, without the prior consent of the Association,
contract long-term debt in excess of US$1.25 million, and that
APN would maintain its accounts receivable at a level not more
than an average of two months' revenues (para 61);
(g) Uniform budget and accounting procedures would be developed for
all of APN's operations and implemented by the end of 1982
(para 53);
(h) APN would adjust its tariffs as necessary to achieve a rate of
return of 6 percent per annum; assets would be revalued every
three years, and APN would retain its right to levy charges on
cargo handled in private terminals (para 56); tariffs for the
port at Cap Haitien would be adjusted to the level of Port-au-
Prince harbour in 1981, and thereafter to achieve a rate of
return of at least 3 percent by 1987 and of 6 percent by 1989
(para 57);
(i) Working ratios for the coastal shipping ports would be gradually
improved (para 59); and
(j) The proceeds of the IDA credit would be onlent to APN on agreed
terms, under a subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to the
Association (para 64, Condition of Effectiveness).



IBRD 15247
ATrLANrOC   OCEAN                      to                A   $       a                        r A t ~ .-.V'
I  H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~72~~~~~~~~~~~~~   c st~~~~~~~~I1  ,,dd
CARJBSEAN          SEA                                                                  Lqn   nnlERT Eed
PORT DEVEV)PMIENT PROEC                                                                                                                                                          p0o,9VIoe
COASTAL SHIPPING - PROPOSED WET~y AND POQT
~~ I'ropnnodn.ootolohlppsngpnrto                                                                      II'~~~~~~~~Gt             'd. L'AtrnIoyS/  N      5     MN'Coh
EXisting port tonilitioosto iupw i!
- Alat 'odst
-Drovt reads         l
Rivers
Deportmnent bOundorien
I-.                  -. tnt~lerotisnl bowormer
N, son,  - pnrr-o-p,nenr~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                            JACME      Jot,,  RM,g.                             d
macvs het~~~~~~~~~~~rs'sroGy no ~ ~ ~ ~           ~          ~          ~           L                                                                                                               .p
floOIr.flnonott5.re.#M',  Chonrol        C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CVAI
enoan=enm.  N         \                    S~OOjr~~N
-,    \  X'    "-- ~~~~~~~~~~   C ~~~~r  ~~~    to    bean                                                                    'itt',~~~~~ao .1
wWOOVnnnr.odo'ooo.nr  N.  \ vIntoine~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
cnn                              iro           ~                         ro*W                                     ot                                    trio                                     ro,dt



